Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2019 DSM at a glance About DSM We are a global, purpose-led, science-based company active in Nutrition, Health and Sustainable Living. Our purpose is to create brighter lives for all. With our products and solutions we address some of the world’s biggest challenges while simultaneously creating economic, environmental and societal value for all our stakeholders – customers, employees, shareholders, and society at large. We deliver innovative solutions for human nutrition, animal nutrition, personal care and aroma, medical devices, green products and applications, and new mobility and connectivity. Including our associated companies, we deliver annual net sales of about € 10 billion with approximately 23,000 employees. We were founded in 1902 and are listed on Euronext Amsterdam. Purpose-led We are a company that strives to do well by doing good – because ultimately, we cannot be successful, nor even call ourselves successful, in a world that fails. Active in Nutrition, Health and Sustainable Living, we address the opportunities that are driven by global megatrends and the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Our purpose aligns most closely with five of the SDGs: Science-based Our bright science delivers benefits across multiple dimensions, already reaching more than 2.5 billion people in the world today in our three focus domains of Nutrition & Health, Climate & Energy and Resources & Circularity. We are accelerating our innovative power and enhancing our long-term growth with breakthroughs such as: Fermentative Project Clean Cow: Veramaris®: Niaga®: Stevia: for sugar feed additives for algae-based omega-3 technology for fully reduction reduced methane for sustainable recyclable carpets, emissions from cattle aquaculture furniture and mattresses Results at a glance PEOPLE 22,174 0.28 Workforce Frequency Index of (at year-end 2019, Recordable Injuries versus 0.33 in 2018 excluding affiliates) (per 100 DSM employees and contractors) 28 : 72 1 20% 74% Female : male ratio Female executives Employee Engagement equal to 2018 versus 19% in 2018. Index, with a response rate 50% of MB, EC and SB of 92%, versus 76% in 2018 as of 15 February 2020 PLANET BRIGHTER LIVING SOLUTIONS ~17% 2.3% 63% 3 GHG scope 1 + 2 reduction – Energy efficiency cumulative structural improvement year on year improvement 2 versus ~8% versus 1.4% in 2018 Sales of in 2018 (baseline 2016) Brighter Living Solutions versus 62%4 in 2018 50% 1 Excluding companies that are not integrated into our HR systems (approx. 6% of the total workforce). 2 We estimate that the effect of the underlying cumulative structural improvements in absolute GHG emissions was approximately 17% and 8% in 2019 and 2018 respectively, versus Purchased electricity the 2016 baseline. The total cumulative absolute reduction was from renewable sources 25% and 18% respectively, versus the 2016 baseline. 3 For a small percentage of sales (approximately 2%) classified versus 41% in 2018 as BLS, the environmental impact is considered ‘best in class’ together with other solutions. 4 Excluding the temporary vitamin effect in 2018 of € 415 million sales, for further information see table on page 65. PROFIT € 9,010 € 1,684 + 10% 2 2 Net sales, up 2% from Adjusted EBITDA3 versus Adjusted EBITDA3 growth € 8,852 1 in 2018 (in millions) € 1,532 1 in 2018 (in millions) versus 2018 1 and versus a high single-digit target € 801 2 + 47% 2 21% Adjusted net operating free Adjusted net operating free Innovation sales, cash flow3 versus € 5451 in 2018 cash flow 3 growth versus 2018 1 in line with our (in millions) and versus an average annual ambition of ~20% target of ~10% € 764 € 4.27 Total net profit versus Net earnings per ordinary share € 1,079 4 in 2018 (in millions) versus € 6.10 4 in 2018 € 4.64 € 2.40 Adjusted net earnings3 Proposed5 dividend per per ordinary share ordinary share for 2019 versus € 5.84 in 2018 up from € 2.30 for 2018 1 Excluding temporary vitamin effect in 2018 of € 415 million sales and € 290 million (Adjusted) EBITDA, for further information see table on page 65. 2 Including the impact of IFRS 16, see table on page 164. 3 For reconciliation to IFRS performance measures, see table on page 180. 4 2018 includes the temporary vitamin effect, for further information see table on page 65, and the book profit on the sale of DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals. 5 Subject to approval by the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders. Table of contents 4 Key data 122 Report by the Supervisory Board 130 Remuneration report 2019 5 Introduction letter 8 DSM and the Sustainable Development Goals 142 Supervisory Board and Managing Board Royal DSM 12 Report by the Managing Board 144 What still went wrong in 2019 12 Purpose 16 Strategy 2021 146 Information on the DSM share 30 How we create value for our stakeholders 32 Stakeholders 150 Sustainability statements 40 People 50 Planet 163 Consolidated financial statements 58 Profit 163 Summary of significant accounting policies 171 Consolidated financial statements 66 Review of business 177 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 66 Nutrition of Royal DSM 84 Materials 94 Innovation 228 Parent company financial statements 102 Corporate Activities 230 Notes to the parent company financial statements 103 Reporting policies 236 Other information 103 Financial and reporting policies 236 Independent auditor's report 104 Non-financial reporting policy 242 Assurance report of the independent auditor 245 Special statutory rights 106 Corporate governance and risk management 245 Important dates 106 Introduction 109 Dutch Corporate Governance Code 246 DSM figures: five-year summary 109 Governance framework 113 DSM Code of Business Conduct 249 Explanation of some concepts and ratios 116 Risk management 121 Statements of the Managing Board 253 List of abbreviations Forward-looking statements This document may contain forward-looking statements with respect to DSM's future performance and position. Such statements are based on current expectations, estimates and projections by DSM and information currently available to the company. Examples of forward-looking statements include statements made or implied about the company's strategy, estimates of sales growth, financial results, cost savings and future developments in its existing businesses as well as the impact of future acquisitions, and the company's financial position. These statements can be management estimates based on information provided by specialized agencies or advisors. DSM cautions readers that such statements involve certain risks and uncertainties that are difficult to predict and therefore it should be understood that many factors can cause the company's actual performance and position to differ materially from these statements. These factors include, but are not limited to, macroeconomic, market and business trends and conditions, competition, legal claims, the company's ability to protect intellectual property, changes in legislation, changes in exchange and interest rates, changes in tax rates, pension costs, raw material and energy prices, employee costs, the implementation of the company's strategy, the company's ability to identify and complete acquisitions and to successfully integrate acquired companies, the company's ability to realize planned divestments, savings, restructuring or benefits, the company's ability to identify, develop and successfully commercialize new products, markets or technologies, economic and/or political changes and other developments in countries and markets in which DSM operates. Additional factors that could cause results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements can be found in the 'Risk Management' chapter. As a result, DSM's actual future performance, position and/or financial results may differ materially from the plans, goals and expectations set forth in such forward-looking statements. DSM has no obligation to update the statements contained in this document, unless required by law. The English-language version of this document is leading. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 3 www.dsm.com Key data Key data1 20192 2018 People Workforce at 31 December (headcount) 22,174 20,977 Female:male ratio3 28:72 28:72 Total employee benefit costs (in € million) 1,811 1,753 Frequency Index of Recordable Injuries (per 100 DSM employees and contractor employees) 0.28 0.33 Employee Engagement Index (in %) 74 76 Planet Primary energy use (in PJ) 21.2 20.8 Energy Efficiency Improvement (in %, year on year) 2.3 1.4 Greenhouse gas emissions, market-based (scope 1 + 2, in CO2 equivalents, x million tons) 1.17 1.23 Greenhouse gas scope 1 + 2 cumulative absolute reduction (in %, baseline 2016) 25 18 Water consumption (x million m3) 23 22 Brighter Living Solutions (as % of running business) 63 624 Profit (in € million) Net sales 9,010 9,267 / 8,8524 Adjusted EBITDA 5 1,684 1,822 / 1,5324 EBITDA 1,586 1,754 Adjusted operating profit (EBIT)5 1,075 1,345 / 1,0554 Operating profit (EBIT) 954 1,245 Net profit 764 1,079 Adjusted net operating free cash flow5 801 810 / 5454 Capital expenditure, cash based 609 646 Dividend for DSM shareholders (based on profit appropriation) 4256 412 Net debt 1,144 113 Shareholders' equity 7,731 7,782 Total assets 13,443 13,641 Capital employed 9,311 8,181 Market capitalization at 31 December 7 21,063 12,961 Per ordinary share in € Net earnings 4.27 6.10 Dividend 2.406 2.30 Financial ratios (%) Sales to high-growth economies / net sales 43 434 Innovation sales / net sales 21 194 Adjusted EBITDA margin 5 18.7 19.7 / 17.34 Average working capital / annualized net sales 21.2 18.74 ROCE 5 12.0 16.8 / 13.34 Gearing (net debt / equity plus net debt) 12.7 1.4 Equity / total assets 58.3 57.3 Cash provided by operating activities / Adjusted EBITDA5 82.2 76.3 1 For definitions, see 'Explanation of some concepts and ratios' on page 249. 2 Including the impact of IFRS 16, see table on page 164. 3 For the indexes based on age, nationalities, gender, inflow and outflow, the companies that are not integrated into the HR systems (approx. 6% of the total workforce) are not taken into account. 4 Excluding temporary vitamin effect in 2018 of € 415 million sales and € 290 million (Adjusted) EBITDA, for further information see table on page 65. 5 In presenting and discussing DSM's financial position, operating results and cash flows, DSM (like many other publicly listed companies) uses certain Alternative performance measures (APMs) not defined by IFRS and referred to as 'Adjusted'. These APMs are used because they are an important measure of DSM's business development and DSM's management performance. A full reconciliation of IFRS performance measures to the APMs is given in the 'Alternative performance measures' on page 178. 6 Subject to approval by the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders. 7 Source: Bloomberg. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 4 www.dsm.com Introduction letter Dear reader, Materials reported a decline in organic growth in 2019. Lower The year 2019 was again a record year for DSM. The hard work volumes resulted from weak macroeconomic conditions and engagement of our employees delivered good results, and specifically in some end-markets. This weakness was in a not so easy economic, as well as (geo)political and mainly related to global trade issues. The lower prices fully societal, context. We can all be very proud of what has been reflect lower input costs, and we maintained our margins. achieved. We made decisive progress as a performanceOur Materials business demonstrated earning's resilience driven and purpose-led company, creating brighter lives for in persisting weak market conditions, with an almost stable all, and already reaching more than 2.5 billion people Adjusted EBITDA. Key highlights in Materials included worldwide. further strengthening our market-leading position in specialty materials in India by acquiring the engineering Delivering on Strategy 2021 plastics business of SRF Ltd, launching a new production line for Arnitel®, and increasing our manufacturing capacity We are pleased that we once more delivered a good for Dyneema®. financial performance for the year. Our total sales were just above € 9 billion, up 2% compared to last year and Adjusted Based on our confidence in the quality of our businesses, EBITDA was almost € 1.7 billion. We delivered on our two our cash generation and our strong balance sheet we ambitious financial targets of Strategy 2021, with a doubleannounced a € 1 billion share buy-back program in February digit growth of Adjusted EBITDA of 10% and an Adjusted net 2019 and repurchased shares for a total consideration of operating free cash flow increase of 47% compared to the € 600 million in 2019. We intend to repurchase the remaining underlying business in 2018. Our Adjusted EBITDA margins € 400 million during the first half of 2020. On the back of were also in line with our strategic ambitions at 20.7% and the 2019 results, we will propose to the Annual General 18.5% for Nutrition and Materials respectively, both up Meeting of Shareholders an increase in the dividend from compared to the underlying business in 2018. Our Capex was € 2.30 to € 2.40. We made good progress with our large 6.8% of sales, also on target. The operating working capital innovation projects, as well as in keeping up with our longas a percentage of sales at end-of-period increased to standing commitment to balancing the needs of People, 26.3%, mainly due to acquisitions and foreign exchange rate Planet and Profit. We can be pleased with the significant effects. Adjusted earnings per share (EPS) increased ahead strides we took in sustainability in 2019. of Adjusted EBITDA growth when corrected for the temporary vitamin effect of 2018. Our core competence: bright science and innovation Nutrition delivered above-market sales growth and high We continue to leverage our unique technology capabilities single-digit Adjusted EBITDA growth, compared to the to develop innovative, sustainable solutions that address underlying business in 2018. In Animal Nutrition & Health, some of the biggest challenges facing society and the planet sales were strong for all species and in all regions, except today, as anchored in the Sustainable Developments Goals for sales to the swine business in China and South-East Asia (SDGs) of the United Nations (UN), such as climate change, which were impacted by African swine fever (ASF). This malnutrition and resource scarcity. In 2019, we invested region accounts for more than half of global pork approximately 5% of sales in R&D and continued to build production, with culling measures introduced in response a strong and focused innovation pipeline to drive long-term to ASF affecting 35-50% of pork production in the area. In growth. Consequently, 21% of our sales in 2019 came from Human Nutrition & Health, sales were up despite softer innovations introduced in the past five years, achieving our end-markets in the second half of the year. Personal Care & aspiration. The year 2019 was a milestone in the history of Aroma Ingredients and Food Specialties both delivered a our company, as we celebrated 150 years of innovation in strong performance. We made good progress in terms of fermentation and biotechnology at our Delft site inorganic growth in 2019. We strengthened our position in (Netherlands). Building on the solid foundations of our vitamin E by creating a 75:25 partnership with Nenter; we heritage, we currently rank among the world's top three increased our shareholding in Andre Pectin, Asia's largest companies in industrial biotechnology, and these activities producer of hydrocolloids, from 29% to 75%; we further account for 20% of our total sales. We made good progress strengthened our position in personalized nutrition by on our large innovation projects. To name a few: our acquiring the personalized nutrition platform AVA; and we Veramaris joint venture with Evonik started commercial acquired Royal CSK in order to better serve the world's fastproduction of its algae-based omega-3 fatty acids for growing and attractive dairy cultures markets. In February aquaculture and is currently supplying three of the world's 2020, we announced the acquisition of Glycom, the world's largest salmon feed producers. Project Clean Cow, our leading supplier of Human Milk Oligosaccharides, to innovative feed solution that reduces the emissions of the accelerate growth in our early life nutrition business. greenhouse gas (GHG) methane from cattle by at least 30%, reached a key milestone, filing for European registration to commercialize the product by late 2020 or early 2021. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 5 www.dsm.com Avansya, our partnership with Cargill to bring zero-calorie, venture in Rwanda, we are working hard to tackle the issue cost-effective sweeteners to market faster, started of malnutrition and stunting, while using local sourcing and commercial production. production in-country helps to develop the local economy and to create self-sufficiency. Together with UNICEF, we Our sustainability leadership announced a partnership for Generation Unlimited to embed a longer-term vision for sustainable food systems At DSM, sustainability is our core value and a key in Africa. responsibility. It is also an important business driver that is fully engrained in our strategy, business and operations. We continue to advocate on (mal)nutrition, climate change Our approach for bringing about positive change is to and circularity and the role of business in society. These are improve, enable and advocate. issues that define our times and can be addressed by our competences. We continued in 2019 to help address Improve is all about reducing the environmental impact of malnutrition globally via the UN, WFP, UNICEF and the our own operations. We are very well on track this year with Scaling Up Nutrition (SUN) Global Business Network. We respect to our greenhouse gas (GHG) reduction, energy were equally active on the Climate front, with Feike Sijbesma efficiency and purchased renewable electricity targets. The being appointed Co-chair of the High-Level Commission on underlying cumulative structural improvement in absolute Carbon Pricing and Competitiveness of the World Bank GHG reduction compared to the 2016 baseline was Group. Feike was also one of the commissioners of the approximately 17%. Energy efficiency improved by 2.3% Global Commission on Adaptation, which published its compared to 2018 versus an average annual ambition of flagship report in September 2019. We continued our more than 1%, and 50% of purchased electricity came from support for the UN Global Compact in 2019 and remain renewable resources compared with 41% in 2018. We committed to reporting our progress within the framework continued to apply an internal carbon price of € 50 per ton of this initiative. We are proud to be recognized as a of CO2eq. In addition, starting from 2019, business growth constructive contributor to a changing world, achieving this projects must either be GHG-neutral or else be by working together with governments, industry bodies and compensated for. We are pleased that we were the first peers. We received, for instance, the highest rankings in company in our sector to set new science-based targets for important ESG (Environmental, Social & Governance) GHG emission reduction, reviewed and approved by the indices such as MSCI and Sustainalytics (ranked number Science Based Targets initiative and aligned with the Paris one within our sector). In addition, we are proud that our Climate Agreement. We committed to a long-term pathway company is part of Forbes' best employer list globally and to work toward net-zero GHG emissions across our that Feike Sijbesma was ranked 42 on the Harvard Business operations and value chains by 2050. We are proud that we Review Top 100 best performing global CEOs in 2019. are one of the first companies to do so. We also continued making steps in financial transparency on climate risks and Our people, leadership and digitization opportunities by further disclosing against the TCFD (Taskforce Climate-related Financial Disclosures) We worked on further improving our safety performance recommendations. in 2019. We can be proud that we substantially improved our Safety Frequency Recordable Index from 0.33 to 0.28, in line We also enable our customers in their sustainability with our goals and values. Safety remains our highest endeavors with our innovative solutions. We see continued priority and we strive to be incidentand injury-free. We aim growth of demand for solutions that address sustainability to deliver this by creating a culture in which everyone challenges. In 2019, 63% of our sales came from products working for DSM, whether as an employee or a contractor, that have a better environmental (ECO+) and/or social is engaged in maintaining high safety standards. (People+) impact than mainstream solutions. We call these our Brighter Living Solutions. Our innovation pipeline is We continued to develop our organization, leadership, focused on three strategic domains: Nutrition & Health, people, and culture to enable continued high performance Climate & Energy and Resources & Circularity, and includes and engagement. We accelerated leadership development for example our Project Clean Cow, Veramaris®, Avansya, for both people and teams. The results of these initiatives Balancius®, Niaga® and Akulon® RePurposed. Furthermore, are reflected in our annual Employee Engagement Index in 2019 our materials businesses initiated additional rating of 74%, with a response rate of 92% and over 40,000 sustainability ambitions and programs to offer recycled comments received. This indicates that our people feel and/or bio-based alternatives. We took further steps to engaged and committed. Additionally, we boosted our address malnutrition in 2019. The UN World Food digitization efforts to drive our growth and improve our Programme (WFP) reaches 35 million beneficiaries annually efficiency through digital collaboration tools with with food that has been improved by the DSM-WFP customers and data analytics to increase our productivity partnership. Through our Africa Improved Foods (AIF) joint and digital value propositions in personalized nutrition. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 6 www.dsm.com Introduction letter We continued to focus on internationalization and diversity Today, we are a truly global company with a diverse and in 2019. We are pleased with the progress to date. Our engaged employee and leadership base, creating value for executive base became more international and we already all our stakeholders. With Feike handing over formally with achieved our 2020 target on nationality mix last year. effect from 15 February, 2020, we too will maintain the focus Nowadays 62% of our executives are non-Dutch, and our on business performance, financial discipline, innovation, focus shifted to expanding our non-European population. sustainability, and people, as DSM continues its journey. We Today, there is a better gender balance both at management are pleased that Feike will help ensure a smooth handover and executive levels. As of 15 February 2020, the percentage until 1 May and that he will continue to be an ambassador of women in our Executive Committee, Managing Board and for DSM in his new capacity as Honorary Chairman of the Supervisory Board is 50% in each. With these percentages Company.” we are clearly achieving our aim of having at least 30% male and at least 30% female members in each one. We are Thank you delighted at the appointment of Erica Mann and the reappointment of Pauline van der Meer Mohr as members of A warm thank-you to everyone who helped make 2019 a DSM's Supervisory Board. good year for DSM, in challenging circumstances. We are deeply grateful to our Supervisory Board, our colleagues It is with great sadness that in 2019 we had to say a final in the Executive Committee, all DSM colleagues and farewell to our former Managing Board Chairman, Simon de business partners for working closely together and for their Bree. Under his leadership, the first steps were taken to enormous commitment and contribution. We also thank our transform from a bulk-chemicals company into one focused customers and shareholders for their trust and loyalty. Last, on biochemistry and fine chemicals, laying the foundations but not least, we are humbled for having been given the for the company we are today. opportunity to work together to serve society by creating value on three dimensions simultaneously: People, Planet Leadership change and Profit. Feike Sijbesma: At the end of 2019, after 20 years on the Feike Sijbesma, CEO/Chairman Managing Board Royal DSM Managing Board and almost 13 years as CEO, I decided to (until 15 February 2020)1 step down as CEO and hand over the leadership of DSM. Our Supervisory Board appointed Geraldine Matchett and Geraldine Matchett and Dimitri de Vreeze, Co-CEOs Royal Dimitri de Vreeze as Co-CEOs. I am honored and humbled: DSM (as of 15 February 2020)1 for having served DSM and society for such a long time and for being able to hand over to my valued Managing Board colleagues Geraldine and Dimitri. We have driven the transformation and successes of the business together, making their dual leadership structure rooted in a long history of collaboration. Geraldine Matchett and Dimitri de Vreeze: Under the leadership of Feike, we have gone through a significant transformation, from a bulk-chemicals company into one which focuses on Nutrition, Health and Sustainable Living, generating Total Shareholder Return of about 400%. For more than a decade we have significantly expanded our nutrition business, divested our non-core bulk chemical activities, and upgraded the materials portfolio. In addition to focusing on business performance and financial discipline, we have repositioned ourselves into the successful science-based company that DSM is today: Purpose-led and performance-driven, putting innovation and sustainability at the heart of our company and our strategy. DSM Managing Board (from left to right): Geraldine Matchett, Feike Sijbesma and Dimitri de Vreeze. 1 This date will not be repeated throughout the rest of the Report Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 7 www.dsm.com DSM and the Sustainable Development Goals In 2016, the United Nations launched the Global Goals for Sustainable Development (SDGs), a roadmap to a more environmentally and socially conscious and responsible world by 2030. At DSM, we believe that companies have a key role to play in achieving the SDGs. We believe that our combination of Health, Nutrition and Sustainable Living contributes in a positive way toward achieving the SDGs. Our purpose and three focus domains align most closely with five of the SDGs, and we show here some examples of our contributions and commitments toward these core SDGs. Information about our engagements (Improve, Enable, Advocate) can be found in our Brighter Living Agenda, the Sustainability statements and throughout this Report. Nutrition & Health Climate & Energy We contribute through… We contribute through… ... our Nutritional Products that support the nutritional ... our Advanced Solar and biofuel solutions which requirements both in the developed and developing world. contribute to the uptake and efficiency of renewable ... our joint venture, Africa Improved Foods in Rwanda, that energy sources. sources local maize and soy to locally produce fortified ... our high-performance materials which improve energy porridges, helping local people access the nutrients they efficiency in and lower emissions from the automotive, need. maritime and food sectors. ... our Food Specialties that reduce salt, fat and sugar in the ... our animal feed solutions (such as Project Clean daily diet. Cow), which promote resource efficiency and reduce ... our Biomedical devices, which contribute to improved greenhouse gas emissions. quality of life for surgical patients. ... advocating for a shift to a low-carbon economy, ... our leadership, support and technical assistance to the including implementing a meaningful price on carbon. Scaling Up Nutrition (SUN) Business Network, enhancing and accelerating the potential of SMEs that are working to improve the nutritional quality of the food system. ... working with partners to advocate for dietary switches that enable improved health within planetary boundaries. Our commitments Our commitments • Together with the United Nations World Food Programme, • Our Science Based Targets comprising a scope 1 + 2 we will raise awareness for improved nutrition while absolute reduction of 30% and a scope 3 intensity continuing to develop new food solutions reduction of 28% by 2030 versus baseline 2016 toward • We take responsibility to control and minimize all our net zero by 2050 commitment possible safety risks and adverse effects that could be • Supporting targets of an average annual energy caused by (the substances present in) our products efficiency improvement of >1% and 75% purchased throughout the value chain electricity from renewable sources by 2030 • Together with Generation Unlimited and Sight & Life, • We apply an internal carbon price of € 50/t CO2eq we will develop a business plan in Africa to reach one on our key investments, acquisitions and in our million smallholder farmers by transforming the food management reporting system, providing better nutrition, stimulating youth job creation and reducing reliance on food imports Our key SDG targets* Our key SDG targets* 2.1 2.2 3.2 3.4 3.9 7.2 7.3 13.2 13.3 * The key targets demonstrate how our contributions and commitments link to the SDGs. The full text of the SDG targets can be found at https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/sdgs by clicking each of the SDG icons. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 8 www.dsm.com Introduction letter DSM and the Sustainable Development Goals Resources & Circularity Engaging with the SDGs In addition to our ‘core’ SDGs, we believe that we can Improve, Enable and Advocate to a varying extent across all the SDGs. Below we indicate our estimated contribution on all the SDGs. Minor We contribute through… ... materials that enable a circular economy, such as Moderate Improve Enable Advocate Niaga®, Akulon® RePurposed, and bio-based Stanyl® Major and Arnitel®. ... supporting the food system through our joint venture, Veramaris®, which replaces wild caught fish in fish feed 1 No Poverty for aquaculture, and by reducing food waste through 2 Zero Hunger packaging and preservation solutions. ... our waterborne resins that have lower VOC emissions. 3 Good Health and Well-Being ... our biofuel solutions, which enable fuel production 4 Quality Education from biomass from agricultural residues. ... working with advocacy partners to scale up circular 5 Gender Equality economy solutions, reduce food waste and promote the role of renewable raw materials. 6 Clean Water and Sanitation 7 Affordable and Clean Energy 8 Decent Work and Economic Growth 9 Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure Our commitments • Commitments on bio-based and recycled-based raw 10 Reduced Inequalities materials and products in our Materials cluster • ‘Safe by design’ is the leading principle in the 11 Sustainable Cities and Communities development of new and better products and 12 Responsible Consumption and Production processes • 80‒90% of our waste will be recycled by 2020 13 Climate Action • We will improve our VOC emissions efficiency by 50% 14 Life Below Water by 2021 (vs. 2015) 15 Life on Land 16 Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions 17 Partnerships for the Goals Our key SDG targets* 12.2 12.3 12.4 12.5 Improve: The impact within our own operations Enable: Products that enable our customers to deliver sustainable products for planet and society Advocate: Advocating for the future we believe in and acting on our responsibilities Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 9 www.dsm.com Our purpose is to create brighter lives for all Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 10 www.dsm.com Introduction letter DSM and the Sustainable Development Goals We are already reaching* more than 2.5 billion people worldwide * Lives Reached is a measure of the number of consumers reached each year via products of customer and other third parties which contain DSM products and solutions. This estimate is based on key market insights relating to market share, usage patterns and product composition. Mathematical modelling is used to eliminate double counting. For more information, see ‘Explanation of some concepts and ratios’ on page 249. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 11 www.dsm.com Purpose Acting on our purpose For more than a decade, we have distinguished ourselves We make change happen in three ways: by embracing sustainability and providing value for all our stakeholders across the three dimensions of People, Planet Improve: we optimize our own operational impact by and Profit. We have taken a decisive next step as a purposecontinually raising safety standards, promoting health led company, contributing to a brighter world for all with and well-being in our own workforce, reducing our our science-based solutions. Our purpose is therefore fully emissions, increasing our use of renewable energy and anchored in our Strategy 2021: Growth & Value Purpose led, unlocking more value from the limited resources Performance driven. Enable: we create products and services that enable our customers and partners to deliver sustainable and healthy solutions for the planet and society “ We cannot be successful, Advocate: we advocate for the future we believe in and we fully accept our responsibilities as a corporate nor can we call ourselves member of society successful, in a society that fails. ” Good financial Doing returns... Feike Sijbesma, CEO/Chairman Managing Board Focus well must Doing well on profit... financially... go together can with Our purpose is to create brighter lives for all or purpose. go together with doing well for the world. Businesses need to generate profitable growth while at Doing good improving the world. the same time playing a positive role in the world. 10 years ago Today 10 years from now We use our bright science to create solutions for people today and generations to come. We use our scientific We recognize the growing scale of companies in the global competences to deliver transformation at scale for as many economy, and the increasing impact they are having on our people as possible, within the constraints of the world's world. With increased impact comes increased resources. We aim to redefine how we live and work in order responsibility. The private sector as a whole needs to deliver to create a fairer, more prosperous and more sustainable value for all stakeholders — not just employees, customers society. and shareholders, but the world's communities and the individuals who live in them. We therefore take an We aspire to be a company for all, creating value for all our integrated approach to our responsibilities. Our Brighter stakeholders — customers, employees, shareholders and Living Agenda brings together many purpose-led initiatives society at large — and building a stronger legacy and a and creates an actionable framework for further brighter future for generations to come. engagement with our stakeholders. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 12 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board Purpose Progress in 2019 We created local ownership to help transform markets worldwide by connecting regional business dynamics and We implemented a range of initiatives designed to embed sustainability challenges to our global strategy. We also our purpose throughout the company during the course of worked on a combination of global and regional initiatives 2019. to create a workplace that reflects our purpose-led approach. For more information, see 'People' on page 40. These included translating the DSM Brighter Living Agenda into versions for our business groups and functions so as In addition to these efforts, we hosted a number of multito create clear ownership and focus. In our businesses, stakeholder events, including at the World Economic Forum we also focused on connecting customer needs with our in Davos, Switzerland, in January. In September, we gathered purpose and sustainability ambitions, thereby creating a leaders from the private and public sector as well as civil pull for purpose-led business. An example is our society in New York City (New York, USA) to discuss the role cooperation with FrieslandCampina. DSM and of business in society and identify initiatives that have FrieslandCampina both have a purpose-driven strategy in transformational potential. which various aspects of sustainability like nutrition and environmental impact are key. By working together in these areas, we can build on each other's expertise and increase impact. One of the areas of cooperation is the reduction of the carbon footprint at the farm. With DSM's knowledge of animal nutrition and health and our knowledge of milk and farming, we explore together the effect of feed additives on reducing methane emissions. Together we can make a difference and build a leading position with sustainability, said Margrethe Jonkman, Global Director Research & Development FrieslandCampina. We set additional circularity-related targets at businessgroup level in Materials in order to boost our transformation into a purpose-led business throughout the entire product DSM CEO Feike Sijbesma at a key panel of the World Economic Forum in life cycle. For more information, see 'Materials' on page January 2020. 84. Through key corporate functions such as People & Organization, Finance, Operations and Innovation, we are creating a culture in which purpose and performance go hand in hand, while making all employees feel they can contribute to our global agenda. We established a purposeled innovation program that defines the innovation platforms that will deliver growth in our three focus domains going forward. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 13 www.dsm.com DSM Brighter Living Agenda 2019 Improve Enable Nutrition & Health Nutrition & Health Reducing occupational safety incidents and promoting Enabling healthy lives for all: health and well-being in our own workforce Maintaining or improving existing good health status (reducing salt, sugar and fat intake; improving digestive Occupational Safety: health; improving comfort and well-being) Safety Frequency Recordable Index <0.25 by 2021 Protecting existing good health status (reducing risks of DSM Life Saving Rules injury; reducing emissions to air; reducing antimicrobial resistance) Employee well-being programs: Restoring compromised health status (contributing to Regional health programs the development of new regenerative health techniques Skin care protection and materials) Climate & Energy Climate & Energy Our long-term goal is net-zero emissions by 2050. To put Enabling the low-carbon economy through solutions that us on track to achieve this, by 2030 we will reduce our own help customers cut emissions and improve society’s carbon footprint by: ability to adapt to climate change: 30% absolute reduction in GHG emissions (scope 1 + 2) Limiting the use of fossil fuels and accelerating the 28% reduction per ton of product in our value chain GHG energy transition (biofuels, solar, materials for emissions (scope 3), starting with suppliers windfarms) Purchasing 75% of our electricity from renewable Enabling the future of mobility (weight reduction and resources hydrogen storage; biofuels) Extending the breadth and depth of our internal carbon Cutting livestock GHG emissions (reducing enteric pricing of €50/ton CO2 equivalent methane emissions, improving lifetime performance) Ensuring our assets and supply chains are resilient to the Improving resilience to the adverse effects of climate physical impacts of climate change change (agricultural and food security innovations, applications of our advanced materials) Resources & Circularity Resources & Circularity Unlocking more value from the limited resources that are available by: Enabling the transition toward a circular & bio-based Executing our Responsible Care Plan addressing waste, economy: water and emissions Increased use of bio-based raw materials Embedding circular and bio-based thinking into sourcing, (e.g., Decovery®, Engineering Plastics portfolio) operations, innovation and portfolio steering Replacing hazardous and potentially harmful ingredients with safer alternatives Creating solutions to reduce food loss and waste (e.g., Pack-Age®, bio preservatives) Extending the lifetime of materials & products (e.g., Dyneema®, coatings) Designing for recyclability (e.g., Niaga®) Recovering and valorizing waste streams (e.g., CanolaPRO™, Akulon RePurposed®) Eliminating waste from prototyping (3D printing) Reducing the reliance on finite marine resources (Veramaris®, aquaculture feed) Enabling efficient use of feed raw materials for more sustainable animal production (Ronozyme® feed enzyme portfolio) Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 14 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board Purpose Advocate Nutrition & Health Advocating healthy diets within planetary boundaries Active in partnerships to fight malnutrition: UN World Food Programme Global Alliance for Improved Nutrition World Vision Scaling Up Nutrition – UNICEF Vitamin Angels Active in partnerships to address sustainable and healthy nutrition: Food Reform for Sustainability and Health (FReSH), part of the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) European Institute of Innovation and Technology (EIT) Food World Economic Forum (WEF), e.g., ‘WEF Meat the Future Series’ Sustainable Food Initiative Climate & Energy Advocating climate action and building the movement for a low-carbon, resilient economy Leading roles/engagement in: World Bank Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition WEF CEO Climate Leaders WBCSD Climate & Energy Taskforce on Climate-related Financial Disclosures Renewable Energy 100 (RE100) United Nations Global Compact Global Commission on Climate Adaptation Resources & Circularity Advocating in favor of the transition from a linear to a circular and bio-based economy Leading roles/engagement in: Platform for Accelerating the Circular Economy (PACE) WBCSD Factor10 Circle Economy Ellen MacArthur Foundation, Circular Economy 100 (CE100) Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 15 www.dsm.com Results at a glance Strategy 2021 € 1,6841 +10%1 +47%1 Adjusted EBITDA2 versus € 1,5323 Adjusted EBITDA2 growth Adjusted net operating in 2018 (in millions) versus 20183 and versus a high free cash flow2 growth single-digit target versus 20183 and versus an average annual target of ~10% -1% 21% Organic sales growth Innovation sales, in line with our versus 20183 ambition of ~20% ~17% 74% 63%5 GHG scope 1 + 2 reduction — Employee Engagement Sales of Brighter cumulative structural Index versus 76% Living Solutions versus improvement4 versus ~8% in 2018 in 2018 62%3 in 2018 (baseline 2016) 1 Including the impact of IFRS 16, see table on page 164. 2 For reconciliation to IFRS performance measures, see table on page 180. 3 Excluding temporary vitamin effect in 2018 of € 415 million sales and € 290 millions (Adjusted) EBITDA, for further information see table on page 65. 4 We estimate that the effect of the underlying cumulative structural improvements in absolute GHG emissions was approximately 17% and 8% in 2019 and 2018 respectively, versus the 2016 baseline. The total cumulative absolute reduction was 25% and 18% respectively, versus the 2016 baseline. 5 For a small percentage of sales (approximately 2%) classified as BLS, the environmental impact is considered 'best in class' together with other solutions. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 16 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board Strategy 2021 Strategy 2021: Growth & Value Purpose led, Performance driven Our competences provide growth creating a growth with targets that underpin and purpose... opportunities in company... our mission. our focus domains... Our key competences + a science-based company Our 2019—2021 targets: addressing megatrends and active in Nutrition, Health the UN SDGs: and Sustainable Living: High single-digit % Company annual increase in Adjusted growth + EBITDA ~10% average annual Mega trends increase in Adjusted net operating free cash flow + + Value-creating M&A Purpose sets scope for further growth and evolution regarding the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions (in line with the Paris Agreement), our energy efficiency and our With Strategy 2021: Growth & Value Purpose led, use of renewable energy. Performance driven, we will evolve further toward being a purpose-led, science-based company operating in the Performance to deliver growth and value fields of Nutrition, Health and Sustainable Living. Our strong We have set two ambitious targets for profit growth and cash growth platform, centered on developing innovative generation to drive value creation for the period 2019–2021: solutions addressing Nutrition & Health, Climate & Energy and Resources & Circularity, together with increased A high single-digit percentage annual increase in customer-centricity and our large innovation projects, will Adjusted EBITDA drive above-market growth. At the same time, we will remain An average annual increase of about 10% in Adjusted net focused on cost control and operational excellence, operating free cash flow allowing us to accelerate profit growth and cash generation. Organic growth will be complemented by acquisitions, We are committed to top-line growth ahead of market, predominantly in Nutrition. which will be supported by expanded solution offerings that place the customer even more firmly in the center of our Our Nutrition business will focus on human nutrition activities, as well as by harnessing digital capabilities to (ingredients and solutions for food & beverages, as well as increase customer intimacy, improve productivity and specialty nutrition, nutritional ingredients, consumerefficiency, and support new business models. branded products and personalized nutrition), animal Approximately 45% of sales will come from high-growth nutrition (with premix and specialty solutions), and economies. personal care and aroma ingredients. We will leverage our unique technology capabilities to Our Materials business will further develop as a highdevelop innovative sustainable solutions in Nutrition & growth, higher-margin specialty business, and will focus on Health, Climate & Energy and Resources & Circularity, and the categories Improved Health & Living, Green Products & will invest approximately 5% of sales in R&D to develop Applications, and New Mobility & Connectivity. differentiating science and technology. Our innovation projects, including Veramaris®, Project Clean Cow, By improving the impact of our own operations, enabling fermentative Stevia and Niaga®, will result in about 20% sustainable solutions for our customers, and advocating of sales coming from innovation. The following table sustainable business, we can grow faster and reduce our describes the ambitions underpinning our financial targets: cost and risk profile. We will further step up our ambitions Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 17 www.dsm.com 1 1 2021 targets Ambitions underpinning our targets High single-digit 1. Sales Above-market sales growth for Total DSM, Nutrition and Materials percentage annual Adjusted EBITDA 2. Adjusted EBITDA margin Nutrition: >20% increase Materials: 18–20% 3. Working capital Reduce by 50 bps annually to ~16% ~10% average annual Adjusted net ~6.5% of sales 4. Capex operating free cash flow 2 ~1%-point increase per annum 5. ROCE increase 6. Adjusted EPS Increase ahead of Adjusted EBITDA growth 1 Based on 2018 underlying business, defined as Sales and Adjusted EBITDA corrected for our best estimate of the temporary vitamin effect. 2 Adjusted net operating free cash flow is the cash flow from operating activities, corrected for the cash flow of the APM adjustments, minus the cash flow of capital expenditures and drawing rights. Greater efficiencies and a yet sharper focus on higherconfidence in future earnings growth.In line with the targets margin specialty solutions will enable new Adjusted EBITDA set for the period 2019–2021, our performance is expected margin ambitions by 2021 for Nutrition (above 20%) and to result in further dividend growth, which could lead to an Materials (18–20%). Organic top-line growth combined with expected average payout of 40–50% of adjusted earnings. these enhanced margins will drive high single-digit Adjusted EBITDA growth. We will target M&A predominantly in Nutrition, given this business' unique growth potential, resilience, strong We aim to accelerate growth in Adjusted net operating free leadership position and potential for value creation. cash flow, generating an average annual increase of approximately 10%. This results from the ambition to: Nutrition Reduce working capital levels by around 50 basis points We have built a unique, highly integrated, global and broad annually nutritional and other specialty ingredient solutions Take a disciplined approach to capital expenditure, with business in food & beverages, specialty nutrition, animal an overall level of spend of approximately 6.5% of sales feed and personal care, meeting differentiated local needs Drive improvements in organic Return on Capital through our unparalleled network. We possess a diverse Employed (ROCE) of around 1% annually and significant premix footprint, with superior formulations and delivery systems, helping to drive sustainable Our overall deployment of capital is expected to drive nutritional and health solutions. This infrastructure is Adjusted Earnings Per Share (EPS) growth ahead of Adjusted fueled by our complete portfolio of nutritional ingredients, EBITDA growth. Our cash allocation policy remains which includes vitamins, nutritional lipids, carotenoids, unchanged and has a clear order of priority for cash minerals, eubiotics, enzymes and yeasts, as well as deployment: texturants, flavors and cultures. This diversity and level of integration creates a resilient portfolio with limited Disciplined capital expenditure for organic growth: about exposure to single products or customers, while benefiting 6.5% of annual sales from the opportunities provided by global megatrends. A stable, preferably rising dividend Disciplined M&A, predominantly in Nutrition Focused on Nutrition & Health, we will continue to aim for In the absence of value-creating M&A, capital to be above-market growth and an Adjusted EBITDA margin returned to shareholders greater than 20% by 2021. We will complement organic growth with inorganic opportunities that broaden our We remain committed to maintaining a strong, investmentportfolio and enhance our ability to provide customized grade credit rating. solutions. At the same time, we will further build on the successful initiatives of Strategy 2018, increasingly placing In line with our dividend policy of a stable, preferably rising the customer at the center of everything we do, while dividend, we increased the dividend over 2019 from € 2.30 delivering large, sustainability-driven innovation projects. to € 2.40 (+4.3%) per ordinary share, reflecting our Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 18 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board Strategy 2021 Global products Local solutions Regions Cultures N-Am L-Am EMEA Asia RoW Vitamins i Funct Probiotics NutraNatural onali ceuticals & preservatives Specialties Market segments Colorants ties Yeast Carotenoids (extracts) Omega Other + Funct 3 and 6 food/feed ionali nutritional ingredients tie Project lipids Enzymes Clean Cow Eubiotics Veramaris® s Fermentative Stevia Animal Human Animal Nutrition & Health development and building on our personalized nutrition Building on the results of our programs as part of Strategy platform 2018, we will continue to seek to deliver above-market sales growth through: In addition, we will continue to pursue inorganic opportunities in specialty nutrition and food & beverages, Marketing & Sales excellence, especially building to enhance and complement our already strong market specialist capabilities to address wider species positions. opportunities and pursue new health solutions Customer-centricity & agility, to place the customer at Our business is well positioned to benefit from strong the heart of everything we do, by improving the end-totrends, as evidenced by the disruptive value chain shifts we end experience for the customer are witnessing, which are leading to new opportunities in Further investing in our direct business-to-farmer (for Human Nutrition & Health. instance in China) and overall go-to-market capabilities In food & beverages, we see an increasing number of local In addition, we pursue radical innovation for core players entering the market in answer to the growing sustainability topics, all of which seek to deliver long-term demand for local, healthy products of natural origin with solutions for the industry with the potential to create reduced sugar, salt and fat. These new players have significant value for our company and our customers. With generally limited development and production assets and examples such as algal-based omega-3 for fish feed market their products through social media. Global players (Veramaris®) and methane-reducing feed additives for are facing the challenge of having to reduce costs in order cows (Project Clean Cow), we position ourselves at the to remain competitive while innovating their products. This forefront to benefit from global megatrends. scenario represents a unique opportunity for us. We offer tailored nutritional solutions to local players through our Human Nutrition & Health global presence and our R&D competences. At the same Building on the success of the first two parts of the LiftOff! time, we help global players reduce their manufacturing and Program as part of Strategy 2018, we will step up further in R&D costs with our premix capabilities, but also provide Strategy 2021 with increased focus on customer-centricity innovative solutions to replace sugar, salt and fat. As an and commercial excellence to drive above-market organic example, our partnership with Cargill (Avansya) to bring growth through: zero-calorie, cost-effective, non-artificial sweeteners to market faster is well positioned to help food & beverage Seeking to move closer to the customer by strengthening producers deliver the products and brands consumers the value propositions of our products and services, prefer, with significantly reduced calories. improving end-to-end customer experiences, and enhanced innovation and application capabilities In specialty nutrition (especially dietary supplements), Continuing to invest in business-to-consumer to ensure more health-conscious and educated consumers are the growth of i-Health beyond the US, as well as further increasingly seeking more personalized products based on their lifestyle, diet and genetic make-up, leading to a Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 19 www.dsm.com demand for more individualized advice, delivery systems Materials and diagnostic tools. This requires a more integrated offering beyond the supply of nutritional ingredients alone, We are further future-proofing our Materials business by one that involves turning scientific know-how into expert aligning it toward Sustainable Living, in line with our key advice for the consumer. To help us meet these needs, we focus domains of Climate & Energy and Resources & are building on our existing business-to-business and Circularity. This will further develop Materials into a highbusiness-to-consumer strengths, while also acquiring growth, higher-margin specialty business, delivering abovebusiness-to-me capabilities from leading start-ups such as market organic growth, focused on Improved Health & Mixfit, Tespo and Biomarker. Living, Green Products & Applications and New Mobility & Connectivity. Materials strategy New Mobility & Improved Health High Connectivity Functional & Living Additive/3D Materials High-Performance Plastics BioSpecialty medical Solar Compounds Bio-based Dyneema® Niaga® Fiber Solutions Market growth Specialty PA6 HV Film Coating & extrusion Resins Dyneema® Green Products Life Protection & Applications Powder Coating Resins Low Low Our capability to extract value High In Improved Health & Living, we are focusing on the Innovation increasing demand for advanced healthcare applications. In addition, we offer solutions that enhance end-user safety Innovation is what transforms our 'Bright Science' into and health conditions. 'Brighter Living'. We can leverage our unique technology capabilities for developing innovative sustainable solutions In Green Products & Applications, we are providing through possessing a profound understanding of: solutions that enable customers to cut emissions by using materials that are lighter, stronger, more efficient and more The science behind nutrition, and the capability to sustainable. We are also increasingly focusing on bio-based, develop new nutritional ingredients with proven health recycled, and fully recyclable solutions. benefits, supported by our state-of-the-art Biotechnology Center, providing sustainable alternatives In New Mobility & Connectivity, we are targeting materials for chemical synthesis, as well as plant/animal-derived that support the transition from fossil fuel to electric ingredients automotive power. We are also addressing the growing need Material synthesis and characterization, and the for increased connectivity between products, devices and capability to convert this into Sustainable Living applications. applications, supported by our state-of-the-art Materials Science Center Across our businesses, we have intensified our focus on customer-centricity and have implemented several Our sales growth is driven by our ability to continually programs that focus on creating a positive experience for deliver innovative and improved products and solutions to our customers. meet our customers' needs. Our innovations reflect our commitment to healthier and more sustainable outcomes and so help drive the performance of our Brighter Living Solutions portfolio. Innovation sales have also improved our profitability, delivering higher margins than the average Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 20 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board Strategy 2021 of our running business. Our innovation sales are defined In terms of culture, we introduced The DSM Ways of Working, as products and applications that have been introduced which describe a daily mindset that enables everyone in our over the past five years. We aspire to maintain a level of company to make a difference. These are described in more around 20% during the strategy 2019–2021 period, which we detail in 'People and organization strategy' on page 44. consider to be a healthy proportion in view of the overall balance of our product portfolio and product life cycles. We Digitization and digitalization will continue to invest in differentiating science and Digitization and digitalization drive our growth and improve technology, allocating approximately 5% of sales to R&D. our efficiency on three levels: Our organic growth will be supported by a number of Customer intimacy: improving top-line results by, for focused, large innovation projects — for example, Project example, customer data analytics, omnichannel apps Clean Cow, Veramaris®, fermentative Stevia, enzymes and providing 24/7 customer experiences, and digital yeasts for 1.5thand 2nd-generation bio-ethanol, Niaga®, collaboration tools Additive Manufacturing, plant-based proteins, and bioOperational performance: reducing costs by means of agriculture. These solutions are expected to be introduced automation and data analytics to increase productivity to the market in the 2019–2025 timeframe. All these in support functions and manufacturing, optimize innovations seek to meet significant, global sustainability operational processes, and improve safety, quality and challenges in Nutrition & Health, Climate & Energy and plant reliability Resources & Circularity. Altogether, we expect these to New business models: supporting entrepreneurship and generate around € 350 million in sales and € 100 million in artificial intelligence. Examples are our partnerships for Adjusted EBITDA from 2021 to around € 1 billion and digital value propositions and our pilots in the areas of € 400 million, respectively, from 2025 onward. personalized nutrition and animal feed As well as supporting innovation in our core businesses, Sustainability leadership the DSM Innovation Center also aims to develop its Sustainability is not only our core value and a key Emerging Business Areas (EBAs). These are promising responsibility, it is increasingly an important business growth platforms outside the scope of our business groups. growth driver at DSM that is fully engrained in our strategy. They comprise DSM Biomedical, which focuses on We are stepping up our sustainability aspirations. By innovative materials for medical devices; DSM Bio-based improving the impact of our own operations, enabling Products & Services, which focuses on clean energy from sustainable solutions for our customers and advocating crop residues as well as bio-chemicals with enzymes and sustainable business, we can grow faster and reduce our yeasts for biomass conversion; and DSM Advanced Solar, cost and risk profile. This is integral to our strategy and is which offers yield-boosting solutions for solar energy. detailed in the 'Brighter Living Agenda' on page 12 in 'Purpose'. For more details, see 'People' on page 40 and Enabling programs for accelerated growth 'Planet' on page 50. Our enabling programs will underpin and facilitate our Strategy 2021: report on progress ambitions by focusing on key areas such as performanceTotal DSM financial results driven organization, leadership and people, culture, During the first nine months of 2018, the industry digitalization and sustainability leadership across DSM. experienced an exceptional supply disruption. This event provided additional sales for € 415 million and a Organization, leadership and people, and culture corresponding Adjusted EBITDA of € 290 million in the first We continue to develop our organization, leadership and nine months of 2018, as estimated and reported last year people, and culture to enable continued performance. In in Nutrition. 'Underlying business' is defined as the sales terms of organization, we are maintaining our focus on cost and Adjusted EBITDA in Nutrition, corrected for this discipline and customer-centricity as we optimize our settemporary vitamin effect. up and align our activities and organization with specific market and customer segments. As of January 2019, we adopted IFRS 16 on 'Leases' using the modified retrospective approach: the financial results Regarding leadership and people, we are accelerating of 2019 are reported including and excluding this impact, leadership development for both people and teams, as well where applicable. as for effectiveness in growing our businesses. We are also embedding a global mindset through further internationalization. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 21 www.dsm.com 1 1 2021 targets Ambitions underpinning our targets High single-digit 1. Sales Above-market sales growth for Total DSM, Nutrition and Materials percentage annual Adjusted EBITDA 2. Adjusted EBITDA margin Nutrition: >20% increase Materials: 18–20% 3. Working capital Reduce by 50 bps annually to ~16% ~10% average annual Adjusted net 4. Capex ~6.5% of sales operating free cash flow 2 5. ROCE ~1%-point increase per annum increase 6. Adjusted EPS Increase ahead of Adjusted EBITDA growth 1 Based on 2018 underlying business, defined as Sales and Adjusted EBITDA corrected for our best estimate of the temporary vitamin effect. 2 Adjusted net operating free cash flow is the cash flow from operating activities, corrected for the cash flow of the APM adjustments, minus the cash flow of capital expenditures and drawing rights. In 2019, we delivered on our key financial targets with In 2019, we delivered a good financial performance, despite double-digit growth in Adjusted EBITDA of 10% to an increasingly challenging macroeconomic environment. € 1,684 million, including 3% from IFRS 16. The strong Nutrition's broad, global portfolio in food and feed Adjusted EBITDA growth in the businesses was also ingredients, as well as its expanded portfolio of solutions, supported by our continued focus on cost reduction and drove solid growth. Meanwhile, Materials demonstrated its operational efficiency. The Adjusted EBITDA margin was relative earnings resilience as it continued its ongoing 18.7%, compared to 17.3% in the underlying business in 2018. transformation into a high-growth, higher-margin specialty Adjusted net operating free cash flow increased by 47% to business, focused on Improved Health & Living, Green € 801 million compared to the underlying business in 2018, Products & Applications and New Mobility & Connectivity. including 10% from IFRS 16. Nutrition financial results Nutrition delivered above-market sales growth and highOur Nutrition business delivered a good result, with a solid single digit Adjusted EBITDA growth, despite challenging performance in Animal Nutrition & Health, a softer one in market conditions in some of its end-markets. Materials Human Nutrition & Health, and a strong one in Personal demonstrated earnings resilience in persisting weak market Care & Aroma Ingredients and Food Specialties. Sales in conditions with an almost stable Adjusted EBITDA. the underlying business were up 5% to € 6,028 million compared to the underlying business in 2018. The organic Our Return On Capital Employed (ROCE) from underlying sales growth in the underlying business was 2%, driven by business was down 130 basis points to 12.0% (including 30 volumes, which were up by 2%. basis points from IFRS 16), mainly driven by the impact of acquisitions and the implementation of IFRS 16. Animal Nutrition & Health reported 4% organic growth, against a strong 8% last year and despite the negative effect One of our key focus areas remains the improvement in our of African swine fever (ASF). This demonstrates the working capital as percentage of total sales. At the end of resilience of the integrated and diversified business model 2019, total working capital was € 1,852 million, compared to and our ability to address a wide range of species as well € 1,674 million in 2018, fully driven by the consolidation of as our diversified geographical presence. acquisitions and foreign exchange rate effects. The average total working capital as a percentage of sales was 21.2%, Sales were strong for all species and in all regions, except compared to 18.7% in 2018. for sales to the swine business in China and South-East Asia, which were impacted by ASF. This region accounts for more Including the estimated temporary vitamin effect of than half of global pork production, with culling measures € 415 million on sales driven by the exceptional supply introduced in response to ASF, affecting 35–50% of pork disruption in the industry in 2018, our total sales were down production in the area. The rapid spread of this disease 3% to € 9,010 million (compared to € 9,267 million in 2018). disrupted the global equilibrium of animal protein in the The total Adjusted EBITDA declined 8% to € 1,684 million short term. As a result, in the second half of 2019, we were when considering the total estimated € 290 million unable to fully offset the impact of the decline in pork temporary vitamin effect of 2018. Our Total ROCE was 12.0% production in the region with increases in production from (including 30 basis points from IFRS 16), a reduction of 480 other regions and species. Overall, volumes and prices were basis points from 16.8%. both up 2%. The price increase was due to positive sales mix Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 22 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board Strategy 2021 effects, as well as price increases earlier in the year for some this partnership, we strengthened our vitamin E position for ingredients to compensate for higher costs. animal nutrition premix solutions. Human Nutrition & Health delivered 3% sales growth driven Materials financial results by foreign exchange effects, which were largely US-dollarIn 2019, our Materials business was confronted with weak related. Organic growth was minus 1%, against a tough macroeconomic conditions in China and in some of its endcomparison of 7% organic growth in 2018, in increasingly markets. Materials reported organic growth down by 8%, challenging end-markets. Volumes were up 2% and prices driven by lower volumes (-5%) and prices reduced by 3%, were down 3%. with a relative resilience due to lower input costs. After a strong start to the year, softer macroeconomic DSM Engineering Plastics saw persistent softness in China conditions increasingly weighed on the Food & Beverage and in the global automotive segment, resulting in a minus segment, especially in North America. The softness was 10% organic growth. Electrical & electronics saw some signs most pronounced in the case of larger customers. Smaller of improvement in the second half of the year. Business customers were less impacted. Medical Nutrition and conditions in other end-segments were solid. Dietary Supplements (driven by the double-digit growth in the i-Health segment, our business-to-consumer business) DSM Resins & Functional Materials reported a minus 6% performed well over the year. Early Life Nutrition showed organic growth. Business conditions in Coating Resins a strong performance in the first three quarters of the year, stabilized versus previous year: while the European endwith a softer fourth quarter. Lower prices for vitamin C and markets remained weak, the business experienced a small negative mix effects resulted in 3% lower prices. uptick in the Chinese building & construction sector. Functional Materials saw its sales of specialty coatings for In Food Specialties, sales were 17% higher versus the prior glass fiber optic cables decline in the second half of the year, resulting from 4% organic growth, 12% from the year. The 4G network investments started to tail off in consolidation of Andre Pectin following the increase in anticipation of the upcoming infrastructure investments for DSM's shareholding from 29% to 75%, and 1% from exchange the 5G networks, which led to temporarily lower sales. rate effects. All major business lines performed well over the year, with especially a good sales growth in cultures and DSM Dyneema reported a minus 4% organic growth. The food enzymes in dairy and baking. Andre Pectin performed focus on strong growth in the high-margin personal well. protection business resulted in lower volumes in other segments. The shift had a strong positive effect on the In Personal Care & Aroma Ingredients, sales were up 11%, margins. New production capacity was started up by the end with very strong organic growth of 9% and a 2% contribution of the year in the Netherlands and in the US, which will allow from foreign exchange rate effects. All Personal Care the business to continue its growth. product lines, including sun, skin and hair care delivered good above-market growth, with Aroma Ingredients also Total Adjusted EBITDA was € 509 million, 1% lower compared performing well in 2019. Successful commercialization of to the previous year and including 1% from IFRS 16. Our the innovation pipeline further contributed to a very good specialty portfolio demonstrated its relative earnings year for the business. resilience in current market circumstances. Due to the strong performance of the higher-margin businesses For Nutrition, the Adjusted EBITDA growth in the underlying (especially in DSM Dyneema), good margin management, business was up 12% to € 1,250 million compared to the cost control and some benefits from exchange rate effects, previous year, including a 3% contribution from IFRS 16. This Materials reported almost flat earnings in 2019. The was driven by volume growth, lower costs, and a small Adjusted EBITDA margin was 18.5% (including 0.2% from IFRS contribution from positive foreign exchange rate effects. 16) compared to 17.6% achieved in the previous year. The Adjusted EBITDA margin in the underlying business was 20.7% (including 0.5% from IFRS 16) compared to 19.5% in Innovation results 2018. The DSM Innovation Center has multiple functions within DSM, including accelerating the innovation power of our We made good progress on the inorganic growth front. In core businesses and extracting value from our Emerging 2019, we increased our shareholding in Andre Pectin (China) Business Areas (EBAs). At DSM, we want at least ~20% of our from 29% to 75%. We also acquired Royal CSK (Netherlands), sales to come from innovation sales, which we define as combining complementary strengths to better serve DSM's sales from products and solutions introduced in the last five largest food & beverage segment and we created the 75:25 years. In 2019, innovation sales amounted to 21%. For more partnership, Yimante (China), with Nenter in 2019. Through information on innovation and R&D, see 'Innovation' on page 94. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 23 www.dsm.com DSM Innovation Center sales were up 13%, with 9% organic Sustainability results growth and a 4% contribution from foreign exchange rate At DSM, sustainability is not only our core value and a key effects. DSM Biomedical reported strong sales growth over responsibility it is also increasingly an important business the year. DSM Bio-based Products & Services continued to driver that is fully engrained in our purpose, strategy, benefit from the license income for yeast technologies used business and operations. Our approach for bringing about for bio-based fuels. DSM Advanced Solar was soft due to positive change is to improve, enable and advocate. We the challenging Chinese market. further improved the environmental impact of our own operations. We are well on track with respect to our The Adjusted EBITDA increased to € 22 million, benefiting greenhouse gas reduction, energy efficiency improvement from a strong increase in license income at DSM Bio-based and purchased renewable electricity targets. Products & Services as well as a good performance of DSM Biomedical and a positive contribution from exchange rate The underlying cumulative structural improvement in effects. absolute greenhouse gas reduction in 2019 compared to the 2016 baseline was ~17% Balanced global footprint Energy efficiency improved by 2.3% compared to 2018 Sales growth was solid among all regions, with favorable versus an average annual ambition of more than 1% growth in Latin America. We experienced increasing 50% of purchased electricity came from renewable challenging market conditions in China in Materials resources compared with 41% in 2018 (automotive and industrial) and in Animal Nutrition & Health (due to African swine fever). All high-growth economies together currently represent 43% of our sales, in line with 2018. The share of sales in these economies as a proportion of our total sales gives us a well-balanced global footprint. Continued step-up in sustainability leadership 1 2 ~17% 2.3% 50% 74% 0.28 20% 63% Realization 2019 GHG Energy Purchased Employee Safety Female Brighter structural efficiency renewable engagement Frequency executives Living improvement improvement electricity favorable Recordable Solutions (vs. 2016) year-on-year score Index 30% >1% average 75% >75% <0.25 25% >65%3 2021 / 2030 by 2030 annually by 2030 by 2021 by 2021 by 2021 by 2021 Ambitions (vs. 2016) till 2030 1 We estimate that the effect of the underlying cumulative structural improvements in absolute GHG emissions was approximately 17% and 8% in 2019 and 2018 respectively, versus the 2016 baseline. The total cumulative absolute reduction was 25% and 18% respectively, versus the 2016 baseline. 2 For a small percentage of sales (approximately 2%) classified as BLS, the environmental impact is considered ‘best in class’ together with other solutions. KPI will be updated as part of the Responsible Care Plan update in 2020. 3 We enabled our customers to deliver more sustainable We are proud to be globally recognized for our leadership solutions to their (end) consumers focusing on the domains in this area. Our climate change strategy received an of Nutrition & Health, Climate & Energy, and Resources & Arating from CDP, the non-profit global environmental Circularity. We made good progress in our large innovation disclosure platform. We further improved our rankings in projects such as Veramaris, Avansya®, Project Clean Cow, key ESG (Environmental, Social & Governance) indices, Balancius® and Niaga®. All our materials businesses achieving leading positions in four important ESG indices initiated additional sustainability ambitions to reduce the for investors: we are #1 out of 120 in our industry in environmental impact of their operations and to increase Sustainalytics, we have an AAA rating in MSCI, we have a the sustainability value they deliver. In 2019, our Brighter Prime rating in ISS-Oekom, and we have a leading position Living Solutions accounted for 63% of sales. in Vigeo. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 24 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board Strategy 2021 To read more about our environmental performance, see we already achieved our 2020 target on nationality mix last 'Planet' on page 50. year. Nowadays, 62% of our executives are non-Dutch, and our focus has shifted to expanding our non-European Organization, leadership, people and culture population. Today, there is a better gender balance both at We worked on further improving our safety performance management and executive levels. As of 15 February 2020, in 2019. We are proud that we substantially improved our the percentage of women in our Executive Committee, Safety Frequency Recordable Index from 0.33 to 0.28 in line Managing Board and Supervisory Board is 50% in each. With with our goals and values. Safety remains our highest these percentages we are clearly achieving our aim of priority and we strive to be incidentand injury-free. We aim having at least 30% male and at least 30% female members to deliver this by creating a culture in which everyone in each one. For more information, see 'People' on page working for DSM, whether as an employee or a contractor, 40. is engaged in maintaining high safety standards. Digitization & Digitalization We continued to develop our organization, leadership, We boosted our digitization efforts to drive our growth and people, and culture to enable continued high performance improve our efficiency through digital collaboration tools and engagement. We also further shaped a customerwith customers, data analytics to increase our productivity, centric organization aligned with market or customer and digital value propositions in personalized nutrition. A segments. We accelerated leadership development for both Chief Digital Officer was appointed to oversee our digital people and teams. The results of these initiatives are transformation and ensure that we will thrive in an reflected in our annual Employee Engagement Index rating increasingly digital world. In 2019, we continued to of 74%, with a response rate of 92% and over 40,000 strengthen our cybersecurity. Following risk assessments, comments received. This indicates that our people feel a multi-year program is being rolled out focusing on engaged and committed. improving cybersecurity capabilities in three areas: information technology, operations technology and R&D We continued to focus on internationalization and diversity laboratory systems. in 2019. Our executive base became more international and DSM Executive Committee (from left to right): Philip Eykerman, Judith Wiese, Geraldine Matchett, Dimitri de Vreeze, Chris Goppelsroeder and Patricia Malarkey. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 25 www.dsm.com Focus Nutrition & Health domains With our unique sciencebased competences, we have created a strong platform for growth and are ideally positioned to capture the growth opportunities offered by the global megatrends and The link between nutrition and health has never been clearer. For the first time in human history, diet-related nonSustainable Development communicable diseases have overtaken communicable Goals (SDGs), with a particular diseases as the primary cause of deaths worldwide. Malnutrition in its various forms affects more than 30% of focus on developing the world's population: more than 2.3 billion1 adults and children are obese or overweight, more than 820 million2 innovative solutions people go to bed hungry each night, and approximately two billion1 suffer from hidden hunger. Our work in Nutrition addressing Nutrition & & Health supports healthy living and nutritious diets for all. Health, Climate & Energy and We work tirelessly to provide micronutrients as well as to enable the production of sustainably sourced protein in all Resources & Circularity. its forms. We make affordable nutrition available, such as fortified rice, for those people who lack access to micronutrient-rich foods. We supply solutions for early life nutrition, food fortification, dietary supplementation and easy-to-use personalized nutrition. We continue to develop solutions that offer viable alternatives to the use of sugar, salt and saturated fats in processed foods and beverages. We are, for instance, now producing EverSweet™ — a non-artificial, zero-calorie, great-tasting fermentative Stevia sweetener — at commercial scale. We support the positive trend for personalized nutrition, and are continuing to expand our offering in this field. In animal nutrition and health, we offer the world's most innovative portfolio of enzymes and eubiotics to promote animal performance, health and welfare, replace antibiotic growth promoters, and reduce the environmental impact of livestock farming. Meanwhile, we develop innovative biomedical solutions to address previously unmet clinical needs, such as the production of affordable, durable and minimally invasive replacement heart valves. 1 Source: IFPRI 2 Source: UN FAO Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 26 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board Strategy 2021 Climate Resources & Energy & Circularity The stability of the world's climate is under threat. If the The world's resources are finite, and with a population most devastating effects of irreversible climate change are projected to grow to 9.8 billion people by 2050, some to be avoided, we must dramatically limit greenhouse gas estimates suggest we will need the equivalent of four planet emissions by transitioning to renewable energy and by Earths by then to sustain our current lifestyles. New ways adopting low-emission solutions and processes. The of achieving a balance between demand and supply have transition to a low-carbon economy will also create to be found, including approaches that are not based on business opportunities and drive growth for our innovative single use and subsequent disposal. We are making and sustainable solutions. We are enabling the low-carbon important contributions to the development of an effective economy not just by reducing our own emissions but also circular, bio-based economy founded on closed-loop by developing solutions to help customers and consumers solutions. to cut theirs. Veramaris®, our algae-based omega-3 oil, replaces the fishIn animal nutrition, our innovative 'Project Clean Cow' feed based omega-3 traditionally used in fish meal, and has additive cuts methane emissions from dairy cows by about the potential to make aquaculture truly sustainable. It goes 30%. Our solutions significantly help to reduce the right back to the source — algae are the original source of environmental footprint of dairy and beef products, a key omega-3 fatty acids — reducing our reliance on marine source of protein around the world. Working in sectors as resources for fish feed. Our Niaga® technology, which now diverse as transportation, electrical & electronics, marine, allows carpets, mattresses and furnishing products to be personal protection and high-performance coatings, we fully recycled, is likewise finding more and more market develop advanced materials that are bio-based, recycled, applications. With CanolaPRO®, which is derived from reusable and recyclable. To help accelerate the energy rapeseed pressings, we are making a new and sustainable transition, our recyclable backsheet and innovative coating source of plant-based protein available to the food & technologies increase output from solar panels. Meanwhile, beverage sector. Akulon® RePurposed uses abandoned the strength and lightness of Dyneema®, the world's fishing nets as the raw material to produce a recycled strongest fiberTM, is supporting the development of offshore polyamide that is used in specialist watersports wind parks and helping to drive down the cost of wind applications. energy. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 27 www.dsm.com Working with and for our stakeholders, we will create a stronger legacy and brighter future for generations to come We cannot do it alone Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 28 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board Strategy 2021 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 29 www.dsm.com Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 30 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board How we create value for our stakeholders This diagram is based on the International Integrated Reporting Council's Integrated Reporting <IR> framework and gives an overview of how we create value for our stakeholders based on six capital inputs: Human capital Societal & relationship capital Natural capital Financial capital Intellectual capital Manufactured capital Since 2002, we have reported on our performance in terms of People, Planet and Profit, and so the six capitals shown here continue to be clustered accordingly. Our organizational and operating model is made up of market-facing business groups focused on the primary business functions (Innovation and R&D, Direct Sourcing, Manufacturing & Operations, and Marketing & Sales), global support and functional excellence departments, and regional organizations. We seek to minimize risk and take advantage of the opportunities around megatrends, thereby transforming the capital inputs into value and positive impact. A key part of our strategy, aside from our financial targets, is to continue to strengthen our commitment to sustainability. We especially try to have a positive impact through our engagement in relation to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). We engage with all 17 SDGs, especially on the five shown in this figure. For more information, see 'DSM and the Sustainable Development Goals' on page 8 and throughout this Report. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 31 www.dsm.com Stakeholders Investors Capital providers play a significant role in the success and Our purpose can only be realized by working with our prosperity of our company. They support us in our pursuit stakeholders. Through empowering our employees, of a long-term oriented strategy which aims to continually engaging with our customers and suppliers, and with the create value for shareholders while offering a low-risk support of our investors, we will create a stronger legacy environment for debt holders. and brighter futures for generations to come. We discuss topics that are relevant to our operations and our impact For more information on how we communicate with on society regularly with our stakeholders. These investors, see 'Investors' on page 154 and elsewhere in this conversations shape how we define and execute our Report. strategy, including risk management, materiality, and new business opportunities. Suppliers Our supply chain consists of more than 32,000 suppliers. Employees Our suppliers are important partners for achieving our Our people are our most important asset, and our purpose, and we work closely with them through our employees represent more than 100 nationalities, working Sustainable Procurement Program. at more than 210 sites and offices in 47 countries worldwide. The safety of our people is our highest priority and we For more information on how we work with our suppliers, aspire to provide an incidentand injury-free working see 'Suppliers' on page 153. environment for everyone, including our contractors. Our People & Organization strategy defines our approach Society toward our people. We engage with society at multiple levels — from local community initiatives, to collaborations with universities For information on how we engage our employees, see and research institutes. We work with NGOs and civil society 'People' on page 40. toward solutions for societal issues, and advocate with governments and society on important issues relating to Customers the Sustainable Development Goals and the Paris Our customers are key stakeholders. They drive our Agreement. We also engage in philanthropic and business and through our collaborations, we enable sponsorship activities to the yearly amount of solutions that help solve some of the world's biggest approximately € 6 million for the coming period. As outlined problems. in our Code of Business Conduct, we do not make political donations. For information on our business and customers, see 'Review of business' on page 66. For information on how we engage For more information on how we engage with these with our customers, see 'Customers' on page 152. stakeholders, see 'Society' on page 155. Top 5 material topics by stakeholder group Customers Employees Investors Suppliers 1. Climate & Energy Occupational health & Innovation Climate & Energy safety 2. Business ethics & Leadership & Product stewardship Geopolitical shifts & transparency development dynamics 3. Innovation Digital transformation Climate & Energy Advocacy, engagement & partnering 4. Nutrition & Health Business ethics & Nutrition & Health Resources & Circularity transparency 5. Labor practices & human Labor practices & human Resources & Circularity Nutrition & Health rights rights Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 32 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board Stakeholders Materiality from a materiality and/or risk perspective. Finally, the matrix was reviewed and approved by the Managing Board. In order to assess material topics that are both of interest to society and have impact on our businesses, we annually Changes in 2019 update our materiality analysis. In 2019, we conducted a In the Materiality matrix 2019, the topics have been aligned thorough and extensive materiality analysis, based upon with the new strategy, so a number of topic names have and aligned with the timeline of the new Strategy 2021: changed, or topics have been combined or split. The most Growth & Value Purpose led, Performance driven. significant changes include aligning material topics with our focus domains and the inclusion of 'Labor practices & Our update in 2019 used Strategy 2021 as its point of human rights' as a topic in its own right. departure. The initial analysis was supported through desk research of peers and other institutions to arrive at a list For more information on materiality, see 'Management of potential material topics. Direct feedback on the approach for material topics' on page 157. proposed topics was obtained through stakeholder interviews, employee workshops and surveys, as well as a stakeholder dialogue, to arrive at a shortlist. The results For more information on our position on relevant were reviewed and validated by the Executive Committee. societal issues, see the company website. The resulting matrix was compared with the Corporate Risk Assessment to make sure all relevant topics were captured Materiality matrix 2019 Environment Social Business and governance High Climate & Energy Resources & Circularity Nutrition & Health Occupational Business ethics health & safety & transparency Biodiversity Product Geopolitical shifts & Societal interest stewardship (trade) dynamics Labor practices & Innovation Water security human rights Advocacy, engagement Digital transformation & partnering Internationalization & diversity Leadership & development Low Moderate Significant Major Business impact Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 33 www.dsm.com Collaborative platforms and networks Factor10 is WBCSD's Circular Economy program and consists of 30 leading companies across multiple sectors, including We collaborate with like-minded peers through platforms DSM. We are co-leading the circular metrics workstream of and networks that contribute to our purpose of creating Factor10, convening 25 other global companies to develop brighter lives for all. These collaborations are chosen to a harmonized set of indicators for measuring circularity on amplify and accelerate our advocacy efforts in support of a business or company level. In November, the 'CEO Guide a transition to more sustainable economic models on topics to the Circular Bioeconomy' was published by WBCSD to call that align to our focus domains of Nutrition & Health, for the shift toward a sustainable, low-carbon, circular Climate & Energy and Resources & Circularity. Collaborative bioeconomy, and was signed by 16 companies including platforms and networks such as these can help formulate DSM. new solutions, and measurement and performance methods, as well as roadmaps for business contributions Redefining Value is WBCSD's program supporting external toward achieving the Sustainable Development Goals disclosure and decision-making. Within this program, the (SDGs). In this section, we describe some of the most Taskforce on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) significant initiatives. Preparer Forum for Chemicals, a collaboration between WBCSD, DSM and four industry peers, published 'ClimateCross-domain initiatives related financial disclosure by chemical companies: World Economic Forum (WEF) implementing the TCFD recommendations'. We ran a pilot We are a strategic partner of WEF. We actively participated within Dynamic Risk Assessment focusing on the food in their meetings throughout 2019, including the annual sector and participated in the Integrated Performance meeting in Davos. We continued to strengthen our presence Management project. We also contributed to the ESG at regional events, including in Africa, the Middle East, and (Environment, Social, Governance) Disclosure Handbook. China, to highlight key partnerships and initiatives concerning nutrition, climate change and circularity. We We are also active within the WBCSD Climate Policy Working engaged in many projects and initiatives of WEF, including Group and the Climate & Energy Program. the Future of Proteins, and Low-carbon Emitting Technologies. Accounting for Sustainability (A4S) Ms. Matchett continued her role as Co-Chair of the A4S CFO During the WEF Annual Meeting 2019, in collaboration with Leadership Network. This network brings together leading partners including Salesforce, Yara and Cargill, we CFOs to help embed the management of environmental and successfully introduced the SDG Tent, a venue for discussing societal issues into business processes and strategy, business engagement for achieving the SDGs. Several highly particularly through the finance function. Ms. Matchett is a successful events were hosted at the SDG Tent. In 2019, our signatory to the A4S CFO Statement of Support for the TCFD CEO Feike Sijbesma co-chaired the Consumer Governors recommendations and the A4S CFO Net Zero Statement of and chaired the Alliance of CEO Climate Leaders. He also Support. became a Member of the Board of Trustees of WEF. In 2019, we participated in the various events and meetings World Business Council for Sustainable Development throughout the year. We shared our perspectives on (WBCSD) investor engagement through presentations at workshops We are a member of WBCSD and participate in various and webinars, and on the TCFD recommendations during working groups and coalitions. workshops in the UK and Brazil. In New York City (New York, USA), Ms. Matchett participated in a panel discussion on We are a founding member of Food Reform for behalf of DSM at the US East Coast launch of the A4S CFO Sustainability and Health (FReSH) project and a Board Leadership Network. member of the Food and Nature Program, to drive food system change. In October, WBCSD launched the 'CEO Guide Dutch Sustainable Growth Coalition (DSGC) to Food System Transformation', based on input from, and The DSGC is a CEO-led coalition of eight Dutch multinational signed by, CEOs of 17 WBCSD member companies. The Guide corporations which aims to drive sustainable growth describes seven pathways whereby business can help business models that combine economic profitability with transform the system, such as 'sustainable agriculture', environmental and social progress and thus contribute to 'healthier diets' and 'food loss and waste reduction'. the achievement of the SDGs. To accelerate this transition in the Netherlands and abroad, the Coalition wants to lead In 2019, our CFO Geraldine Matchett joined the Redefining the way and pursues a strategy of Scale – Share – Shape. Value Board, and Managing Board member Dimitri de Vreeze joined the Circular Economy Board. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 34 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board Stakeholders In 2019, the Coalition assessed new fields for collaboration RE100 such as internal change management and sustainable Our engagement with RE100, the world's leading campaign packaging. Moreover, together with other business leaders, to scale up the corporate sourcing of renewable power, they urged EU Heads of State to aim for net-zero carbon continued throughout 2019. We participated in the learning emissions by 2050. opportunities, conferences and advocacy opportunities offered to us in Europe, the US and China. For more Climate & Energy initiatives information on renewable energy, see 'Renewable energy' Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition (CPLC) and High Level on page 53 in 'Planet'. Commission on Carbon Pricing and Competitiveness, convened by the World Bank We Mean Business Represented by Mr. Sijbesma, who has served the World We Mean Business activates hundreds of companies and Bank Group as a Climate Leader since 2017, we continued to investors to commit to low-carbon initiatives. Our Vice drive carbon pricing and share our experiences on the topic President Sustainability sits in the Business Advisory Board. through the Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition (CPLC). In 2019, we worked on several advocacy and The CPLC's long-term objective is for effective carbon communications activities that called for governments to pricing to be applied throughout the global economy. In match their ambition and policies to limit global addition to facilitating leadership dialogues, the CPLC, temperature rise to 1.5°C above pre-industrial levels and together with partners, is also mobilizing business support demonstrated the private sector's support for these efforts. to put an internal price on carbon. We apply an internal We were one of the first companies to join the 'Business carbon price of € 50 per ton CO2eq when reviewing large Ambition for 1.5°C: Our Only Future' campaign launched in investments and acquisitions, and we include this in 2019, committing to reach net-zero emissions by 2050 across internal management reporting by the business groups. our operations and value chains. Mr. Sijbesma also co-chaired the High-Level Commission on Global Environment Facility (GEF) Carbon Pricing and Competitiveness, convened by the World The GEF is an international co-financing mechanism that Bank Group. Launched at the 2018 World Bank High-Level provides for global environmental projects catalyzing Assembly, the Commission is composed of CEOs and senior transformational change in key systems that are driving executives from leading global companies, as well as former major environmental loss, in particular energy, cities and high-level government officials and representatives from food. We are a member of the Private Sector Advisory Group academia. The Commission addresses competitiveness of the GEF, advising the Secretariat on private sector concerns that have the potential to inhibit the worldwide engagement. uptake of carbon pricing. The Commission convened at various high-level events throughout 2019, such as the Resources & Circularity initiatives Annual Meeting of WEF in Davos, with the flagship report Platform for Accelerating the Circular Economy (PACE) published during the UNSG Climate Action Summit in New PACE is a public-private collaboration platform and project York City (New York, USA). accelerator for the circular economy. With its broad membership, it aims to create systems change for the Global Commission on Adaptation (GCA) circular economy at speed and scale. The organization has Mr. Sijbesma serves as one of the commissioners on The initiated projects that focus on major material flows such Global Commission on Adaptation, managed by the Global as electronics, plastics, and food, and focuses on crossCenter on Adaptation and the World Resources Institute. cutting topics such as business models and metrics. In 2019, The Commission was launched in October 2018 and is PACE expanded its leadership group and refined a threecomposed of over 30 Commissioners and 20 convening year strategic action plan to focus their projects and countries, bringing together leaders to drive action and find activities. Feike Sijbesma represents DSM in the Global solutions to respond to the disruptive effects of climate Leadership Group, which includes over 40 CEOs, Ministers change. A flagship report from the Commission was and heads of international organizations. published in September. This report was part of the launch of the Year of Action that will focus on a series of work Ellen MacArthur Foundation streams that can jumpstart the necessary adaptation CE100 is the Foundation's global innovation platform. It actions across all sectors of society. We are partnering with brings together companies, emerging innovators, GCA, particularly by lending our expertise in the food universities and cities to accelerate the transition toward security and agriculture sectors, but also by mobilizing the a circular economy. In 2019, representatives from DSM private sector to adopt an integrated strategy to address Additive Manufacturing and DSM Engineering Plastics climate adaptation alongside climate mitigation efforts. attended the CE100 acceleration workshops in Europe, to share their businesses' circularity goals and solutions and engage with its members. At the Foundation's Annual Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 35 www.dsm.com Summit in May, DSM-NIAGA presented its journey to create program. The cooperation in India focused on mobilizing 100% recyclable carpets and the use of blockchain to the private sector around nutrition literacy, through the provide value chain information to customers in a platform IMPAct4Nutrition, which was established in March. trustworthy way. We were also part of the sounding board of the Foundation's circularity metrics work throughout Furthermore, the partnership is being expanded to address the year. agri-food business development as one of the Global Breakthroughs identified by Generation Unlimited, a Circle Economy partnership that forms part of the United Nations Secretary In 2019, we continued our membership of Circle Economy, General's Youth 2030 Strategy. The key objective of this a Dutch social enterprise that emphasizes practical and expanded partnership is to embed a longer-term vision for scalable solutions in the transition toward a circular sustainable food systems in Africa. The partners will economy. DSM Dyneema participated in Circle Economy's develop a business plan to attract young people and Circle Textiles Programme, which included workshops and prepare them to contribute to sustainable food systems in matchmaking with circular brands in the textile industry. We a way that creates nutrition and food business at scale. also continued our participation in the Circle Built Environment Programme (with DSM Advanced Solar). Circle World Vision International Economy supported our engagement program through an Our partnership with World Vision and Sight and Life, titled introductory seminar organized for employees in our 'Joining Forces for Last Mile Nutrition', aims to impact the materials cluster, and our attendance at the Circle well-being of people at risk of micronutrient deficiencies, Economy's Beyond Next festival in February. We were improve livelihoods across the agri-food value chain, and involved in the review of the next version of the Circularity influence key stakeholders. We leverage our scientific Gap report, which focuses on nation states and is scheduled excellence, technical expertise and extensive customer for publication in early 2020. base to facilitate the development and supply of innovative nutrition, formulation and food fortification. Nutrition & Health initiatives UN World Food Programme (WFP) In Rwanda, the partners further enabled the transformation In place since 2007, the DSM-WFP partnership 'Improving of the local maize value chain, ensuring a more efficient Nutrition, Improving Lives' aims to improve the nutritional supply chain, working with farmers and other stakeholders value of the food that WFP distributes through product on improving the quality of, and access to, raw materials innovations such as fortified rice. Together, we make a in Rwanda for Africa Improved Foods. The results of the first difference to millions of people. The DSM-WFP partnership pilot were positive, and the next phase will focus on scalewas extended for a further three years in 2018. The next up. phase of the partnership will place even greater emphasis on raising awareness for improved nutrition while The project EGGciting in Indonesia focuses on eggs as an continuing to develop new scientific and technical solutions important source of nutrition. This initiative will increase — one of which is a major project to continue developing the availability, accessibility, and consumption of eggs at fortified rice, a crucial staple food in the developing world. the household level in Sulawesi (Indonesia) by working with farmers to address bottlenecks in the supply chain, In 2018, WFP reached 35 million beneficiaries with food that improving the quality of feed and driving demand on the had been improved by the DSM-WFP partnership. consumer side for improved nutrition. Furthermore, in Additionally, we collaborate on training and development Brazil, market research for a pilot project started in 2019. initiatives and on employee fundraising campaigns. This pilot is projected to transform the distribution of micronutrient-enriched products in Brazil, by incubating UNICEF last-mile nutrition entrepreneurs — those entrepreneurs The DSM–UNICEF partnership has been in place since 2013. whose businesses serve populations living in inaccessible The partnership with UNICEF and Sight and Life supports areas. the Government of Nigeria in realizing its vision of scaling up the micronutrient powder (MNP) program nationally, Partners in Food Solutions reaching people suffering from malnutrition. Together, we Partners in Food Solutions (PFS) works to increase the have directly impacted the lives of one million children in growth and competitiveness of food companies in Africa. Nigeria by providing access to MNP. These aims are achieved by inspiring business leaders and linking highly skilled corporate volunteers from a In 2019, the partnership expanded to India as an additional consortium of leading companies including DSM, Cargill, focus country by supporting the UNICEF India nutrition General Mills, Hershey, Bühler and Ardent Mills with program, engaging private-sector stakeholders as part of promising entrepreneurs and other influencers in the food the government of India's Social Movement on Nutrition ecosystem. The six corporate partners have empowered Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 36 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board Stakeholders hundreds of entrepreneurs to work toward stronger, more workers with well-paid jobs. In addition, the regional resilient food value chains across the African continent. procurement of goods and services (such as transport) has led to indirect economic development across East Africa. In 2019, DSM employees contributed over 1,300 volunteer hours, working with 43 African clients across ten countries. AIF is the first and only certified producer of Super Cereal By sharing expertise, volunteers were able to assist local Plus in Africa, and more than 70% of the price paid for this entrepreneurs in growing their businesses and supporting product flows back into the regional economy. A study a supplier base of more than 78,000 farmers. Volunteer executed by the University of Chicago estimated that the AIF Shelagh Dwyer commented, What began as a volunteer intervention is expected to contribute almost USD opportunity through my job evolved into a 'Purpose 760 million to the Rwandan economy over a 15-year period. Ambassador' role at DSM. My PFS volunteer experience Another estimated USD 142 million will be contributed to reconnected me through DSM to my vocation of creating the East African economy through regional purchases. conversation around wellness and well-being through nutrition, and SDG2 of Zero Hunger. In 2019, AIF concluded its third year of business. During the year, AIF scaled up production and introduced nine new Scaling Up Nutrition business-to-business and business-to-consumer products. The SUN Business Network (SBN) — co-hosted by the Global Heightened demand and prices for Super Cereal Plus from Alliance for Improved Nutrition (GAIN) and WFP — is the existing customers, together with the acquisition of new private-sector branch of the Scaling Up Nutrition (SUN) institutional customers and entry into the Kenyan Movement. It aims to support businesses in growing the role consumer market, contributed to an estimated 20% they play in nutrition and to support SUN countries in increase in sales compared to 2018. On the sourcing side, developing national business engagement strategies. The AIF and its partners scaled up direct farmer purchases. AIF SBN is established in 14 countries, with 27 emerging country CEO Amar Ali was recognized as intrapreneur of the year by networks. These include more than 400 companies, mostly the Schwab Foundation at WEF, and AIF won the Sustainable small and medium-sized enterprises. The global Community Initiative of the Year award at the Africa Foodex membership platform currently has 23 members, who have Awards. a combined workforce of 1.1 million employees. Mr. Sijbesma is a member of the Lead Group of the SUN Movement and MANDI Co-Chair of the Advisory Group of the Network. Our Vice In 2019, we continued to expand MANDI (Making A Nutrition President Malnutrition Partnerships & Programs is on the Difference to India), a socio-commercial consumer products Operations Committee of the SBN. business model delivering local nutritious products that are affordable and aspirational. The range of home fortification Via the Network, we supported a number of SBN projects products branded as Nu-ShaktiTM include solutions for focusing on Sub-Saharan Africa. Together with the SBN staples such as rice and flour, as well as fortified beverage global team, we built on the impact and energy of the first powder. The business also aims to facilitate community ever Nutrition Africa Investor Forum (NAIF), which reframed awareness and education to help tackle the issue of the dialogue around nutrition. As an SBN global member, malnutrition in India. In 2019, we started distributing we are supporting the implementation of SBN principles, through trade partners in modern and traditional retail notably around workforce nutrition commitments; channels in Tamil Nadu (India). overweight, obesity and diet-related non-communicable diseases; and the delivery of technical assistance to Sight and Life national SBNs and their members. We advocate for business The Sight and Life Foundation pioneers science-based to take a leading role in these important issues. innovation with the aim of eliminating all forms of malnutrition in children and women of childbearing age Africa Improved Foods and improving the lives of the world's most vulnerable Africa Improved Foods (AIF) is a joint venture between the populations. With the continued support of DSM, the Government of Rwanda and a consortium of Royal DSM, Foundation delivers value in the nutrition community by the Dutch Development Bank (FMO), DFID Impact accelerating the translation of science into effective Acceleration Facility managed by CDC Group plc (CDC), and nutrition programming, building public-private International Finance Corporation (IFC), the private sector partnerships and developing viable social business models arm of the World Bank Group. AIF produces fortified foods for nutritious foods. made mainly from maize and soybean sourced from over 35,000 Rwandan farmers. These foods help meet the The Foundation is engaged in many initiatives, such as nutritional needs of vulnerable population groups such as OBAASIMA, which aims to create demand for nutritious food pregnant and breastfeeding mothers, older infants and in Ghana; the use of its Nutrition Kiosk to engage companies young children. AIF's Kigali factory also provides 300 skilled in support of the Government of India's 'Nutrition Mission' Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 37 www.dsm.com through a public-private platform, IMPAct4Nutrition, External recognitions together with UNICEF; and the EGGciting project, which is about making eggs available and affordable to low-income We are proud when our efforts receive positive recognition households through new poultry-farming business models. from others. Below is a selection of some awards and recognitions that we received from NGOs and trade Creating new knowledge and thought leadership on key organizations, customers, suppliers and academia in 2019. public health topics, such as multiple micronutrient A full list of our recognitions can be found on the company supplementation (MMS), is an essential part of Sight and website. Life's work. In July 2019, the Foundation launched an insightful edition of Sight and Life Magazine on data in In June, we were awarded the Best UN Sustainable nutrition, which brings new voices to the discourse, Development Goals Award at the Sustainable Business including thought leaders and influential practitioners. For Awards Singapore 2019. The award recognizes the alignment more information, visit: https://sightandlife.org between our business strategy and objectives with the SDGs, driving societal impact and delivering on business Initiatives complementing the focus domains goals. Catalyst We continued to be a Global Supporter of Catalyst — the In August, DSM Brazil was named for the ninth consecutive NGO accelerating women's progress in the workplace. Mr. year in the Great Place to Work® list in Brazil. In the Brazilian Sijbesma continued his role on the Board of Directors and agribusiness sector, it was ranked fourth overall. Ms. Matchett her role on the European Advisory Board. In October, DSM was listed in the Forbes Global 2000: The In 2019, we participated in a number of Catalyst events, World's Best Employers. including two Roundtable conversations in the Netherlands, a Men Advocating Real Change (MARC) In October, Helen Mets, President DSM Resins & Functional inclusion program, and the Catalyst Awards dinner in the Materials, won the 2019 World Business Council for US. We committed to sponsor a new Catalyst work program Sustainable Development (WBCSD) Leading Women Award on The Future of Work for women, with a focus on the impact in the Excellence category for her sustained and of technology and artificial intelligence on women's outstanding contribution to advancing sustainability in experience of work. We were involved in shaping the content DSM. of this project and participated in the inaugural Symposium. Catalyst profiled our campaign on Women in Science and In November, Mr. Sijbesma was listed number 42 on the Technology. Harvard Business Review The Best-Performing CEOs in the World, 2019. One Young World (OYW) The One Young World Summit gathers 2,000 young leaders In November, DSM was listed in the inaugural Financial from more than 190 countries and all sectors, empowering Times Diversity Leaders, a ranking on companies in 10 them to make lasting connections to generate positive European countries on a diverse and inclusive workplace. change for sustainable development. In 2019, we participated for the ninth time, with Mr. Sijbesma, who is In December, DSM was ranked in Fast Company's '2019 The also an OYW Global Advisory Board member, delivering a Most Innovative Companies in China 50' and our DSM China keynote speech on the need for leadership to adapt to President was profiled in their December publication. Fast change. Our delegation consisted of 12 young talents Company highlighted our sustainable innovations in Health, representing all our businesses and regions, and six Nutrition and Sustainable Living in their ranking. recipients of the DSM Brighter Living Scholarship. The recipients were social entrepreneurs from Africa and Asia with links to our strategic focus domains, specifically in malnutrition and design for circularity. They were chosen with the aim of exploring possible business collaborations between DSM and their businesses. After the summit, the delegates were tasked with driving purpose-led initiatives inside and outside the organization. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 38 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board Stakeholders ESG Ratings and Benchmarks Sustainability is at the heart of our business. It is our core value: we see it as a key responsibility and an important business driver. This is reflected by our inclusion in several Environmental, Social, Governance (ESG) Benchmarks and Ratings (see table below), many of which rate us a (sector) leader. It is impossible for any company to actively participate in every ESG benchmark, so we annually review and prioritize these. We base this on the following criteria: Recognition and use by our stakeholders, including our investors Transparency of methodology Primary reliance on publicly accessible information Avoidance of additional administrative work Provision of sufficient feedback to participating companies to enable them to make meaningful year-on-year improvements Our priorities in 2019, and the outcomes, are listed below We maintained the lowest risk rating (1 out of 10) from ISS QualityScore. In December, ISS ESG classified DSM as 'Prime' according to its rating methodology. Our rating of Bputs us in the top decile relative to our industry group. In the April update by MSCI, we were informed that DSM had been upgraded to AAA. This change was effective as of the end of 2018. Our continued strength in the areas of carbon emissions and corporate governance, along with a lowering of our risk profile, were key contributors to this upgrade. In October, we were again listed in the Vigeo Eiris Benelux, Europe, Eurozone and World indices and were reconfirmed as a constituent of the Ethibel Sustainability Index (ESI) Excellence Europe and the Ethibel Sustainability Index (ESI) Excellence Global. In December, we were once again confirmed as a constituent of the FTSE4Good Index. We have been listed on this index since 2004. In January 2020, we were assessed by Sustainalytics as being at low risk of experiencing material financial impacts from ESG factors, ranking 1 out of 120 companies in the specialty chemicals industry. In January 2020, for our climate strategy, and water governance and strategy in 2019, we were assessed as Aand B respectively by CDP. EcoVadis awarded our company a Gold CSR Rating in November 2018. At the time of publication of this Report, we are in the process of being reassessed by EcoVadis. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 39 www.dsm.com Results at a glance People 0.28 74% 72% Frequency Index of Recordable Employee Inclusion Index Injuries versus 0.33 in 20181 Engagement Index equal to 2018 versus 76% in 2018 28:722 20% 50% Female:male ratio Female executives Of female members equal to 2018 versus 19% in 2018 of MB, EC and SB since 15 February 2020 1 Per 100 DSM employees and contractors 2 Excluding companies that are not integrated into our HR systems (approximately 6% of the total workforce). Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 40 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board People People remain our most important asset. Our performance Our safety priorities are to focus on high-risk and highand success are built on their commitment and capabilities. frequency incident categories and locations, to further drive In 2019, we invested again in continuously supporting the the standardization and digitalization of our key SHE (Safety, safety, health and development of our people. To achieve Health, Environment) processes, and to continue our 'I Care, this, we focused on: We Care' campaign, keeping safety awareness high through global guidance and locally relevant programs. These Investing in our safety culture, led by the DSM support the realization of our safety aspirations of a Safety Responsible Care Plan (DRCP) Frequency Recordable Index (FI-REC) below 0.25 and a Fostering health & well-being through regional programs Process Safety Rate (PSI) of 0.15 by 2020. and best practices Further anchoring our customer-centricity strategy and Our health & well-being ambition is to create a positive strengthening our international footprint culture of health at work and support our employees to be Investing in people and team development as well as our 'fit for the future' by promoting vitality and well-being. Employee Value Proposition to attract, engage and retain Through regional programs focused on prevention, we the right talent facilitate healthy work conditions. Exploring digitalization, automation and analytics in preparing the organization for the 'Future of Work' Occupational safety Occupational safety is the safety of our employees and The key material topics for People are: contractors. In 2019, the Frequency Index of all DSM Recordable Injuries significantly improved from 0.33 to 0.28. Occupational health & safety (covered in Safety, health Special attention was given to the sites where the majority & well-being) of reportable safety incidents occurred in 2018. These sites Labor practices & human rights (covered in Human reported an improvement in reportable incidents of 65%. Rights) The Frequency Index of Lost Workday Cases (LWC) for DSM Leadership & development employees improved to 0.09. Internationalization & diversity Frequency Index of Recordable Injuries 12-month moving average For more information about our People performance, see REC-rate, DSM all 'Sustainability Statements — People' on page 150. See also Rate for Lost Workday Cases (LWC), DSM-own 'How we create value for our stakeholders' on page 30 and 'Stakeholders' on page 32. 0.5 0.4 Safety, health & well-being 0.3 DSM Target FI REC All 2020: 0.25 0.28 0.2 Aspiration 2019 2018 Occupational safety 0.1 0.09 Frequency Index REC 0.25 in 2020 0.28 0.33 0 Frequency Index LWC 0.09 0.11 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Process safety PSI Rate 0.15 Hand safety was identified as a focus area, and actions were in 2020 0.23 0.22 taken to eliminate knives and make cut-resistant gloves a Occupational health mandatory part of personal protective equipment, where cases 16 29 relevant. The number of hand injuries did not drop significantly in 2019 but we expect to see the impact of this Safety remains our highest priority and we strive to be change in 2020. Diligent follow-up on selected safety incidentand injury-free. We aim to deliver this by creating incidents and serious near-misses took place companya culture in which everyone prioritizes safety and drives wide to secure sustainable learnings for the prevention of relentless execution of our SHE policies. In 2019, we defined these incidents. the new DSM Responsible Care Plan (DRCP), which addresses the topics of safety and health, among others. The Frequency Index of Recordable Injuries among More information about the DRCP can be found in 'DSM contractors improved from 0.51 to 0.49. This was due to a Responsible Care Plan 2019–2021' on page 51. substantial decrease in the number of contractor incidents — supported by improvements in contractor supervision and diligent implementation of learnings from previous Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 41 www.dsm.com accidents — and offset by a significant decrease in The standardization of processes and implementation of contractor hours due to the completion in 2018 of the Blue digital tools such as our electronic permit-to-work process Sky Project in China, which recorded 2.2 million man-hours are progressing. These are designed to prevent the without safety incidents and only one health incident. potentially most serious process safety incidents. DSM Life Saving Rules Health & well-being Our Life Saving Rules (LSR) play a key role in our approach Our health management system is based on prevention, to safety and address the highest risks in our operations. primary care and promotion. Through the design of our In 2019, the learnings from serious safety incidents in the processes and products, as well as the provision of proper recent years were integrated into the updated LSR. protective equipment, we aim to prevent occupational Ambiguity in several of the dimensions has been removed. illness. Primary care is provided by site-based medical This includes changes such as moving to zero tolerance professionals and also includes emergency preparedness regarding alcohol/drugs (including company-related social and first aid. Promotion of good health is continuously events if driving afterwards), and allowing no mobile phone addressed through a wide range of health promotion use (even handsfree) when driving a vehicle on DSM activities and is reflected in our SHE policies. business. The changes were followed by a communication campaign in which our senior leaders explain what the LSR We recorded 16 occupational health cases in 2019, involving, mean for them and why these are so important for our for example hearing loss, ergonomics and allergic reactions. company. Regional health activities are encouraged and support Process safety employees worldwide who would like to improve their Process safety is the safe operation of our facilities. The health and well-being in the short term. We also take a longProcess Safety Rate stayed almost flat, moving from 0.22 in term perspective in encouraging long-term health and 2018 to 0.23 in 2019. Asset and mindset improvements are employability. Examples include DSM FIT in the Netherlands needed to address small product leakages, which account and the Brighter Living Wellness Program in North America. for the larger part of these incidents. Our leading KPIs continue to play a key role in driving capability DSM FIT improvements and relentless execution of all process safety The DSM FIT department was created in 2017 with the life-cycle actions. They also drive visible leadership — a key ambition to create a sound, safe and healthy work element of our 'I Care, We Care' campaign that plays a environment. In 2019, the team finalized their significant part in our journey toward an incident and transformation from a medical/occupational health injury-free workplace. department into an all-round employability department in which employees of DSM FIT also serve as employability ambassadors. To complement this, a trained network of Frequency Index of Process Safety Incidents employees was created to support the well-being of their 12-month moving average Target 2020 colleagues through advice and coaching. DSM FIT provides onsite guidance for employees whose employment 0.4 relationship is coming to an end, focusing on the full aspects of employability. Besides this, it supports initiatives 0.3 0.28 0.23 that create an open culture in which employability and well0.22 0.2 0.19 being are openly discussed and valued. 0.1 In 2019, a project to improve long-term employability was started, owned by both the Works Council and the President 0 of DSM Netherlands. A survey was conducted within the 2016 2017 2018 2019 Dutch employee base to identify how people feel about their work and how resilient they feel in times of high workload or pressure. The survey had a response rate of 60% among the Netherlands-based workforce. In addition, we introduced the employability monitor, providing valuable feedback about the employability of an individual. The monitor also provides the opportunity for conversation with an employability advisor — a DSM colleague trained to help employees interpret and act on their personal monitor results. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 42 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board People The Brighter Living Wellness Program employee empowerment and human rights protection, and The Brighter Living Wellness Program has enjoyed a we maintain dialogues with employees and representative participation rate of over 60% since it began in 2018. The bodies to enable this. program provides incentives to all employees (including spouses/domestic partners (DPs) enrolled in their medical We have been a signatory to the UN Global Compact since plans) to live healthier lives. 2007. For more information, see our human rights position paper on the company website. The program hosts a network of more than 60 wellness champions, who meet monthly and help support Our human rights cross-functional working group was employees on site to encourage healthy habits. Employees launched in 2018 to further embed our approach to human and their spouses/DPs can receive incentives that rights. It focuses on the following seven areas in our own contribute toward their health care costs and other operations and in the supply chain: non-discrimination; incentives for financial wellness checkups, preventative prohibition of child labor; health and safety; fair care checkups and age-appropriate screenings. remuneration; protection of personal information; corruption and bribery; and grievance mechanisms. All locations in North America possess onsite resources including health stations that monitor weight and blood Own operations pressure. Affordable and easy access to medical care is A thorough review of our internal processes was conducted offered via telemedicine, including doctors' visits and in 2019 to obtain an in-depth inventory of policies and counseling by phone and online. practices across the seven focus areas mentioned above. This enabled us to concentrate our efforts in terms of The North American Nomad Challenge was a team stepfurther assessment, gap analysis and mitigating actions counting challenge in which employees 'walked' to each of moving forward. The initial findings show that our focus our 37 locations in North America, with the winning teams areas are well covered at a global level regarding a policy and individuals receiving incentives within the framework and broader legal perspective. of the Brighter Living Wellness Program. The next phase will be to design, test and roll out a new due Human Rights diligence approach to check to what extent our actual practice is consistent with our internal policies and to In addition to taking care of the safety, health and welldefine our salient human rights areas. being of our employees, we also have a responsibility as a company to protect human rights. This is fundamental to In addition to these topics, a specific area of attention was achieving the sustainable societal advances to which we fair remuneration, with a focus on equal pay / gender pay aspire. We believe that the basic rights and freedoms to gap and living wage. which all people are entitled — human rights — should be understood, respected and promoted by all companies as Equal pay / Gender pay gap the cornerstone of socially responsible business. Our commitment is to set equal pay and remuneration for men and women for doing similar work that requires We have a long-standing commitment to international equivalent qualifications and skills. We have further declarations and the relevant instruments to safeguard elaborated our position in our Equal Pay statement, which these, including: is published on the company website. The UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights In 2019, we conducted an initial analysis on gender pay gap The UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human to calculate the global ratio of the average base salary of Rights (the Ruggie Framework) women compared to men. The gender pay gap in 2019 was The ILO International Labour Standards 9% in favor of women (female:male pay ratio — 109:100). This The OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises ratio is based on validated employee base pay data for our significant locations of operations1 and covers We apply the International Labour Standards of the approximately 63% of our global employee base. The pay International Labour Organisation. We respect the role of gap can primarily be attributed to a higher proportion of works councils and collective bargaining, and work with male employees in lower-level positions. these groups in the countries and regions in which they are present. We develop social plans and severance programs In 2020, we aim to conduct further in-depth analysis and in the event of significant reorganizations. We promote data validation. Any learnings and observations will be 1 Significant locations of operations include Brazil, China, Netherlands, Switzerland and US, excluding Pentapharm (Switzerland and Brazil) and Jiangshan (Jiangsu Province, China). Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 43 www.dsm.com converted into further action planning, which will involve We continue to develop and optimize our model, leveraging internal communication and awareness activities (such as our shared services and digitalization. We employ digital incorporation into reward training modules), and alignment solutions, such as our P&O dashboard, to support us in with our inclusion and diversity agenda. In the coming years, tracking our progress. further efforts will also be made to increase the coverage of this analysis. In 2019, we initiated a 'Future of Work' program within the P&O function, to ensure that our P&O strategy anticipates Living wage and addresses projected changes to work, workforce and We are committed to providing a living wage to all our workplace driven by digitalization, demographics, and other employees. In 2019, as an initial step toward this factors. A global P&O project team was formed, and commitment, we performed a first measurement on our recommended DSM-specific priorities for action, which will significant operations to gain insights into the difference be embedded in the strategy going forward. between actual salaries and country-level living wage standards. The outcome of this exercise was shared with the Executive Committee. We also operate in countries for “ Work is an important part which living wage standards are not yet available or where a variety of different living wage standards exist (for of people’s lives and example, differences between urban and rural contexts, or between provinces). To address this, we have partnered with identities. At DSM, we strive an external agency to develop a methodology and approach for these countries which will be further rolled out through to create a working 2020. environment in which our Supply chain Beyond our own operations, potential labor and human people can be themselves, rights implications are handled through our Sustainable Procurement Program (SPP). We assess suppliers for have room to develop, and potential human rights issues through Together for Sustainability/EcoVadis sustainability assessments and add value to our audits. Read more about our SPP and how we manage potential human rights issues within our supply chain in organization in their 'Suppliers' on page 153. See the company website for our Modern Slavery Statement. unique ways. That’s what People and organization strategy drives me every day. ” Judith Wiese, DSM Executive Committee In 2018, we formulated and shared our ambitions in our people and organization (P&O) strategy in support of Group business Services (GbS) NextGen Transformation Strategy 2021. The P&O strategy is built around six strategic program levers: Operating model, Customer-centricity, GbS is tasked with taking care of the growing portfolio of Internationalization & diversity, Leadership & development, internal services that enable our employees and people Team by team, and Culture / The DSM Ways of Working. managers to focus their time and energy on their core The following sections show the progress that has been business. Automation and digitalization are key to help made in respect of each of these levers. create efficiencies and ensure that GbS is able to manage a higher volume of transactional work with a better Operating model employee experience as well as at a competitive and Our operating model as described in our value creation sustainable price. model on page 30, is composed of our market-facing business groups (focusing on the primary business The GbS NextGen program was set up in 2019 to leverage functions), global support and functional excellence the benefits of digitalization and new technologies such as departments, and regional organizations. In this matrix we Artificial Intelligence (AI) and robotization. GbS will continue need to make sure we stay competitive and are equipped to restructure its geographical footprint to deliver this. As to integrate acquisitions. This was successfully executed in a result, we are strengthening the role of Hyderabad (India) acquisitions such as SRF (India), along with the expansion as our central hub for the shared service functions Finance, of our share in Andre Pectin (China) in 2019. Information Technology, Purchasing and HR. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 44 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board People Digital Acceleration Group specific needs of the respective businesses and applicable The Digital Acceleration Group comprises senior leaders sales roles. In addition, advanced tooling is being rolled out, across DSM whose responsibility is to identify and leading to better insights into sales achievements and accelerate the funding of relevant digital solutions. They subsequent further fine-tuning of KPIs, along with more meet on a monthly basis with the brief to shape our digital efficient monitoring of cost-effectiveness. future, enable digital transformation, accelerate and scale digital solutions, and boost the digital mindset and Internationalization & diversity capabilities of the company. Investments for acceleration are selected on the basis of clear criteria and follow venturing practices: a phased approach with clear stage Aspiration 2019 2018 gates and phased funding. Female executives 25% by 2021 20% 19% Customer-centricity Under-represented 35% The market-facing business groups focus on the primary nationalities by 2021 31% 31% business functions of Innovation and R&D, Direct Sourcing, Manufacturing & Operations, and Marketing & Sales. With the fast-changing and increasing localization of our We aim to develop a talent base that is global and diverse, markets, it is essential to put our customers first in reflecting the markets and customers we serve. In 2019, we determining how we innovate, organize ourselves and build continued our focus on increasing the representation of capabilities, and how we reward our people. women and under-represented nationalities at executive level and throughout our management pipeline in order to In DSM Nutritional Products, the customer-centricity fuel innovation and growth in every country where we program, started in 2018, focused on three elements: operate. fostering understanding, building capabilities and reinforcing behaviors. The focus in 2019 was on building In 2019, we were ranked first in the Female Board Index by capabilities through a collaboration with DUKE Corporate TIAS School for Business and Society, and we were also one Education. It was launched with an eight-week virtual and of only three companies that complied with the Dutch collaborative learning journey employing gamification, targets (>30%) of gender diversity at Managing Board and followed by a global summit. The program aims to embed Supervisory Board level, as well as with the European change by sharing learnings, using role modeling, and Supervisory Board gender target (>40%). Both our celebrating best practices. Supervisory Board and our Managing Board were well balanced in 2019 in terms of gender, comprising 50% and Within DSM Engineering Plastics, the multi-year integrated 33% women respectively, which is in line with Dutch program on customer-centricity launched customerlegislation and with the company's own diversity policy. focused scorecards in 2019. The scorecard gives insight into The gender diversity levels of 50% women within our our Net Promoter Score, see 'Sustainability Statements — Supervisory Board and 43% women within our Executive Customers' on page 152, as well as how employees can use Committee exceed our target for at least 30% of these customer feedback to improve their work. They reflect on positions to be held by women and at least 30% by men. how we engage with customers online and how this leads The composition of both our Supervisory Board and our to a follow-up, how we build and commercialize, and how Executive Committee is in line with our target of not having we care for supply chain reliability and complaint handling. more than 50% of the members drawn from a single This initiative engages many employees across the nationality. Furthermore, in the Supervisory Board of DSM company, not only the sales department. Nederland B.V., a subsidiary of Royal DSM, one of the three members is female. As of 15 February 2020, the percentage The global short-term incentive (STI) framework better of women in our Executive Committee, Managing Board and aligns pay and performance and focuses on the Supervisory Board is 50%. achievement of business objectives across all levels within the organization (non-sales). The framework covers The percentage of female executives increased slightly to approximately 4,700 employees. In 2019, KPIs measuring 20%. Our target for female executives of 25% remains customer-centricity were added such as 'on time in full' and challenging and we aspire to deliver the targeted level by 'customer complaints resolution.' Specifically applicable to the end of the current strategic period. sales employees, the Sales Compensation Framework and the respective business unit Sales Incentive Plans (SIPs) We aim to shift the geographical distribution of executives have been further revised and deployed, leading to more and other key functions to ensure that relevant decisions alignment between pay and sales performance as well as can be made close to where our customers are. We keep a increased cost-effectiveness. These SIPs are tailored to the keen eye on our nationality balance, which should reflect our global footprint. In 2018, we achieved our 2020 target on Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 45 www.dsm.com nationality mix. As a result, we have switched our focus from Regular performance evaluations play an important role non-Dutch to non-European, setting ourselves an ambitious in ensuring we are performance-driven and develop our target of 35% non-European executives by 2021. In 2019, 62% people for roles today and into the future. In 2019, almost of our executives were non-Dutch compared to 60% in 2018, 15,000 employees had access to the global digital with 31% being non-European in line with 2018. Our evaluation tool for performance reviews. All other executive base became more international, and we have employees participated in performance evaluation on seen a positive trend in onboarding local executives in Asia, paper or by means of local systems. as replacements for internationally-posted executives in the region. We follow the 70:20:10 principle in learning and development: approximately 70% of learning happens We will continue to focus on our hiring process to support through experiences, 20% through others and 10% through our diversity ambitions. In 2019, we raised awareness by formal sources. In June 2019, a campaign was launched to highlighting unconscious bias in our (he)ART of Hiring update every employee on the development opportunities manager training, encouraging more inclusive approaches that are available to them, such as in-depth development at every stage in the hiring process and facilitating plans, learning platforms and mentoring. evaluation calls to ensure better and fairer hiring decisions. Over this period, we saw a 30% increase in the female Following a successful pilot in the US, we launched the 'Xpipeline and a 10% increase in gender-diverse hires for our Time' platform across the company in 2019. This platform middle and upper management population. enables employees who are looking to develop through experiences to find projects that would benefit from diverse, Leadership & development cross-functional team members. Employees can spend up to 10% of their time on these projects. Since the launch of X-Time, almost 600 employees have signed up for this Aspiration 2019 2018 initiative, over 200 projects have been posted, and more Training hours per than 100 matches have been made. employee 8 6 Learning from others takes various forms at DSM. We continued our global and regional mentoring program in Demographic and technological shifts mean that it is more 2019, as well as team-based workshops that focus on important than ever that people remain 'fit for the future', collaboration and inclusiveness. In 2019, more than 420 both as professionals and as individuals. We believe that employees participated in our regional mentoring there are talents in everyone, and as such, development is programs, and almost 50 employees engaged in a crossa key and joint responsibility of every employee and their regional mentoring relationship as part of the global manager. We encourage our people to proactively work on mentoring program. The reverse mentoring program was leveraging the development tools and opportunities integrated into the mentoring program, enabling all available to them. To facilitate this, we are working on relationships to benefit from reverse mentoring. improving the overall employee experience and are leveraging relevant digital tools. The 70:20:10 principle for learning and development 70% 20% Through experiences Through others 10% Through formal sources • X-Time Projects • Bright mentoring • Learning Programs • International assignments • Peer group learning Face to face, Virtual classrooms and e-learnings • TeamXcelerator exercises • TeamXcelerator assessments • TeamXcelerator resources • Learning on the job • 360 feedback • DSM Virtual Library • Development Plans • Yammer • Bright Learning platform • Experience Map • Communities of Practice • Job rotations Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 46 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board People Developing our leaders and people managers remains a key Team by Team priority for us and thus a key element of our people development strategy. The DSM Leadership Model provides a common vision and language for leadership and specifies Aspiration 2019 2018 the behaviors we expect from our leaders and people Employee engagement 75% managers. Building on that foundation, our Leadership by 2020 74% 76% Transition Programs address the learning and development Inclusion index 72% 72% needs of leaders in each phase of their careers. After the successful launch of these programs in 2018, we In an increasingly international and diverse workforce at were able to increase participation by 20% in 2019. To DSM, we operate more and more in different, virtual complement our current leadership development offering, (project) teams and project organizations. To support this, we are preparing the launch of a program for senior we invest time in building high-performing, inclusive and managers who are transitioning to leading an organization engaged teams. In 2019, we continued our journey in within DSM. defining how to make our teams more effective and how to leverage them for growth, making investments in Broadening our pipeline equipment and the skills of our employees to enable them To assess the potential and accelerate the development of to use technology to connect with each other more our leadership talents, we perform annual talent reviews effectively. throughout the company. In these reviews, leadership teams, and ultimately the Executive Committee, discuss how The building of high-performing teams is enabled by to strengthen the talent base and consider succession, TeamXcelerator, a toolkit launched in 2019 to help teams discussing employees who have the potential to progress to develop and accelerate their performance. The online senior leadership positions. This quantitative and toolkit — which has already been used by more than 1,200 qualitative review ensures we have the right amount of employees — contains over 200 ready-to-use team talent at each level for future growth but also that our assessments and exercises to help teams improve their workforce and leadership are as diverse as the markets and day-to-day teamwork and performance. The toolkit also customers we serve. includes a self-facilitated team development process that enables teams to discover and compare each other's In 2019, we focused on improving our employer branding for personality types. The development process helps teams graduates and invested in our global and regional graduate learn how they can improve the way they conduct meetings, programs. We updated our Employee Value Proposition, make decisions, and navigate conflicts. Our P&O business which will not only help to attract and engage a higherpartners were trained to act as internal consultants to quality and diverse candidate pool, but will also mobilize facilitate these workshops. our existing employees to become purpose-led talent ambassadors. We will further roll out our Employee Value Participating in an international and diverse workforce Proposition through 2020. requires a working environment in which all employees feel respected and included. After its successful launch in 2018, We additionally launched a global graduate framework to we continued the global roll-out of our Inclusion & Diversity ensure we build deeper partnerships with target workshop 'Brighter Together'. Over 600 employees from universities that are globally recognized as innovative, across the company participated in one of these workshops inclusive and progressive in the realm of social in 2019. The program also proved its resilience and entrepreneurship. adaptability by inspiring a promising pilot run in Dyneema for virtual high-performing teams. In 2019, we took several steps to improve our executive leadership pipeline: we focused on targeted external hiring In 2019, we added an e-learning on the topic of 'Respectful but also invested in leadership assessment and the Behavior' to our set of e-learnings that outline the development of key leaders. Our long-term succession pool underlying principles of our 'Code of Business Conduct' on for business group and functional leadership team page 113. This e-learning is mandatory for all employees positions improved significantly. We assessed 75% of all and creates more awareness of how we can treat each other leadership hires for learning potential and saw a 35% respectfully and therefore be more inclusive toward each increase in the hiring of broad, entrepreneurial talent at this other. level. We expect that these steps will continue to drive more integrated, customer-centric and innovative business A strong focus on teams also helps us attract external solutions. talents. In 2019, we launched a new global referral program in our key markets, making it faster, simpler and more Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 47 www.dsm.com rewarding for employees to refer high-quality and diverse them with key insights. In addition, machine-learning talents from their network. This has led to a 10% increase models provided new opportunities to improve key in global as opposed to only local market referrals. processes. This resulted in a significant step-up in the performance of the plant and in the quality of work Continuous Improvement in Operations processes while still meeting the increasing demands of One of the ways we drive organizational performance is by customers. fostering high-performance teams and a culture of continuous improvement in our manufacturing sites and In Taiwan, the Site Steering Committee team initiated supply chain environments. This mindset is driven by the several activities in which they likewise applied the mindset DSM Integral Continuous Improvement (DICI) journey, and behavior approach of DICI, resulting in an improvement currently running at 92% of our Manufacturing and Supply in people development, interaction with other sites, Chain organizations. Our premix locations are currently communication and transparency, and visual management. excluded from the scope of this program. The main learnings included having an open mind to other people's opinions and building trust. This culminated in a The goal of DICI is to allow anyone in our organization to site-wide awards ceremony, bringing the whole site make small improvements that can have a significant together to celebrate these achievements and embed the impact on operations and our employee engagement, learnings. thereby unleashing the talent in everyone. This journey involves one common way of working, which enables us to We celebrated the successes in the DICI journey by share experiences and learn across sites and businesses organizing the 2019 Continuous Improvement Awards. We and to drive a sustainable culture transformation less received 77 submissions, covering all business groups and sensitive to managerial and employee changes. all continents. There were five winners, including the Delft team mentioned above. For example, in Delft (Netherlands), the shop floor designed and developed digital tools and dashboards that provided Presentation of awards to the Delft team in the 'Overall' category of the Continuous Improvement Awards. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 48 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board People Employee engagement managers within a month of the survey closing. Local Our goal is that people feel proud to work at DSM and are engagement champions, people & organization colleagues able to be and give their best, every day. We want them to and communication colleagues provided training and feel part of a team where every contribution matters, and support to assist managers in sharing the results with their where we all can learn and grow. To measure this, we run teams, leading a dialogue, and agreeing actions for an annual Employee Engagement Survey. The survey results improvements. provide important insights into how our employees experience our company, and the impact their experience Following the dissemination of the results, in 2020 a number has on their motivation, perceptions and performance. of Executive Committee-led dialogue sessions will be The Engagement Index measures four attributes: planned to gain deeper understanding of the employee commitment, pride, advocacy and satisfaction. experience, and to further engage employees in shaping improvement initiatives. These will include regional In 2019, we migrated to a new survey provider and platform dialogues with the executive leadership tier, and globalbut retained the same survey structure and content as in level digital conversations open to all employees. 2018, comprising questions on safety, engagement, management, inclusion and other key themes. Feedback Culture from employees suggests that the new platform provides Throughout 2019, we began to roll out The DSM Ways of a more positive user experience, and that they appreciate Working culture pillars, which we had communicated in the broader language options and faster feedback of results 2018. As set out in last year's Report, we have committed to to managers. The survey also included an option for three areas of culture and behavioral focus. employees to provide text comments. More than 40,000 such comments were received. Customer passion means putting our customers first, knowing them and making their success our business. To The survey was sent to all employees (excluding achieve this, we invested in training and awareness through contractors) and was available in 21 languages. The 2019 management and performance-focused programs. These response rate of 92% (up five percentage points versus 2018) programs combine development, empowerment, was the highest recorded since we began this annual survey technology and outside-in thinking to link customer needs in 2007. with our innovation capabilities. Overall employee engagement decreased by two Accountability and agility means delivering on our promises percentage points to 74%, driven by small decreases in each and responding to challenges quickly. Across the company, of the four questions that make up the Engagement Index. we are exploring an agile approach to working, through In general, the survey generated relatively stable responses; examples such as a self-managed team at DSM-NIAGA and however, we saw a significant decrease of five percentage agile pilot programs within our IT function. Based on some points in response to the question I believe DSM has a of the focus group discussions in the regions during 2019, promising future . This could be attributable to employee accountability and agility became the central focal area of concerns regarding the challenging macroeconomic and our shortand medium-term cultural development agenda. geopolitical environment in which we are currently operating, but will be further explored through the sessions Inclusiveness means we value uniqueness and foster a described below. sense of purpose and belonging. Deepening engagement within DSM shows us new ways of enhancing connectivity The safety index decreased by one percentage point, and collaboration with all our stakeholders. The 'Brighter however it remained the highest scoring index at 91%. There Together' workshops, described above, continued to be was an increase in manager ratings of two percentage points rolled out throughout 2019 and are designed to strengthen — a positive result for a focus area from the previous year. inclusiveness in our teams. In addition, our Women Inspired Ratings for the Inclusion Index remained stable at 72%. Network (WIN) chapters held events in the Netherlands, The survey results pointed out three areas for improvement: the US and Switzerland, among other locations. In the inclusion, strategy and talent, which will be embedded into Netherlands for example, WIN hosted a lively and engaging company-wide programs during 2020. event in March, attracting 200 female and male colleagues to a program that included speakers, a panel and an Involving team members in understanding the survey interactive creative session. We continue to sponsor the results and contributing to the design of improvement WINConference for women. In 2019, a group of 25 employees actions is a key part of the annual Engagement Survey attended a global, virtual leadership development program process. Managers whose team provided more than eight 'WIN for WIN', designed and facilitated by members of WIN. survey respondents were eligible to receive team survey reports. In 2019, more than 1,600 reports were generated for Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 49 www.dsm.com Results at a glance Planet 63%1 ~17% Sales of GHG scope 1 + 2 reduction — Brighter Living Solutions cumulative structural versus 62%2 in 2018 improvement3 versus ~8% in 2018 (baseline 2016) 50% 2.3% Arating Purchased electricity Energy efficiency improvement CDP Climate, from renewable sources year on year versus ranked no. 1 in versus 41% in 2018 1.4% in 2018 Sustainalytics and MSCI 1 For a small percentage of sales (approximately 2%) classified as BLS, the environmental impact is considered 'best in class' together with other solutions. 2 Excluding the temporary vitamin effect in 2018 of € 415 million sales, for further information, see table on page 65. 3 We estimate that the effect of the underlying cumulative structural improvements in absolute GHG emissions was approximately 17% and 8% in 2019 and 2018 respectively, versus the 2016 baseline. The total cumulative absolute reduction was 25% and 18% respectively, versus the 2016 baseline. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 50 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board Planet We take our global environmental and social Our additional targets are: responsibilities very seriously. These extend beyond our own operations to include those of our suppliers, customers Water: water risk assessments — 100% completed and and end-users. We fulfill our environmental responsibilities more than 90% of high-risk actions closed in 2020 through our portfolio of Brighter Living Solutions, our Water: maintain or improve our water consumption Safety, Health & Environmental (SHE) policy, and our efficiency position on issues such as product stewardship and Other emissions to air: show continued reduction in biodiversity. We focus on: volatile organic compounds (VOC) — resulting in a reduction in our emissions intensity of more than 50% Improving our own environmental footprint by 2021 compared to 2015 Enabling our customers to do the same through innovative solutions We also set ourselves the ambition to develop the following Advocating on our key environmental topics key plans during this DSM Responsible Care Plan period: Our Brighter Living Solutions — solutions that are better Climate adaptation heatmaps covering the physical risks than the mainstream reference solution for people and/or of our material sites, by the end of 2020 the planet — account for 63% of our net sales. Water and waste reduction roadmaps in order to set quantifiable, context-based reduction targets in the next Our operations network spans more than 110 commercial DRCP production facilities in over 40 countries. Our operational An action plan for all products containing substances approach is led by the DSM Responsible Care Plan, of high concern at a concentration higher than 0.1% by described below, and supports the Sustainable the end of 2020 (excluding those products defined as Development Goals (SDGs), especially SDG 7 (Affordable and 'essential for life') Clean Energy), SDG 12 (Responsible Consumption and Production) and SDG 13 (Climate Action), among others. Our For more detailed information about our Planet approach also addresses several topics from our Materiality performance, see 'Sustainability statements — Planet' on matrix: page 151. See also 'How we create value for our stakeholders' on page 30 and 'Stakeholder Engagement' on Climate & Energy page 152. Resources & Circularity Water security Climate & Energy Biodiversity Product stewardship Aspiration 2019 2018 DSM Responsible Care Plan 2019–2021 Greenhouse gas (GHG) GHG emissions scope In 2019, we brought the DSM Responsible Care Plan (DRCP) 1 + 2 absolute reduction 30% in in line with Strategy 2021. The DRCP defines our ambitions, versus 2016 2030 25% 18% targets and actions in the fields of safety, health, GHG emissions scope environmental footprint, value chain sustainability, climate 1 + 2 market-based adaptation and security. (million tons) 1.17 1.231 GHG emissions scope 3 Our key environmental targets for the updated DSM (million tons) 11.6 11.3 Responsible Care Plan 2019–2021 are our Science-Based Energy Targets, comprising a greenhouse gas (GHG) scope 1 + 2 Primary energy use (PJ) 21.2 20.8 emission absolute reduction of 30% and a GHG scope 3 Final consumed energy (PJ) 17.4 17.1 intensity reduction of 28% by 2030 versus our 2016 baseline. Energy efficiency These were reviewed and approved by the Science Based improvement Targets initiative in early 2019, for more information, see year on year > 1% 2.3% 1.4% the company website. Our scope 1 + 2 target is supported by Purchased electricity our renewable electricity target — 75% of purchased from renewable sources 75% in 2030 50% 41% electricity to be sourced from renewables by 2030 — and our annual average energy efficiency improvement of at least 1 Including a one-time effect in 2018, estimated at approximately 150 kt. 1% through until 2030, and our scope 3 target is supported by the CO2REDUCE program. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 51 www.dsm.com In 2015, the Paris Agreement first established a common the Executive Committee several times a year. Concrete ambition to take urgent action on GHG emissions to limit actions within the agenda are owned by individual average temperature increases to well below 2°C. Later in Executive Committee members. Through the agenda, we 2018, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) ensure that the business opportunities relate to mitigation provided a clear and compelling case to redouble efforts to and adaptation, and the identified transition and physical limit the warming to 1.5°C by 2100. Meeting the 1.5°C risks of climate change are addressed. Our climate change ambition will require emissions of carbon dioxide to reach strategy received an Arating from CDP in 2019. net-zero by 2050, which involves rapidly accelerating the rate of emission reduction over the coming decade. In order to achieve the targeted absolute GHG reduction by 2030, we have started a dedicated program to help our key We were one of the first companies to align our efforts with locations implement appropriate energy transition and the latest science as presented in the IPCC Special Report energy efficiency measures. We identify GHG emission 'Global Warming of 1.5°C' by setting a long-term pathway to reduction opportunities using performance diagnostics reach net-zero GHG emissions across our operations and that are carried out at all our main contributing sites. These value chains by 2050. Our Science Based Targets are our opportunities range from relatively easy-to-implement foundation to achieve this goal, supported by our ambitions modifications in operations and maintenance using Best on renewable electricity and energy efficiency, and through Available Technologies, to transitioning to renewable working intensively with our key suppliers through our energy sources. The identified opportunities are analyzed CO2REDUCE program. and ranked, and the projects are implemented based on their impact. A dedicated corporate budget is available to our business groups for the execution of these GHG I am proud that we were the first European company reduction projects. in our sector to set Science Based Targets, including an ambitious target on our scope 3 emissions, setting Scope 1 + 2 GHG emissions us on course to achieve net-zero by 2050. Through our Our scope 1 + 2 market-based GHG emissions improved Targets, we are proactively delivering on our compared to 2018, with total emissions of 1.17 million tons contribution to the Paris Agreement. CO2eq in 2019. Our baseline GHG emissions figure of 2016 of 1.50 million tons CO2eq was increased to 1.57 million tons Feike Sijbesma, CEO/Chairman Managing Board CO2eq, due to the inclusion of nine acquired sites in our reporting scope in the period 2017–2019. Our GHG efficiency (year-on-year) improved further to 12.7% in 2019. In support of our ambition to substantially reduce our carbon footprint, we have introduced new measures which Scope 1 + 2 emissions and estimated structural improvement we apply to all growth projects. Starting from 2019, business growth projects must either be GHG-neutral or else be Scope 1 + 2 emissions Cumulative structural compensated for within the same business. In addition, to (million tons) improvement encourage investments in low-carbon and carbon-free 2 20% technologies, we use an internal carbon price of € 50/t 1.57 1.50 CO2eq in the valuations of key investment projects and in 1.23 1.17 the Profit and Loss statements of the business groups for 1 10% internal management reporting. This increases the visibility of, and encourages accountability for, the impact of carbon on the business. 0 0% 2016¹ 2017 2018 2019 As a complement to our efforts on climate change mitigation, we also work on an integrated strategy of climate 1 2016 baseline was increased due to the inclusion of nine acquired sites adaptation measures to improve the resilience of our assets and supply chains against potential physical impacts of climate change. The absolute reduction in scope 1 + 2 GHG emissions was The climate action agenda brings together our key climate 25% compared to the corrected baseline of 2016. We actions addressing the three pillars of improve, enable and estimate that of the 25% absolute reduction in scope 1 + 2 advocate. The progress of the agenda, including the GHG emissions compared to baseline 2016, 17% is due to implementation of the Taskforce on Climate-Related structural improvements. This was mainly due to an Disclosures (TFCD) recommendations, and the GHG increase in purchased renewable electricity, the reduction program are managed and actively reviewed by implementation of significant GHG reduction measures, Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 52 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board Planet such as the start-up of the biomass plant in Sisseln We also look for opportunities to replace heat from fossil (Switzerland), and the closure of our less efficient power fuels on our premises. The biomass cogeneration plant at plant in Jiangshan (Jiangsu Province, China). Absolute GHG our DSM Nutritional Products site in Sisseln (Switzerland) emissions are also impacted by business and portfolio replaced the site's old natural gas-fired cogeneration plant variations, and external factors such as grid emission and is the first major success in this area. Our partners, factors. ENGIE and EWZ, own, operate and maintain the biomass plant, which started production early 2019. This milestone Energy transition was celebrated at the grand opening in April, which was Our energy efficiency improvement (on primary energy) was attended by representatives from all partners and the local 2.3% versus 2018, above our target of an average annual authorities. The replacement results in 50 kt CO2eq improvement of 1%. This result was due to product portfolio reduction per year (of which about 80% is for us and 20% changes and the implementation of improvement projects for the other partners). at our key sites. Scope 3 GHG emissions We implemented a range of reduction proposals from the business groups, encompassing projects for saving heat, Scope 3 GHG Emissions fuel and electricity with an expected total of GHG in CO2eq, million tons improvement potential of approximately 30 kt in GHG reductions and 2% of energy efficiency savings annually. Purchased goods & services Investments Projects executed in 2019 include a project in Belvidere (New Other upstream categories Other downstream categories Jersey, USA) where we replaced a large chiller installation End-of-life treatment with a state-of-the-art version with much lower energy consumption that uses a GHG-neutral refrigerant. Further 12 9.0 9.4 steps to reduce our energy consumption at this site are 8 ongoing. In a project at Jiangshan (Jiangsu Province, China) we installed a membrane filtration system to concentrate 4 0.9 0.9 0.7 1.0 a product solution, thereby significantly reducing the 0.3 0.2 0.3 0.2 0 amount of steam needed for further concentration. 2018 2019 Renewable energy We are a member of the Climate Group's RE100, comprising Our absolute scope 3 GHG emissions amounted to leading companies that have committed to sourcing 100% 11.6 million tons of CO2eq in 2019, which is 0.3 million tons of their electricity from renewable sources at the earliest higher than 2018. The largest change in 2019 compared to possible opportunity. Our commitment is to source 75% of 2018 was caused by an increase of emissions in the category our electricity from renewable sources by 2030 and 100% at Purchased goods & services. This was attributable to the earliest possible opportunity. updated emission factors and changes in product mix. In 2019, we continued to make good progress toward our The 2019 figures were calculated using updated product target of purchased renewable electricity. The percentage emission factors. Updated values and changed assumptions of purchased electricity from renewable sources increased due to improved insights and supplier-specific situations globally from 41% in 2018 to 50% in 2019, resulting in a ~60kt resulted in adjusted emission values. The main scope 3 CO2eq reduction for the year. In the Netherlands, our categories in the 2019 figures remain Purchased goods and portfolio of agreements continued to provide 100% services and End-of-life-treatment of sold products. purchased electricity from wind parks to all locations. At our DSM Nutritional Products manufacturing sites in Science Based Targets Switzerland, approximately 50% of the electricity currently Our new Science Based Target for scope 3 is an intensity comes from hydropower. Following the first Power Purchase reduction target of 28% per unit of product in 2030 versus Agreement in the US, which provides electricity from wind the base year of 2016. The categories in scope for this Target power, we completed another Agreement in 2019 that will are Purchased goods and services, Upstream transportation become operational in 2022 to provide solar-powered and distribution and Waste generated in operations. To electricity. The production from the first Agreement track the progress toward this intensity target, a detailed combined with pre-production renewable energy tracking process was developed and will be fully certificates (RECs) from both Agreements resulted in around implemented in 2020. 69% coverage of purchased electricity from renewable resources in North America in 2019, from an estimated 40% A recalculation of the emissions for 2016 (the baseline year in 2018. for the Science Based Target) was made using improved Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 53 www.dsm.com insights and updates of the most relevant emission factors initiatives, and sourcing strategies to fulfill our according to our defined standard. This recalculation covers sustainability ambitions. the categories in scope for the Target and will be used solely for reporting performance against the Science Based Target. Finally, we also develop products for the circular and bioEmissions for the year 2017 are not recalculated. based economy that contribute to further reducing our scope 3 emissions. See 'Stakeholder engagement' on page Progress on the Science Based Target for scope 3 will not be 152 and 'Resources & Circularity' below. reported for 2019 because the baseline has only just been set, and any progress toward, or movement away from, our Climate Adaptation target will be incidental. However, progress on structuring As an essential complement to our efforts to cut emissions, supplier engagements has been significant and the we also apply an integrated strategy of climate adaptation processes are in place to advise, track and report on measures. For example, to improve the resilience of our improvements. assets and supply chains against potential physical impacts of climate change, we are developing our physical risk CO2REDUCE supplier engagement program assessment. This involves mapping high-risk areas and Emissions related to Purchased goods & services are the major sites for emerging hazards and long-term impacts largest contributor to our scope 3 emissions. A companyusing different time horizons and climate scenarios. wide supplier engagement program called CO2REDUCE was designed and initiated at the end of 2018, involving multiple Avoided emissions key suppliers. The program aims to generate deeper insights Brighter Living Solutions can have benefits at any stage in into the emission performance of our supplier base, identify the value chain. 'Avoided emissions' refers to the emissionsthe GHG reduction options at key suppliers, and support related environmental benefits that occur downstream in the collaboration needed to enable these initiatives. This the use phase of our products. While avoided emissions do helps to reduce the transition risks in our supply chain. This not count toward our own Science Based Targets, they result program was activated, accelerated and extended to the in reduced emissions for our customers and end-users. suppliers and products that contribute the highest GHG emissions in our value chain. Our Supplier Engagement For example, DSM Engineering Plastics supplies products for Rating on climate was given an A rating by CDP in 2019. food packaging films requiring effective oxygen barrier properties and high puncture resistance. These films play CO2REDUCE lessons learned and new supplier insights an important role in reducing food waste by protecting food resulted in an increased understanding of supplier during transport, retail and consumer use, and extending emission performance for key categories in our scope 3 shelf life. Reducing food waste diminishes the burden on emissions. With the scope 3 target in place and the the food production system, leading to significant avoided experience gained in 2019, we were able to increase our emissions. Products sold in this segment in 2019 focus on key steps in the program. contributed to an estimated avoided emission of 27,500 kt CO2eq. Firstly, good insight into supplier performance with respect to GHG emissions is an important aid to identify strategic As another example, our powder coating resins can be used procurement initiatives to lower the carbon emissions to replace solvent-borne coatings in many applications, portfolio. The first reduction options are emerging, and allowing faster and more efficient curing, at lower supplier GHG performance has been integrated into the temperatures, with less waste. Powder coatings also remove procurement strategies of some key categories. Supplier the need for solvents, leading to further reductions in GHG collaboration projects with key suppliers aimed at realizing and other emissions. In 2019, sales of powder coatings emission reduction projects are underway. Running projects avoided GHG emissions of approximately 520 kt CO2eq. show several options to reduce GHG emissions through supplier selection, efficiency improvements and the use of Other emissions to air renewable energy. One example is suppliers sourcing renewable electricity based on best practices we shared with them. Aspiration 2019 2018 VOC efficiency Secondly, the increased understanding gained in 2019 improvement versus continuous enabled each of our businesses to develop roadmaps for 2015 improvement 75% 48% the reduction of their scope 3 emissions. These roadmaps VOC (x 1,000 tons) 2.7 4.9 help focus our efforts to realize the ambitious Science Based Target for scope 3 and consist of a pipeline of multiple additional projects, supplier engagement Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 54 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board Planet Our reporting on Other emissions to air focuses on VOCs, as Reduce the use of critical resources throughout the value these are the most significant emissions in this area. We chain continue to report our NOx and SO2 emissions in the Replace scarce, hazardous, and potentially harmful Sustainability statements and via the company website; resources with safe and renewable alternatives however, these emissions are not material due to Extend the lifetime of products by means of improved improvement actions executed in the past. Our target is to durability or shelf-life continuously reduce our Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC) Design for recyclability emissions, resulting in a more than 50% efficiency Recover waste streams by viewing waste as a resource improvement by 2021 — an increase on our previous aspiration of 40% for the three emissions by 2020. In 2019, Renewable & secondary raw materials we saw a large improvement in our VOC efficiency, mainly Circularity includes replacing finite fossil resources with due to the start-up of a VOC treatment plant in Jiangshan regenerative, renewable resources, as well as secondary (Jiangsu Province, China). (recycled) materials. The use of such sustainable resources is an essential step in securing future resource availability, Resources & Circularity but can also have environmental benefits in reducing the carbon footprint. Aspiration 2019 2018 The renewable raw materials we use include waste from Renewable raw agriculture, yeasts and enzymes, carbohydrates and natural materials oils, and acids. In 2019, the share of our spend on renewable Renewable raw raw materials increased from 14.3% in 2018 to 14.7%. The materials 14.7% 14.3% percentage increase is due to an increase in spend on Waste glycerol, maltodextrin, and other carbohydrates. 80–90% Waste recycled in 2020 88% 83% We have a strong track record of sustainable innovations Total process-related and pioneering in bio-based solutions. This year, our waste efficiency at least businesses again made a big step forward in driving the improvement maintain 2.8% transition toward a circular and bio-based economy. Non-hazardous waste (kt) 138 971 One example is DSM Engineering Plastics, which announced Hazardous waste (kt) 85 81 ambitious plans to introduce bioand recycled-based Non-process related alternatives for its entire portfolio, to be completed by 2030. waste (kt) 5 27 In addition to existing bio-based grades including EcoPaXX® and ForTii®Eco, we launched bio-based versions of both 1 The 2018 non-hazardous waste figure has been restated due to a correction in the calculations at two locations. Arnitel® and Stanyl® grades in 2019. Arnitel® is a thermoplastic elastomer (TPE) with high temperature With the global population having doubled over the past 50 resistance and is mainly used to replace rubber in years, resource extraction has tripled, putting pressure on automotive, electronics and other industries. Stanyl® is a the Earth's finite resources. At the same time, the Circularity high-temperature-resistant polyamide and the only Gap Report 2019 finds that the global economy is only 9% aliphatic polyamide in its class. The bio-based grades of circular — in other words, just 9% of the 92.8 billion tons Arnitel® and Stanyl®, launched in 2019, deliver the same of minerals, fossil fuels, metals and biomass that enter functional and regulatory qualities as the conventional the economy are re-used annually, and the trend is negative grades and do not require any special handling equipment — the gap is not closing. That is why we are committed to or different processing steps. In this way, we are offering our securing the future availability of natural resources and customers the chance to choose a sustainable future where unlocking more value from the limited resources available. they can reduce their environmental impact without By working closely together with our value chain, we compromising their products or processes. Similarly, both continue to develop closed-loop, circular solutions. As part DSM Resins & Functional Materials and DSM Dyneema have of our Resources & Circularity approach, we aim to improve also set their own circular and bio-based ambitions. For our own impact through resource efficiency improvements more information, see 'Materials' on page 84. and measures, to enable our customers to deliver sustainable and circular solutions, and to advocate for the An example of the use of secondary raw materials is transition to a circular, bio-based economy. Akulon® RePurposed. We use discarded fishing nets to produce this recycled-based polyamide. The nets are We enable our customers to transition toward a circular & collected, cleaned and sorted along the coastlines of India, bio-based economy by focusing on five drivers: contributing to cleaner oceans, litter-free beaches and jobs Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 55 www.dsm.com for local communities. The polyamide is used in high-end Water security applications in the sports and leisure segment (such as surfboard accessories). Aspiration 2019 2018 In the coming months and years, we will work with more Sustainable water parties within the value chain — including our suppliers, management customers, collaborative partners and even competitors — 100% to lead the transition toward more circular and sustainable Water risk assessments in 2020 100% 100% materials. Closure of high-risk 90% in related actions 2020 39% 25% See also our position paper on Sustainable Biomass on Water consumption at least the company website. efficiency improvement maintain 4.0% Water consumption1 (million m3) 23 22 Waste Water use (million m3) 111 114 Our definition of waste recycled is the percentage of total Emissions to water process-related waste that is recycled or, if this is not COD (kt) 2.1 2.2 possible, incinerated off-site with heat recovery. We pay careful attention to meeting local waste management legislation. We aim to maintain our percentage of recycled 1 Water consumption is calculated as water use minus once-through cooling. waste in the range of 80–90%, which was achieved in 2019. Water is essential to life. It is also essential to the viability of our business, and we recognize that this precious Waste breakdown by stream (in thousand tons) resource will come under increasing pressure in the face of climate change and growing global demand. We are Off-site recovery Off-site incineration committed to measuring, tracking and continually Landfill without heat recovery improving our water stewardship as well as our position as (Land)farming Off-site incineration with heat recovery a global sustainability leader within the chemical sector. As part of this commitment, we are a signatory of the CEO Water Mandate, a UN Global Compact initiative that mobilizes 150 business leaders to advance water stewardship, sanitation, 100 and the Sustainable Development Goals, in partnership with governments, peer institutions, civil society, and 50 others. 0 Non-hazardous Hazardous waste Non-process waste related waste Water security is a global issue impacting billions of people and will only grow in importance with a changing climate. Water security continues to be a Besides measuring our percentage of recycled waste, we material topic to DSM, and we will use this strategic also pay attention to reducing our total amount of processperiod to define additional relevant and contextual related waste. In 2019, our total process-related waste water targets for the company. Through this Report, efficiency improvement was 2.8%. The overall increase in we report our progress on water security toward the process-related waste is due to the inclusion in our UN Global Compact CEO Water Mandate. reporting of new acquisitions, which are not included in the efficiency calculations. We also managed to reduce our Feike Sijbesma, CEO/Chairman Managing Board total amount of hazardous waste to landfill by 12%, mainly due to improvement activities at our site in Piura (Peru). The significant decrease in non-process related waste from We recognize water management as integral to our risk 27 kt in 2018 to 5 kt in 2019 was due to a large demolition mitigation and environmental impact reduction strategies. project conducted in 2018, whereby a large volume of waste We believe that water risks are local by nature, and was sent for land reclamation. These effects did not occur therefore focus on local water risk assessments and in 2019. thorough follow-up of these. In 2019, we received a B rating from CDP for our water governance and management strategy. In 2019, we completed water risk assessments at our new material water sites and we worked further on mitigating actions in our high-risk areas. The main water Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 56 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board Planet risks identified related to water quality and limitations in Product stewardship local infrastructure. Current risk exposure to water scarcity was identified as limited in the regions where we operate. Product stewardship is an important pillar of our A longer-term water risk horizon will be considered in sustainability strategy. We minimize and control possible conjunction with the physical risk assessments scheduled SHE risks that could be caused by the substances used in for 2020. our products throughout the value chain. The use of certain chemicals can lead to health and environmental risks. We believe that minimizing these risks goes together with the Water intake and outflow (in million m3) creation of a circular economy, which is a key part of Once-through cooling Ground water Strategy 2021. Central to our vision on product stewardship is a risk-based approach and the use of safer alternatives Surface water Total effluent whenever feasible, and always when required. For our Potable (tap) water innovation portfolio, 'safe by design' is the leading principle 120 in the development of new and better products and processes. 100 Last year, we started assessing our full product portfolio to fulfill our ambition to have an action plan for all products 80 that contain more than 0.1% Substances of Very High Water intake Water outflow Concern by 2020. Substances in products that are considered 'essential for life' (i.e., that have a proven beneficial nutritional or pharmaceutical effect when used at the officially recommended dose) are excluded from this Our water consumption efficiency improved by 4.0% versus assessment. 2018. This is partly due to the water-related benefits from our energy efficiency improvement projects, such as steam An important source of information on health and usage or chilling and cooling improvement projects. Our environmental hazards and risks of chemicals is the water pollution reduction programs aim to reduce total database generated with the implementation of REACH in water pollution, mainly by cutting Chemical Oxygen Demand Europe a decade ago. The quality of data that has been (COD). Total COD was stable at 2.1 kt in 2019. We are also submitted in good faith by industry was recently questioned investing in improving our water treatment facilities. by the authorities. The European chemical industry association consequently started a program to improve Biodiversity the quality of the REACH dossiers. We were among the first companies to sign the Declaration of Intent, and we started the re-evaluation of the dossiers in which we are the lead 2019 2018 registrant. Sites in or adjacent to protected areas 25% 66% For more information on product stewardship, see the Sites in registered company website. protected area 3% Biodiversity and healthy ecosystems are key conditions for a sustainable world. Each year, we identify and monitor the protected areas in the vicinity of our sites and the impact that our activities have on these. In 2019, we further clarified our metric 'Sites in or adjacent to protected areas', resulting in a decrease in this metric. The clarification is that protected areas are formally recognized as such (for example, through national legislation or Ramsar sites), and that sites must directly border a protected area. Being in the vicinity of one of these areas does not equate to directly bordering it. We also improved our reporting, which informed us that of the reported sites near high biodiversity, 3% of our sites are in, or contain portions of a registered protected area. For more information, see our position paper on Biodiversity on the company website. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 57 www.dsm.com Results at a glance Profit -1% +10%2 +47%2 Organic sales growth Adjusted EBITDA3 growth Adjusted net operating free cash versus 20181 versus 20181 and versus a high flow3 growth single-digit target versus 20181 and versus an average annual target of ~10% 21% 43% Innovation sales, in line with Sales to high-growth economies, our ambition of ~20% in line with our ambition of ~45% 6.8% € 764 € 2.40 € 1,1442 Capital expenditure Total net profit Proposed5 dividend per ordinary Net debt versus € 113 (cash-based) as a % of sales versus € 1,0794 in 2018 share for 2019 versus € 2.30 for end of 2018 versus 7.3%1 in 2018 (in millions) 2018 (in millions) 1 Excluding temporary vitamin effect in 2018 of € 415 million sales and € 290 million (Adjusted) EBITDA, for further information see table on page 65. 2 Including the impact of IFRS 16, see table on page 164. 3 For reconciliation to IFRS performance measures, see table on page 180. 4 2018 includes the temporary vitamin effect, for further information see table on page 65, and the book profit on the sale of DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals. 5 Subject to approval by the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 58 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board Profit Overall financial results Income statement and key data In our strategic plan for the period 2019–2021, called Strategy 2021: Growth & Value Purpose led, Performance driven, we x € million 20191 2018 Change illustrate how we will evolve further toward being a purpose-led, science-based company, operating in the Net sales underlying fields of Nutrition, Health, and Sustainable Living. Our business 9,010 8,8522 2% strong growth platform together with increased customerNet sales 9,010 9,267 -3% centricity and large innovation projects, will drive abovemarket growth. Concurrently, we will continue our strong Adjusted EBITDA focus on cost control and operational excellence, allowing underlying business 1,684 1,5322 10% us to accelerate profit growth and cash generation. Organic Adjusted EBITDA 1,684 1,822 -8% growth will be complemented by acquisitions, EBITDA 1,586 1,754 -10% predominantly in Nutrition given its growth potential, resilience, strong leadership position and value creation Adjusted operating potential. profit 1,075 1,345 -20% Operating profit 954 1,245 -23% In Strategy 2021, we emphasize two headline financial targets: high single-digit annual percentage increase in Adjusted net profit Adjusted EBITDA and about 10% average annual increase underlying business 830 769 8% in Adjusted net operating free cash flow. We also highlighted Adjusted net profit 830 1,034 -20% the ambitions underpinning these targets, for more information, see 'Strategy 2021' on page 16. APM adjustments (66) 45 This chapter includes an overview of the key financial Net profit 764 1,079 -29% metrics of the company and our performance in 2019. Net profit attributable to equity holders of Koninklijke DSM N.V. 758 1,077 -30% In 2019, we delivered on our financial targets with doubledigit growth in Adjusted EBITDA of 10% to € 1,684 million, ROCE underlying including 3% from IFRS 16, compared to the underlying business (in %) 12.0 13.32 business in 2018. The strong EBITDA growth in the ROCE (in %) 12.0 16.8 businesses was also supported by our continued focus on Adjusted EBITDA margin cost reduction and operational efficiency. Adjusted net underlying business operating free cash flow increased by 47% to € 801 million (in %) 18.7 17.32 compared to the underlying business in 2018, including 10% Adjusted EBITDA margin from IFRS 16. (in %) 18.7 19.72 Adjusted net operating Compared to the underlying business in 2018, Nutrition free cash flow delivered above-market sales growth, with organic sales up underlying business 801 5452 2%, and high-single digit Adjusted EBITDA growth (12%, Adjusted net operating including 3% from IFRS 16), despite challenging market free cash flow 801 810 conditions in some of its end-markets. Materials recorded lower volumes (down 5%), but demonstrated its earnings 1 Including the impact of IFRS 16, see table on page 164. resilience in persisting weak market conditions with an 2 Excluding temporary vitamin effect in 2018 of € 415 million sales and € 290 million (Adjusted) EBITDA, for further information see table on page 65. almost stable Adjusted EBITDA (down 1%, including 1% from IFRS 16). One of our key focus areas remains the improvement in our working capital as a percentage of total sales. At the end The Adjusted EBITDA margins were 20.7% (including 0.5% of 2019, total working capital was € 1,852 million, compared from IFRS 16) and 18.5% (including 0.2% from IFRS 16) for to € 1,674 million in 2018. The average total working capital Nutrition and Materials respectively, both up versus the as a percentage of sales was 21.2%, compared to 18.7% in previous year in the underlying business and in line with 2018, above our aspiration of 'below 20%', but fully driven by our strategic ambitions. the consolidation of acquisitions and exchange rate effects. Our Return On Capital Employed (ROCE) from underlying Including the estimated temporary vitamin effect of business was down 130 basis points, to 12.0% (including 30 € 415 million on sales driven by the exceptional supply basis points from IFRS 16), mostly driven by the impact of disruption in the industry in 2018, our total sales were down acquisitions and the adoption of IFRS 16. 3% to € 9,010 million (compared to € 9,267 million in 2018). Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 59 www.dsm.com The total Adjusted EBITDA was 8% lower at € 1,684 million compared to underlying sales in 2018. Exchange rate when considering the total estimated € 290 million fluctuations had a positive impact of 2%, and acquisitions temporary vitamin effect of 2018. Our Total ROCE was 12.0% contributed another 1% to sales. (including 30 basis points from IFRS 16), down 480 basis points from 16.8%. Total sales in 2019 were € 257 million lower, mainly due to the temporary vitamin effect in 2018. Growth was achieved Innovation plays an important role in driving both top-line in LATAM and India. All high-growth economies together and bottom-line growth. With 21% innovation sales in 2019, currently represent 43% of our sales (45% when Africa is which we define as sales from products and solutions included), which is in line with 2018. The share of sales in introduced in the last five years, we are delivering against these economies as a proportion of our total sales gives us our ambitious aspiration of around 20%. In 2019, we also a well-balanced global footprint. made progress on promising innovation projects that could have a wider societal impact and drive future growth. These The Adjusted EBITDA (Adjusted operating profit before include our Project Clean Cow, Veramaris®, Avansya, depreciation and amortization) increased by 10% or Balancius® and Niaga®. € 152 million, from € 1,532 million in 2018 (excluding the temporary vitamin effect) to € 1,684 million in 2019. Part of Net sales and Adjusted EBITDA the increase is the impact of IFRS 16 of € 52 million. At € 9,010 million, net sales in 2019 were 2% higher than in Including the temporary vitamin effect, the Adjusted EBITDA 2018 (€ 8,852 million excluding the temporary vitamin effect) decreased by € 138 million. Adjusted EBIT (Adjusted or 3% lower than total sales in 2018 (€ 9,267 million). operating profit) rose from € 1,055 million in 2018 (excluding Underlying organic growth in 2019 was down by 1% the temporary vitamin effect) to € 1,075 million in 2019, up (including the temporary vitamin effect in 2018, total organic 2%. Including the temporary vitamin effect, this is a growth was down by 5%). Volume development was rather decrease of 20%. stable, while price/mix had a 1% negative effect on growth Net sales Adjusted EBITDA x € million 2019 2018 % change 20191 2018 % change DSM underlying business 9,010 8,8522 2% 1,684 1,5322 10% DSM 9,010 9,267 -3% 1,684 1,822 -8% Nutrition underlying business 6,028 5,7222 5% 1,250 1,1172 12% Nutrition 6,028 6,137 -2% 1,250 1,407 -11% Materials 2,746 2,913 -6% 509 512 -1% Innovation Center 194 172 13% 22 8 175% Corporate Activities 42 45 -7% (97) (105) -8% 1 Including the impact of IFRS 16, see table on page 164. 2 Excluding temporary vitamin effect in 2018 of € 415 million sales and € 290 million (Adjusted) EBITDA, for further information see table on page 65. Net profit The reported effective tax rate over Adjusted taxable result Adjusted net profit of € 830 million was up versus the 2019 was 18.2% (2018: 17.4%). This increase was mainly underlying business in 2018. Net profit attributable to equity caused by the impact of increased tax rates. holders of DSM decreased by € 319 million to € 758 million. This decrease was mainly a result of the higher Adjusted Adjustments made in arriving at DSM's Alternative underlying EBITDA (up € 152 million, including € 52 million performance measures (APM adjustments) attributable to the IFRS 16 effect), the temporary vitamin Total APM adjustments for the full year amounted to a loss effect of € 290 million in 2018, and the gain of € 109 million of € 66 million (2018: profit of € 45 million), consisting of a on the disposal of our 50% share in DSM Sinochem loss in EBITDA of € 98 million (including restructuring costs Pharmaceuticals in 2018. Expressed per ordinary share, net of € 68 million), impairments of € 23 million, a related tax earnings amounted to € 4.27 in 2019 (2018: € 6.10). benefit of € 27 million and a profit of € 28 million relating to associates and joint ventures (mainly related to the stepFinancial income and expense decreased by € 9 million year up to the fair value of Andre Pectin prior to the acquisition). on year to € 92 million. This was mainly caused by positive results on derivatives. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 60 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board Profit Net sales by destination Net sales by origin in % in % Netherlands China Netherlands China Rest of Western Europe India Rest of Western Europe India Eastern Japan Eastern Japan Europe Rest of Asia Europe Rest of Asia North America Rest of the world North America Rest of the world Latin America Latin America 1 3 4 3 4 12 4 1 1 3 1 10 10 24 10 11 25 3 23 3 24 3 3 6 8 12 2019 12 2018 2019 2018 7 15 7 17 12 12 2 30 23 2 36 22 Net sales by business segment Net sales by end-use market in % in % Nutrition Innovation Center Food & Beverages Metal/building & construction Materials Corporate Activities Dietary Supplements Automotive/transport Early Life Nutrition Electrical/electronics Personal Care Medical Pharma 0 Animal Nutrition Other 21 2 30 32 11 11 17 16 9 0 2019 2018 3 12 5 5 5 67 66 7 2019 4 2018 5 7 6 4 5 34 34 Net sales bridge 2019 Adjusted EBITDA margin x € million in % 2018 Total 2019 9,267 2018 Underlying business 9,010 25 -5% 22.9 1% 20.7 19.7 20 19.5 18.7 0% 18.5 2% 17.6 17.6 17.3 -1% 15 10 5 0 Full year Temp. Volume Price/ FX Other Full year Nutrition Materials Total 2018 vitamin mix 2019 effect 2018 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 61 www.dsm.com Cash flow statement x € million 20191 2018 Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 1,281 899 Cash flow provided by operating activities 1,385 1,391 Cash from / (used in) investing activities (525) (605) Cash from / (used in) financing activities (1,332) (401) Effect of exchange differences (9) (3) Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 800 1,281 1 Including the impact of IFRS 16, see table on page 164. Cash flow of € 1,385 million provided by operating activities the end of 2018. The net result and reissue of shares more mainly consists of the EBITDA for the year (€ 1,586 million) or less balanced out with the dividend and repurchase of less various cash-out items including income tax of shares. Equity as a percentage of total assets increased from € 140 million and defined benefit plans of € 39 million. Our 57% to 58%. focus on cash flow resulted in a full-year operating cash flow of € 1,385 million, similar to the level of 2018, which was Compared to year-end 2018, net debt increased by driven by the one-time vitamin effect in that year. Excluding € 1,031 million to € 1,144 million. The gearing at year-end was this 2018 effect, the cash from operating activities increased 12.7%, an increase compared to 1.4% at year-end 2018. by € 259 million, or 23%, mainly due to the increase in the underlying EBITDA. See also 'Consolidated financial Capital expenditure on intangible assets and property, plant statements' on page 171. and equipment amounted to € 623 million in 2019 (€ 609 million on a cash basis), which was in line with the The cash used in investing activities included capital level of amortization and depreciation. expenditure (€ 627 million) and acquisitions (€ 556 million), partly offset by the decrese in fixed-term deposits Total working capital amounted to € 1,852 million compared (€ 588 million). to € 1,674 million at year-end 2018. This represents 21.5% as a percentage of annualized fourth quarter 2019 sales (2018: The cash used in financing activities consisted mainly of 19.0%), which is above our aspiration of 20%. Cash-wise, the repayment of the corporate bond (€ 300 million), the operating working capital (OWC) decreased by dividend paid (€ 291 million) and the repurchase of shares € 52 million, mainly due to lower cash-out for inventories. (€ 869 million). The OWC percentage increased from 24.2% at year-end 2018 to 26.3% of annualized sales at year-end 2019. For the full cash flow statement, see Note 26 'Notes to the cash flow statement' on page 223. Cash and cash equivalents came to € 800 million at the end of the year; including current investments, this amounted Balance sheet to € 1,488 million (2018: € 2,558 million). Besides the regular The balance sheet total (total assets) reached € 13.4 billion cash flow elements, this decrease was mainly due to at year-end (2018: € 13.6 billion). Equity was rather stable, acquisitions (€ 556 million), the repayment of the bond with an increase of € 20 million compared to the position at (€ 300 million) and the repurchase of shares (€ 869 million). Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 62 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board Profit Balance sheet profile 20191 2018 x € million in % x € million in % Intangible assets 3,515 26 3,090 23 Property, plant and equipment 4,040 30 3,511 26 Other non-current assets 664 5 730 5 Cash and cash equivalents 800 6 1,281 9 Other current assets 4,424 33 5,029 37 Total assets 13,443 100 13,641 100 Equity 7,835 58 7,815 57 Provisions 168 1 153 1 Other non-current liabilities 3,325 25 3,139 23 Other current liabilities 2,115 16 2,534 19 Total equity and liabilities 13,443 100 13,641 100 1 Including the impact of IFRS 16, see table on page 164. Outlook 2020 DSM expects to deliver a mid-single digit increase in “ We delivered a good Adjusted EBITDA for 2020 compared to prior year, together with an improvement in Adjusted net operating free cash financial performance and flow in line with our Strategy 2021 targets. This outlook is driven by DSM's own growth initiatives, innovation programs achieved key milestones and self-help actions, and does not assume any significant improvement to the current macroeconomic environment. in the first year of Strategy With regard to any potential impact of the Coronavirus, DSM will monitor the situation closely. 2021. We are focused on growth, costs and operational excellence initiatives across the company to offset a challenging macroeconomic environment. ” Geraldine Matchett, Co-CEO Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 63 www.dsm.com Key business figures at a glance Our activities are grouped in three clusters: Nutrition, Materials and Innovation Center. We report separately on Corporate Activities. Results presented in this section (and elsewhere in this Report) relate to consolidated activities only (therefore non-consolidated partnerships are excluded). Net sales Adjusted operating profit (EBIT) x € million 2019 20182 x € million 20191 20182 Nutrition 6,028 5,722 Nutrition 881 821 Materials 2,746 2,913 Materials 363 383 Innovation Center 194 172 Innovation Center (19) (14) Corporate Activities 42 45 Corporate Activities (150) (135) Total 9,010 8,852 Total 1,075 1,055 Adjusted EBITDA Capital employed at 31 December x € million 20191 20182 x € million 20191 2018 Nutrition 1,250 1,117 Nutrition 6,731 5,683 Materials 509 512 Materials 1,927 1,878 Innovation Center 22 8 Innovation Center 616 597 Corporate Activities (97) (105) Corporate Activities 37 23 Total 1,684 1,532 Total 9,311 8,181 Adjusted EBITDA margin ROCE in % 20191 20182 in % 20191 20182 Nutrition 20.7 19.5 Nutrition 13.9 14.7 Materials 18.5 17.6 Materials 18.6 20.6 Total 18.7 17.3 Total 12.0 13.3 1 Including the impact of IFRS 16, see table on page 164. 2 Excluding temporary vitamin effect in 2018 of € 415 million sales and € 290 million (Adjusted) EBITDA, for further information see table below. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 64 www.dsm.com Report by the Managing Board Profit Capital expenditure Temporary vitamin effect 2018 x € million 2019 2018 Animal Human Total Total Nutrition Nutrition Nutrition1 DSM2 Nutrition 420 463 x € million & Health & Health Materials 139 132 Innovation Center 34 32 Net sales 3,134 2,019 6,137 9,267 Corporate Activities 30 26 One-time vitamin effect 385 30 415 415 Total, accounting based 623 653 Sales from underlying business 2,749 1,989 5,722 8,852 Non-cash items 4 2 Customer funding (18) (9) Adjusted EBITDA 1,407 1,822 One-time Total, cash based 609 646 vitamin effect 290 290 Adjusted EBITDA In % of net sales 6.8 7.31 underlying business 1,117 1,532 1 Excluding temporary vitamin effect in 2018. Adjusted operating R&D expenditure (including associated IP expenditure) profit (EBIT) 1,111 1,345 One-time vitamin x € million as % of net sales effect 290 290 2019 2018 2019 20181 Adjusted operating profit (EBIT) Nutrition 218 206 3.6 3.6 underlying Materials 124 122 4.5 4.2 business 821 1,055 Innovation Center 70 67 36.0 38.9 Corporate Activities 4 3 10.8 7.1 Adjusted net operating free cash Total 416 398 4.6 4.5 flow 810 One-time vitamin 1 Excluding temporary vitamin effect in 2018. effect 265 Adjusted net Workforce at 31 December operating free cash flow underlying headcount business 545 2019 2018 Nutrition 14,599 13,628 1 Including other Nutrition businesses not impacted by the vitamin effect. 2 Including other DSM businesses not impacted by the vitamin effect. Materials 4,762 4,643 Innovation Center 726 701 Corporate Activities 2,087 2,005 Total 22,174 20,977 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 65 www.dsm.com Results at a glance Nutrition € 6,028 +2% 20.7%2 Net sales versus € 5,7221 in 2018 Organic sales growth Adjusted EBITDA3 margin (in millions) versus 20181 versus 19.5%1 in 2018 and versus a >20% ambition #1 ~15 46 Supplier of vitamins, nutritional Million consumers serviced Animal nutrition premix facilities lipids, carotenoids, nutraceutical annually by our i-Health plus 15 human nutrition premix ingredients and custom nutrient B2C business facilities premixes >70% #1 Of our skin care portfolio is more Supplier of lactase enzymes for than 90% of natural origin lactose-free dairy 1 Excluding temporary vitamin effect of € 415 million sales and € 290 million (Adjusted) EBITDA, for further information see table on page 65. 2 Including the impact of IFRS 16, see table on page 164. 3 For reconciliation to IFRS performance measures, see table on page 180. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 66 www.dsm.com Review of business Nutrition Nutrition cluster performance x € million 20191 2018 Total Total Underlying Net sales bridge 2019 business2 x € million 6,137 Net sales: 6,028 DSM Nutritional 1% Products: -7% Animal Nutrition & 2% 0% Health 2,892 3,134 2,749 2% Human Nutrition & Health 2,046 2,019 1,989 Personal Care & Aroma Ingredients 425 382 382 Other3 93 112 112 Full year Temp. Volume Price/ FX Other Full year 2018 vitamin mix 2019 5,456 5,647 5,232 effect 2018 DSM Food Specialties 572 490 490 Total 6,028 6,137 5,722 During the first nine months of 2018, the industry experienced an exceptional supply disruption. This event Organic sales growth provided additional sales of € 415 million and a (in %) 2 14 7 corresponding Adjusted EBITDA of € 290 million in the first Adjusted EBITDA 1,250 1,407 1,117 nine months of 2018, as estimated and reported last year. Adjusted operating 'Underlying business' is defined as the sales and Adjusted profit 881 1,111 821 EBITDA, corrected for this temporary vitamin effect. Capital expenditure 420 463 463 Capital employed at Nutrition reported total sales of € 6,028 million in 2019, up 31 December 6,731 5,683 5,683 from € 5,722 million in the underlying business in 2018. ROCE (in %) 13.9 19.9 14.7 Adjusted EBITDA was € 1,250 million, up 12% from Adjusted EBITDA margin € 1,117 million in the underlying business in 2018. The (in %) 20.7 22.9 19.5 Adjusted EBITDA margin was 20.7%, up from 19.5% in the R&D expenditure 218 206 206 underlying business in 2018. Workforce at In 2019, Nutrition reported sales up 5% compared to 2018. 31 December Nutrition delivered 2% organic growth, which was volume(headcount) 14,599 13,628 13,628 driven. Additionally, it recorded 1% from the consolidation of Andre Pectin and 2% from exchange rate effects driven 1 Including the impact of IFRS 16, see table on page 164. by the US dollar. Nutrition delivered a good performance, 2 Excluding temporary vitamin effect, see table on page 65. 3 Other covers pharma and custom manufacturing & services activities. with a solid performance in Animal Nutrition & Health, a softer one in Human Nutrition & Health, and a strong one Business in Personal Care & Aroma Ingredients and DSM Food Specialties. Our Nutrition cluster comprises DSM Nutritional Products and DSM Food Specialties. This cluster provides solutions Trends for animal feed, food & beverages, pharmaceuticals, early life nutrition, nutrition improvement, dietary supplements The world is facing an increasing number of food-related and personal care. Our company is positioned in all steps health issues and challenges. According to the UN Food and of the respective value chains: the production of pure active Agriculture Organization (FAO), more than 820 million ingredients, their incorporation into sophisticated forms people go to bed hungry each night. The International Food and the provision of tailored premixes, forward solutions Policy Research Institute (IFPRI) meanwhile estimates that and branded consumer products. Our unique portfolio of approximately two billion people suffer from hidden hunger products and services is global and highly diversified, — meaning that their diet lacks sufficient micronutrients serving customers and other stakeholders locally across such as vitamins and dietary minerals. IFPRI additionally various end-markets around the world. puts the number of adults and children who are obese or overweight at more than 2.3 billion. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 67 www.dsm.com With our nutritional solutions, we are well positioned to prescription of antibiotics, the continued use of antibiotics actively combat malnutrition in all its forms: undernutrition, in some livestock farming operations, and the release of micronutrient deficiency (hidden hunger), overweight, antibiotics into the environment from pharmaceutical obesity and the double burden of malnutrition (the factories. At DSM, we address the topic of AMR and the coexistence of micronutrient deficiency with overweight responsible use of antibiotics in livestock production and obesity), as well as diet-related non-communicable through our broad portfolio of nutritional products, such as diseases (NCDs). We have established numerous our eubiotics for gastrointestinal functionality. partnerships in this field, including those with the UN World Food Programme (WFP), UNICEF, Vitamin Angels and World Environmental scientists warn that we are on the verge of Vision. We are also addressing malnutrition through the breaching several planetary boundaries if we do not change humanitarian organization Sight and Life and our dedicated our food system, risking people's livelihoods and the ability Nutrition Improvement business segment — specialized in to produce the food for all. The planetary boundaries supplementation programs and the fortification of staple include the Earth's limits of greenhouse gas (GHG) foods and therapeutic or emergency foods with essential emissions, biochemical flows, water quality and quantity, vitamins and minerals in developing countries. land use, and biodiversity. The agri-food sector is one of the major contributors to global GHG emissions, and almost Mounting research over the past few decades continues to a third of wild fisheries are overexploited. highlight the role nutrition plays during early life and its effect on life-long health. The first 1,000 days between the We work with customers and other stakeholders to deliver onset of a woman's pregnancy and her child's second more sustainable solutions that have less impact on the birthday offer a unique window of opportunity for nutrition environment. With a growing population and growing to shape healthier futures. Women hoping to become middle class, we will see a rising demand for animal protein pregnant, pregnant women, infants and children must such as dairy, meat, eggs and fish, with a clear regional receive the necessary nutrients at appropriate levels to help differentiation. Building on our strengths in animal set them on a path to a long, healthy life. Our Essentials For nutrition science and sustainability, we have identified six Early Life Solutions aim to ensure proper nutrition of business drivers to enable the sustainable growth of animal parents-to-be, pregnant and nursing women, and young protein production for healthy diets within planetary children, from preconception through the first 1,000 days boundaries. The business drivers comprise improving the of life. lifetime performance of farm animals; making efficient use of natural resources; reducing emissions from livestock; Whereas earlier generations struggled primarily with the helping tackle antimicrobial resistance; reducing our threat of communicable diseases such as tuberculosis, reliance on marine resources; and improving the quality of cholera and plague, non-communicable diseases are now meat, milk, fish and eggs while reducing food loss and the number one cause of death worldwide, accounting for waste. For example, our enzymes help animals digest more 70% of all mortalities. These include cardiovascular disease, efficiently and extract more nutritional value from the feed. type 2 diabetes and cancer. Research increasingly identifies They therefore still grow well even when consuming less. As unhealthy and/or unbalanced diets as a major contributor a result, fewer natural resources, such as land and water, to many NCDs. Intermediate indicators that can be related are needed for animal protein production. to an increased risk of NCDs are elevated levels of markers such as increased blood pressure, Body Mass Index (BMI) In parallel to the growing demand for foods and beverages and high blood glucose. Balanced nutrition plays a role in based on animal protein, there is a growing trend — keeping these indicators at healthy levels, hence helping to especially in the Western world — in favor of natural and reduce the risks of NCDs. Besides solutions to reduce sugar plant-based foods, such as meat and dairy alternatives. We and salt in processed foods, including EverSweetTM and have developed a Meat Alternatives Taste Toolbox based on Maxarome®, we also produce products such as OatWell®, natural yeast extracts, process flavors and hydrocolloids a nutritional ingredient that harnesses the scientificallythat deliver the savory, salty and umami flavor, and the fatty proven health benefits of oat beta-glucan to reduce mouthfeel that consumers favor and expect from meat cholesterol levels. alternatives. The World Health Organization (WHO) predicts that Sustainability & Innovation antimicrobial resistance (AMR) will overtake NCDs by 2050 as the world's leading cause of death. WHO defines AMR as Sustainability is one of the key drivers of our Nutrition the ability of a micro-organism (such as bacteria, viruses, cluster. Our nutrition businesses support many of the UN and some parasites) to stop an antimicrobial (such as Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), especially SDGs 2, antibiotics, antivirals and antimalarials) from working 3, 12 and 13. against it . AMR is on the increase due to the overBright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 68 www.dsm.com Review of business Nutrition We are proud of our strategic partnership with the UN World In 2019, we also continued our work on Project Clean Cow, Food Programme (WFP), which we extended in 2018 for our feed additive that helps to reduce methane emissions another three years. We have partnered with WFP since 2007 from cows by at least 30%. Methane is a potent greenhouse to develop cost-effective, sustainable and nutritious food gas that makes a significant contribution to climate change. solutions for those in need. Today, the UN World Food Ruminants such as cows are responsible for approximately Programme (WFP) reaches 35 million beneficiaries annually 27% of anthropogenic methane emissions globally. In 2019, with food that is improved by the DSM-WFP partnership. we filed for EU market authorization under the product Thanks to our expertise in nutrition and food fortification, name Bovaer®. Registrations in other regions are to follow. WFP has improved its food basket and developed more The product will be available in Europe as soon as EU nutritious food products for disadvantaged people around authorization is granted. the world. These products include Super Cereal and Super Cereal Plus (complementary foods), ready-to-use We accelerated our large innovation project for supplementary foods, high-energy biscuits, micronutrient fermentative Stevia in 2019 by establishing a 50:50 powders such as MixMe™, and fortified rice. We also provide partnership with Cargill called Avansya and starting the funding for WFP's operations and motivate employees to commercial-scale production of EverSweet™. EverSweet™ is engage in fundraising campaigns and awareness-raising a zero-calorie, great-tasting, cost-effective sweetener that initiatives for WFP's school meal programs. Finally, we can replace sugar in foods and beverages. combine our strengths to put local networks in place that ensure sustainable and increased access to more nutritious Governments around the world are focusing increasingly on food as an essential part of healthy diets. Together, we are the environmental footprint of their domestic industries. helping people survive and thrive. In recent years, China in particular has tightened the enforcement of its environmental regulations, also known In addition to our work on hunger, malnutrition, health and as its 'Blue Skies' policy. This policy addresses air, soil and well-being, our innovations are increasingly focused on water pollution and sets significantly higher standards than improved sustainability throughout the product lifecycle, before, including those standards applicable to China's and the value this can bring to customers and society at vitamin manufacturers. Over time, the result is a more level large. playing field for non-Chinese competitors versus these manufacturers. For example, after a successful launch last year in the Americas, in 2019 we introduced Balancius®, a broiler feed As part of our ongoing commitment to quality, safety, ingredient that helps to facilitate digestion and the sustainability and production efficiencies, we made further absorption of nutrients from the diet, in Europe and Asiaupgrades to our vitamin C facility in Jiangshan (Jiangsu Pacific. This solution helps farmers to get more from their Province, China). Vitamin C from Jiangshan was already the feed and to reduce GHG emissions. lowest carbon footprint vitamin C in China thanks to this continuous investment program. Another example of our We also made significant progress in Veramaris, our joint sustainability efforts is the opening of a new green coventure with Evonik to produce the omega-3 fatty acids EPA generation plant in Sisseln (Switzerland) together with and DHA from natural marine algae as an alternative to fish energy company ENGIE and Swiss energy provider EWZ, oil. This innovation helps to reduce the pressure on wild fish reducing CO2 emissions by 50,000 tons per year. For more stocks, helps the aquaculture industry to sustainably meet information, see 'Renewable energy' on page 53. the rapidly growing global demand for seafood, and enables the production of healthier fish for the consumer. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 69 www.dsm.com Aerial view of the biomass plant at the DSM Sisseln site (Switzerland), April 2019. Strategy from 29% to 75%. Andre Pectin is Asia's largest producer of apple and citrus pectin, hydrocolloids providing texture We have built a unique, highly integrated, global and broad solutions for food, beverages and personal care, with nutritional and other specialty ingredient solutions premier access to the world's fastest-growing specialty food business in food & beverages, animal feed and personal ingredients market. To further strengthen our position in care, meeting differentiated local needs through our personalized nutrition, we acquired AVA (USA), offering a unparalleled network. We possess a diverse and significant personalized nutrition platform that provides nutrition and premix footprint, with superior formulations and delivery coaching recommendations across a wide range of health systems, helping to drive sustainable nutritional and health and wellness segments. We also acquired Royal CSK solutions. This infrastructure is fueled by our complete (Netherlands), combining complementary strengths to portfolio of nutritional ingredients, which includes better serve DSM's largest food & beverage segment: the vitamins, nutritional lipids, carotenoids, dietary minerals, fast-growing and attractive dairy cultures markets. eubiotics, enzymes and yeasts, as well as texturants, flavors and cultures. This diversity and level of integration creates We created the 75:25 partnership, Yimante (Hubei Province, a resilient portfolio with limited exposure to single products China), with Nenter in 2019. Through this partnership, we or customers, while benefiting from the opportunities strengthened our vitamin E position: it will provide us with provided by global megatrends. cost-effective access to additional capacity, allowing us to continue to grow organically in vitamin E, which is an Focused on Nutrition & Health, we will continue to aim for essential ingredient in our animal nutrition premix above-market growth and an Adjusted EBITDA margin solutions. greater than 20% by 2021. We will complement organic growth with inorganic growth opportunities that broaden In terms of our large, sustainability-driven, innovation our portfolio and enhance our ability to provide customized projects, we also advanced well with Project Clean Cow solutions. At the same time, we will further build on the (under the product name Bovaer®), Veramaris®, Avansya successful initiatives of Strategy 2018, increasingly placing and Balancius®. Many other examples of new innovations the customer at the center of everything we do and and solutions can be found throughout this chapter. achieving commercial excellence, while delivering large, sustainability-driven, innovation projects. Animal Nutrition & Health Building on the results of our programs as part of Strategy We made good progress on the inorganic growth front. In 2018, we will continue to seek to deliver above-market sales 2019, we increased our shareholding in Andre Pectin (China) growth through: Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 70 www.dsm.com Review of business Nutrition Marketing & sales excellence, especially building market leader in feed enzymes. Another partnership is specialist capabilities to address wider species Veramaris, our 50:50 joint venture with Evonik with its opportunities and pursue new health solutions breakthrough innovation — an algal oil — that, for the first Customer-centricity and agility, to place the customer at time, enables the production of the omega-3 fatty acids EPA the heart of everything we do, by improving the end-toand DHA for aquaculture without using fish oil from wildend experience for the customer caught fish. Further investing in our direct business-to-farmer offering (e.g., in China) and overall go-to-market In Human Nutrition & Health, one example is Avansya, our capabilities partnership with Cargill to bring sustainably produced, great-tasting zero-calorie, cost-effective sweeteners to In addition, we pursue radical innovation for core market faster. In personalized nutrition, we partner with sustainability topics, all of which seek to deliver long-term companies such as Panaceutics and Wellmetrix. Combining solutions for the industry with the potential to create their competences with our world-class nutrition science, significant value for our company and our customers. With products and solutions, we aim to be the partner of choice examples such as algal-based omega-3 for fishfeed for dietary supplements as well as food & beverage brand (Veramaris®) and methane-reducing feed additives for owners that wish to offer personalized and healthy cows (Project Clean Cow), we position ourselves at the nutrition. forefront to benefit from global megatrends. In early December, we also announced a brand new Human Nutrition & Health partnership in our Personal Care & Aroma Ingredients Building on the success of the first two parts of the LiftOff! business: an exclusive, global strategic collaboration with Program as part of Strategy 2018, we will step up further METEX NØØVISTA, a subsidiary of biological chemistry during the implementation of Strategy 2021 with increased company METabolic EXplorer, to deliver a 100% bio-sourced focus on customer-centricity and commercial excellence to and sustainably produced, multifunctional ingredient for drive above-market organic growth through: skincare products. Focusing on customer-centricity and agility, seeking to DSM Nutritional Products move closer to the customer by strengthening the value propositions of our products and services, improving DSM Nutritional Products consists of Animal Nutrition & end-to-end customer experiences, and enhanced Health, Human Nutrition & Health and Personal Care & innovation and application capabilities Aroma Ingredients. In 2018, an exceptional supply Continuing to invest in business-to-consumer to ensure disruption in the industry positively impacted our sales. We the growth of i-Health beyond the US, as well as further estimated a temporary vitamin effect of € 415 million developing and building our personalized nutrition additional sales in 2018, mainly in Animal Nutrition & platform Health. The following sections compare results in the underlying business, so excluding this temporary vitamin In addition, we will continue to pursue inorganic growth effect. In 2019, DSM Nutritional Products reported sales of opportunities in food & beverages as well as dietary € 5,456 compared to € 5,232 million in the underlying supplements, to enhance and complement our already business in 2018. strong market positions. An example of progress includes our continued investment in the breadth of our capabilities to support our customers' growth, with the establishment of Innovation & Application Centers in Isando (South Africa) and in Cairo (Egypt) in 2019. These are designed to stimulate and accelerate coinnovation with customers worldwide. Partnerships We have many partnerships that support and accelerate innovation in Nutrition. In Animal Nutrition & Health we have, for example, The Alliance of DSM and Novozymes, combining the world-leading competencies and technologies of the two companies to deliver feed enzyme innovation to the customers. The Alliance is the global Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 71 www.dsm.com production from other regions and species. Overall, volumes and prices were both up by 2%. The price increase “ In 2019, we achieved good was due to positive sales mix effects, as well as price increases earlier in the year for some ingredients to sales and earnings growth compensate for higher costs. across our Nutrition Animal Nutrition & Health serves the global feed industry with innovative and sustainable nutritional solutions. A cluster and took a big step pioneer since the earliest days of feed additives, we draw on the latest science to provide a unique portfolio that runs toward market launch of from vitamins through carotenoids to cutting-edge eubiotics and feed enzymes. our radical innovation Population growth and rising incomes are driving global projects in our Animal and demand for animal protein. We focus our passion and Human Nutrition expertise on the following six business drivers to support the livestock value chain and address the challenges facing businesses. ” our planet: Chris Goppelsroeder, DSM Executive Committee and Improving the lifetime performance of farm animals President & CEO DSM Nutritional Products Making efficient use of natural resources Reducing emissions from livestock Animal Nutrition & Health Helping tackle antimicrobial resistance Reducing our reliance on marine resources Improving the quality of meat, milk, fish and eggs while Highlights 2019 reducing food loss and waste Solid performance despite the rapid spread of We strongly believe in sustainable food systems, and that African swine fever the livestock industry can transform itself from within to Completion of the global launch of Balancius® deliver the solutions to the challenges facing society and Vitamin E partnership with Nenter completed the animal protein industry. We want to play a key role in Opening of Veramaris commercial-scale this transformation, and we work at species and country production facility in Blair (Nebraska, USA) level to provide tangible and actionable solutions that will Filed for EU authorization for methane-reducing help build a sustainable future for us all. Project Clean Cow feed additive The global pork industry was impacted significantly by ASF in 2019, with China and Asia feeling its adverse effects on Animal Nutrition & Health reported sales of € 2,892 million herd size and production. The decline in pork production in 2019 versus € 2,749 million in the underlying business in in China was partly offset by an increase in imports of pork 2018. In 2019, Animal Nutrition & Health reported 4% organic to China, as well as other sources of protein in the form of growth, against a strong 8% last year and despite the poultry and fish. Our swine business was well placed to negative effect of African swine fever (ASF). This adapt to these market conditions and address changes in demonstrates the resilience of the integrated and the protein production value chain with our well-balanced diversified business model and our ability to address a wide species and solutions approach. Other regions — EMEA, range of species as well as a diversified geographical Latin America and North America — are well positioned to presence. help meet the increased demand for exported pork. Sales were strong for all species and in all regions, except Our Crina® range of essential oils enjoyed strong demand for sales to the swine business in China and South-East Asia, in key markets during 2019. Crina® Poultry Plus is the which were impacted by ASF. This region accounts for more market-leading solution, combining a unique and than half of global pork production, with culling measures complementary blend of essential oil compounds with the introduced in response to ASF affecting 35–50% of pork most efficient organic acid (benzoic acid) to modulate the production in the area. The rapid spread of this disease microbiota and stimulate the secretion of digestive disrupted the global equilibrium of the animal protein enzymes. Furthermore, Crina® Digest, the latest innovation sector in the short term. As a result, in the second half of in our portfolio, was launched in Europe at the end of 2018. 2019, we were unable to fully offset the impact of the decline in pork production in the region with increases in Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 72 www.dsm.com Review of business Nutrition Its global expansion is currently taking place for poultry In terms of our regional presence, our business enjoyed applications. strong growth in Asia–Pacific during 2019, led by South East Asia and the Indian subcontinent. In 2019, we completed the global launch program for our latest breakthrough innovation, Balancius®, introducing it Challenged by the unprecedented outbreak of ASF in 2019 in the EU and Asia-Pacific. Balancius® is the first and only as well as by its knock-on effect on all other species, our feed ingredient capable of breaking down peptidoglycans business in China successfully developed and implemented (PGNs) in bacterial cell debris, thus releasing otherwise a strategy of promoting growth across all six species served inaccessible nutrients and unlocking a hidden potential in by our portfolio. This resulted in robust volume growth in gastrointestinal functionality. Scientific data demonstrates poultry in China that significantly outperformed the market. that the addition of Balancius® to the diet of broiler A holistic action plan was created and trialed to ensure that chickens significantly improves the ability to digest and we are prepared for the forthcoming regulations on ASF. absorb nutrients. It consistently improves the feed Significant resources were allocated, and global and conversion ratio (FCR) by 3%, thus making a measurable regional teams are collaborating closely to ensure effective contribution to sustainable poultry production. Balancius® implementation. additionally improves breast meat yield and contributes to better animal welfare by helping to keep litter dryer. We made significant progress in Latin America during 2019, notably at our new premix plant in Peru, increasing and By comparison with 2018, the global broiler meat market improving production capacity for the country as a whole. experienced a more balanced supply in most regions during Our enhanced species expertise stimulated expansion in 2019. Our broiler business delivered robust performance, strategic markets, delivering growth in the poultry sector and we are stepping up our efforts to offer broiler meat in the Southern Cone and Central America; in aquaculture producers more tools to meet consumer demands for a in Chile and Ecuador; in swine in Brazil; and in ruminants high-quality, affordable meat product. in Mexico and Paraguay. EMEA and North America both remained important sources of revenue. Our business with layers showed profitable volume growth in 2019 thanks to the strong performance of China, EMEA and We took a game-changing step in sustainable aquaculture Asia-Pacific. This was attributable to the impact of ASF and in 2019, commencing commercial-scale production of algalthe growing demand for eggs. We also entered into on a based omega-3 at our Veramaris facility in Blair (Nebraska, collaboration with the International Egg Commission, USA) — a USD 200 million facility. Our proprietary technology supporting the Commission's work on sustainability in egg delivers a breakthrough in the cultivation of marine algae production. naturally rich in EPA and DHA omega-3, facilitating production on an unprecedented scale. Sales of the first In the ruminant sector, ongoing growth opportunities exist salmon fed with Veramaris® algal oil also commenced in in the US, Eastern Europe, Asia, Argentina, Brazil and now retail outlets in Germany (Kaufland) and France also China. The year 2019 was a challenging one for this (Supermarché Match). sector, but we were able to maintain growth in our core portfolio, and we succeeded in further growing certain key Regarding methane reduction, we filed for EU authorization products for dairy cows. Our initiatives to become a leader in 2019 and took the next step toward implementing our in sustainable dairy farming made us a preferred partner Project Clean Cow (under the product name Bovaer®) in the global alliance Farming for Generations, which is led methane inhibitor in the Netherlands. It is the most by the global food industry leader Danone. extensively studied and scientifically proven solution to the challenge of burped methane from ruminants to date. Our aquaculture business performed strongly in 2019. Over the past ten years, 35 on-farm beef and dairy trials Improving survival rates, reducing environmental impact have been conducted across the globe and in the context and optimizing raw materials are key enablers for both coldof various feeding systems. These show that a reduction water and warm-water fish and shrimp species. in enteric methane of approximately 30% can be consistently achieved. Some trials achieved a reduction of In the pet food industry, the increasing trend to treat pets as much as 80%. as part of the family has driven up product standards through the use of higher-value functional ingredients. This has translated into higher pricing. Marketing and product labeling trends in the pet food market are mirroring those observed in human nutrition and consumer goods, and are driving growth in the US, Europe, and Japan especially. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 73 www.dsm.com Human Nutrition & Health from custom nutrient premixes, market-ready solutions and direct-to-consumer products that address diverse health or lifestyle benefits. Highlights 2019 Culturelle® was the main driver of the i-Health business Good growth in Medical Nutrition and Dietary in 2019. The world's number one probiotic brand enjoyed Supplements double-digit growth despite the relatively sluggish progress Softer macroeconomic conditions increasingly of the category in its biggest market, the US. This was thanks weighed on Food & Beverage to innovative line extensions as well as progress in new Acquisition of AVA, a personalized nutrition sales channels. platform Growing consumer preference for plant-based During 2019, we continued to invest in the breadth of our nutritional products, such as life's™OMEGA capabilities to support our customers' growth. We Vitamin C facility in Jiangshan has the lowest established Innovation & Application Centers in Isando carbon footprint in China (South Africa) and in Cairo (Egypt) in 2019. These hubs, as well as the newly-opened center in Kaiseraugst (Switzerland), join our global network of Innovation & Human Nutrition & Health reported sales of € 2,046 million Application Centers designed to stimulate and accelerate in 2019 versus € 1,989 million in the underlying business in co-innovation with customers worldwide. 2018. Our Human Nutrition & Health business delivered 3% sales growth and -1% organic growth, against a tough Our strong progress in the pharmaceutical industry in the comparison of 7% organic growth in 2018, in increasingly past few years can be attributed to our leading and growing challenging end-markets. Volumes were up 2% and prices position in regulatory capabilities, which allows us to help declined by 3%. After a strong start to the year, softer register customers' products containing our APIs in target macroeconomic conditions increasingly weighed on the markets. In 2019, we continued to expand these capabilities, Food & Beverage segment, especially in North America. including the Drug Master File (DMF) numbers in China for The softness was most pronounced in the case of larger Vitamin B1 and B6 APIs and the renewal of 25 Indian API customers. Smaller customers were less impacted. registrations, thereby enabling our biopharmaceutical partners to use these ingredients in the development of Medical Nutrition and Dietary Supplements (driven by the proprietary drug products. double-digit growth in the i-Health segment, our businessto-consumer business) performed well over the year. Early Personalized Nutrition continues to play a key role in our Life Nutrition showed a strong performance in the first three human nutrition strategy. The acquisition of AVA in the US, quarters of the year, with a softer fourth quarter. Lower a state-of-the-art digital health platform that provides prices for vitamin C and negative mix effects resulted in 3% sophisticated data analysis and recommendations, lower prices. complements previous investments in key capabilities. These include personalized nutrition delivery platforms, Human Nutrition & Health provides solutions for the food such as Panaceutics, Mixfit and Tespo, as well as & beverage, dietary supplement, early life nutrition, medical partnerships related to selected measurement and tracking nutrition, nutrition improvement and active pharmaceutical technologies, such as Wellmetrix. Combining this with our ingredient (API) markets. We serve these industries with a world-class nutrition science, products and solutions, we portfolio of products (vitamins, nutritional lipids, aim to be the partner of choice for dietary supplements as carotenoids, nutraceuticals, digestive enzymes, probiotics well as food & beverage brand owners that wish to offer and prebiotics, as well as APIs), a suite of customized personalized nutrition and gain unique consumer insights. solutions (premix, coloration, shelf-life and market-ready solutions), and a range of expert services. i-Health — a We work with our customers to develop sustainable global consumer health and wellness company, and a products with a high nutritional value that help keep the subsidiary of DSM — develops, markets and distributes world's growing population healthy and have a limited branded products that support health and wellness. Core impact on the environment. For example, our life's™OMEGA categories include microbiome health, healthy aging, and is an algae-based source of omega-3 EPA and DHA and urinary health. nearly twice as potent as fish oil. It provides important heart health benefits throughout life. This product was the first Our business continues to get closer to the consumer in vegetarian ingredient to make both EPA and DHA available the value chain, focusing more intensely on the businessin a capsule, providing a sustainable alternative to to-consumer and personalized nutrition sectors. A growing traditional fish oil. This business has grown at double-digit proportion of our revenue — more than 40% — now comes Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 74 www.dsm.com Review of business Nutrition rates since 2018, reflecting consumers' increasing sensitive applications — was launched, and received preference for plant-based solutions. positive market feedback. Another example of our sustainable solutions is the We continued building and leveraging our innovation upgrade of our plant in Jiangshan (Jiangsu Province, China). competences in photoprotection, peptides and polymers This facility produces vitamin C with the lowest carbon in 2019. At the same time, we kept up our expansion into footprint in China and generates GHG emissions 32% lower new fields such as the skin microbiome and technical and than alternative sources in the country. performance ingredients. Personal Care & Aroma Ingredients Examples include the launch of TILAMAR® Boost 150, a unique hyper-branched polymer that offers high volume and care properties, and PARSOL® ZX, a mineral UV filter that Highlights 2019 builds on the growing consumer demand for natural sunscreens. In addition, DSM Venturing made an equity Above-market growth in both Personal Care and investment in Belgium-based skin microbiome company Aroma Ingredients S-Biomedic in 2019. This investment underlines our First results of full operationalization of new commitment in the skin microbiome, an area with business unit strategy significant growth potential. In December we also Launch of new innovations in skin and sun care announced a brand new partnership in our Personal Care business: an exclusive, global strategic collaboration with METEX NØØVISTA, a subsidiary of biological chemistry DSM Personal Care & Aroma Ingredients reported total sales company METabolic EXplorer, to deliver a 100% bio-sourced of € 425 million in 2019 compared to € 382 million in 2018. and sustainably produced, multifunctional ingredient for Full year 2019 sales were up 11%, with a very strong 9% skincare products. organic growth and a 2% contribution from foreign exchange rate effects. All Personal Care product lines, In 2019, DSM Personal Care & Aroma Ingredients rolled out including sun, skin and hair care delivered good abovea SUSTAINABILITY IMP'ACT CARDS program that provides market growth, with Aroma Ingredients also performing well transparency regarding the environmental impact, social in 2019. Successful commercialization of the innovation impact, traceability and identity of our ingredients. pipeline further contributed to a very good year for the business. DSM Food Specialties Personal Care & Aroma Ingredients offers solutions for customers in the personal care, home care and fine Highlights 2019 fragrance markets. Our extensive portfolio includes aroma ingredients, vitamins and natural bio-actives, as well as UV Good sales growth in hydrocolloids, enzymes, filters, peptides and polymers. Our solutions support the cultures and yeast extracts health and beauty needs of an aging population with Acquisition of Royal CSK, combining various skin and hair types around the world, and address complementary strengths to better serve the increasing concerns around global public health issues global dairy industry such as air pollution and skin cancer. Leading position in taste solutions for plant-based meat alternatives Our new business unit strategy started to show results in Avansya, our partnership with Cargill, opened a 2019. Our Personal Care portfolio enjoyed above-market commercial-scale fermentation facility in the US growth across regions and segments, with exceptional for sustainably produced non-artificial, zerogrowth in Asia-Pacific as well as in the photoprotection and calorie, great-tasting stevia sweeteners skin bio-actives segments. Our Aroma Ingredients portfolio, Increase of shareholding in Andre Pectin from 29% meanwhile, showed ongoing strong growth, with some shifts to 75% toward higher-value products on the part of certain global key customers, in full alignment with our new strategy. DSM Food Specialties reported total sales of € 572 million With the current strong trend for natural Personal Care in 2019 compared to € 490 million in 2018. In 2019, sales were products, our biotechnology capabilities are encountering 17% higher versus the prior year, 4% resulting from organic considerable interest among major flavor & fragrance growth, 12% from the consolidation of Andre Pectin players. Bergalin — an allergen-free aroma solution for skinfollowing the increase in our shareholding from 29% to 75% and 1% from exchange rates effects. All major business lines Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 75 www.dsm.com performed well over the year, with especially a good sales that consumers favor. This helped us take a leading position growth in cultures and food enzymes in dairy and baking. in this space in 2019. Andre Pectin performed well. Shelf-life extension is a trend that touches all food & DSM Food Specialties is a leading global supplier of beverage segments. Our portfolio of bio-preservation and specialty food enzymes, cultures, probiotics, bioanti-oxidant solutions offers brand owners clean-label preservation, hydrocolloids, sugar reduction, and savory alternatives to artificial preservatives. In dairy, we provide taste solutions to customers in the food & beverage for example enzymes, protective cultures, and anti-oxidant industry in dairy, baking, beverages, and savory. Our and anti-fungal solutions to protect foods against physical, ingredients and solutions are widely used to create a broad chemical and microbial spoilage. This is a growth area with range of food products, from grocery favorites such as significant upward potential for DSM. yogurt, cheese and soups to specialized products including gluten-free bread and beer, meat alternatives, lactose-free We accelerated our innovation project for fermentative milk, and sugar-reduced beverages. Stevia. We established the Avansya partnership with Cargill announced at the end of 2018. We opened the first Demand for our products is driven by five main market commercial-scale fermentation facility for stevia trends: sugar reduction; enhanced taste experience; sweeteners in the US and saw the launch of the first improved health and wellness; more efficient and consumer products in the US and Mexico. For more sustainable production; and reduction of food loss and information, see 'Case studies Nutrition' on page 77. waste. With 150 years of experience in biotechnology and fermentation, we aim to enable better food for everyone, Another growth platform in specialty food ingredients is helping to make existing diets healthier and more hydrocolloids — thickeners and stabilizers that dissolve, sustainable, and giving increasing numbers of people disperse or swell in water to provide a broad range of around the world access to affordable, quality food. important functionalities and physical attributes including gelling, texture, mouthfeel, viscosity and suspension. In dairy, our single largest segment in food & beverages, we Demand for hydrocolloids, especially our natural acquired specialty dairy solutions provider Royal CSK hydrocolloids, is driven by three underlying consumer (Netherlands). The highly complementary combination of trends: our dairy business and CSK's business greatly strengthens our ability to serve the needs of dairy industries worldwide, The quest for convenient foods and beverages and makes us well-placed to address the fast-growing and Increasing demand for dairyand plant-based protein attractive dairy cultures markets. drinks The trend toward clean labeling In baking, shelf-life and freshness are a key trend. Our enzymes play a key role in keeping bread fresh for longer as Our hydrocolloids are primarily delivered in the form of it moves from bakery to store and finally into the pectin and bio-gums. Both are used as gelling and consumer's hands. We introduced a well-received suite of stabilizing agents in a variety of foods and beverages. Our new freshness solutions during 2019 that deliver improved natural hydrocolloids are enjoying strong sales growth. softness and resilience along with optimum sliceability in products including bread, wraps and tortillas, helping to Responding to rapidly growing global demand for pectin, we combat waste in the segment. increased our shareholding in Andre Pectin from 29% to 75% in 2019. Andre Pectin is a leading specialty food ingredient In beverages, production efficiency improvements and a producer. Our share increase in Andre Pectin, together with reduced environmental footprint remain major drivers for our earlier announced pectin plant expansion, further many of the world's leading brewers. Demand remained demonstrates our full commitment to the fast-growing strong for our enzymatic solutions, including Brewers pectin industry and enhances our position as one of the Clarex® and Brewers Compass®, which enable significant leading global hydrocolloids players. energy savings. Demand for plant-based meat alternatives is growing fast. Recreating meat flavor in plant-based meat replacers, such as plant-based patties, is notoriously challenging. We have developed a Meat Alternatives Taste Toolbox based on natural yeast extracts and process flavors that deliver the savory, salty and umami flavor, as well as the fatty mouthfeel Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 76 www.dsm.com Review of business Nutrition Commercial-scale production of fermentative Stevia sweetener commences As consumers around the world strive for healthier milk, soft drinks, ice cream, cereal, bars and confections. lifestyles, food & beverage manufacturers are looking to Avansya has commercial volumes available and is already deliver zero-calorie sweeteners that can support their supplying EverSweetTM to various customers. Further choices. In 2018, we joined forces with Cargill in the 50:50 consumer products are scheduled for launch across partnership Avansya to meet this demand. A year later, multiple market segments, and over 300 customer trials and production of EverSweet™ — a non-artificial, zero-calorie, product development projects are currently in progress. great-tasting stevia sweetener — started at a new facility in Blair (Nebraska, USA). EverSweetTM is approved for use in food & beverage products in the US and Mexico, and additional regulatory The USD 50 million facility is the first-ever commercial-scale approvals for use in other countries are under way. facility for stevia sweeteners in the US. At full capacity this fermentation facility will produce enough EverSweet™ to Purpose-led sweeten many millions of bottles of soft drinks or servings With EverSweetTM, we can enable food & beverage brands to of yogurt each month. EverSweet™ has 250 to 300 times provide consumers around the world with reducedand the sweetness of sugar, without the calories. zero-calorie options, with no compromise on taste, and so help support good health and well-being in our societies. The fermentation facility produces the steviol glycosides Rebaudioside M and Rebaudioside D (Reb M, Reb D), which Performance-driven occur in the sweet-tasting leaves of the stevia plant. The The market for high-intensity sweeteners produced by innovative production process offers a more scalable, fermentation is expected to exceed USD 3 billion by 2025. sustainable and low cost-in-use solution compared to Avansya is well positioned to capitalize on the significant molecules extracted directly from the stevia leaf. potential of this market. The next-generation clean taste profile of EverSweetTM is well suited for use in products such as yogurt, chocolate Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 77 www.dsm.com Solution for sustainable animal protein now available globally With the world's population projected to reach 9.8 billion by obtain more nutritional value from their feed. Balancius® 2050, global demand for poultry is rising sharply. It is increases breast meat yield, contributes to better animal anticipated that 470 million tons of meat will have to be welfare by helping to keep litter dryer, and also reduces produced each year to meet this need, much of it from greenhouse gas emissions by increasing the FCR. broiler chickens. Following its successful 2018 launch in the US and Latin At the same time, consumers are looking for high-quality, America, Balancius® was introduced in Europe and Asiaaffordable animal protein and sustainably produced food Pacific in 2019. as key components of healthy, balanced diets. Purpose-led Poultry producers are therefore looking to strike a fine Balancius® improves the Feed Conversion Ratio (FCR) of balance in a highly competitive global market. On the one broilers by about 3%. A 3% improvement on the broiler meat hand, they need to deliver healthy and sustainably market would result in a reduction of approximately produced poultry products for consumers, while on the 9 million tons of CO2 emissions, equal to the removal of other hand, they need to employ farm management approximately 3.7 million cars from the road (based on FAO's practices that are environmentally viable. estimates of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions in broiler meat production). Balancius® is well placed to contribute Balancius® helps with this challenge by improving the to this GHG emission reduction. gastrointestinal functionality of broiler chickens. Performance-driven Balancius® is the first and only feed ingredient with the Enzymes and eubiotics are key components for sustainable capability of breaking down dead cell debris in the gut. It animal production, and this market is expected to grow by increases the Feed Conversion Ratio (FCR) by 3%, improving 5–7% per year over the next decade. digestion and nutrient absorption and helping broilers to Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 78 www.dsm.com Review of business Nutrition Video Supermarché Match and Veramaris join forces to deliver healthy and sustainable salmon Nicolas Baroux Head of Procurement at Supermarché Match Owned by the Louis Delhaize Where are these sustainably fed supplies of salmon sourced Group and headquartered in La from? Madelaine, France, Supermarché Match is a chain of supermarkets Since October 2018, the Norwegian salmon farmer Lingalaks — 114 in north-eastern France. has been using a diet developed and manufactured by the Nicolas Baroux, Head of Procurement at Supermarché Norwegian feed producer Skretting. This diet contains Match, discusses the retailer's introduction of salmon fed Veramaris® algal oil, which offers a sustainable, non-GMO with innovative Veramaris® omega-3 EPA & DHA algal oil and contaminant-free alternative to fish oil. It does not in all its stores in France. require a change to the feed process. Why has Supermarché Match introduced salmon fed with How are your customers responding to the introduction of Veramaris® natural marine algal oil? salmon fed with Veramaris® algal oil? We are committed to ensuring that everyone has access to At Supermarché Match, we put the customer at the heart fresh and healthy food. The salmon we are now able to offer of everything we do. We want all the products we retail to to our customers is rich in omega-3 EPA & DHA from natural be good for our customers and good for the planet as well. marine algae. These two essential fatty acids are vital for That's the philosophy that drives us. Offering salmon fed brain, eye and heart health. Additionally, feeding salmon with Veramaris® algal oil is fully in line with that philosophy, with Veramaris® algae-based oil helps preserve the wild and uptake among our customers has been very pleasing fish stocks from which omega-3 is traditionally obtained. so far. The algal oil contains twice the levels of EPA and DHA as fish oil. This twofold approach offers our customers food The salmon industry has welcomed the Veramaris® algal choices that are both healthy and sustainable. This is our oil solution, and new premium salmon products have been contribution to conserving marine resources. launched by retailer Kaufland in its German branches. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 79 www.dsm.com New vitamin A form for plant-based diets Vitamin A plays an essential role in supporting healthy prenatal and postnatal supplements for early life nutrition, vision, growth, development, the immune function and the dry food applications and multivitamin and mineral tablets. improvement of gut health. Its key role in eye health is indicated by its scientific name, retinol, as it supports the Quali®-A with Flexilease™ delivers vitamin A with the functioning of the retina. highest stability, performance and potency available, making it an excellent solution for dietary supplement Two types of vitamin A occur naturally in the diet: preformed tablets. It is also suitable for halal, kosher, vegetarian and vitamin A, which is found in animal products such as meat, vegan diets, and does not include any allergens or fish, poultry, and dairy foods, and provitamin A, which is preservatives. found in plant-based foods such as fruits and vegetables. Provitamin A is converted into vitamin A in the body. Purpose-led As more and more consumers worldwide seek plant-based More than 46% of consumers worldwide today are looking diets, our vitamin A Quali®-A with Flexilease™ delivers all for an increasingly plant-based diet, with consumer the health benefits of this key nutrient in a highly stable, demand growing for vegetarian and vegan options. To meet bioavailable and plant-based form. this rising demand, we further expanded our portfolio of plant-based nutritional ingredients in 2019 and launched Performance-driven a new form of vitamin A, supporting plant-based diets. With the introduction of Quali®-A with Flexilease™ vitamin A, we are supporting one of the fastest-growing new lifestyle Our Quali®-A with Flexilease™ is an innovative new product trends worldwide. In the US alone, the share of plant-based that helps to create a flexible solution for customers food & beverage products on the market grew by 278% wishing to broaden their vegetarian dietary supplement between 2012 and 2018, representing an industry worth USD offering in response to the changing expectations of diet3.3 billion annually. conscious consumers. Furthermore, it can be used for Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 80 www.dsm.com Review of business Nutrition Further expanding our digital capabilities in personalized nutrition Vitamins, nutritional lipids and minerals are essential for such as Panaceutics, Mixfit and Tespo, as well as human health and well-being, and a balanced and partnerships related to selected measurement and tracking nutritious diet is key to prevent diseases. There is a growing technologies, such as Wellmetrix. Together, these interest worldwide in personalized nutrition — investments bring complementary capabilities, allowing us science-based, data-driven nutritional solutions tailored to to offer end-to-end solutions along the personalized consumers' specific health goals and needs. nutrition value chain, which is an important element in our nutrition strategy. In 2019, we expanded our growing capabilities in this field further by acquiring AVA, a Boston (Massachusetts, USA) Purpose-led based state-of-the-art digital health platform. AVA Differences in age, genotype and health status mean that leverages artificial intelligence and machine learning to individuals can react in very different ways to the same analyze behavior, wellness and consumption patterns, and foods. Personalized nutrition allows individuals to make provides sophisticated data analysis, recommendations dietary choices tailored to their specific needs, reducing and coaching for a broad range of audiences. their exposure to a wide range of non-communicable diseases and helping to lower healthcare costs. Combining AVA's technology with our own world-class nutritional science, products and solutions, we aim to be Performance-driven the partner of choice for dietary supplement as well as food The global personalized retail nutrition and wellness & beverage brand owners wishing to offer personalized and market was valued at around USD 1.5 billion in 2018 and is healthy nutrition and gain unique consumer insights. projected to grow at a compound annual growth rate of 9.5% to 2025. The acquisition of AVA builds on previously announced investments in personalized nutrition delivery platforms Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 81 www.dsm.com Video How cows can help us fight climate change one burp at a time Methane is a greenhouse gas which, like carbon dioxide, FrieslandCampina, Agrifirm, De Heus and ForFarmers, was contributes to climate change. Methane is a volatile, but started in 2019. It aimed to gather all the information much more potent greenhouse gas than CO2 and ruminants necessary for accreditation of our feed ingredient by the (mainly cows) emit about 20% of all methane gasses Carbon Footprint Monitor/Climate Module of the Annual globally. Reducing global methane emissions from cows will Nutrient Cycling Assessment. The insights from this study immediately help slow the pace of global warming in the will be applicable across Europe. next decade already, helping society to take longer-term action on CO2 reduction. Through our Project Clean Cow, we Additionally, we continue to develop new forms and have developed a proprietary feed additive. Just a quarter applications for a broad range of farming systems. In New of a teaspoon per cow per day inhibits the enzyme that Zealand for example, we have been exploring the potential triggers methane production in a cow's stomach and benefits for a slow-release version of our methanereduces methane emissions. reducing feed additive in the dairy farming market in collaboration with Argenta, Otago University School of The feed additive is scientifically proven to cut methane Pharmacy and AgResearch. emissions from dairy cows by about 30%, thereby significantly reducing the environmental footprint of dairy Purpose-led and beef products, a key source of protein around the world. Project Clean Cow has been recognized by the World Resources Institute as one of the ten global breakthrough In 2019, we filed for EU market authorization of our technologies that can help feed the world without methane-reducing feed additive under the product name destroying it. Adding the feed additive to the diet of three Bovaer®. Registrations in other regions are to follow. The cows is the equivalent of taking one family-sized car product will be available in Europe as soon as EU permanently off the road. authorization is granted. Performance-driven Meanwhile, we are already taking the next steps to prepare We are working with key players and influencers across for the market launch of our methane inhibitor. In the the value chain to shape a more sustainable, low-emission Netherlands, for example, a trial across the Dutch Dairy future. The potential market for innovative solutions such Chain, together with Wageningen University & Research, as our feed additive is estimated at € 1–2 billion. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 82 www.dsm.com Review of business Nutrition Combating skin cancer through innovative approaches to UV protection An astonishing three million cases of skin cancer are In 2019, our collaboration with Team Sunweb was diagnosed each year. In the US alone, more than two people highlighted in a broad communication campaign about die of the disease every hour. Despite the known risks, the importance of sun protection, particularly among however, many people do not protect themselves groups who traditionally neglect to protect themselves adequately from the harmful effects of the sun's ultra-violet adequately. (UV) rays. Only 30% of women worldwide use sun protection on a daily basis, and only 14% of men. Purpose-led Our UV filters and sensory modifiers offer protection from One of the reasons why people do not use adequate sun the suffering associated with sun-related skin cancer. Team protection is that they find traditional sunscreens greasy Sunweb's positive experiences were highlighted in a wideand uncomfortable. And those who do use sunscreens, only ranging communication campaign that raised awareness apply around a fifth of the recommended amount on of the importance of building sun protection into daily average, which reduces their effectiveness. safety routine, particularly among groups who traditionally do not use sun protection on a regular basis. To help raise awareness of the importance of sun protection, DSM Personal Care & Aroma Ingredients has Performance-driven been working with the professional cycling team, Team The global market for sunscreens was estimated at Sunweb, to showcase a powerful example of men building USD 10.5 billion in 2017. As most people who use sunscreens sun protection into their daily safety routine. The riders are apply much less than the recommended amount, the using an innovative, light-texture lotion that is comfortable, potential of this market is in fact much greater. easy to apply, and fast to absorb. The riders found it effective even after lengthy physical activity, standing up to long hours of exposure to athletes' sweat. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 83 www.dsm.com Results at a glance Materials € 2,746 -8% 18.5%1 Net sales versus € 2,913 in 2018 Organic sales growth Adjusted EBITDA2 margin (in millions) versus 2018 versus 17.6% in 2018 and versus an 18–20% ambition 100% #1 >1 Renewable electricity used in the Supplier of Million first responders and service manufacture of materials for fiber optic coatings personnel protected by Dyneema® Apple's products by end of 2019 1 Including the impact of IFRS 16, see table on page 164. 2 For reconciliation to IFRS performance measures, see table on page 180. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 84 www.dsm.com Review of business Materials In 2019, Materials continued its ongoing transformation into x € million 20191 2018 a high-growth, higher-margin specialty business, focused on Improved Health & Living, Green Products & Applications Net sales: and New Mobility & Connectivity. DSM Engineering Plastics DSM Engineering Plastics 1,406 1,516 expanded its production capacity for specialty plastics in DSM Dyneema 338 344 India through the acquisition of the Engineering Plastics DSM Resins & Functional business of SRF (India), while DSM Dyneema opened new Materials 1,002 1,053 production lines in the Netherlands and in the US to support further growth. Total 2,746 2,913 While building a strong platform for its long-term growth Organic sales growth (in %) (8) 5 ambitions, in the short-term Materials was confronted with Adjusted EBITDA 509 512 weak macroeconomic conditions in China and in some of Adjusted operating profit 363 383 its end-markets. Materials reported € 2,746 million sales in Capital expenditure 139 132 2019, with organic growth down by 8%, driven by lower Capital employed at volumes (-5%) and prices down by 3% (fully reflecting lower 31 December 1,927 1,878 input costs). ROCE (in %) 18.6 20.6 Adjusted EBITDA margin (in %) 18.5 17.6 Due to the strong performance of the higher-margin R&D expenditure 124 122 businesses (especially DSM Dyneema), good margin management, cost control and some benefit from exchange Workforce at 31 December rate effects, Materials reported almost flat earnings in 2019, (headcount) 4,762 4,643 demonstrating the strong resilience of our specialty portfolio in weak economic conditions. Total Adjusted 1 Including impact IFRS 16, see table on page 164. EBITDA was € 509 million, 1% lower compared to the previous year and including 1% from IFRS 16. The Adjusted Business EBITDA margin was 18.5% (including 0.2% from IFRS 16) compared to 17.6% achieved in the previous year. Our Materials cluster comprises DSM Engineering Plastics, DSM Dyneema and DSM Resins & Functional Materials. We are a global player in specialty plastics for the electrical components and electronics, automotive, flexible food “ We are playing a key role packaging and consumer goods industries. Our portfolio also includes Dyneema®, the world's strongest fiber™, for in enabling the transition protective solutions and commercial marine applications, toward a bio-based and as well as resins for use in paints, industrial applications and optical fiber coatings, Niaga® technology for circular circular economy by design, and advanced materials for additive manufacturing/3D printing applications. delivering commercially Materials cluster performance attractive bioand Net sales bridge 2019 recycled-based x € million 2,913 alternatives. ” Dimitri de Vreeze, Co-CEO -5% Trends 2,746 0% Advanced materials with ever-higher performance levels -3% 2% are required across a wide range of applications and industries today. Our Materials cluster serves these global Full year Volume Price/mix Full year markets, delivering innovative and sustainable solutions FX Other 2018 2019 that serve society's rapidly changing needs. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 85 www.dsm.com The world's urgent requirement for sustainable bio-based grades of our Stanyl® and Arnitel® portfolio in transportation systems calls for higher-performing October 2019. materials that enable autonomous, lightweight and more energy-efficient automotive design. At DSM Dyneema, we committed to sourcing at least 60% of our raw materials from bio-based feedstocks by 2030 and Advanced materials also have a key role to play in the created a circular-economy consortium with a remit to generation and storage of renewable energy, 3D printing, establish an end-of-life recycling program. sustainable packaging solutions, and advanced healthcare applications. At the same time, demand for renewable energy technologies such as solar, wind and water is driving the Consumers are increasingly seeking 'smart' connected and development of higher-performance materials. Several customized products and services that call for highrenewable energy technologies, including those for tidal performance materials. Meanwhile, advances in medical and wind energy, contain Dyneema® as a key enabler. technology are creating new performance requirements for materials to be used both inside and outside of the body. At DSM Additive Manufacturing, we launched a strong sustainability strategy focused on delivering bio-based Across the globe, circular economy concepts such as products (such as Arnitel®) and recyclable products, such recycling and the use of bio-based materials are gaining as PBT (polybutylene terephthalate — a thermoplastic traction. Consumer sentiment and regulatory pressure are engineering polymer that is used, for instance, as an combining to stimulate the development of materials that insulator in the electrical and electronics industries). can facilitate the creation of a genuinely circular economy — materials that are bio-based, recycled-based, reusable Our cross-company DSM Materials Science Center helped and recyclable. expand our innovation capabilities in 2019, working ever more closely both with the running businesses of our Additionally, people everywhere are increasingly aware of Materials cluster and with our Emerging Business Areas the importance of safety, including safe manufacturing and (EBAs) Biomedical and Advanced Solar, which form part of product safety. DSM Engineering Plastics and DSM Resins & the 'DSM Innovation Center' on page 94. Functional Materials offer solutions that eliminate or reduce the use of hazardous substances in plastics and Strategy paints, while DSM Dyneema is used in protective apparel for sports, outdoor recreation, law enforcement, and the firstWe continue to future-proof our Materials business by responder sector. centering it on the delivery of Sustainable Living and further strengthening our key focus domains of Climate & Energy Sustainability & Innovation and Resources & Circularity. Our innovation projects deliver sustainable solutions for a This will further develop our Materials cluster into a highmore circular and bio-based economy. Technology from growth, higher-margin specialty business that delivers DSM-NIAGA, which enables the production of fully above-market organic growth in the fields of Improved recyclable carpets, mattresses and furniture components, is Health & Living, Green Products & Applications, and New an excellent example of this philosophy. For more Mobility & Connectivity. information on Niaga®, see 'DSM Resins & Functional Materials' on page 89. In Improved Health & Living, we are focusing on the growing demand for advanced healthcare applications. In addition, In 2019, all our materials businesses initiated additional we offer solutions that enhance end-user safety and health circularity ambitions and programs to reduce the conditions. environmental impact of their operations and to increase the sustainability value they deliver. In Green Products & Applications, we are providing solutions that enable customers to cut emissions by using At DSM Resins & Functional Materials, we announced for materials that are lighter, stronger, more efficient and more example that we will have zero waste to landfill by 2022 and sustainable. We are also increasingly focusing on bio-based, we have committed that by 2030, at least 30% of our raw recycled-based, and fully recyclable solutions. materials will be bio-based and/or recycled-based. In New Mobility & Connectivity, we are targeting materials At DSM Engineering Plastics, we will offer a full portfolio of that support the transition from fossil fuel to electric alternatives that contain at least 25% recycled and/or bioautomotive power and hydrogen-fueled cars. We are also based content by 2030. As an immediate step, we launched Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 86 www.dsm.com Review of business Materials addressing the growing need for increased connectivity and in the global automotive segment, resulting in a 10% between products, devices and applications. reduction in organic growth versus 2018. Electrical & electronics saw some signs of improvement in the second Across our businesses, we further intensified our focus on half of the year. Business conditions in other end-segments customer-centricity in 2019, implementing several programs were solid. designed to deliver a positive experience for our customers. These include the multi-year integrated program within DSM Engineering Plastics addresses the key market trends DSM Engineering Plastics that launched customer-focused in automotive and electronics. Besides serving these two scorecards in 2019 that give insight into our Net Promoter sectors, we provide solutions to specialized industries that Score, see 'Sustainability Statements — Customers' on page address a range of evolving consumer and societal needs. 152, and an initiative to help employees use customer Example application areas include water management, feedback to improve their work. power distribution, outdoor power equipment, and multilayer flexible food packaging. Partnerships The quest for new forms of mobility remains a key driver for We have many partnerships and coalitions that support and our business. We create products that help reduce the fuel accelerate innovation within Materials. An example of our consumption and thus the tailgate emissions of light customer-centric cross-sector collaboration and innovation vehicles, and which also improve the safety and was the active membership of ARENA2036 (Active Research connectivity of cars. Our products find applications in the Environment for the Next Generation of Automobiles), the automotive industry in fields such as powertrain, auto leading technology platform for mobility in Germany. electronics and electricals, as well as vehicle interiors and ARENA2036 is the initiator of sustainable automotive exteriors. engineering and automobile production for the next generation of vehicles and a platform in which suppliers, The other key trend for our business is the rapidly growing customers and research institutes participate. demand for device connectivity. We have a strong track record in the consumer electronics industry, with our In 2019, together with ECOR, DSM-NIAGA started a materials finding extensive use in connectors in mobile consortium comprising leading furniture manufacturers devices such as smart phones and notebooks. This Royal Auping, Canary Company, Cartoni Design, Concourse, expertise can be deployed in other fields too, such as INTOS, König+Neurath, Occony, Triboo and Zwartwoud to connected vehicles and smart electricals and appliances. explore the use of circular panels in their furniture. In DSM Additive Manufacturing we are working with a range of During 2019, we continued to shift our portfolio toward partners to create a complete additive manufacturing higher-value, specialty materials with advanced grades and ecosystem to accelerate the adoption of 3D printing. These improved properties. We increased our number of partners include companies such as Stratasys, Fortify, CEAD differentiated grades, offering high performance in areas as Group, e-Xstream, Origin, Twikkit, Ultimaker and Royal diverse as heat resistance, thermal conductivity, HaskoningDHV. electromagnetic interference shielding, electrical insulation performance, halogen-free flame retardancy, and hydrolysis DSM Engineering Plastics resistance. We also launched new approaches in support of the circular Highlights 2019 and bio-based economy. We will be offering a full portfolio of alternatives that contain at least 25% recycled and/or Persisting softness in China and the global bio-based content by 2030. As an intermediate step, we automotive segment introduced bio-based Stanyl® and bio-based Arnitel® Continued shift of portfolio toward higher-value, grades founded on a certified, mass-balancing biomass specialty materials feedstock approach. We also engaged with companies in Launch of bio-based offering of Stanyl® and our value chain to explore and further develop chemical Arnitel® grades and mechanical recycling routes. Acquisition of the specialty materials business of the Indian company SRF Ltd. In 2019, we acquired the specialty materials business of the Indian company SRF Ltd. to further strengthen our market-leading position in that country. This fits well with DSM Engineering Plastics reported total sales of our strategic aim of generating leading positions in fast€ 1,406 million in 2019 compared to € 1,516 million in 2018. growing economies. DSM Engineering Plastics saw persistent softness in China Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 87 www.dsm.com We also announced the operational launch of a new production line for Arnitel® in Emmen (Netherlands). The capacity has been expanded by 20% and will enable greater flexibility and security of supply. In alignment with Apple's Clean Energy Program, we transitioned to 100% renewable electricity in the manufacture of our materials for Apple's products by the end of 2019. Operational launch of a new production line for Arnitel® in Emmen (Netherlands). DSM Dyneema Dyneema®, the world's strongest fiber™, is 15 times stronger than steel on a weight-for-weight basis, 40% stronger than aramid, and floats on water. This combination of extreme Highlights 2019 strength, lightness and high durability makes it suitable for a wide and expanding range of applications, including Continued high demand in the high-margin personal protection, workwear and sports apparel, outdoor personal protection segment equipment and nets for the rapidly growing aquaculture New Dyneema®next-generation UD technology sector. Products made with Dyneema® provide an line opened to increase capacity environmental and/or societal benefit compared to their Launch of sustainability strategy covering biomainstream counterparts. based Dyneema® and industry coalition for endof-life recycling We are the only global and backward-integrated producer of ultra high molecular weight polyethylene (UHMWPE) products. Dyneema® offers exceptional safety in DSM Dyneema reported total sales of € 338 million in 2019 combination with excellent ergonomics. It protects over compared to € 344 million in 2018. DSM Dyneema reported one million first responders and service personnel around minus 4% organic growth. The focus on strong growth in the globe, such as ambulance crews and law enforcement the high-margin personal protection business resulted in officers, while approximately 22 million pairs of hands lower volumes in other segments. The shift had a strong worldwide are protected by gloves made with Dyneema®. positive effect on the margins. We aim to grow the number of people protected by our lifeBright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 88 www.dsm.com Review of business Materials saving and high-risk applications to 40 million worldwide DSM Resins & Functional Materials by 2023. During 2019, we continued our strategy of expanding into Highlights 2019 existing market segments and applications by offering a range of innovative, unique and patent-protected Business conditions stabilizing and anticipation technologies. Examples include: of upcoming investments in 5G network Continued expansion of bio-based Decovery® Dyneema® Force Multiplier Technology for comfortable, technology in the decorative market ultra-light-weight ballistic protection Acquisition of founders' shares in DSM-NIAGA, Dyneema® Diamond Technology, which offers increased gaining 100% ownership cut protection and comfort for heavy-duty gloves Dyneema® Max Technology for mooring offshore floating wind parks and for maximizing deep-water installation DSM Resins & Functional Materials reported sales of crane capacity € 1,002 million in 2019 compared to € 1,053 million in 2018, Dyneema® Composite Fabric ultralight and highwith organic growth down by 6%. Business conditions in performance material for outdoor, apparel and leather coating resins stabilized versus previous year: while the in consumer and professional markets European end-markets remained weak, the business experienced a small uptick in the Chinese building & Besides benefiting from continuing strong uptake for construction sector. Functional Materials saw its sales of Dyneema® Force Multiplier Technology and Dyneema® UD specialty coatings for glass fiber optic cables decline in (Uni-Directional laminate), we enjoyed strong demand for the second half of the year. The 4G network investments Dyneema® fiber during 2019. started to tail off in anticipation of the upcoming infrastructure investments for the 5G networks, which led to In 2019, we expanded our manufacturing capabilities with temporarily lower sales. a new Dyneema® UD line in Heerlen (Netherlands). Increased production capacity of next-generation UD At DSM Resins & Functional Materials, together with our technology was also made available in Greenville (North customers and value chain partners, we are driving the Carolina, USA). The expansion at both locations will help to resins and functional material industries forward by meet the growing demand from law enforcement and first developing solutions that offer reduced impact on the responders. environment and people's health. In 2019, we kept up our efforts to enable a more circular economy by offering resin We also took important new steps in the field of solutions that improve the recyclability of packaging and sustainability. In alignment with DSM's overall purpose, we reduce single-use consumption of materials. We remain launched our additional sustainability ambitions, which the world's number one supplier of fiber-optic coating focus on reducing the use of scarce resources and solutions. increasing circularity across our production processes. By 2030, at least 60% of the Dyneema® fiber feedstock will be In the decorative market, we continued to leverage our biosourced from bio-based raw material. This will enable our based Decovery® technology platform. We launched a customers to easily shift to a more sustainable product and ground-breaking self-matting resin that enables better solution, without compromising on fiber performance. By coating processing and higher performance for ultra-matt 2020, we will also establish an industry coalition consisting coatings. Together with the Chinese paint manufacturer of customers, waste processors, and recycling companies to Chenyang, we launched a new eco-friendly paint solution address the recycling of end products made with based on our Decovery® technology in 2019, and continued Dyneema® fiber. As a first step, a DSM Dyneema Circularity to work on improving indoor and outdoor air quality. Summit with key partners and recyclers took place in Brussels in November 2019. The participants jointly created For the furniture market, we further developed our offering and committed to the coalition structure. to address growing consumer demand for furniture made from sustainable and healthy materials. Our improved powder coating, waterborne and UV-cured technologies enable the sustainable production of furniture with low levels of volatile organic compounds (VOCs), for example. In the telecommunications market, we are continuing to build our innovation pipeline to meet the growing demand for greater connectivity and network reliability. We are doing Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 89 www.dsm.com this by driving forward with our 5G coating. This coating Additive Manufacturing enables the use of LED lamps in the curing process rather Following the establishment of Additive Manufacturing as than traditional higher-energy-consuming light sources. By a separate business unit in 2018, we maintained our focus comparison with the mainstream alternative, this UV LEDon selected market segments during 2019. These included cured coating enables an 80% reduction in energy the healthcare, transportation, sports and lifestyle, and consumption combined with higher functional electronics sectors. performance. We deploy our materials science and application expertise DSM Coating Resins launched an ambitious set of to meet the needs of end-users, developing new business sustainability commitments underlining DSM's purpose. For models to accelerate the adoption of 3D printing, and help example, the acceleration of the phase-out of all chemicals customers to benefit from the potential of this innovative of high concern from our finished products by 2025 and technology. To achieve this, we are working with a range of the commitment that at least 30% of our sourced raw partners to create a complete additive manufacturing materials will be bio-based and/or recycled-based by 2030. ecosystem. An example is the creation of a digital platform Chemsec — an independent, non-profit organization together with start-ups and mature software companies committed to the development of sustainable chemicals — that provides customers different additive manufacturing described these targets as a 'major earthquake' for the scenarios, enabling them to select the best option across chemicals sector. performance, cost and sustainability. Niaga® Our key partners include Stratasys, Fortify and Origin. We acquired 100% ownership of DSM-NIAGA, purchasing Through new partnerships with Twikit and Ultimaker we the shares held by the founders of DSM-NIAGA. DSM-NIAGA have supported the development of improved orthotic is the developer of a VOC-free adhesive and a proprietary braces for children, with enhanced speed of delivery, production technology for fully recyclable carpets. Mohawk personalization, and overall quality. In addition, and with Industries in the US was one of the first industry players to the support of DSM Venturing, we invested in partnerships use Niaga® technology. Some European carpet with Voxel8, Adaptive3D, AMT and Inkbit in 2019. manufacturers have since adopted the technology too. DSM-NIAGA's philosophy is now being applied to other product categories, including mattresses and laminated panels for furniture manufacture. We are producing the latter together with our partner ECOR. In 2019, together with ECOR, we started a consortium of leading furniture manufacturers to explore the use of circular panels in their furniture. The commitment of these industry innovators enables DSM-NIAGA and ECOR to scale up the production of Niaga®ECOR® panels as a sustainable alternative to traditional furniture panels. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 90 www.dsm.com Review of business Materials Making wind energy a viable alternative to fossil fuels Global energy consumption is rising in response to significantly reduces the weight and size of equipment used population growth and increasing urbanization. Demand in constructing and operating wind parks, as well as rose by 2.3% in 2018. There is consensus that our reducing the physical effort required of their crews. dependency on fossil fuels is untenable and that Dyneema® fiber will also be crucial in delivering the cuttingsustainable energy sources must take their place. Global edge floating foundation technology necessary to keep electricity capacity from renewable sources reached wind parks safely anchored offshore at ever-greater depth. 2,351 GW in 2018, accounting for approximately a third of total installed capacity. This figure is rising year on year as Purpose-led sustainable energy mega-projects deliver more and more As the world seeks to produce more and more energy from electricity. In many cases, these projects test existing wind parks, the unique combination of lightness and material and engineering solutions to their limits, calling for strength of Dyneema® enables solutions that are both radical new approaches. operationally viable and cost-effective. Offshore wind parks are a highly effective means of Performance-driven generating affordable, clean electricity. However, as more Growth in offshore wind energy is projected to outpace and more of these are built, at increasing distances onshore wind by a factor of two. Floating offshore wind offshore, they provide a new challenge, since highly farms represent the next generation of offshore wind, and innovative mooring solutions are needed to keep them in can be operated at water depths of more than 100 meters, position. where wind speeds are typically higher. It is anticipated that within the coming five years, floating platforms will Ropes, slings and synthetic chains made with Dyneema® represent more than 15% of total global offshore wind can play a key role in making renewable energy from investments. Mooring systems made from Dyneema® are a offshore wind parks viable, at an affordable cost. Synthetic critical enabler for efficient construction of these wind lifting and lashing equipment made with Dyneema® farms. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 91 www.dsm.com Upcycling abandoned fishing nets into a high-performance consumer product Svein Rasmussen CEO Starboard Owner of the Tiki brand – the Why has Starboard opted to use Akulon® RePurposed? world's premiere brand in windsurfing and paddle Waste plastic in our oceans is wreaking havoc on marine boarding – Starboard was wildlife and fisheries collected in India. Abandoned plastic founded in 1994 by Svein fishing nets are part of the problem. Known as 'ghost' fishing Rasmussen, a windsurfing world nets, they can result in the accidental capture of dolphins, champion and Olympic turtles and other marine animals. There are roughly 640,000 participant. CEO Svein tons of these nets currently in our oceans, accounting for Rasmussen explains how DSM's Akulon® RePurposed is almost 10% of all plastic waste in the sea. Retrieving and helping Starboard maintain its leading market position upcycling them has a major positive impact on the oceans while helping to protect the oceans. from which they are collected, and represents an important step in the direction of a genuinely circular economy. With What are the key properties of Akulon® RePurposed from this solution we contribute to litter-free beaches and a your perspective? healthier marine environment, and also make a positive social impact on local communities in India. It is a highly versatile, reliable and sustainable highperformance polyamide made from abandoned fishing How does DSM help Starboard realize the company's nets. We use it to produce the fins and other accessories societal and sustainability goals? of our windsurf and stand-up paddle (SUP) boards. Akulon® RePurposed is currently used in about 45% of Starboard's One of the most satisfying parts of our work is the challenge SUP and Windsurf boards. These products are branded as of redesigning our products to lower their environmental NetPositive! impact and achieve higher performance. Through our collaboration with DSM, we showcase how quick and easy it can be to change the way we build better boards for the planet. We want to continuously push boundaries for more eco-innovations for our boards. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 92 www.dsm.com Review of business Materials Enhancing performance, reducing energy consumption Philippe Vanhille Executive Vice President Telecom BU at Prysmian Group DSM Resins & Functional systems for voice, video and data transmission for the Materials is a key enabler of the telecommunications sector. continuing rapid expansion of the global telecommunications And what is the focus of Prysmian's collaboration with DSM? market. Around the world, there has never been stronger demand for connectivity. Our optical fiber and cable We are working together on reducing the deployment costs coatings support the growth of fiber and cable of fixed and mobile networks by enabling cable solutions manufacturers such as Prysmian Group, the world leader with enhanced fiber density. DSM's contribution allows us in the energyand telecom cable systems industry. to pioneer certain key innovations and to offer the market decisive solutions such as ultra-high fiber count cables and With almost 140 years' experience, 29,000 employees in over high-density cable systems. 50 countries and 112 plants worldwide, Prysmian Group is listed on the Italian Stock Exchange, in the FTSE MIB index How does DSM help Prysmian realize the company's societal and generates annual sales in excess of € 11 billion. Philippe and sustainability goals? Vanhille, Executive Vice President Telecom BU at Prysmian Group, discusses Prysmian's collaboration with DSM on Besides improved product performance, our joint the development of next-generation optical fiber solutions. development work focuses on enhanced energy-saving technology along with improved health and safety What is the scope of Prysmian's current activities worldwide? initiatives for our production workforce. Each year, Prysmian Group manufactures thousands of What benefits does this collaboration bring to Prysmian? miles of underground and submarine cables and systems for power transmission and distribution, as well as Prysmian and DSM have shared values regarding innovation mediumand low-voltage cables for the construction and and sustainable growth, along with a common vision to infrastructure sectors. We also produce a comprehensive enable our customers, partners and stakeholders to achieve range of optical fibers, copper cables and connectivity their own goals in an efficient, ethical and sustainable way. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 93 www.dsm.com Results at a glance Innovation Accelerating the innovative power of our core business with breakthroughs such as: Fermentative Stevia: Project Clean Cow: Veramaris®: algae-based Niaga®: technology for fully for sugar reduction feed additives for reduced omega-3 for sustainable recyclable carpets, furniture and methane emissions in cattle aquaculture mattresses Every 3–5% > 250 second A patient receives a Yield improvement for ethanol Million PV modules use DSM medical device containing producers who use our eBOOST™ coating technologies a biomedical solution from DSM 21% 4.6% Innovation sales, in line R&D expenditure with our ambition of ~20% as a % of sales in line with our ambition of ~5% Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 94 www.dsm.com Review of business Innovation DSM Innovation Center Biomedical and a positive contribution from exchange rates effects. x € million 20191 2018 Creating opportunities for future earnings growth through innovation Net sales 194 172 In 2019, innovation sales across DSM amounted to 21% from sales, in line with our aspiration of around 20%. Organic sales growth (in %) 9 5 Furthermore, a strong and focused innovation pipeline of Adjusted EBITDA 22 8 large innovation projects was created to enhance long-term Adjusted operating profit (19) (14) growth. Examples include: Capital expenditure 34 32 Capital employed at Project Clean Cow for feed additives that reduce methane 31 December 616 597 emissions from cattle R&D expenditure 70 67 Veramaris, creating algae-based omega-3 for sustainable aquaculture Workforce at 31 December Avansya, the fermentative Stevia sweetener platform (headcount) 726 701 Niaga® technology for fully recyclable carpets, mattresses and furniture 1 Including the impact of IFRS 16, see table on page 164. Plant-based proteins for human nutrition Enzymes and yeasts for 1.5G and 2G ethanol production The DSM Innovation Center has two functions. The first is to Additive manufacturing help develop new business, focusing on areas outside the current scope of the company's business groups. The Innovation Center identifies and invests in new and innovative growth options, initially through the Business “ I am proud of our healthy Incubator and then by developing and extracting value innovation pipeline, which through the Emerging Business Areas (EBAs). addresses key challenges The Innovation Center's second function is to accelerate the innovation power and speed of our core businesses. in our focus domains of In this role, it supports all of DSM's businesses through the Excellence in Innovation Program, DSM Venturing, and Nutrition & Health, Climate the IP & Licensing department. In addition, the Chief Technology Officer, acting through the Science & Technology & Energy, and Resources & Department, ensures the quality of the total R&D competence base, including monitoring and ensuring Circularity. ” access to early-stage technologies with disruptive potential Patricia Malarkey, DSM Executive Committee through the Corporate Research Program. Our innovation community also lays the groundwork for future Enabling DSM's Bright Science opportunities by identifying rising stars within the current The ability to deliver innovative products and solutions is innovation pipeline and considering how longer-term, essential to the success of our business and our positive purpose-led innovation projects could offer solutions for impact on society. The Innovation Center plays a central role Nutrition & Health, Climate & Energy, and Resources & in guiding, enabling and accelerating innovation and R&D Circularity. across the company. Full-year 2019 sales were up 13%, with 9% organic growth R&D is instrumental to the realization of our innovation and a 4% contribution from exchange rate effects. strategy. Most of our expenditure in this area is directed to Biomedical reported strong sales growth over the year. Biobusiness-focused programs that underpin our sciencebased Products & Services benefited from the license based, sustainable solutions. income for yeast technologies used for bio-based fuels. Solar was soft due to the challenging Chinese market. The Adjusted EBITDA increased to € 22 million, benefiting from a strong increase in license income at Bio-based Products & Services as well as a good performance of Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 95 www.dsm.com R&D expenditure (including associated IP expenditure) We also continue to recognize, reward and nurture scientific talent. The Bright Science Awards reward excellence in PhD x € million research in areas of particular interest to DSM's strategy. 2019 2018 Winning a Bright Science Award gives PhD graduates not only financial recognition for their achievements, but also Nutrition 218 206 a platform to make a name for themselves in their chosen Materials 124 122 discipline. The program helps participants make the vital Innovation Center 70 67 connection between scientific achievement and Corporate Activities 4 3 commercial and industrial success — an increasingly important consideration. Total 416 398 Total as % of net sales As an innovative, science-based company that seeks a underlying business 4.6 4.51 strong and diverse talent pipeline in the sciences, we are Staff employed in R&D running an ongoing campaign to advocate for more women activities 1,885 1,880 in Science, Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM) professions across the globe. In 2019, we published a 1 Excluding temporary vitamin effect, for further information see table on page progress report in which we explain how DSM is accelerating 65. gender equality and inclusion across our own science & technology workforce — as well as share our vision of what Our toolbox of scientific competences is grouped into seven the world should do to stop women being lost from the areas: analytical, biological, chemical, engineering, STEM talent pipeline. By sharing some of our experiences macromolecular, materials, and nutritional sciences. These and insights gained in recent years from both company seven areas are key to our continued success. The Science initiatives and women and men working at DSM today, via & Technology department ensures that we have the right videos, blogs and debates, we hope to spark a debate and combination of skills, capabilities and partners to deliver encourage the industry to join us. on our competences. In 2019, we celebrated 150 years of fermentation and We have more than 30 laboratories spread across ten biotechnology expertise and innovation at our site in Delft countries, and our science network comprises about 1,900 (Netherlands). To mark the occasion, DSM and the world's internal scientists, including 23 professors and academic first museum of microbes, ARTIS-Micropia, presented a associates, distributed around the globe. These employees unique 'pop-up' experience titled 'Small Life, Big Impact: co-operate with more than 100 universities and external microbes shape our world', which was from September to R&D institutions worldwide, both in public-private December. More than 10,000 people, including some 1,500 partnerships and in academic collaborations such as with school children, visited the experience center to learn about the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) and Delft the crucial role microbes and biotechnology play in University of Technology, see 'Innovation partnerships' on enabling life on earth, as well as in tackling some of the page 99. world's greatest challenges including climate change, resource scarcity, circularity, and enabling healthy nutrition Our collaborative approach increases our scientific scope for a fast-growing global population. Building on the strong and helps us make joint scientific contributions to address foundation of our predecessors, the Royal Dutch Yeast and significant scientific and societal challenges. We participate Spirits Factory and Royal Gist-brocades, our biotechnology in more than 200 academic networks, more than 80 industry competences today remain an essential pillar for networks, and more than 40 public-private partnerships innovation and a driver for growth. Around 20% of our (PPPs) in the fields of Nutrition, Health and Sustainable company's total sales are currently derived from Living. biotechnology. We continue to increase our investments in the digital At DSM, we regularly connect with our international transformation of our R&D capabilities. This includes Scientific Advisory Board. Acting under the supervision of making our collective organizational knowledge more easily the Chief Technology Officer, the Board provides valuable available across the entire R&D organization, using artificial perspectives and insights, challenges and reviews our intelligence, deep learning and modeling, as well as scientific work, and gives advice on trends and upcoming extending lab automation. These investments are disruptive technologies. The Scientific Advisory Board accelerating our core processes, increasing our operational comprises seven internationally recognized experts in the efficiency and improving the speed of our innovation fields of materials, biotechnology and nutrition, drawn from processes and delivery. leading universities in the US and Europe. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 96 www.dsm.com Review of business Innovation Scientific Advisory Board Member Background Frank Bates (m) Regents Professor of Chemical Engineering and Materials Science at the University of Minnesota (USA). His research involves the thermodynamics and dynamics of polymers and polymer mixtures. He has co-authored more than 450 publications and holds more than 25 patents. Nationality: American. Thomas Hankemeier (m) Professor of Analytical Biosciences at the Leiden Academic Centre for Drug Research at Leiden University. Medical Delta Professor of Translational Epidemiology at Erasmus MC, Rotterdam. Co-founder of MIMETAS, the first organ-on-a-chip company. He has co-authored more than 250 publications and holds over 10 patents. Nationality: German. Craig Hawker (m) Director of the California NanoSystems Institute, Dow Materials Institute, Facility Director of the Materials Research Lab and Alan and Ruth Heeger Professor in Interdisciplinary Science at the University of California, Santa Barbara (USA). He has co-authored over 550 scientific papers and holds more than 70 US patents. Nationality: Australian/American. Kirk Klasing (m) Distinguished Professor of Animal Biology in the Department of Animal Science at the University of California, Davis (USA). He is an extensively published expert on poultry nutrition and immunology, with more than 250 peer-reviewed publications, 10 edited books and nine awards to his name for his work in animal biology. Nationality: American. Wolfgang Marquardt (m) Chairman of the Board of Forschungszentrum Jülich (Germany), Vice-President of the Helmholtz Association, and Coordinator of the Research Field Key Technologies. He also co-founded AixCAPE e.V., a technology transfer platform in the field of computer-aided process engineering, and its spin-off S-PACT GmbH. He has more than 350 ISI-listed publications. Nationality: German. Helene McNulty (f) Director of the Nutrition Innovation Centre for Food and Health (NICHE), a center of excellence for nutrition research, and Professor of Human Nutrition and Dietetics, at Ulster University. She is an elected Member of the Royal Irish Academy (since 2008) and Fellow of the International Union of Nutritional Sciences (since 2017). Nationality: Irish. Chris Voigt (m) D.I.C. Wang Professor of Advanced Biotechnology in the Department of Biological Engineering at Massachusetts Institute of Technology (USA). He is the co-director of the Synthetic Biology Center at MIT and the co-founder of the MIT-Broad Foundry. He is also Editor-in-Chief of ACS Synthetic Biology. Nationality: American. DSM Venturing IP & Licensing DSM Venturing invests in innovative companies in areas IP & Licensing is a global group of qualified IP professionals strategically relevant to our current and future businesses. who protect DSM's innovations by securing patents and Every year, we review more than 500 new candidates. In 2019, trademarks. This group also includes certified licensing we made seven new venturing investments, many follow-on professionals who offer expertise for intellectual propertyinvestments, and generated several collaboration leads intensive deals across all DSM businesses, including joint between start-ups and businesses at DSM. By the end of development agreements, technology acquisitions and the year, our portfolio had grown to more than 35 start-ups sales, and in-, outand cross-licensing deals. DSM filed 277 (2018: 30). We completed several exits, including a patents in 2019. This reflects our continued focus on significant financial exit from ingredients company innovation projects with higher potential for business Isobionics, and also supported accelerator programs. impact. Together with DSM Additive Manufacturing and several external partners, the DSM Venturing team led the 'I AM Emerging Business Areas Tomorrow' Challenge for start-ups and scale-ups focused on data analytics, Artificial Intelligence and other advanced Our EBAs provide strong, long-term growth platforms in software solutions for large-scale 3D printing. promising end-markets that are based on the company's core competences. We have three EBAs: For more information on DSM Venturing, see the company website. DSM Biomedical DSM Bio-based Products & Services DSM Advanced Solar Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 97 www.dsm.com DSM Biomedical to-use, fast remodeling, settable and drillable solutions to DSM Biomedical is a trusted partner to the global medical bone fractures. device industry, enhancing the quality and delivery of healthcare, and shaping the future of biomaterials and In 2019, we entered into a partnership with Strait Access regenerative medical devices. Every second, a patient Technologies (SAT), a medical device company focused on somewhere in the world receives a medical device innovations for the heart, to develop the world's first-ever containing a biomedical solution from DSM. durable and cost-effective transcatheter replacement heart valves equipped with polymeric leaflets. For more Key trends shaping the global medical device industry in information, see 'Case studies Innovation' on page 100. 2019 included: DSM Bio-based Products & Services2 The continuing shift toward value-based reimbursement As the world looks for alternatives to fossil resources, there with market success for products that have proven are significant commercial opportunities in biofuels and clinical and health economic outcomes bio-based alternatives to chemical building blocks. DSM The continuing rise in demand for healthcare services Bio-based Products & Services pioneers advances in The continuing increase of merger and acquisition biomass conversion and seeks to demonstrate the activity in the MedTech sector commercial viability of sustainable, renewable technologies Medical Device Regulation (MDR) changes in the EU that in collaboration with strategic partners in the value chain. require companies to comply with growing requests for clinical data as well as technical documentation covering In particular, we have developed patented bioconversion devices technologies (yeast and enzymes) for various feedstocks and processes including starch-based, corn-fiber-based More broadly, the aging of the global population, the and cellulosic conversion for the biofuels industry. We increasing incidence of lifestyle diseases, and the growing deliver unique and differentiating technologies that enable demand for sustained quality of life and need for quality biofuel plant operators to optimize their processes and healthcare services continue to create opportunities for maximize their yield and co-product creation for more DSM Biomedical. sustainable, profitable production of biofuels. Our yeast technology for starch conversion has been demonstrated to Through our investment in research and our state-of-theprovide consistent, increased ethanol yields at commercial art capabilities, we create, develop and produce innovative scale while improving the value of distillers' dried grains materials for our partners, along with components, subwith solubles, an important side stream. assemblies and full medical devices. Our technology portfolio of high-quality, advanced healing solutions Starchand corn-fiber-based biofuel includes biomedical polyurethanes and polyethylenes, Following the 2018 launch of eBOOST™, a proprietary yeast resorbable polymers, bioceramics, collagens, extracellular for corn-ethanol production, we launched two new matrices, device coatings, and cellular therapy platforms. solutions in 2019, eBOOST™ GT and eBREAK™ 1000F, for These are used in applications in some of the world's most starch-based and corn-fiber-based biofuels, respectively. attractive high-growth markets, including orthopedics, soft eBOOST™ GT adds value for starch-based biofuels tissue repair, cardiology, diabetes management, and general producers by reducing the levels of glucoamylase that must and reconstructive surgery. be added to fermentations by up to 60%. eBREAK™ 1000F facilitates high-yield hydrolysis for corn fiber conversion Our collaboration with Aerie Pharmaceuticals progressed and optimizes plant economics. In 2019, we also created significantly in 2019, with the first clinical trial of the recurring income by licensing part of our unique portfolio AR-13503 Sustained Release Implant in patients with of patented technologies. neovascular age-related macular degeneration or diabetic macular edema. Cellulosic bio-ethanol Since 2011, POET-DSM Advanced Biofuels, our joint venture Using our ColossisTM technology, the global medical device with POET, has been a pioneer in the production of company Arthrex launched its new fast-setting synthetic cellulosic biofuels made from corn stover. The joint venture bone void filler, BoneSyncTM 1 calcium phosphate cement recently announced that it will pause the production of in 2019. A key benefit of the BoneSyncTM bone void filler is cellulosic biofuels at Project LIBERTY in Emmetsburg (Iowa, that it sets in 5–8 minutes. It also offers improved handling USA) and shift its focus to R&D. The focus is now on in preparation and delivery and can be mixed with saline, improving mechanical reliability, creating additional blood and bone marrow aspirate, allowing affordable, easytechnological efficiencies and licensing technology in 1 BoneSyncTM is a trademark owned by Arthrex, Inc. 2 DSM's interest in the net result of the joint venture POET-DSM is reported as part of 'Share of the profit of associates and joint ventures'. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 98 www.dsm.com Review of business Innovation countries which favorably support the use of low-carbon information on CanolaPRO®, see 'Case studies Innovation' fuels from crop residue and other biomass. on page 101. DSM Advanced Solar Our partnership with Syngenta for the joint development Solar photovoltaic capacity continues to grow more rapidly of microbials for crop protection agents continued than any other power source, fossil or renewable. DSM successfully in 2019 with the discovery of several Advanced Solar aims to accelerate the uptake and biofungicide leads on major plant diseases. effectiveness of solar energy by focusing on the development and commercialization of technologies and We launched Purpose-Led Innovation, an initiative to help materials that increase the efficiency of solar modules. develop the next innovation platforms for our future Increased efficiency reduces the cost of energy delivered. pipeline. Our efforts focused on Nutrition & Health, Climate & Energy and Resources & Circularity, drawing additional In 2019, we introduced our new Endurance backsheet, which inspiration from major cities such as Singapore, Jakarta offers all-round performance and 100% recyclability (Indonesia), and Lagos (Nigeria). combined with superior durability. In early 2019, this innovative backsheet received the TÜV All Quality Matters Innovation partnerships award, in recognition of its excellent performance in desertlike environments. We have many partnerships that support and accelerate innovation. Highlights include our involvement in MIT.nano, Our strategic alliance with Silfab in conductive backsheets a ground-breaking academic nanotechnology laboratory at progressed well during 2019. The alliance uses back-contact the heart of the MIT campus (Boston, USA). We are engaged technology to produce high-power, aesthetically pleasing with this state-of-the-art facility through common research solar modules for the residential market. We celebrated programs and the exchange of scientists. We joined the PPP the official opening of the 150 MW high-power module Soft Advanced Materials, funded by the Dutch Research production line in Bellingham (Washington State, USA). In Council (NWO). As materials play a pivotal role in addressing October, we reached the milestone of the production of pressing global issues, we continue to focus on finding new, the first 100,000 conductive backsheets. improved materials that are not only lighter, smarter and more affordable, but also 'greener' — supporting the In 2019, we launched Retrofit anti-reflective (AR) coating in transition to a low-carbon, circular economy. Italy and Germany, following a trend to repower existing older solar parks. This spray-on coating, which delivers up Other examples include our ongoing partnership with to 3% extra solar power, is a derivative of our leading AR Syngenta, in which we are developing and commercializing coating, which has been applied to more than 250 million a range of agricultural solutions that are based on naturally solar panels worldwide to date. In this area, we are occurring microorganisms rather than synthetic solutions. partnering with operations & maintenance companies In addition, we started the collaboration with French agroStern Energy and greentech, which have applied this coating industrial group Avril to produce CanolaPRO®, and we have on multiple large utility-scale solar parks. a strategic alliance with Silfab in conductive backsheets for solar panels, as described above. DSM Business Incubator The DSM Business Incubator explores potential future business opportunities in areas with a close link to our technologies and competence base. Platforms are created within the scope of securing society's food, health and energy requirements. This occurs in close collaboration with industry partners and existing and potential customers. The Business Incubator feeds our new product pipeline with opportunities that address previously unmet customer needs. In 2019, we announced a collaboration with the agroindustrial group Avril (France) to produce CanolaPRO®, a unique protein based on non-genetically modified canola. The properties of CanolaPRO® make it ideal for a range of applications including meat and dairy alternatives, beverages, baked products, bars and ready-to-mix. For more Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 99 www.dsm.com New pathways in heart valve disease treatment Professor Peter Zilla CEO & Medical Director Strait Access Technologies (SAT) What is DSM's contribution to this collaboration? develops technologies to treat heart valve diseases. The DSM's R&D capabilities and advanced biomaterials company's focus on the complex expertise have allowed us to produce a ground-breaking requirements for devices suitable for younger patients product with compelling commercial prospects. with rheumatic heart disease (RHD) has delivered breakthrough solutions. These new approaches also How does DSM's technology help SAT meet the necessary promise benefits for older patients with degenerative clinical requirements? heart valve conditions. Professor Peter Zilla, CEO & Medical Director, discusses SAT's collaboration with DSM on Our new heart valves are made with polymeric leaflets innovative replacement heart valves. composed of DSM's CarboSil® Thermoplastic SiliconePolycarbonate-Urethane (TSPCU). CarboSil® TSPCU gives What is the focus of SAT's collaboration with DSM? the valves durability and also dispenses with the need for anticoagulants. Traditional replacement heart valves either Together we are developing affordable, durable and require the patient to take anticoagulants on a daily basis, minimally invasive replacement heart valves. with potentially negative side-effects, or else are of limited durability, especially in the case of younger patients. Why is this important in societal terms? When will SAT's new heart valves be available for patients In 2018, the World Health Organization declared RHD a who need them? global health priority. RHD is a major health concern in emerging economies, affecting similar numbers of people These products are still in the development and testing as HIV. Our products treat RHD — a potentially fatal phase but have already received strong encouragement condition that can develop from lack of access to from non-governmental organizations such as the World antibiotics. Heart Federation. They will be launched on receipt of regulatory approval. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 100 www.dsm.com Review of business Innovation Creating better-tasting, nutritious, plant-based foods The world's growing population calls for a rethinking of vegan foods to improve texture and taste in meat today's food systems if we are to feed everyone healthy alternatives such as vegetarian hamburgers and dairy diets within planetary boundaries. Whether for personal, alternatives, or to enrich the protein levels in lifestyle and health or sustainability reasons, more and more people are wellness products such as shakes and bars. adopting vegan, vegetarian and flexitarian diets. At the same time, consumers have increasing expectations We are working with Avril, a leading producer and processor regarding the taste, quality, and nutritional content of plantof canola, to produce CanolaPRO®. Together, we are making based foods and beverages. a wholly new and sustainable source of plant-based protein available to the food & beverages sector. To meet these demands, food & beverage companies are looking for plant proteins that enable better taste, are Purpose-led highly versatile, offer complete amino acid profiles, and CanolaPRO® helps meet the growing global challenge of meet requirements on topics such as allergenicity and GMO. feeding everyone healthily and within planetary Recognizing this, scientists at DSM have developed an boundaries. It is a sustainably produced, nutritious protein innovative way of making a previously untapped source of that creates, for example, pleasing textures in food products plant protein available at scale. and good mouthfeel in beverages. Our patented process for the production of CanolaPRO® Performance-driven isolates plant protein from what remains of canola CanolaPRO® supports the rapidly growing market for (rapeseed) seeds after these have been pressed to produce vegetarian and vegan products such as meat alternatives vegetable oil, and makes the protein available for human and dairy alternatives, improving sensorial experience in consumption. CanolaPRO® can be added to vegetarian and these products and adding nutritional value. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 101 www.dsm.com Corporate Activities Any consolidated activities that are outside the three Corporate Research reporting clusters are reported as Corporate Activities. The function of the Corporate Research Program (CRP) is to These comprise operating and service activities, as well as develop key Science & Technology competences. Falling a number of costs that cannot be allocated to the clusters. under the responsibility of the Chief Technology Officer, While this segment reports net sales to third parties from the CRP typically funds competence development programs its service units, it normally has a negative operating result. with a longer time horizon than those run by the business groups. It also focuses on competences that have a broader Corporate Activities includes various holding companies, relevance for the company. The CRP additionally supports regional holdings and corporate overheads. The most Science & Technology programs that are carried out with significant cost elements are corporate departments and external parties and programs covering relevant new trends. the share-based compensation for the company. Share-based payments Corporate Activities Executives participate in the Long-Term Incentive (LTI) scheme. This links their compensation to the long-term x € million 20191 2018 interests of our company's stakeholders. It also provides a vehicle for the attraction and retention of suitable Net sales 42 45 employees. As shares / share units have become more prevalent in the market, we replaced stock options with Adjusted EBITDA (97) (105) shares / share units in 2017. This resulted in better Adjusted operating profit (150) (135) alignment with the LTI vehicle already in place for the Capital expenditure 30 26 Managing Board and the Executive Committee. The use of shares / share units also targets yet closer alignment with R&D operating expenditure 4 3 the interests of our stakeholders. As a consequence of this switch, we have reduced our hedge obligations. For detailed Workforce at 31 December information, see Note 27 of the 'Consolidated financial (headcount) 2,087 2,005 statements' on page 223. 1 Including the impact of IFRS 16, see table on page 164. DSM Insurances We retain a limited part of our material damage and business interruption and (product) liability risks via our captive insurance company. In 2019, the total retained damages were € 22.9 million. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 102 www.dsm.com Reporting policies Financial and reporting policies the case of small innovative growth acquisitions, we consider their potential to contribute to these requirements As a basis for, and contribution to, effective risk in the future. management and to ensure that we are able to pursue our strategies, even during periods of economic downturn, DSM Our policies in the finance function are strongly oriented aims to retain a strong balance sheet and limit our financial toward solidity and reliability of reporting, as well as the risks. protection of cash flows. The finance function plays an important role in business steering. Our Strategy 2021: Growth & Value Purpose led, Performance driven has ambitious strategic and financial For detailed information on our tax policies, see 'Taxation targets, which are outlined starting on page 16. Within the at DSM' on the company website. context of this strategy, we aim to maintain a strong investment grade and a strong long-term credit rating. Most of our external funding needs are financed through long-term debt. Debt covenants are not included in the terms and conditions of outstanding bonds and financing arrangements. We aim to spread the maturity profile of outstanding bonds in order to have adequate financial flexibility. An important element of our financial policy is the allocation of cash flow. We primarily allocate cash to investments aimed at strengthening our business positions and securing stable, and preferably rising, dividend payments to our shareholders. Remaining cash flow is used for acquisitions, targeting investments predominantly in Nutrition and in line with our strategy. Share buy-backs will be considered in the absence of value-creating M&A opportunities. We aim to provide a stable, and preferably rising, dividend. Dividends are paid out in cash or in the form of ordinary shares at the option of the shareholders, with a maximum of 40% of the total dividend amount available for stock dividend. In order to cover our commitments under the dividend policy and under management and employee option and share plans, we buy back shares insofar as this is necessary and feasible. We continuously monitor and assess risks arising from currency exposures. It is our policy to hedge 100% of the currency risks resulting from sales and purchases at the moment of recognition of trade receivables and payables. Additionally, we may opt to hedge currency risks from firm commitments and forecast transactions. The currencies giving rise to these risks are primarily the US Dollar, the Swiss Franc and the Chinese Renminbi. We acquire businesses and enter into partnerships that add value in terms of technological or market competences. In addition, these businesses and partnerships are required to contribute to our cash earnings per share, as well as our profitability, sustainability and growth requirements. In Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 103 www.dsm.com Non-financial reporting policy comprehensive indicators, including a reference to relevant sections in this Report, is provided on our company's Reporting policy and justification of choices made Integrated Annual Report website. In this Report, we report for the calendar year 2019. The company reports on People, Planet and Profit information Integrated Reporting Framework in such a Report on an annual basis. The previous DSM We align with the recommendations of the International Integrated Annual Report was published on 7 March 2019. Integrated Reporting Council <IR> Framework where possible. The intention of the <IR> Framework is to provide In the Report by the Managing Board, we explain our vision additional guiding principles and content elements for an and policy with respect to sustainability practices and integrated report. Aligning with the framework allows us to report on our activities in this field during 2019. In addition better identify and communicate how the company creates to disclosing data and developments in the categories of value for stakeholders in People, Planet and Profit, as well People, Planet and Profit, we also report on the global as the interconnection between these three dimensions. societal megatrends that drive our strategy, sustainability governance framework, stakeholder engagement activities, The Taskforce on Climate-related Financial Disclosures and management approach on material topics. We The recommendations from the Taskforce on Climateproactively seek out the views of key stakeholders on issues related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) are a set of voluntary, of material importance to the company. climate-related financial disclosures for use by companies to provide information to their stakeholders. DSM was UN Global Compact among the first companies in 2017 to commit to We have been a signatory to the UN Global Compact since implementing, as fully as practicable, these 2007 and commits to annually report on progress in recommendations over the following three years as implementing the UN Global Compact's 10 Principles in outlined in the TCFD's implementation path. This Report the areas of human rights, child and forced labor, the contains our second TCFD relevant disclosures on environment and anti-corruption. This Report is our Governance, Strategy, Risk Management, and Metrics and Communication on Progress 2019, submitted to the UN Targets. For more information on how we report against Global Compact Office. Our Code of Business Conduct, our the TCFD recommendations, see the 'Sustainability Sustainability, Human Resources, and Safety, Health and statements — TCFD' on page 162. Environment (SHE) policies, and our Supplier Sustainability Program are the foundations on which we apply the Selection of topics standards of the Global Compact. The topics covered in this Report were selected on the basis of input from internal and external stakeholders and the We have also aligned our strategy with the Sustainable related materiality analysis, which assessed the relevance Development Goals (SDGs). We are familiar with the and impact of selected topics for our company and various opportunities and responsibilities that the SDGs represent stakeholders. On the basis of the principle of materiality for our business. Based on our mapping, we believe that we (using the GRI Standards), we distinguish between topics contribute to all of them, and have chosen to focus on the whose importance warrants publication in this Report goals which most closely align with our strategic ambitions. (relevant to both DSM and stakeholders), and topics whose In this Report, we continue to include the SDGs into our importance warrants publication on the company website reporting process, for example by mapping SDG reporting only (topics important to either DSM or stakeholders). We priorities in our value creation model, our material topics, report on 'External recognitions' on page 38 in and the solutions that we highlight. 'Stakeholders'. Other examples of external recognition can be found on the company website. Global Reporting Initiative At DSM, we base our sustainability reporting on Scope international non-financial reporting guidelines. We The People and Brighter Living Solutions data in this Report frequently assess to what extent sustainability aspects cover all entities that belong to the scope of the become material to our company and our stakeholders. In Consolidated financial statements, provided that DSM also case specific indicators become relevant to the company's has operational control. As such, three small units have sustainability performance, appropriate actions are taken been excluded from the scope. Planet reporting covers that allow the necessary data to be collected so as to be manufacturing units where commercial production by DSM able to disclose progress in the future. occurs. This Report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Comprehensive option. A detailed overview of how we report according to the GRI Standards Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 104 www.dsm.com Reporting policies Non-financial reporting policy Acquisitions and divestments People methodology The People data for newly acquired companies are reported People data are collected per business group and from the first full month after the acquisition date. The consolidated at corporate level. Safety, Health (People), Environment (Planet) and Brighter Living Solutions data for newly acquired companies are Brighter Living Solutions reported at the latest in the year following the first full year For a definition of Brighter Living Solutions, see the Planet after acquisition, because these companies' reporting section in 'Explanation of some concepts and ratios' on procedures first have to be aligned with those of DSM. In page 249. We report twice a year the percentage of Brighter the case of divestments, safety data are consolidated until Living Solutions within the running business portfolio. the moment of divestment, People data to the end of the month of divestment, and Planet data are reported to the The sustainability assessments to support the qualification last full year at DSM. for Brighter Living Solutions are required to be made by internal Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) experts and reviewed Planet methodology using the four-eyes principle with at least one internal, Our progress on the key environmental performance independent senior LCA consultant. The financial data are indicators is re-evaluated annually. Data on these indicators validated with the Corporate Sustainability department and are collected twice a year for all DSM sites. The data are consolidated as DSM Brighter Living Solutions KPI based on these sites' own measurements and calculations, performance and reviewed by Group Control & Accounting. which in turn are founded on definitions, methods and procedures established at corporate level. The site managers of reporting units are responsible for the quality of the data. Data are collected using measurements and calculations in the production processes, information from external parties (e.g., on waste and external energy) and estimates based on expert knowledge. Reporting units have direct insight into their performance compared to previous years and are required to provide justifications for any deviations above the threshold. For most parameters, the threshold is set at 10%. The year-onyear comparability of the data can be affected by changes in our portfolio as well as by improvements to measurement and recording systems at the various sites. Whenever impact is relevant, this is stated in the Report. Details for the regions, as well as the methodology and calculations, are published on the company website, together with an explanation of the definitions used. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 105 www.dsm.com Corporate governance and risk management Introduction The Managing Board is ultimately responsible for our company's strategy, portfolio management, the deployment Koninklijke DSM N.V. (Royal DSM) is a company limited by of human capital and financial capital resources, the risk shares listed on Euronext Amsterdam. It is managed by a management system, financial performance, and Managing Board together with an Executive Committee and performance in the area of sustainability. The Managing an independent Supervisory Board. Members of the Board is thus also accountable to the Supervisory Board for Managing Board and the Supervisory Board are appointed our strategy and management. Notwithstanding that (and, if necessary, dismissed) by the General Meeting of accountability, the full Executive Committee attends the Shareholders. Supervisory Board meetings. The company is governed by Dutch law and by its Articles The Managing Board consists of two or more members, to of Association, which can be consulted on the company be determined by the Supervisory Board. The current website. The General Meeting of Shareholders decides on composition of the Managing Board can be found in the any amendment to the Articles of Association by an chapter 'Supervisory Board and Managing Board Royal absolute majority of the votes cast. A decision to amend DSM'. Since the introduction of the Dutch Corporate the Articles of Association may only be taken at the proposal Governance Code in 2004, members of the Managing Board of the Managing Board, subject to the approval of the have been appointed for a period of four years. Supervisory Board. The members of the Managing Board are collectively At DSM, we fully inform our stakeholders about our responsible for the management of DSM. In addition to this corporate objectives, the way our company is managed, and collective responsibility, Managing Board members have our company's performance. In doing so, we aim to pursue individual responsibility for certain tasks, business clusters, an open dialogue with our shareholders and other functional areas and regions. The distribution of these tasks stakeholders. is published on the company website. Our company has an organizational structure built around The remuneration of Managing Board members is business groups that are empowered to perform all shortdetermined by the Supervisory Board based on the and long-term business functions. In this they are assisted remuneration policy approved by the General Meeting of by support and corporate functions, as well as by regional Shareholders. The remuneration policy for the Managing organizations. Board can be found on the company website. Managing Board and Executive Committee The functioning of and decision-making within the The Executive Committee was installed to enable faster Managing Board and the Executive Committee are governed strategic alignment and operational execution by increasing by the Regulations of the Managing Board, which are in our focus on the development of our business, innovation accordance with the Dutch Corporate Governance Code and and people. can be found on the company website. The Executive Committee comprises the Managing Board In 2019, the Managing Board and Executive Committee had members as well as four senior executives with 45 formal meetings, some of these by teleconference. No responsibility respectively for DSM Nutritional Products Managing Board member had to be excused from meetings (Chris Goppelsroeder), DSM Food Specialties and Corporate during the year. One Executive Committee member was Strategy & Acquisitions (Philip Eykerman), the DSM excused once on account of another commitment and in Innovation Center (Patricia Malarkey), and Group People & this case the Executive Committee member gave advance Organization (Judith Wiese). The latter four people are input. The Executive Committee and Managing Board take appointed by the Chairman of the Managing Board after the time for an evaluation at the end of every meeting they consultation with the Supervisory Board. The Executive have. This evaluation can be about topics that have been Committee focuses on topics such as our company's overall discussed during that meeting, but may also reflect on strategy and direction, review of business results, functional meeting dynamics and individual or collective performance. and regional strategies, budget-setting, and people and Furthermore, there are several informal moments, such as organization. The statutory responsibilities of the Managing a collective dinner at the end of a full-day meeting, built Board remain unchanged. into the meeting schedule. Once a year, the Executive Committee and Managing Board take the time to get together and discuss their performance as a team. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 106 www.dsm.com Corporate governance and risk management Introduction Supervisory Board Diversity The Supervisory Board comprises at least five members. Its At DSM, we strongly value diversity, and we endeavor to current composition can be found in the chapter reflect this in our Board memberships. The Supervisory 'Supervisory Board and Managing Board Royal DSM' on page Board has drafted diversity policies for the Supervisory 142. Supervisory Board members are appointed for a period Board, the Managing Board and the Executive Committee. of four years, after which they may be reappointed for a These policies seek a balanced composition of the further four years. A Supervisory Board member may respective body, taking into account gender, age, knowledge, subsequently be reappointed for a period of two years, and experience, and nationality / cultural background. In this appointment may be extended by at most two years. addition, for the composition of the Supervisory Board, For reappointments after an eight-year period, reasons the board tenure is taken into account. must be provided in the report of the Supervisory Board. In terms of gender diversity, we aim for at least 30% of the All current members of the Supervisory Board are positions in our Supervisory Board, Managing Board and independent in accordance with the Dutch Corporate Executive Committee to be held by women and at least 30% Governance Code. The remuneration of Supervisory Board by men — percentages which reflect Dutch legislation. To members is determined by the General Meeting of ensure a balanced composition in terms of nationality / Shareholders. The functioning of and decision-making cultural background, our aim is not to have more than 50% within the Supervisory Board are governed by the of the members of our Supervisory Board or Executive Regulations of the Supervisory Board, which are in Committee drawn from a single nationality. While a diverse accordance with the Dutch Corporate Governance Code and composition in terms of nationality / cultural background can be found on the company website. is also taken into account in the composition of the Managing Board, no quantitative target is set here, given The Supervisory Board supervises the policy pursued by the relatively small number of Managing Board members. the Managing Board, the Managing Board's performance of its managerial duties, and the company's general course Our diversity policies are implemented by applying them to of affairs, taking the interests of all the company's nominations for (re)appointments of Supervisory Board stakeholders into account. When the Executive Committee and Managing Board members as well as to appointments was established, the Supervisory Board also took on of Executive Committee members. At the 2019 Annual responsibility for ensuring that the checks and balances General Meeting, Pauline van der Meer Mohr was that are part of the two-tier system are still given due reappointed on the basis of her broad experience in human consideration, paying specific attention to the dynamics resources management, corporate governance and between Managing Board and Executive Committee. The international business and her extensive experience and Supervisory Board is enabled to do so through the qualities as a Supervisory Board member — as information provided by the Managing Board. demonstrated during her tenure as a member of the Supervisory Board and most recently as its Deputy Chair. The annual financial statements are approved by the Erica Mann was appointed as member of the Supervisory Supervisory Board and then submitted to the Annual Board on the basis of her long experience in (infant) General Meeting of Shareholders (AGM) for adoption, nutrition, consumer-packaged goods (CPG) / fast-moving accompanied by an explanation from the Supervisory Board consumer goods (FMCG) and pharma in science-based as to how it carried out its supervisory duties during the businesses, as well as her international experience, year under review. including her experience with emerging markets. In line with the Dutch Corporate Governance Code, the Both our Supervisory Board and our Managing Board were Supervisory Board has established from among its well balanced in 2019 in terms of gender, comprising 50% members an Audit Committee, a Nomination Committee and 33% women respectively, which is in line with Dutch and a Remuneration Committee, besides which there is also legislation and with the company's own diversity policy. a Sustainability Committee. The gender diversity levels of 50% women within our Supervisory Board and 43% women within our Executive The task of these committees is to prepare the decisionCommittee exceed our target for at least 30% of these making of the Supervisory Board. These committees are positions to be held by women and at least 30% by men. As governed by charters drawn up in line with the Dutch of 15 February 2020, the percentage of women in our Corporate Governance Code. They can be found on the Executive Committee, Managing Board and Supervisory company website. Board is 50%. Furthermore, in the Supervisory Board of DSM Nederland B.V., a subsidiary of Royal DSM, one of the three members is female (33%). Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 107 www.dsm.com The composition of both our Supervisory Board and our The AGM and, if necessary, other General Meetings of Executive Committee are in line with our target of not having Shareholders are called by the Managing Board or the more than 50% of the members drawn from a single Supervisory Board. The agenda and explanatory notes are nationality. published on the company website. General Meeting of Shareholders According to the Articles of Association, shareholders who, The main powers of the General Meeting of Shareholders individually or jointly, represent at least 1% of the issued relate to: capital have the right to request the Managing Board or the Supervisory Board to put items on the agenda. Such The appointment, suspension and dismissal of members requests need to be received in writing by the Chairman of the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board of the Managing Board or the Chair of the Supervisory Board Approval of the remuneration policy of the Managing at least 60 days before the date of the General Meeting of Board Shareholders. Approval of the remuneration of the Supervisory Board The adoption of the annual financial statements and The AGM was held on 8 May 2019. The agenda was essentially declaration of dividends on ordinary shares similar to that of previous years. Additional topics were Release from liability of the members of the Managing the proposed amendment of the remuneration policy for Board and the Supervisory Board the Managing Board, the remuneration policy for the Issuance of shares or rights to shares, restriction or Supervisory Board, the reappointment of Pauline van der exclusion of pre-emptive rights of shareholders and Meer Mohr as a member of the Supervisory Board and the repurchase or cancellation of shares appointment of Erica Mann as a member of the Supervisory Amendments to the Articles of Association Board. All topics were adopted by the General Meeting of Decisions of the Managing Board that would entail a Shareholders. significant change to the identity or character of DSM or its business Control effectiveness and continuity assumption The Annual General Meeting (AGM) is held within six months The Statements of the Managing Board are reported on page of the end of the financial year in order to discuss and, if 121. These conform with the Dutch Corporate Governance applicable, adopt the Annual Report, the annual accounts, Code best practice 1.4.3 on 'Board Statements'. any appointments of members of the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board, and any of the other topics mentioned above. Continuously Managing Board’s impacting ‘in control’ statement Top-down guided Corporate Management Internal Representation Operational Corporate Creating upward Risk reporting & Control letter compliance Operational transparency Management corporate Framework Audit control Internal environment Risk assessment COSO-ERM elements Control activities Information & communication Monitoring Control Effectiveness and Continuity Assumption Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 108 www.dsm.com Corporate governance and risk management Dutch Corporate Governance Code At DSM, we visualize our control environment as a 'house' The Dutch Corporate Governance Code can be found on that includes the internal control process areas with control www.mccg.nl. measures related to strategic, operational, compliance and reporting risks. The elements of COSO (the Committee of Long-term value creation is embedded in both our company Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission) Strategy 2021: Growth & Value Purpose led, Performance provide a framework for identifying company activities that driven and our company culture: Our purpose is to create are carried out to ensure that the control environment is brighter lives for all. Sustainability is central to how we fulfill adequately structured. Finally, to make sure that full use is that mission, and to achieve this, we consider People, Planet made of learning opportunities, monitoring activities and Profit in all we do. We apply our company strategy to include the sharing of findings and experiences as well as drive our business and innovation strategies, which address the application of control measures across the supporting the challenges of Nutrition & Health, Climate & Energy, and pillars. Resources & Circularity. More information on how long-term value creation is fundamental to our strategy and culture DSM's structure for managing risks involves three lines of can be found in the Strategy 2021 and People sections of defense (see also 'Risk management' on page 116). Line this Report, as well as in 'How we create value for our management within the units is responsible for the first line stakeholders' on page 30 and in 'DSM and the Sustainable of defense. Risk management forms the second line of Development Goals' on page 8. defense, assessing the effectiveness of risk management and internal control at both unit and corporate level. Regarding the appointment of members of the Managing Corporate Operational Audit (COA) is the third line of Board for a period of at most four years (Principle 2.2 of defense. The scope and frequency of COA audits is the Dutch Corporate Governance Code), it should be noted determined by ranking the auditable units according to that we have adhered to this principle since the the scale of their risk exposure, using a set of defined introduction of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code in characteristics. 2004. Since we respect agreements made before the introduction of the said code, the Chairman of the Managing COA assesses the operation of risk management activities Board in 2019 was still appointed for an indefinite period. by the units, as well as the design of the risk management On 2 December 2019, it was announced that Feike Sijbesma and internal control systems, by performing risk-based would hand over to Geraldine Matchett and Dimitri de audits. These examine the key processes and activities for Vreeze on 15 February 2020. As a result of this handover, the specific units. By means of these audits, COA closes the indefinite period of tenure is no longer applicable. the risk management cycle and provides additional assurance to the Managing Board as to the effectiveness Any proposed substantial change to our corporate of the design and operation of the risk management and governance structure and compliance with the Dutch internal control systems. Corporate Governance Code should be submitted to the General Meeting of Shareholders for discussion under a COA reports its audit results to the Managing Board and separate agenda item. Executive Committee twice a year. COA also shares an overview with the Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board All documents related to the implementation of the Dutch and communicates the executive summary of each audit Corporate Governance Code at DSM can be found in the report to the CFO and CEO. 'Corporate Governance' section of the company website. In 2019, COA carried out 50 audits. In general, audit findings Governance framework are considered opportunities for improvement as part of a healthy learning culture. In approximately 7% of the audited Organizational & operating model areas (e.g., operations, finance, SHE, commercial) significant Our business groups are the main building-blocks of the management attention was required to achieve the DSM company's organization. They have integral long-term and standard. In the rare event of insufficient follow-up on a short-term responsibility for business and have at their finding, the Director of COA escalates that finding to the CEO. disposal all functions that are crucial to their business success. As the company's primary organizational and Dutch Corporate Governance Code entrepreneurial building-blocks, our business groups focus on four primary business functions: Innovation and R&D, DSM supports the Dutch Corporate Governance Code, which Direct Sourcing, Manufacturing & Operations, and Marketing was most recently amended in 2016 and has been in force & Sales. Intra-company product supplies are contracted by since the financial year 2017. We ensure our continued the business groups on an arm's-length basis. compliance with the Dutch Corporate Governance Code. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 109 www.dsm.com The business groups are organized into clusters, thus Governance framework ensuring coherence of operations and the leveraging of The following figure depicts our company's overall resources within each cluster. The clusters are the main governance framework and the most important governance organizational entities for external strategic and financial elements and regulations at each level. reporting. This structure ensures flexibility, efficiency and speed of response to market changes. In order to ensure sufficient independence regarding financial management, Shareholders Articles of the CFO has no business groups reporting to her. Association Our business groups receive services from global support • Regulations of the Supervisory Board functions and functional excellence departments and are Supervisory • Charter of the Audit Committee supported by the regional organizations. This set-up Board • Charter of the Nomination Committee • Charter of the Remuneration Committee enables us to create a global, high-performing organization • Charter of the Sustainability Committee focused on meeting its targets and achieving its ambitions. The support functions and functional excellence departments are paid for their services by the users — the • Regulations of the Managing Board Managing Board / • Management Framework for the business groups and, to a lesser extent, other DSM units. Corporate corporate level Corporate departments are paid from a corporate budget. • DSM Code of Business Conduct Support functions provide those services that can be Operational Management Framework for delivered more efficiently (in terms of total cost of units operational units ownership) by leveraging them across the company, thus capturing scale benefits and delivering higher quality at lower cost, rather than having them arranged in each For the sake of clarity, a short summary of the main aspects business group separately. of the framework at Managing Board / corporate level and operational level is given here. The Managing Board and Within support functions, centers of expertise provide Executive Committee adhere to the Regulations of the specialist support, while shared service centers provide Managing Board. The Managing Board and Executive standard transactional support. Business partnering is the Committee work according to the Management Framework concept that acts as the interface between the business for the corporate level. This implies, among other things, groups and the support functions. Business partners that they adhere to the DSM Code of Business Conduct and consequently have a second reporting line in the business. applicable corporate policies and requirements. The In order to ensure that the functional policies sufficiently Management Framework for the corporate level further reflect regional requirements, the support functions work provides a description of the most important (decisionclosely with the regional organizations and integrate their making) processes, responsibilities and 'rules of the game' advice. at Managing Board, Executive Committee, functional and regional levels, and includes governance relations with Each support function reports to a Managing Board member. the immediately superior levels (Supervisory Board and There are support functions in the areas of Finance, People shareholders) and the operational units. & Organization, Legal, Indirect Sourcing, Communications and ICT. The company's strategic direction and objectives are set by means of a Corporate Strategy Dialogue. In June 2018, DSM Corporate functions (small, high-level groups) supporting presented its updated Strategy 2021: Growth & Value the Managing Board and Executive Committee are also seen Purpose led, Performance driven, which is described in more as support functions. The corporate departments are: detail on page 16. Corporate Strategy & Acquisitions, Corporate Operational Audit, Group Risk Management, Corporate Sustainability, The operational units conduct their business within the Corporate Investor Relations and Corporate Affairs. parameters of the Management Framework for operational units. This implies, among other things, that they: Functional excellence departments are mandated by the Managing Board to help the businesses achieve excellence Comply with the DSM Code of Business Conduct, in their respective fields. They cover the areas of Operations Corporate Requirements and Directives & Responsible Care, Marketing & Sales and Science & Establish the strategy, objectives and operational targets Technology. Functional excellence departments support our of their business according to the Business Strategy businesses in improving their performance. They also Dialogue, in alignment with the Corporate Strategy provide guidance in setting aspiration levels and targets. Dialogue, in which various scenarios and related risk Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 110 www.dsm.com Corporate governance and risk management Governance framework profiles are investigated, and report on the achievement Forum, and our nutrition-related initiatives, including the of these WFP partnership. Within the climate action agenda, he was Implement risk management actions according to an responsible for our product portfolio impact measurement Annual Risk Management Plan and in line with corporate upgrade and climate advocacy efforts, and for upgrading policies our emissions reduction targets together with Dimitri de Execute company-wide standards for support functions Vreeze. (systems, processes, vendors, etc.) Implement annual functional improvement plans, Our CFO, Geraldine Matchett, integrated sustainability into monitor the effectiveness of the risk management and financial decision-making and represented DSM in the internal control system by means of process risk Accounting for Sustainability (A4S) CFO Leadership Network. assessments and internal audits, and regularly discuss She also oversaw our efforts and commitment toward the the findings with the Executive Committee member Taskforce for Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) responsible recommendations, and chaired the Inclusion & Diversity Council. Within the climate action agenda, she was Independent audits for all operational units are conducted responsible for integrating climate risks into our risk by the Corporate Operational Audit (COA) department. The management process, TCFD, carbon pricing and developing Director of COA reports to the CFO and has access to the our engagement with climate-focused investors. Chairman of the Managing Board, the external auditor and the Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board. Furthermore, Mr. de Vreeze was responsible for Safety, Health and the Director of COA acts as the compliance officer regarding Environment (SHE) and also oversaw our Sustainable inside information and is also the secretary of the Procurement Program and the sourcing of electricity from Disclosure Committee, as well as being chair of the DSM renewable sources in his responsibility for the Sourcing Alert Committee, which is responsible for our whistleblower function. Within the climate action agenda, he was policy, systems and processes. responsible for upgrading our emissions reduction targets in line with a 1.5°C ambition together with Mr. Sijbesma. Chaired by the CFO, the Disclosure Committee ensures the timely and accurate disclosure of share-price-sensitive Supervisory Board information related to the company and is responsible for Our Supervisory Board has its own Sustainability Committee the implementation of company rules on the holding and to oversee progress against targets and to report on the execution of transactions in the company's financial embedding of sustainability across the organization. For instruments, among other things. more details, see 'Supervisory Board Report' on page 123. A third committee at corporate level is the Fraud Committee, External Sustainability Advisory Board which was installed to ensure structural follow-up of fraud Comprising a diverse international group of thought cases with the aim of reducing fraud exposure. Relevant leaders, DSM's Sustainability Advisory Board acts as a corporate functions participate in the Fraud Committee, sparring partner for the Managing Board and senior which is chaired by the CFO. executives, to help sharpen their focus on strategic issues, deepen their understanding of external stakeholder needs, Sustainability Governance Framework conduct advocacy and handle dilemmas. This board met Managing Board once in 2019 together with the Managing Board and a Sustainability falls under the responsibility of the Managing number of senior executives. Subjects addressed included Board. While CEO/Chairman of the Managing Board Feike business updates, climate change and market disruption, Sijbesma is the primary point of contact, other members carbon avoidance or capture, and Purpose-led Innovation. also chair sustainability topics and initiatives. In addition, The board also participated as table hosts during our multithe specific actions in our climate action agenda are owned stakeholder event 'It's no longer business as usual', held at by members of the Managing Board and Executive the New York Public Library (New York, USA) exploring the Committee. role of business in society, adjacent to the UN General Assembly and the Climate Action Summit. There were no In 2019, Mr. Sijbesma oversaw sustainability as a key changes to the composition of this board in 2019. The board responsibility and company value as well as a driver of maintains a good balance of knowledge across our three business growth. He also oversaw our engagement with focus domains and a diverse composition in terms of organizations including the United Nations and the World gender and nationality. Bank, our strategic partnership with the World Economic Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 111 www.dsm.com Sustainability Advisory Board Member Background Robin Chase (f) Co-founder and former CEO of Zipcar, co-founder of Veniam and the New Urban Mobility Alliance, board member of the World Resources Institute, and Tucows, and serves as an informal advisor to many cities, national governments, and transport agencies on the transition to shared automated vehicles. Nationality: American. Ertharin Cousin (f) Distinguished Fellow with The Chicago Council on Global Affairs, visiting scholar at Stanford University and Trustee on the UK based Power of Nutrition Board of Directors. She served as the twelfth Executive Director of the United Nations World Food Programme from 2012 to 2017. Nationality: American. Paul Gilding (m) Social entrepreneur, author and corporate strategy advisor. Fellow at the University of Cambridge Institute for Sustainability Leadership (UK). Author of The Great Disruption (Bloomsbury, London, 2011). Executive director of Greenpeace International during the 1990s. Nationality: Australian. David King (m) Senior Strategic Adviser to the President of Rwanda since May 2018. Partner at SYSTEMIQ since 2017. Special representative for climate change of the UK government from 2013 to 2017. From 2008 to 2012, served as the founding director of the Smith School of Enterprise and the Environment at the University of Oxford (UK). Chief Scientific Advisor to the UK government 2000–2007. Nationality: British. Ndidi Nwuneli (f) Social entrepreneur and Founder of LEAP Africa and co-founder of AACE Food Processing & Distribution Ltd. (AACE Foods), an indigenous agro-processing company in Nigeria. She is also the managing partner of Sahel Consulting Agriculture & Nutrition, which works across Africa, transforming the nutrition and agriculture landscapes, via innovative ecosystem solutions. Nationality: Nigerian. Ye Qi (m) Director of the Institute for Public Policy at Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, and Cheung Kong Professor of Environmental Policy at Tsinghua University in Beijing (China). Before joining Tsinghua, he taught at Beijing Normal University, and the University of California at Berkeley (California, USA). Nationality: American. Global network DSM Operations & Responsible Care has responsibility for At a corporate level, sustainability is steered by our all corporate issues related to SHE. The Senior Vice Sustainability Leadership Team, a group of senior President DSM Operations & Responsible Care reports executives representing the business groups and directly to the Managing Board. SHE managers provide contributing corporate functions, which is chaired by the support at business group level. Our SHE Council, which Vice President Sustainability. He leads the Corporate includes all business group SHE managers, is instrumental Sustainability department and reports directly to Mr. in sharing experiences and developing best practices and Sijbesma. The Corporate Sustainability staff function as a communications on SHE issues. business-oriented center of excellence and partner on sustainability, internally and externally. Ms. Matchett has appointed a finance executive to lead a taskforce addressing the recommendations of the Taskforce The Sustainability Leadership Team meets quarterly to on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). The monitor the progress of sustainability across the company, taskforce, comprising representatives from finance, risk with particular emphasis on steering our business and management, sustainability, and investor relations, works innovation portfolio in relation to key drivers. Regional with functions such as strategy, operations and operational sustainability networks are in place in China, procurement, to define what is needed to meet our TCFD India, Latin America and North America. commitments. This Taskforce convened in 2019 to define our approach to scenario analysis. It considered distinct approaches for physical and transition risks, as well as how we can further integrate climate-related risks into the risk management process. For more information, see 'Sustainability statements — TCFD' on page 162. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 112 www.dsm.com Corporate governance and risk management DSM Code of Business Conduct DSM Code of Business Conduct The DSM Code of Business Conduct ('the Code') serves as an umbrella for several other DSM regulations and forms the basis for our company's ethical business behavior. Our purpose, core values, ways of working and business principles are an integral part of the Code. The business principles translate our purpose into important do's and don'ts to guide our business operations in daily practice. All DSM employees are expected to follow the Code, which is available in seven languages. The full text also appears on the company website. The Managing Board holds DSM's unit management accountable for compliance. DSM Code of Business Conduct and values training program Our purpose Code of Business Conduct: 17 principles Certification via e-learning for: Code of Life Saving Security & Responsible Respectful All employees Business Rules Cyber Fraud Care Behavior Conduct Specific target Competition Trade Anti-Bribery Data Privacy audiences Law Controls & Corruption Training and awareness incidents. In the revision of the Life Saving Rules, improved standards for warehouse safety and hot work have been The DSM values training program contains several included. The corresponding e-learning course was e-learning courses to explain the Code and a number of its completely revised and relaunched in 2019. business principles in more detail. These courses are aimed at raising awareness for ethical business behavior and are The Unlawful Harassment Prevention e-learning was assigned to all employees or, for certain subject matter, to succeeded by the new Respectful Behavior e-learning in specific target audiences. When DSM acquires a business, 2019. This course emphasizes the importance of diversity integration and compliance plans are rolled out to make and inclusiveness, and promotes respectful behavior as sure new employees are trained. well as active bystander behavior to foster effective employee relations, communications, and nonA review team, chaired by the Vice President Group Risk discriminatory practices. The course is available in seven Management, monitors the internal and external languages and is mandatory for all our employees. The developments around corporate ethics to promote and Unlawful Harassment Prevention e-learning remains safeguard the company's values and reputation. The review available for specific target groups. team also monitors implementation of the DSM values training program (see table Implementation of the DSM The DSM Privacy Codes prescribe mandatory training for values below). At year-end, most employees had completed Privacy Officers, P&O employees, legal counsels and or refreshed their training (excluding employees of some employees who regularly work with personal data. This is recently acquired businesses). Our learning management provided in the Data Privacy Knowledge course, which is system also has an external portal to enable relevant available in English. In addition to this, concise e-learnings contractors and other third parties to follow courses of are in place to train all our employees on the consequences the DSM values training program. of the new European General Data Protection Regulation. These short courses are available in seven languages. The DSM values training program covers the three dimensions of People, Planet and Profit. An overview of Planet the courses and the changes in 2019 is listed here, as well The Basic Course Responsible Care addresses the elements as a number of important implementation measures. of the Responsible Care Program: Safety, Health, and Environment; Product Stewardship; Security; and People Sustainability. The course is available in seven languages. The Life Saving Rules specify the 12 most important rules that must be followed by all employees to prevent Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 113 www.dsm.com Profit Planet and Profit. The Supplier Code of Conduct, available The course for Global Competition Law Principles and in eight languages on the company website, is signed off by Practices addresses the main principles of anti-trust suppliers in framework contracts, confirming their legislation and is available in six languages. Employees for commitment to sustainability, among other things. whom competition laws are most relevant must also follow the Competition Law classroom training (available in six For our distributor and agent framework contracts, the ABC languages) and annually confirm their compliance with Policy is translated into terms and conditions to ensure the rules via a Competition Law Compliance Statement. In ethical business conduct when these parties act on behalf this statement, they confirm that they are not aware of any of DSM or deal with DSM products further down the value violation of competition laws by DSM. Alleged breaches are chain. reported to, and discussed with, Group Legal Affairs. In 2019, no breaches were reported. Consequence management The course for Global Trade Controls (available in English) We apply zero-tolerance consequence management to explains the most important aspects of international trade violations of the Code. Under our whistleblower procedure legislation. Compliance with trade controls is embedded (DSM Alert), most (potential) violations are reported to and in our systems and processes. Company master data is dealt with by local line management. Where this is not screened to check customers and suppliers against considered appropriate, complaints are made directly to embargoes and lists of sanctioned parties. the DSM Alert Officer. In both cases, consequence management practices (e.g., official warning, temporary The DSM Anti-Bribery and Corruption (ABC) e-learning suspension, dismissal) are in place for substantiated provides training on the most important features of bribery violations to support compliance with the Code. The DSM and corrupt behavior and is available in six languages. In Alert Officer reports to the Managing Board and also reports addition, the DSM ABC Policy and Compliance Manual independently to the Audit Committee of the Supervisory (available in English and Chinese) is shared with selected Board twice a year. Any individual not employed by DSM who employees in commercial and business roles, who must might wish to voice a concern regarding violations of the also follow ABC classroom training (integrated into the Code may also contact the DSM Alert Officer via the Competition Law classroom program, available in six company website. languages). The ABC due diligence program for DSM agents and distributors was further implemented during 2019. In 2019, 26 Alert cases (reports of potential violations of the Code) were received by the DSM Alert Officer, two of The Security e-learning covers our seven Key Security which were reported by an external party. This is at the same Behaviors. To complete this e-learning, employees are level as in previous years. Three of these were potential required to read and sign off on the DSM Code of Conduct bribery and corruption cases. After investigation, two Alert for Information Security. The Cyber Fraud Awareness cases were substantiated and consequence management e-learning, introduced in 2018, is an additional training to was applied. increase awareness among all employees regarding prevalent types of cybercrime. Both courses are available The table below gives an overview of all reported in seven languages. Furthermore, phishing tests are substantiated violations of the Code (including Alert cases), regularly carried out to ensure that our people stay alert. with a breakdown by Triple P dimension and region. Proven violations result in dismissal or other forms of consequence We also have rules to prevent misuse of inside information management. In line with this policy, 42 employees were on the holding of or trading in DSM financial instruments, dismissed in 2019 because of breaches of the Code, legal or such as shares and other securities, and where applicable local company regulations. In addition, 119 employees the holding of or trading in financial instruments of other received another form of consequence management companies. These rules apply to all relevant employees, (official warning or suspension). Over the years, the number including the Executive Committee, the Managing Board, of dismissal cases has remained about the same, whereas and the Supervisory Board. A new system was implemented there is an increase of other kinds of consequence in 2019, that enables us to secure compliance with Market management cases being reported. Abuse Regulations in a more efficient way. People: Most of the cases in the People dimension relate to Value chain violations of the Life Saving Rules. Inappropriate behavior that does not contribute to a safe and healthy working The business principles most relevant to our supply chain environment (discrimination, sexual and other kinds of are brought together in the Supplier Code of Conduct and harassment) is also reported in this dimension. Health and are also structured along the three dimensions of People, Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 114 www.dsm.com Corporate governance and risk management DSM Code of Business Conduct safety are priorities for the company and incident-reporting Profit: Most of the cases in the Profit dimension relate to channels are well known. fraudulent expense claims and incorrect registration of working hours. Planet: There were three violations of the Code reported in the Planet dimension in 2019 due to irresponsible behavior on the part of an employee. Two cases led to a minor environmental incident, the third did not. Implementation of the DSM values 2019 2018 Training and awareness e-learning: % of targeted employees trained General Code of Business Conduct 94% 90% People Life Saving Rules 95% 95% Unlawful Harassment Prevention (up and until Q3 2019) 95% 97% Respectful Behavior (as of Q4 2019) Data Privacy Knowledge 95% 93% Planet Basic Course Responsible Care 97% 95% Profit Global Trade Controls 95% 96% Anti-Bribery and Corruption 96% 95% Security 97% 94% Cyber Fraud Awareness 96% 93% Competition Law: % of targeted employees having signed DSM Annual Competition Law Compliance Statement 100% 100% Violations of the Code: 161 154 Number of dismissals / other consequence management Triple P breakdown People 27/104 22/90 Planet 1/2 0/1 Profit 14/13 20/21 Regional breakdown Europe & Africa 13/53 14/45 Americas 22/61 20/48 Asia–Pacific 7/5 8/19 Total 42/119 42/112 Alert cases (whistleblower procedure): 26 28 Number substantiated / not substantiated / under investigation Triple P breakdown People 6/14/1 2/10/2 Planet 0/0/0 0/0/0 Profit 2/2/1 7/5/2 Regional breakdown Europe & Africa 1/5/0 2/4/1 Americas 5/6/0 1/4/2 Asia–Pacific 2/5/2 6/7/1 Total 8/16/2 9/15/41 1 The four Alert cases 'under investigation' in 2018 were resolved in 2019: one was substantiated, three were not. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 115 www.dsm.com Risk management The Managing Board is accountable for the management of all risks associated with our company's strategy and activities. To this end, appropriate risk management and internal control systems are in place. The responsibility for identifying and managing risks lies with DSM's individual units. The units are supported by the Group Risk Management (GRM) department and are regularly assessed by the Corporate Operational Audit (COA) department. Both GRM and COA report directly to the CFO, and COA has direct access to the CEO as well as to the Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board. DSM Risk Management Cycle Purpose Risk Appetite Core Values Corporate & Business Strategy CoBC Corporate Requirements Mission / Strategy/ Internal environment Objective setting Enterprise Risk COA audits Effectiveness assessment Management Audit Committee Control activities & Risk assessment Monitoring and response Information and communication System of Internal Controls Internal Control Framework Internal/External Audits Corporate & Unit Risk Assessments Letter of Representation Mitigating actions RM Committees RM Year Plan Training, Annual Report Website A well-embedded risk management and internal control Mission / Internal environment system and accompanying organization are in place in all units. This approach is based on the COSO-ERM1 framework. Our purpose, core values and business principles are key This chapter is structured accordingly (see 'DSM Risk elements of the internal environment for risk management Management Cycle' above). and form the starting point of the risk management cycle. Our core values are directly related to our purpose of It is the responsibility of the business groups, support creating brighter lives for all. All our employees receive functions, functional excellence departments and regions regular training on values and business principles in line within DSM (the units) to set up, operate, maintain and with the Code of Business Conduct. monitor an appropriate risk management and internal control system within their area of responsibility. This Strategy / Objective setting responsibility includes the identification and management of risks. The units are supported in this by risk managers. Following the establishment of the corporate strategy, the GRM performs independent reviews based on a set of Executive Committee decides on the risk appetite, which is defined key controls. COA closes the loop through regular reviewed annually. In 2019, our risk appetite regarding assessments of the design and operational effectiveness 'Generic/strategic' risks shifted slightly to 'Open/Hungry' of the risk management and internal control system. (see figure below). 1 Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission — Enterprise Risk Management. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 116 www.dsm.com Corporate governance and risk management Risk management DSM’s risk appetite Averse Minimalist Cautious Open Hungry Generic/strategic (e.g., Innovation, People/organization/culture, Intellectual property, Raw materials/energy, Price/availability, Acquisitions and partnerships, Divestments, Brand) Operational (e.g., Reputation, Customer, Project management, Production process, (Information-) Security, Business continuity, Product liability, Safety, Health and Environment) Financial and reporting (e.g., Liquidity and market, Reporting integrity, Pensions, Financial risks e.g., credit, tax) Legal and compliance (e.g., Legal non-compliance, Non-compliance with DSM Requirements) In line with the corporate strategy, the corporate with, the Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board requirements are defined and maintained. The corporate annually, see 'Top risks' table on page 120. requirements provide: Unit Risk Assessments Risk-based guidance for managing common business The DSM units (the business groups, support functions, and process risks functional excellence departments and regions) also Standards to increase the efficiency of our main conduct various types of risk assessments. Most risk processes assessments are carried out by cross-functional teams. These teams include experienced facilitators as well as Risk assessment and response experts who can challenge assumptions in order to help improve the quality of these risk assessments. Risk assessments are carried out at various levels in the organization. We take a standard but flexible, seven-step Business Risk Assessments focus on risks that could approach to risk assessments: jeopardize the attainment of our strategic goals. Risk assessment planning Process Risk Assessments are intended to make our Preparation processes as robust and fraud-proof as possible. Risk identification and clustering Risk rating Project Risk Assessments focus on specific projects and are Evaluation and risk response updated throughout project execution to secure successful Reporting delivery of project objectives and value creation for the Periodic monitoring and reviewing company. Both short-term risks (up to and including three years) and Complementing the above, additional specific risk emerging risks (3–30 years) in the risk areas Generic/ assessments may be performed for areas such as Safety, strategic, Operational, Financial and reporting and Legal Health, Environment, Climate, Security and topics such as and compliance are the focus of our risk assessments. To complex organizational changes. continuously improve the effectiveness of our risk assessment process, a Risk Assessment Manual is made Control activities available and a risk assessment training program for the facilitation and execution of risk assessments is rolled out. Control activities are performed at all levels of the company, at various stages within the business processes. They are Corporate Risk Assessment preventive or investigative in nature and may encompass We periodically conduct a Corporate Risk Assessment (CRA), a range of manual and (semi-) automated controls such as which is the responsibility of the Managing Board. As part policies, procedures, authorizations, verifications and of this assessment, the Executive Committee (EC) reviews business performance reviews. These controls also help us and agrees on the short-term top risks as well as emerging to avoid fraud and reputational damage and support the risks. The EC also agrees on how to mitigate and monitor statements of the Managing Board. these. The outcome of the CRA is reported to, and discussed Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 117 www.dsm.com We apply a standard approach for monitoring Enterprise The Alert procedure Resource Planning (ERP) system access controls, user Dedicated discussions with the EC on the CRA and the provisioning, privileged user management and Segregation outcome of the LoR process of Duties for the majority of our units. The Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board Monitoring activities Effectiveness assessment At different levels and within different functions in the We use a three-lines-of-defense model to manage risks organization monitoring activities are performed, such as: effectively. The execution of the standard key controls as included First line: the responsibility for identifying and managing in our Internal Control Framework (ICF) is monitored by risks, including all internal controls activities, lies with the unit management. Group Risk Management (GRM) individual units. additionally provides independent testing of the effectiveness of those key controls, and evaluates the Second line: GRM designs, implements and maintains the impact of control deficiencies overall risk management framework for the company. GRM Total risk overview is reported by the units via the Letter assesses the overall effectiveness of the risk management of Representation (LoR) process. The units report on and internal control activities and provides insight into compliance with applicable laws and regulations, our the overall risk profile of the company. GRM also supports Code of Business Conduct, corporate policies and the first line of defense in risk identification and corporate requirements and related risks, besides more management by designing and developing standards, generic/strategic risks. The review also tracks progress systems and tools. Besides GRM, there are also other in the implementation of defined mitigation actions as departments acting as a second line of defense, for well as monitoring incidents that occurred during the instance, DSM Operations & Responsible Care year (Manufacturing, SHE & Security), and Group Control & Tracking of timely completion of DSM values training Accounting. Review of incidents, fraud cases, Alert cases, results from phishing tests and the cybersecurity dashboard Third line: COA conducts independent audits/reviews, some Peer audits on specific topics, such as the Purchase to of these being unannounced. The scope and frequency of Pay process and SHE COA audits is set according to the ranking of the auditable Audits by customers, suppliers, or other external audits units in terms of the magnitude of risk, based on a limited number of defined characteristics. This program is agreed The outcome of the monitoring activities is regularly by the EC and the Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board. discussed in unit risk management committees and the Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board to evaluate and Enhancement of the risk management system manage the risk profile of the units and of the company as a whole. During 2019, the following main improvements were made to our risk management framework: Information and communication We further strengthened the ICF with the support of all We strive for an open communication culture and have business groups, GRM and all support functions. The various channels for communicating risk data and maturity of both the activities of the first and second line information both internally and externally. These channels of defense was increased. Additionally, more legal enable our organization to provide relevant information for entities adopted ICF standards decision-making, such as the status of the risk profile and A new values training was launched on 'Respectful the effectiveness of the risk management system. Behavior', which is mandatory for all employees Due to the addition of two new Life Saving Rules (LSR), Discussions of risks are integrated into normal business 'Transport and Warehouse Safety' and 'Hot Work', the LSR discussions, as these are an intrinsic part of doing business. training was updated accordingly However, certain specific structures are in place to ensure GRM and COA expanded their review of fraud cases, that special attention is paid to parts of the risk incidents, COA findings, and Alert cases to also identify management cycle: trends, underline root causes and define mitigating actions The risk management committees of the units We improved the LoR process by giving more guidance The global fraud committee on the reporting and the description of short-term risks The global issue committee and emerging risks Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 118 www.dsm.com Corporate governance and risk management Risk management DSM risk profile This could create a risk if the speed of change in the world is higher than our speed of adaptation to it. The risk management activities as performed by the first line of defense as well as the reviews/audits conducted by Emerging risk 2: We may not be able to adjust our own the second and third line of defense in 2019 did not indicate operations and supply chain fast enough to deal with any material failings in the design and effectiveness of our environmental and climate risks (both physical and risk management and internal control system. transition risks). The consolidated overview of all the aforementioned is Emerging risk 3: Risk of increasing polarization in the world. the basis for the 'Statements of the Managing Board' at This could lead to new legislation and new regulations the end of this risk management section. having a negative impact for DSM (such as increasing taxation, trade barriers, and labor costs). Top risks At the same time, these emerging risks will also offer new The table below shows the four most important risks that opportunities for our Brighter Living Solutions. might prevent us from achieving the targets defined in Strategy 2021, including the actions that we are taking to Other important risks reduce our exposure further. These risks are labeled as Top risks as the exposure on DSM's EBITDA is an indicative Besides the top risks and the emerging risks, there are also € 30 million or more, or because they have a major nonspecific market-related risks. For example, our Animal financial impact such as on reputation. Health & Nutrition business was impacted by outbreaks of livestock diseases in 2019. Although our market position and Emerging risks product portfolio allow us to take advantage of opportunities arising in other geographical areas as well as The following emerging risks have been identified by the from other species, the impact might not fully be offset. Executive Committee. Where relevant, actions have been defined to anticipate them in a timely manner. There are also more generic business risks, such as business continuity, sourcing, product liability, intellectual property, Emerging risk 1: Our Nutrition and Materials markets may tax and digitalization risks. Our risk management and be disrupted by longer-term changes driven by: internal control system is setup to adequately monitor and respond to these risks. New food preferences / food systems Climate transition risks impacting our end-markets, such We did not identify any significant company-specific risks as animal protein associated with Brexit and the ongoing trade war between Innovations such as 3D printing the US and China, other than the general uncertainties New mobility and transport options around, for example, currency and other economic developments. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 119 www.dsm.com Top risks, status and related mitigating actions in progress People, organization and culture There is a risk that we might not be able to attract, retain and develop the workforce required to deliver on our strategy, to deliver abovemarket growth and retain strong operational efficiency. Progress has been made to create a more international and diverse workforce and steps have been taken to build more inclusive, agile and high-performing teams. In the current labor market, attracting and retaining talents with the right level of expertise, background and mindset requires constant attention and efforts and therefore we still consider this a top risk. Further mitigations: All business groups have customer-centricity programs running, including upgrading the sales force and evolving to become a more agile organization. We are building competences to improve our understanding of (local) markets — for example, through setting up specialist functions in Animal Nutrition & Health to address a wider range of species and to pursue new health solutions. Product portfolio and purpose-driven growth There is a risk that we might not be able to deliver above-average organic growth aligned to our strategic targets. We are continuously investing in our existing product portfolio and in large innovation projects, and focus on growth opportunities in the domains Nutrition & Health, Climate & Energy and Resources & Circularity. Top innovation projects are closely monitored, with a well-established stagegate approach and regular status reviews with the Executive Committee. Despite the processes in place, time-to-market remains uncertain. We also aim to execute value-creating M&A, predominantly in nutrition, to further develop our portfolio. All M&A activities are managed centrally, and staffing is available to support flawless integration. However, as distraction from the running business cannot fully be prevented and as the time-to-market remains uncertain, especially for large innovation projects, this is still a top risk for us. Further mitigations: Where possible, the success rate and time-to-market of running innovation projects is improved via customer and/or innovation alliances. To support our innovation efforts, projects are running to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of our R&D activities by applying digital technologies. Market environment and competitive position There is a risk that we might not meet our strategic targets due to increasing competition, especially from low-cost/margin players. Therefore, we have created a streamlined and simplified business portfolio and a good platform for growth. As a result of continued investments in innovation and acquisitions, our product and service portfolio has broadened, which allows us to serve a broader customer base better and to differentiate ourselves from our competition. To maintain our cost position, we continue to take inefficiencies out of the value chain by applying the DSM Integral Continuous Improvement (DICI) approach. We have expanded different capacities in a cost-effective way, for example, the vitamin E capacity added through our joint venture with Nenter. Nonetheless, the risk remains of facing increased competition for some product-market combinations. Further mitigations: To differentiate ourselves from our competitors, we continue to expand our product portfolios so as to address emerging market needs, such as bio-based materials and plant-based nutritional products. Customer excellence projects will be set up to improve the end-to-end experience for our customers. Operating in a digital world There is a risk that we might be negatively impacted by cybercrime, and therefore we continued to strengthen our cybersecurity in 2019. Following risk assessments, a multi-year program is being rolled out focusing on improving our cybersecurity capabilities in three areas: information technology, operations technology, and R&D laboratory systems. The program is addressing cyber security by looking at risk identification, protection, detection, response and recovery taking account of people, technology and process dimensions. As cyberthreats continue to develop and become more sophisticated, and with the increase of the number of digital initiatives within DSM, the risk remains despite the progress made in this area. Further mitigations: We will continue the implementation of our multi-year cybersecurity program. In parallel, additional projects are planned for 2020, including a new cybersecurity awareness campaign, and putting improved monitoring and reporting in place. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 120 www.dsm.com Corporate governance and risk management Statements of the Managing Board Statements of the Managing Board It should be noted that the above does not imply that these systems and procedures provide absolute assurance as to The Managing Board is responsible for the design and the realization of operational and strategic business operation of the internal risk management and control objectives, or that they can prevent all misstatements, systems. In discharging this responsibility, the Managing inaccuracies, errors, fraud and non-compliances with Board has made a systematic assessment of the legislation, rules and regulations. Nor can they provide effectiveness of the design and operation of the internal certainty that we will achieve our objectives. control and risk management systems. In view of all of the above, the Managing Board confirms On the basis of this report and in accordance with best that, to the best of its knowledge and belief, the financial practice 1.4.3 of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code of statements give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, December 2016, and Article 5:25c of the Financial financial position and profit or loss of the company, and that Supervision Act, the aforementioned assessment and the the management report includes a fair review of the current state of affairs, to the best of its knowledge and position at the balance sheet date and the development belief, the Managing Board confirms that: and performance of the business during the financial year, together with a description of the principal risks and The internal risk management and control systems of uncertainties that the company faces. the company provide reasonable assurance that financial reporting does not contain any material inaccuracies Heerlen, 26 February 2020 There have been no material failings in the effectiveness of the internal risk management and control systems of The Managing Board the company Geraldine Matchett, Co-CEO There are no material risks or uncertainties that could Dimitri de Vreeze, Co-CEO reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on the continuity of DSM's operations in the coming twelve months There is a reasonable expectation that DSM will be able to continue its operations and meet its liabilities for at least twelve months, therefore it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial reporting Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 121 www.dsm.com Report by the Supervisory Board Introduction by the Chair have keenly observed over the years, and is expected to create a strong basis for continued profitable growth. In conjunction with their Co-CEO role, Geraldine Matchett will We are very grateful for Feike's tremendous retain her responsibilities as CFO and Dimitri de Vreeze will contribution to DSM. He has demonstrated that a hold the COO responsibilities. company can deliver financial and sustainability returns while creating value and purpose for all its DSM reported a good financial performance in 2019, and stakeholders. achieved key milestones in the first year of Strategy 2021. Besides organic growth, part of Strategy 2021 is inorganic Rob Routs, Chair of the Supervisory Board growth, predominantly in Nutrition. As a Supervisory Board, we spent a considerable amount of time discussing M&A strategy, developments in our sectors and opportunities. We Dear reader, are pleased with the additions to the company we were able to make this year: the expansion of our share in Andre The year 2019 was a special one for my colleagues and me Pectin, the creation of a 75:25 partnership with Nenter, and on the Supervisory Board. With Feike indicating, after 20 the acquisitions of AVA, Royal CSK and SRF. We look forward years on the Managing Board and almost 13 years as CEO, to next steps in this area. that he intended to step down, we went through the process of identifying and announcing his successor. While we were As this Report also shows, DSM wants to deliver on People, in this process, DSM delivered a good financial performance Planet and Profit. In all areas, great strides were again made in 2019, while also engaging in quite some M&A activity. All in 2019 as described throughout this Report. Within People, in all, it was an intense year, as indicated by our increased there is one topic that always has our close attention, which meeting frequency, and we are proud of how our company is Safety. This is a core value at DSM and very close to our navigated all of this. hearts as a Supervisory Board. We discussed the safety performance at each and every meeting in 2019, trying to Under Feike's visionary leadership, we have gone through help the Executive Committee with our own experiences a significant transformation, from a bulk chemicals and best practices, and understanding the trends in the company into one focused on Nutrition, Health and indicators. Although every incident in 2019 was still one too Sustainable Living, generating a Total Shareholder Return many, as a Supervisory Board we are very happy to see an of about 400%. During the course of more than a decade we improved safety performance in 2019. As Board members, have significantly expanded our nutrition business, we will continue to focus on safety going forward, as this is divested our non-core bulk chemical activities, and a topic that requires continuous commitment every day. upgraded our Materials portfolio. Our company transformed itself into a financially healthy, highLooking back at 2019, we are again grateful to all the performing, sustainable, and innovative company. Today, employees and the leadership of the company for what they DSM is a truly global company with a diverse and engaged have delivered and how they have delivered it. It was again employee and leadership base, creating value for all our a good year for DSM, and our gratitude also goes to the stakeholders. We are very grateful for Feike's tremendous many stakeholders who continue to place their trust in our contribution to DSM. He has demonstrated that a company company. DSM's businesses are well positioned to capitalize can deliver financial and sustainability returns while on many strong fundamental growth drivers related to the creating value and purpose for all stakeholders. We all wish world’s most pressing challenges, and DSM expects its large him the very best for the future. innovation programs to begin to contribute in 2020, and to further expand during 2021 and beyond. After a thorough process and external benchmarking, including the advice and input of an international search firm, we concluded that we had the very best candidates inhouse. The Supervisory Board therefore decided to appoint both Geraldine and Dimitri, Feike's two Managing Board colleagues, in a joint leadership as Co-CEOs. Together with Feike, they have driven the transformation and successes of the business in a highly collaborative and effective way, creating considerable value for all stakeholders. Together, they will maintain the focus on business performance, financial discipline, innovation, sustainability, and people, as DSM continues its journey. This joint leadership structure is rooted in the long history of their collaboration, which we Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 122 www.dsm.com Report by the Supervisory Board Supervisory Board Report company website under 'Corporate Governance'. The Supervisory Board has four committees to cover key areas This Report provides further information on the way the in greater detail: auditing, nominations (to the Supervisory Supervisory Board performed its duties in 2019. This Board and Managing Board), remuneration (of the concerns supervising the policy pursued by the Managing Supervisory Board and Managing Board), and sustainability. Board, the Managing Board's performance of its managerial Information on these committees is given elsewhere in this duties, and the general course of affairs within our company chapter. The charters of the committees are published on and its businesses, as well as assisting the Managing Board the company website under 'Corporate Governance'. with advice, either upon request or proactively. Finally, these duties also include assessing the Managing Board's Relationship and stakeholder management performance and ensuring that their remuneration is in line with that performance and that it provides the appropriate In performing its duties, the Supervisory Board acts in incentives. Since the inception of an Executive Committee, accordance with the interests of the company and the the Supervisory Board has also been responsible for business connected with it, taking into consideration the ensuring that the checks and balances that are part of the interests of the company's stakeholders. The Chair of the two-tier governance system are still taken into account, Supervisory Board is in regular close contact with the paying specific attention to the dynamics between the (Co-)CEO(s)/Chairman of the Managing Board, as is the Managing Board and the Executive Committee. Chair of the Audit Committee with the CFO. The responsibility of supervising the policy pursued by Furthermore, the Supervisory Board regularly interacts with the Managing Board includes evaluating the way the members of the Executive Committee who attend Managing Board implements DSM's strategy for long-term Supervisory Board meetings and participate in the yearly value creation and promotes a culture aimed at that value. site visit of the Supervisory Board. Since the company's mission is to create brighter lives for all, long-term value creation is embedded both in Strategy The Supervisory Board interacts with our employees on 2021: Growth & Value Purpose led, Performance driven and various occasions and in various contexts. The Supervisory in our company culture. This is described in the chapters Board regularly receives information on relevant topics 'Strategy 2021' on page 16, 'People' on page 40 and from senior leaders and experts in the company during 'Corporate governance and risk management' on page 106. committee meetings, full Supervisory Board meetings, annual site visits, and also as part of their ongoing Composition of the Supervisory Board professional education. In 2019, this was the case with respect to merger and acquisition opportunities; innovation The composition of DSM's Supervisory Board is diverse in in general and large innovation projects like Project Clean gender, nationality, background, knowledge and experience. Cow, Veramaris®, Niaga® and fermentative Stevia; and The Board comprises four men and four women. Two digital and cybersecurity. During its annual site visit, the members are Dutch, two American, one Dutch-American, Supervisory Board actively takes the opportunity to interact one British, one Singaporean and one Australian. The with employees at different levels, from the shop floor to Board's current members are Rob Routs (Chair), Pauline van senior leadership, thus collecting valuable information and der Meer Mohr (Deputy Chair), Victoria Haynes, Eileen insights from various sources across the company. Kennedy, Frits van Paasschen, Pradeep Pant, John Ramsay and Erica Mann. For detailed information on their Direct, one-on-one contact between Supervisory Board backgrounds, see the company website and 'Supervisory members and Managing Board and Executive Committee Board and Managing Board Royal DSM' on page 142 of this members generally follows naturally from topics discussed Report. in the meetings of the Supervisory Board. These discussions draw on the expertise of individual Supervisory Board Following best practice 2.1.10 of the Dutch Corporate members, whose advice is sought on a wide range of Governance Code, the Supervisory Board establishes that specialist topics as required. Supervisory Board members its members are able to act critically and independently of also have direct contact with other employees in the course one another, the Managing Board and any particular of site visits and specifically arranged meetings. In 2019, interests involved. To safeguard this, the Supervisory Board John Ramsay visited our Global Service Center in Hyderabad is composed in such a way that all its members are (India) where — given his extensive knowledge and independent in the meaning of best practice 2.1.8 of the experience in the field of finance and accounting — he Dutch Corporate Governance Code. reviewed various aspects of the captive center's performance, plans and strategies. Frits van Paasschen The targeted profile of the Supervisory Board is reflected attended an afternoon session with our Chief Digital Officer in its regulations, which are published on the and reviewed — in line with his broad experience Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 123 www.dsm.com as a global business leader in both consumer markets and the service industry in various parts of the world — our approach to digital transformation, as well as giving advice on building an external ecosystem of digital advisors. Pradeep Pant, who is based in Singapore and has extensive knowledge of and experience with Asian markets, continued to be in regular contact with our senior management in that region. The Supervisory Board takes an active interest in maintaining a good understanding of our stakeholders and their positions on various topics related to the company's areas of business. This includes the perceptions of our shareholders. The Supervisory Board is informed of the position of other DSM stakeholders by the Managing Board. In addition, the Supervisory Board collects such information through its own network. DSM Supervisory Board: key data and attendance records Rob Pauline van Eileen Victoria Pradeep John Frits van Erica Routs (C) der Meer Kennedy Haynes Pant Ramsay Paasschen Mann Mohr (DC) Diversity Year of birth 1946 1960 1947 1947 1953 1957 1961 1958 Gender Male Female Female Female Male Male Male Female Geography Europe Europe North North Asia Europe Europe / Oceania America America North America Tenure Initial appointment 2010 2011 2012 2012 2016 2017 2017 2019 Latest reappointment 2018 2019 2016 2016 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. End of current term 2020 2021 2020 2020 2020 2021 2021 2023 Reappointment possible? Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Attendance Committee NomCo (C) RemCo (C) SustCo (C) AC AC AC (C) AC AC memberships RemCo NomCo NomCo RemCo SustCo RemCo SustCo SustCo Attendance 100% 92%4 100% 100% 92%2 100% 100% 100% SB meetings1 Attendance NomCo 100% NomCo 67% NomCo 100% AC 100% AC 100% AC 100% AC 100% AC 75% Committee RemCo 75%3 RemCo 100%4 SustCo 100% RemCo 100% SustCo 100% RemCo 100% SustCo 100% SustCo 50%5 meetings 1 Attendance is reflected for the six Supervisory Board (SB) meetings and seven conference calls held in 2019. In addition to the seven conference calls there were also two SB calls in 2019 for which the decision-making had been mandated by the SB to the Chair of the Board and the Chair of the Audit Committee, who both attended these calls. 2 Pradeep Pant missed an extra SB call planned at short notice to discuss a project update. Pradeep Pant was updated a day later by the Chair. 3 Due to a misunderstanding regarding timings, Rob Routs did not dial in for one of the Remuneration Committee meetings. 4 Pauline van der Meer Mohr missed the Nomination Committee meeting on 3 December and the SB meeting on 4 December due to a prior commitment. 5 Erica Mann became member of the Supervisory Board following her appointment at the 2019 General Meeting of Shareholders. Erica Mann was unable to participate in the Audit Committee call on 4 November and the Sustainability Committee of 3 December due to prior commitments. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 124 www.dsm.com Report by the Supervisory Board DSM Supervisory Board: key competences Rob Pauline van Eileen Victoria Pradeep John Frits van Erica Routs (C) der Meer Kennedy Haynes Pant Ramsay Paasschen Mann Mohr (DC) Competences General management x x x x x x x x Finance/ x x accounting/ auditing Strategy x x x x x x x x Risk x x x Marketing & Sales x x x Operations & x x x manufacturing R&D/ x x x Innovation/ Technology Safety x x Sustainability x x x x & environment Emerging economies x x x x People & Organization x x x x IT/digital x Governance/ x x x x x compliance/ legal affairs Public affairs x x DSM's businesses x x x x x x Supervision and advice within our sectors. The Supervisory Board was actively involved in the process of reviewing several potential M&A The Supervisory Board performs its duties of supervising targets. This eventually led to the expansion of our share and advising the Managing Board with respect both to in Andre Pectin, the creation of a 75:25 partnership with recurring standard agenda items for Supervisory Board Nenter, and the acquisitions of AVA, Royal CSK and SRF. meetings and to specific topics that become relevant at any given point in time. At the Board's request, the Supervisory Board was updated on the company's insurances, global manufacturing status, The most prominent regular agenda item is an update on quality control and quality management, among other business performance, financials and treasury topics. As subjects. Digital aiming points and a digital organization are part of this agenda item, the Supervisory Board tracks the being rolled out throughout the company, contributing to company's financial performance, approves the annual digital transformation. Given the importance of Finance and Capital Expenditure Plan, and deliberates on digitalization, the Supervisory Board did a deep dive on any additional treasury topics as needed. In 2019, the digital. In addition, the Supervisory Board was updated and Supervisory Board discussed and approved the € 1 billion involved in DSM's Innovation projects, such as Project Clean share buy-back program, reflecting the company's strong Cow, Veramaris®, Niaga® and fermentative Stevia. A balance sheet and resilient business, as well as the usual continuous education session was dedicated to updating share buy-back programs to cover commitments under the Supervisory Board on cybersecurity risks, learning from share-based compensation plans and the stock dividend. experiences of other companies. Closing the loop on last year's visit to India and the Supervisory Board's feedback In line with Strategy 2021, the Supervisory Board regularly following that visit, an updated strategy for DSM in India was discussed our M&A strategy and relevant developments presented. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 125 www.dsm.com DSM Supervisory Board (from left to right): John Ramsay, Erica Mann, Frits van Paasschen, Eileen Kennedy, Pauline van der Meer Mohr (Deputy Chair), Victoria Haynes, Rob Routs (Chair) and Pradeep Pant. Site visits The Board also visited our Singaporean sites (DSM Dyneema and DSM Nutritional Products, Human Nutrition & Health). Every year, the Supervisory Board visits DSM sites in a To stress the importance of customer-centricity and particular region. This fosters interaction with employees innovation, the Supervisory Board aims to meet customers across different areas of the company and provides and other stakeholders during each site visit. In Singapore, Supervisory Board members with opportunities for the Board visited Schneider's Innovation Hub, the Unilever continuing education. This year's visit took the Supervisory Foundry and the headquarters of OLAM International (a Board to Singapore. leading food and agro business company). The Board also met with officials from the Government of Singapore and The visit provided an overview of the company's presence the Singapore Economic Development Board, as well as with in Singapore and the broader South-East Asian (SEA) region. A*STAR (the Agency for Science and Technology and Drawing on the insights of the internal and external Research). speakers, the Board was updated on the economic situation in the region and the opportunities it has to offer. The visit The visit included a townhall meeting that was audiocast deepened the Board's understanding of DSM's presence across our sites in SEA, Japan and Korea. and business in Singapore and SEA. At the end of the visit, time was taken to reflect on the site The Singapore visit began with a general overview of the visit with the participating Executive Committee members. region by a specialist in international relations and an Supervisory Board members shared their impressions and introduction to the company's activities in Singapore and offered specific advice about doing business in SEA. Both SEA. An event was organized for the Supervisory Board the Supervisory Board and the Executive Committee members to meet the company's customers and concurred on the relevance of SEA for the company and stakeholders. The evening included a dialogue on the importance of continuing to strengthen our presence sustainability and leadership between Feike Sijbesma and there. Sunny Verghese (CEO of OLAM International and Chair of the World Business Council for Sustainable Development). Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 126 www.dsm.com Report by the Supervisory Board Supervisory Board meetings and performance evaluation Committees In 2019, the Supervisory Board held its five regular meetings The Supervisory Board has four committees to cover key and one regular call in the presence of the Managing Board, areas in greater detail: nominations, remuneration, as well as one additional meeting and six additional calls, sustainability and auditing. These are described in more partly in the presence of the Managing Board. The additional detail below. meetings and calls were needed to discuss possible acquisitions and the CEO succession. Information on Board nominations attendance of Board and Committee meetings can be found The Nomination Committee comprises Rob Routs (Chair), in this 'Supervisory Board Report' on page 124. Eileen Kennedy and Pauline van der Meer Mohr. Feike Sijbesma and Judith Wiese, Executive Vice President Group The Supervisory Board also convenes in the absence of People & Organization, were also involved in this the Managing Board, which usually happens before each Committee's discussions. The Committee met three times meeting. in 2019. The recommendations and minutes of all Nomination Committee meetings were shared with the An evaluation of the Supervisory Board is performed once entire Supervisory Board. This feedback included advice every three years by an external advisor; this was the case and recommendations regarding topics to be approved by in 2019. In the other two years, the evaluation of the the full Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board also has Supervisory Board is performed by means of a selfaccess to all the meeting materials posted for the assessment consisting of a written questionnaire, followed Nomination Committee meetings. by in-depth, one-on-one interviews between the Chair and individual Supervisory Board members. In 2019, nomination discussions focused on succession planning for both the Managing Board and the Supervisory While the Managing Board's performance is (indirectly) also Board. With respect to the Managing Board, the discussions assessed as part of the evaluation, this happens throughout focused on the talent pipeline available for the succession the year as part of the discussions on succession planning of Managing Board members, especially in view of the CEO in the Nomination Committee, and particularly when the succession. Given the importance of the decision on CEO performance appraisals of Managing Board members are succession, these discussions were mainly conducted in discussed, as well as their performance versus their the full Supervisory Board. Some preparatory discussions individual targets in the Remuneration Committee. The took place in the Nomination Committee, including seeking Nomination and Remuneration Committees report back on the advice and input of an international search firm. The these discussions to the Supervisory Board. Nomination Committee discussions eventually led to the recommendation to the Board that the company had the The overall feedback from the evaluation in 2019 was best succession candidates in-house. As of that moment, positive. The Supervisory Board used an external firm that discussions about the CEO succession were held in the full conducts multiple board evaluations and could therefore Supervisory Board. benchmark the Board's evaluation against that of other Boards. It was pleasing to note that DSM's Supervisory Board As in other years, the Supervisory Board established that was among the highest scoring Boards of the 100 most the composition of the Managing Board is and will stay recently conducted board evaluations. Some points for diverse in nationality, gender, background, expertise and improvement were noted, although none of a fundamental experience, and that it provides a good foundation to nature. The evaluation delivered the following highlights support all clusters and business groups in achieving their and recommendations. All members strongly value the targets and thus contributing to the company strategy. For composition of the Supervisory Board in all its dimensions. detailed background information on all Managing Board Size and (gender) diversity are to be maintained, as well as members, see the company website under 'Corporate the strong link to Dutch corporate governance. There is a Governance' and in the 'Managing Board' section on page sense of collegiality and mutual trust, disagreement is 143 of this Report. constructive and respectful, and there is preparedness to challenge, where appropriate, both within the Board and Taking into account the Supervisory Board profile as laid with management. While the strategic discussions (and down in the Supervisory Board regulations, the Nomination the quality of their preparation) are highly appreciated, Committee continued discussions on the overall there might be an opportunity to carve out some more time composition of the Supervisory Board and discussed for 'holistic' reflection. Finally, given the global nature of succession planning for the Supervisory Board. In order to the Board, the timing of meetings and calls will benefit from maintain a strong profile in international business as much time zone alignment as possible. experience and executive leadership, the Supervisory Board decided to nominate Thomas Leysen for appointment at Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 127 www.dsm.com the 2020 Annual General Meeting of Shareholders. in particular the sustainability reporting in this Report. Mr. Leysen also brings extensive experience in making Taking into consideration the Assurance report of the businesses more sustainable. To facilitate a smooth transfer independent auditor on the sustainability information by and continuity in view of the CEO change, the Supervisory KPMG on page 242 of this Report, the full Supervisory Board Board also decided to propose the reappointment of Rob approved the reporting in these sections on 27 February Routs for a two-year term. Other proposed reappointments 2020. The Sustainability Information complies with the at the 2020 Annual General Meeting of Shareholders include Standards of the Global Reporting Initiative and our internal Eileen Kennedy (for a two-year term) and Pradeep Pant (for reporting criteria, which are included in this Report, and is a four-year term). Victoria Haynes is not available for also aligned with the international Integrated Reporting reappointment. Both Eileen Kennedy and Pradeep Pant help Council <IR> Framework where possible. maintain the Board's strong profile in the area of nutrition, from an academic as well as an FMCG perspective. During the year, recurring topics were the company's Furthermore, Pradeep Pant brings many years of experience performance against its People and Planet aspirations, with in operating in Asian markets. a focus on safety, Brighter Living Solutions (including design and testing of new metrics to measure our Sustainability Board remuneration Portfolio), the company's Materiality matrix, and 'Inclusion The Remuneration Committee had four meetings in 2019. & Diversity'. Through these discussions, the Sustainability Pauline van der Meer Mohr (Chair), Victoria Haynes, Rob Committee followed up on the progress made with the Routs and John Ramsay are members of this committee. implementation of the sustainability and safety aspirations Recommendations and minutes of the Remuneration set as part of Strategy 2021. Deep dives were made into Committee meetings were shared with the full Supervisory several topics. One was healthy diets, following among Board and were used to determine the final remuneration others the publication of the 2019 EAT-Lancet report. The of the members of the Managing Board. The Supervisory Committee also discussed the update of DSM's Responsible Board also has access to all the meeting materials provided Care plan, more details of which can be found in 'Planet' on for the Remuneration Committee meetings. For more page 51. In terms of Inclusion & Diversity, the Committee information on the remuneration policy, see the company discussed gender diversity and diversity through website. For the implementation of that policy in 2019, see internationalizing roles and bringing in employees with the 'Remuneration report 2019' on page 130. international experience. It also discussed equal pay, see also 'People' on page 43. Discussions focused on the performance and the related remuneration of the members of the Managing Board, in Financials and auditing respect of both company and individual performance. In The activities of the Supervisory Board in the area of 2019, time was spent on remuneration topics related to financials and auditing are prepared by the Audit the CEO succession, on the implications of the European Committee. The Audit Committee met six times in 2019, three Shareholder Directive and on equal pay. For the latter, see of these via conference call. John Ramsay (Chair), Victoria 'People — Equal pay / Gender pay gap' on page 43. The Haynes, Pradeep Pant, Frits van Paasschen and Erica Mann performance and remuneration of the Executive Committee are members of the Audit Committee. The Chair of the members were also shared with the Remuneration Supervisory Board participated in all meetings and calls. All Committee. Feike Sijbesma and Judith Wiese were also Supervisory Board members have a standing invitation to partly involved in these discussions. attend Audit Committee meetings; in 2019, most of them used this standing invitation for the two conference calls Sustainability in which the financial developments and interim results for The Sustainability Committee prepares the Supervisory the first and third quarter were discussed, as these are not Board's discussions on sustainability topics. The followed by a full Board meeting. The highlights and the Sustainability Committee met three times in 2019. This minutes of all Audit Committee meetings were shared with Committee comprises Eileen Kennedy (Chair), Pradeep Pant, the full Supervisory Board. This feedback included advice Frits van Paasschen and Erica Mann. The Chair of the and recommendations regarding topics to be approved by Supervisory Board has a standing invitation and the full Supervisory Board. In 2019, these included the participated in all meetings. The recommendations and approval of the 2020 COA Audit plan, the proposed minutes of these meetings were shared and discussed with reappointment of the external auditor (approved by the the entire Supervisory Board during its meetings with the 2019 Annual General Meeting of Shareholders), and the Managing Board. The Supervisory Board also has access to proposed investments to further strengthen the all the meeting materials provided for the Sustainability cybersecurity of the company's operational technology. All Committee meetings. The feedback from the Committee to Supervisory Board members also have access to all the the full Board included advice and recommendations meeting materials posted for the Audit Committee regarding topics to be approved by the Supervisory Board, meetings. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 128 www.dsm.com Report by the Supervisory Board Our external auditor KPMG and the CFO participated in the made good progress in Finance. Another observation by Audit Committee's meetings and calls. The CEO participated KPMG is that there has been progress in the domain of in the Audit Committee meetings and the call in which the shared services in India, but that harmonizing processes half-year results were discussed. The managers responsible remains an area for attention. In addition, we held for corporate control, internal audit, risk management and discussions with KPMG about the topic of cybersecurity. In compliance also participated in these two meetings and line with our own assessment, no material weaknesses were this call. The manager responsible for corporate control also reported by KPMG. participated in the two calls in which the financial developments and interim results for the first and third Finally, in 2019, the Audit Committee formally evaluated quarter were discussed. At least once a year, the Audit the external auditor, and discussed the reappointment of Committee meets with the external auditor without the KPMG, as well as the succession of the current lead external Managing Board being present. Four such meetings took audit partner whose maximum five-year term will end after place in 2019. the completion of the 2019 audit. The proposal to reappoint KPMG is based on the Audit Committee's own assessment The Committee had in-depth discussions on the company's of KPMG, among others through discussions with KPMG in financials; the Finance plan; the Capital Expenditure plan; the absence of management, as well as the outcome of an dividend proposals; the financial statements and evaluation among DSM executives. The Audit Committee accounting policy changes. The € 1 billion share buy-back conducts a more in-depth evaluation once every three program was also part of those discussions. The discussions years; in the two other years, a lighter evaluation is on internal risk management and control systems included performed. For 2019, the lighter evaluation was performed. the internal control framework, compliance with The auditor evaluations in prior years were positive and recommendations and observations made by internal and the outcome of the 2019 evaluation was positive as well. external auditors, and the role and functioning of COA, including the endorsement of its proposed audit plan for Financial statements 2019 2020, which was subsequently approved by the full Board, as well as the COA Vision 2021 document. As part of the The Report by the Managing Board and the financial Corporate Risk Assessment, the company's main risks and statements for 2019 were submitted by the Managing Board their mitigation were discussed. The Committee also to the Supervisory Board, in accordance with the provisions discussed and evaluated cases submitted under the of Article 30 of the Articles of Association, and were company whistleblower policy (DSM Alert), fraud cases, and subsequently approved by the Supervisory Board on on-going litigation. All these discussions included 26 February 2020. The financial statements were audited by mitigating actions to prevent recurrence. Another recurring KPMG, who issued an unqualified opinion (see the topic is our cybersecurity resilience, about which the Audit 'Independent auditor's report' on page 236). The Committee is informed through a dashboard. A specific Supervisory Board established that the external auditor was topic for the company's cybersecurity resilience has been independent of DSM. the investments needed to keep the operational technology's cybersecurity fully up to standard. The Supervisory Board will submit the 2019 financial statements to the 2020 Annual General Meeting of Discussions were held with KPMG about the audit plan, Shareholders, and will propose that the shareholders adopt management letter, audit report and financial statements them and release the Managing Board from all liability in for 2019, including management's judgments and key respect of its managerial activities and release the accounting estimates. In its management letter KPMG Supervisory Board from all liability in respect of its shared the outcome of its evaluation of the company's supervision of the Managing Board. The profit appropriation procedures and system of internal controls to the extent as proposed by the Managing Board and approved by the necessary within the scope of the audit of the financial Supervisory Board is presented in the Profit section of this statements. The observations of KPMG were presented Report on page 58. along the pillars that support our in-control statement (for the 'Statements of the Managing Board' on page 121, and for a visualization of our control environment see 'Corporate governance — Introduction' on page 106). The management letter contained constructive recommendations for further strengthening of our internal controls. The most important element was KPMG's encouragement to continue the development of the pillar 'Internal Control Framework', including embedding robots, taking it to a higher level of maturity. With respect to robots, the company has already Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 129 www.dsm.com Remuneration report 2019 Remuneration Managing Board Koninklijke DSM N.V. 2019 Introduction by the Chair of the Remuneration Committee Summary remuneration policy Managing Board Koninklijke DSM N.V. In 2019, DSM put forward a revised remuneration policy The remuneration policy Managing Board Koninklijke DSM Managing Board and Supervisory Board Koninklijke DSM N.V. N.V. (as approved by the 2019 AGM; 97.48% in favor) is to the Annual General Meeting (AGM). We highly appreciated designed to engage qualified leaders driving our purpose, the dialogue with a number of our shareholders and enabling DSM to engage our people and other stakeholders representatives of institutional investors and the virtually and ultimately to achieve results – by putting customers unanimous support of the AGM (over 97% votes in favor). first and by delivering on our promises. The policy provides This first Remuneration report is in line with adjusted a clear focus to improve company performance and to legislation and EU-guidelines based on the EU enhance purpose-led long-term value creation across Shareholders' Rights Directive, and explains the application multiple dimensions (profit: economical/financial, planet: of the respective policies in 2019. ecological/sustainability and people: including societal) while acknowledging the societal context and recognizing DSM is recognized as a purpose-led company, creating longthe interests of all our stakeholders (especially our term value for all its stakeholders and society at large across customers, employees, shareholders, as well as society at the three dimensions of People, Planet and Profit. Our large). scientific expertise and innovation capabilities help us to find answers to some of the world's biggest challenges and The remuneration is linked to company and individual to grow our business at the same time. The deployment of performance. Based on the short and long-term strategic our Strategy 2021: Growth & value – Purpose led, objectives as well as our business drivers, results are Performance driven is supported by our remuneration measured on the basis of specified targets, balancing shortpolicy. The design of our short and long-term incentive and long-term outcomes, serving the interests of all our plans emphasizes long-term growth opportunities in the stakeholders. In order to be competitive and to ensure domains of Health, Nutrition and Sustainable Living. Targets alignment internally, Total Direct Remuneration offered by on energy efficiency and greenhouse gas reduction, as well DSM approaches the median — from below — of a as a shift in portfolio toward Brighter Living Solutions, predefined peer group. Reward levels are benchmarked to underpin our commitment to sustainability while ensuring the Dutch/European (no US companies) labor market peer financial performance in line with our key strategic goals group, while plan design of various reward components is (Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted net operating free cash reviewed against (the broader perspective of) best market flow). Obviously, our remuneration policy is designed to practices. attract and retain the talent we require to achieve our Strategy 2021 and sustainable success in the long term. Labor market peer group In 2019, DSM continued to deliver improvements in European industry peers: Dutch — AEX listed peers: customer-centricity, large innovation projects, as well as Clariant Ahold Delhaize cost control and operational excellence, resulting in sound Covestro AkzoNobel results and reflected in remuneration as presented in this Evonik Industries ASML report. Givaudan Heineken Johnson Matthey KPN This Remuneration report provides a summary of the LANXESS Philips remuneration policy Managing Board Koninklijke DSM N.V. Lonza Randstad and the Supervisory Board Koninklijke DSM N.V. respectively Solvay Wolters Kluwer as well as an overview of the remuneration of the members of the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board in the financial year 2019. The full, legally superseding The full version of the remuneration policy Managing Board remuneration policy as approved by the AGM is published Koninklijke DSM N.V., as approved by the 2019 AGM, is on our website. This report is prepared in accordance with available on the company website. The following table the relevant parts of Section 135 Book 2 of the Dutch Civil specifies the elements of the remuneration policy Code. describing purpose, design and link to our company strategy as well as their (potential) value. Pauline van der Meer Mohr Chair Remuneration Committee Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 130 www.dsm.com Report by the Supervisory Board Remuneration report 2019 PURPOSE DESIGN AND LINK TO STRATEGY VALUE Goal The goal of DSM's remuneration policy Managing Board Koninklijke DSM N.V. is to offer an on target total remuneration package approaching the median — from below — of the labor market peer group. Total Direct Compensation Includes base salary and variable income. Variable income concerns Value of each respective item is Is the basis for benchmark the performance-related Short-Term Incentive (STI) and the STI included hereafter. efforts, i.e., the reference to the deferral & matching plan, as well as the Long-Term Incentive plan labor market peer group. (LTI). In addition, Managing Board members are entitled to certain benefits. Base salary Aims to provide a fair and competitive basis for the total pay level Base salaries at DSM approach Basic pay for doing the job. to attract and retain qualified leaders. Annual review based on the the median — from below — of market movement for executives based in the Netherlands and peer the labor market peer group. companies. In depth benchmark every three years. Short-Term Incentive (STI) The Supervisory Board sets goals and targets for the respective On-target performance: 50% of Incentive aligning short-term performance year and determines the extent to which they have annual base salary. Maximum business objectives and business been achieved. By ensuring that strategic objectives are properly opportunity capped at 100%. drivers toward strategic company reflected in stretched yet achievable targets, the realization of Threshold: no STI pay-out in case objectives. Driving pay for strategic business objectives is addressed. Half of the at-target STI the target on Adjusted EBITDA is performance. is linked to financial objectives; the other half is tied to sustainability not achieved for at least 75%. aspirations and individual goals. STI deferral & matching Conversion of STI into shares, with a 1:1 company match delivered Mandatory conversion: 25% of STI Ensures that longer term in Performance Share Units (PSUs). The PSUs vest upon the achieved; voluntary conversion: considerations are sufficiently realization of predefined goals (same as LTI program), observing a 0–25%, with incremental steps of taken into account in pursuing three-year vesting period. By linking the vesting of the PSUs to the 5%. Maximum number of short-term objectives. targets of the LTI program, it is ensured that decisions regarding matching PSUs to vest, equal to short-term results are aligned with long-term value creation. number granted. Long-Term Incentive (LTI) PSUs are awarded every year, to be converted into shares upon The at-target grant equals 100% Focus on long-term value realization of predefined targets, observing a three-year vesting of base salary. Maximum vesting creation. Designed to ensure that period. A five-year holding period (starting at grant date) applies. opportunity is 150% of the decisions made are in the longPerformance goals are based on company strategy, driving longnumber of PSUs granted.1 term interest of all stakeholders term value creation. Half of the target LTI is linked to financial goals; and to safeguard that interests the other half is linked to sustainability aspirations. Performance is of the Managing Board and the measured over three financial years, starting with the year of grant. company stakeholders are aligned. Shareholding requirement Managing Board members are expected to build up a shareholding The minimum share-holding Aligning reward to the interests in the company; the minimum shareholding requirement must be requirement is 300% of annual of stakeholders, and accrued in four years. Considered are shares privately purchased base salary for the CEO and 200% emphasizing confidence in and vested shares granted under DSM share-based compensation for other MB-members. performance and strategy. plans. Pension and other benefits Mandatory enrollment in basic pension plan as applicable to all DSM Pension scheme aligned with Post-retirement remuneration employees in the Netherlands (Collective Defined Contribution). In plans in place for employees in contributing to the addition, a company-paid contribution to allow participation in the Netherlands. Other benefits competitiveness of the overall the so-called Net Pension Plan under conditions as applicable to aligned with market practice. package. Together with other Netherlands-based employees (Individual Defined Contribution). benefits, creates alignment with Other benefits include sick pay (aligned with Netherlands-based market practice. employees) and a company car. Goal setting Supervisory Board sets goals, their respective weight and targets Goals must be stretching yet Goal setting is key to driving pay (i.e., metric) for the respective performance year under the STI and achievable. for performance aligned with LTI scheme, considering: Company strategy and to ensure Company strategy that decisions made and results Focus on long-term value creation delivered are aligned with the Historical performance, business outlook, and circumstances interests of DSM's stakeholders. and priorities Stakeholder expectations At target level, there is a 50:50 split between financial goals and sustainability/individual goals. 1 At face value, the at target LTI grant equals 100% of annual base salary. Applying a discounted fair value approach, the grant value represents approximately 50% of annual base salary. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 131 www.dsm.com Total remuneration Managing Board 2019 Fixed annual base salary Actual remuneration 2019 is fully aligned with the remuneration policy which complies with EU requirements in € 1 July 2019 1 July 2018 and Dutch legislation. Mr. Sijbesma's term as CEO and Chairman of the Managing Board / Executive Committee Feike Sijbesma 960,000 942,500 Koninklijke DSM N.V. and as member of the Managing Board, Geraldine Matchett 637,500 622,500 i.e., as Managing Director under the Articles of Association Dimitri de Vreeze 637,500 622,500 of the Company, expired as of 15 February 2020. In view of a proper handover to his successors and to finish certain projects, Mr. Sijbesma remains employed until 1 May 2020, As of 15 February 2020, the annual base salary of Geraldine observing the terms and conditions of the employment Matchett and Dimitri de Vreeze amounts to € 925,000 in view agreement. The terms and conditions of Mr. Sijbesma's of their appointment as Co-CEO as per the same date. leaving as part of a planned succession process are in line with DSM policies and practices. Mr. Sijbesma will not Short-Term Incentive (STI) receive any severance payment and/or transitional This report includes the STI achievement 2019, payable in compensation. Details reported here for Mr. Sijbesma March 2020. Targets were set ahead of the STI cycle, in concern the full calendar year 2019. accordance with the remuneration policy and budgeted results for the current year, ensuring that achievement of Base salary threshold, target or maximum payout are challenging. A Considering the general increase or market movement for scenario analysis was conducted prior to final approval of DSM executives in the Netherlands and adjustments made the targets by the Supervisory Board. by peer-group companies, base salaries have been adjusted; on average the adjustment amounts to 2.2% (CEO 1.9% and other members of the Managing Board 2.4%). Definitions goals set for 2019 STI (total 50% weight) Adjusted EBITDA (weighting 12.5%): Sum of the operating profit plus depreciation and amortization, adjusted for material items of profit/loss following acquisitions/divestments, restructurings and other circumstances deemed necessary Adjusted net operating free cash flow (10%): Cash flow from operating activities, corrected for the cash flow of the APM adjustments, minus the cash flow of Capital expenditures and drawing rights Net sales growth (2.5%): Net organic sales growth Brighter Living Solutions (5%): Products and services that, considering the whole product life cycle, offer an environmental benefit (ECO+) and/or social benefit (People+) compared to mainstream reference solutions. DSM uses a standard approach to measure the impact of portfolio changes (for ECO+ the Eco Life Cycle Assessment, using the WBCSD Chemical sector approach whereas People+ qualifications are made using DSM's People LCA method) Safety (5%): Based on Frequency Index for recordable injuries Employee engagement (5%): Based on the High-Performance Norm in industry Individual goals (10%): Individual objectives to be achieved by the respective Managing Board member The company does not disclose the exact actual targets, as achievement on Adjusted net operating free cash flow was these qualify as commercially sensitive information, though above target. The target regarding Net sales growth was not the targets set are fully in line with the published strategic, achieved (zero pay-out). The many efforts to improve our financial and sustainability goals of the company. The Safety performance resulted in an above-target realization. overall average achievement of the Managing Board Although the overall engagement score over 2019 was members for performance year 2019 amounts to 54% (2018: comparable to 2018, the target realization dropped to at 80%) of annual base salary. The realization of the financial target level, since the target was raised. Performance targets has been assessed by KPMG. In addition, KPMG regarding portfolio management measured by Brighter assessed the validation process for non-financial targets. Living Solutions, remained at target. In view of transparency, we categorize our target realization The combined realization resulted in a 2019 STI pay-out as as follows: zero pay-out, below target, at target, above target included in the overview below. or maximum pay-out. In 2019, the target achievement of the Adjusted EBITDA performance was below target. The Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 132 www.dsm.com Report by the Supervisory Board Remuneration report 2019 Short-Term Incentive Grant of PSUs under the short-term deferral & matching scheme in € 2019 2018 2019 grant 2018 grant Feike Sijbesma 541,261 756,641 Number of PSUs granted (vesting 2022) (vesting 2021) Geraldine Matchett 326,970 498,672 Dimitri de Vreeze 342,720 483,328 Feike Sijbesma 3,872 4,264 Geraldine Matchett 2,552 2,800 Dimitri de Vreeze 2,474 2,800 Short-Term Incentive deferral & matching (STI) In addition to the mandatory deferral (25% of STI achieved), the Managing Board members decided to convert an Long-Term Incentive (LTI) additional 25% (maximum possible) of the STI achieved in 2019 into shares. This means that all Managing Board 2019 and 2020 grant members converted 50% of their STI (100% of the cash after In 2019, 18,500 Performance Shares Units (PSUs) (2018: tax) into this long-term incentive, representing their trust 17,000) were granted to the CEO. The 2019 grant to the other and focus on the long term. A 1:1 grant of PSUs was Managing Board members amounted to 12,500 PSUs (2018: implemented, amounting to 8,898 PSUs in total (2018: 9,864), 11,000). the following table provides an overview. For more The 2020 grant equals 12,500 PSUs for each Co-CEO, information see the section on 'Equity based compensation' Geraldine Matchett and Dimitri de Vreeze. Feike Sijbesma is in this Remuneration report. not eligible for a grant in 2020. Any grant equals the maximum number of PSUs that may vest. Goal setting and vesting scheme Targets were set ahead of the LTI cycle, in accordance with the remuneration policy, ensuring that achievement of threshold, target or maximum vesting are challenging. A scenario analysis was conducted. Definition goals set for LTI grants 1. Total Shareholder Return — TSR (weighting 25%): Sum of capital gain and dividends paid, representing the total return to shareholders. The relative ranking (within the peer group) reflects the market perception of overall performance relative to our peers. 2. Return on Capital Employed — ROCE (25%): Operating profit as percentage of weighted average capital employed. 3. Energy Efficiency Improvement — EEI (25%): The reduction of the amount of energy used per unit product (known as energy efficiency) on a three-year rolling average basis. 4. Greenhouse Gas Emissions — GHGE (25%): As of the 2019 grant: absolute reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in kilotons over performance. Up to and including the 2018 grant, the target is based on the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions per unit of product. Vesting 2016 grant The performance period of the PSUs granted in 2016 was completed by year-end 2018: the actual vesting was on 31 March 2019. This concerns the PSUs granted under the Long-Term Incentive plan as well as the PSUs granted under the STI deferral & matching plan. Since all targets were achieved at maximum, all PSUs granted also vested (maximum vesting). The following vesting schemes applied (given its business-sensitive nature, the ROCE-vesting scheme is not disclosed). Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 133 www.dsm.com TSR vesting scheme1 EEI vesting scheme GHGE Efficiency improvement vesting scheme2 Rank % of PSUs DSM EEI% % of PSUs DSM GHGE % of PSUs granted that (over a 3-year granted that vest Efficiency improvement granted that vest vest period) % (over a 3-year period) 1 100 ≥ 4.00 100 ≥ 8.25 100 2 97 3.25 < 4.00 83 7.75 < 8.25 83 3 93 2.75 < 3.25 67 7.25 < 7.75 67 4 87 2.50 < 2.75 50 6.75 < 7.25 50 5 80 2.25 < 2.50 33 6.25 < 6.75 33 6 73 2.00 < 2.25 17 5.75 < 6.25 17 7 67 < 2.00 0 < 5.75 0 8 50 9 33 10-15 0 1 Peer group 2016 grant includes AkzoNobel, Arkema, BASF, Chr. Hanssen, Clariant, Croda International, DuPont, Evonik, Givaudan, Kerry, LANXESS, Lonza, Novozymes, Solvay. 2 As of the 2019 grant, the target is based on an absolute reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. The table provides an overview of the number of PSUs used by Managing Board members to participate in the sogranted in 2016 that vested (i.e., converted to unconditional called Net Pension Plan under conditions as applicable to shares) in 2019. all participating DSM employees. The company provides an accident insurance, a company PSUs granted in 2016 vested in 2019 car and a fixed representation allowance in line with market practice. STI deferral & Total remuneration matching Actual remuneration 2019 is fully aligned with the Number of PSUs vested1 LTI scheme remuneration policy. The latest benchmark conducted, demonstrated that DSM lags the median of the labor market Feike Sijbesma 31,000 5,350 peer group, also considering the pay-out scenarios of the Geraldine Matchett 20,500 3,506 incentive schemes. For the CEO, the total remuneration is Dimitri de Vreeze 20,500 3,505 in the lowest quartile of our own — Dutch/European — benchmark. For the other Managing Board members, it is 1 At vesting, a sell-to-cover applied: out of the vested shares, a number of shares in the second quartile but below the median. The difference are sold at vesting date to cover taxes due. would become even bigger if the benchmark comparison were made with a global peer group (i.e., including US-based Pension and other benefits peers). Participation in the basic pension plan provided by the Dutch pension fund (Stichting Pensioenfonds DSM The table provides an overview of the total remuneration Nederland — PDN) to all DSM employees in the Netherlands expense for the Managing Board (the cost reported for DSM, is mandatory for the Managing Board. Regarding are not in all cases the compensation paid nor the cash pensionable salary not covered by the basic pension plan, outflows for DSM). a company-paid pension contribution as determined by the Supervisory Board applies. This contribution can be Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 134 www.dsm.com Report by the Supervisory Board Remuneration report 2019 DSM's remuneration expense for the Managing Board (the costs reported here for DSM, according to IFRS definitions, are not in all cases the compensation paid, nor the cash outflows for DSM) x € thousand Fixed Variable compensation Fixed Fixed Total Proportion Base Salary / Short-Term Share-based Pension Other items3 fixed / Fees Incentive Compensation1 expenditure2 variable compensation 2019 2018 2019 2018 20194 20184 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Feike Sijbesma, CEO 951 931 541 757 1,563 1,415 234 218 59 58 3,348 3,379 37:63 36:64 Geraldine Matchett, CFO 630 614 327 499 1,030 933 109 107 86 116 2,182 2,269 38:62 37:63 Dimitri de Vreeze, member 630 614 343 483 1,029 922 126 123 47 46 2,175 2,188 37:63 36:64 Total Managing Board 2,211 2,159 1,211 1,739 3,622 3,270 469 448 192 220 7,705 7,836 37:63 36:64 1 Share-based compensation represents the non-cash cost for DSM of Performance Share Units (PSUs) awarded. These costs are recognized over the vesting period and therefore cover several years. The higher number for 2019 compared to 2018 mainly results from the fact that the 2019 calculations include series initially granted at a higher share price, while the vesting percentage in 2019 was higher compared to 2018. The percentage of vesting will determine the final income. Against the opening price at vesting date, the 2019 vesting (all Managing Board members together) represents a value of € 8 million, subject to a sell-to-cover. 2 Increase in the pension costs of Mr. Sijbesma based on design of the contribution table: since he turned 60 in 2019, the pension contribution automatically increased. 3 Fringe benefits, like company car and allowances. 4 Share-based compensation 2018 concerns the grants in 2015 (partial), 2016, 2017 and 2018 (partial); share-based compensation 2019 concerns the grants in 2016 (partial), 2017, 2018 and 2019 (partial). Equity-based compensation Overview of outstanding equity compensation The table below provides an overview of outstanding PSUs (granted under the LTI and STI deferral & matching scheme respectively). The main conditions of the share-based compensation are: Vehicle Performance Share Units (PSUs), converted to shares at vesting Grant date Last trading day in March Vesting period Three years, starting at grant date Vesting conditions Realization of predefined performance goals In service at vesting date Performance period Three performance years, starting 1 January of the year of grant Holding period Five years, starting at grant date Lock-up period Blocking period chosen by incumbent, may result in tax discount Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 135 www.dsm.com Outstanding Performance Share Units Year of issue Outstanding at 31 In 2019 Outstanding at Share price Dec. 2018 Granted Vested Forfeited / 31 Dec. 2019 at date of expired grant (€) Feike Sijbesma 2016 36,350 (36,350) 48.79 2017 29,333 29,333 63.65 2018 21,264 21,264 80.04 2019 22,372 22,372 97.74 Total 86,947 22,372 (36,350) 72,969 Retained shares originated from PSUs 116,402 Geraldine Matchett 2016 24,006 (24,006) 48.79 2017 19,092 19,092 63.65 2018 13,800 13,800 80.04 2019 15,052 15,052 97.74 Total 56,898 15,052 (24,006) 47,944 Retained shares originated from PSUs 33,631 Dimitri de Vreeze 2016 24,005 (24,005) 48.79 2017 19,092 19,092 63.65 2018 13,800 13,800 80.04 2019 14,974 14,974 97.74 Total 56,897 14,974 (24,005) 47,866 Retained shares originated from PSUs 27,587 The table below provides an overview of stock options held by members of the Managing Board. Mr. de Vreeze received these stock options prior to his first appointment as a Managing Board member. During 2019, he exercised 18,000 stock options; the shares were sold for an average share price of € 94.44. Outstanding stock options Year of issue Outstanding In 2019 Outstanding Average Exercise Expiry date at 31 Dec. Exercised Forfeited/ at 31 Dec. share price price (€) 2018 expired 20191 at exercise (€) Dimitri de Vreeze 2011 18,000 (18,000) 94.44 46.20 2 May 2019 2012 12,000 12,000 40.90 15 May 2020 2013 12,000 12,000 48.91 7 May 2021 Total 42,000 (18,000) 24,000 Of which vested 42,000 24,000 1 The other members of the Managing Board do not hold any stock options. For employee information, as required by section 383d Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code, reference is made to Note 27, 'Sharebased compensation' on page 223. As at 31 December 2019, 3,020,830 (2018: 5,616,235) of the total number of treasury shares outstanding were held for servicing management, personnel share option rights and performance share unit plans. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 136 www.dsm.com Report by the Supervisory Board Remuneration report 2019 Shareholding obligation In addition to the performance shares held on the basis of vested grants under the DSM Stock Incentive Plan, all members of the Managing Board have invested in DSM shares, emphasizing their confidence in the company and its strategy. These shares were bought through private transactions with private funds (including shares purchased through STI deferral). The table provides an overview of the number of shares held at year-end. Managing Board holdings of DSM shares 31 December 2019 31 December 2018 Ordinary shares Holdings from Total Ordinary shares Holdings from Total purchased with vested PSUs holdings purchased with vested PSUs holdings private money private money Feike Sijbesma 72,345 116,402 188,747 68,473 97,125 165,598 Geraldine Matchett 13,328 33,631 46,959 10,776 17,638 28,414 Dimitri de Vreeze 22,357 27,587 49,944 19,883 14,858 34,741 Total holdings 108,030 177,620 285,650 99,132 129,621 228,753 All Managing Board members significantly exceed the Typically, the share of total remuneration that is at risk shareholding obligation (300% of base salary for the CEO; varies for different employee segments and geographies, 200% of base salary for other Managing Board members). due to the impact of incentive schemes. Whereas the percentage of variable pay as a percentage of total Company performance versus remuneration over time remuneration is highest for the CEO/Managing Board (at target 150%), it may be limited or nil for other employee Five-year review of company performance and Managing segments or in certain countries (also as a result of CLA Board remuneration negotiations). Based on performance, the results of the The following table provides an overview of the respective incentive schemes (and therefore the impact on development of the remuneration of the members of the total remuneration) varies over time. The average Managing Board over the past five years, the development remuneration of all other employees (excluding the of company performance and the average remuneration of Managing Board) is not only influenced by factors such as other employees (excluding the Managing Board members differences in the pay mix (as mentioned above), or changes and discontinued operations). Total remuneration for in exchange rates, but also factors related to the Managing Board members are the remuneration expenses composition of the employee polulation such as the impact calculated in accordance with IFRS as included in the of acquisitions and divestments, restructuring, inand annual reports of the relevant years. The table provides an outflow of personnel. overview of company performance based on Adjusted EBITDA, share price (year average) and the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 137 www.dsm.com 5-year Overview remuneration and company performance (unless mentioned otherwise, year-on-year change) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Average1 Managing Board remuneration Feike Sijbesma Base salary 0.8% 3.4% 1.1% 2.3% 2.1% 1.9% Total remuneration 18.9% 14.5% -0.1% 24.8% -0.9% 11.4% Geraldine Matchett2 Base salary 3.5% 1.4% 2.7% 2.6% 2.6% Total remuneration 27.3% 12.0% 22.3% -3.8% 14.5% Dimitri de Vreeze3 Base salary 3.5% 1.4% 2.7% 2.6% 2.6% Total remuneration 15.5% 3.9% 25.1% -0.6% 11.0% Company performance Adjusted EBITDA underlying business4 3.6% 17.4% 14.5% 6.0% 9.9% 10.3% Year-average share price -2.7% 9.1% 24.4% 25.8% 23.1% 15.9% GHGE Efficiency improvement in the respective year 4.7% 4.2% 4.1% 9.3% 12.7% 7.0% Development of average employee remuneration Base salary employees Netherlands 4.2% 4.3% 3.3% 3.4% 3.8% Average remuneration cost of employees (globally) 6.8% 4.2% 0.9% -1.6% -0.2% 2.0% 1 Average calculated over the years, a change on year-on-year basis is provided. 2 Appointed as member of the Managing Board with effect from 1 August 2014, % change calculated as of 2016. 3 Appointed as member of the Managing Board with effect from 1 September 2013, % change calculated as of 2016. 4 Based on DSM figures : five-year summary, see table on page 246. DSM's performance in terms of (profit) growth, share price pay component), and this variable pay will fluctuate with increase and greenhouse gas emissions reduction has been business results. On top of that, different regions of the very good over the last five years, as shown in the above world have different pay structures, so acquisitions/ table. The Managing Board's total remuneration expenses divestments, growth in certain areas and foreign exchange (including the achievements on short and long-term rates will equally influence the pay ratio. DSM complies with incentive schemes as well as pension expenditures), the Dutch Corporate Governance Code in providing a pay developed in line with the improving performance of the ratio, as measured per 31 December 2019. company. The year-on-year change in base salary of the CEO and Managing Board members remains below the year-onThe pay ratio calculated versus the Dutch employee year change in the average base salary of the employees remuneration average was 25:1 (2018: 26:1) (compared to CEO in the Netherlands. Average total remuneration cost of remuneration) or 19:1 (2018: 20:1) (compared to average other employees (globally) concern all employee cost as Managing Board remuneration). This is based on total cost included in Note 5 of the Consolidated Financial of € 530 million in the Netherlands (which includes the Statements. The flattening of the change in the last three remuneration of the Managing Board and has been years is to a large extent caused by M&A activities and deducted in the ratio calculation) and a headcount in the restructuring of our operations, while the adjustments of Netherlands of 3,960 as at 31 December 2019. exchange rates also had an impact. The year-on-year change of the average base salary in the Netherlands, as The ratio of total remuneration, including annual base well as average employee cost globally, are influenced by salary, STI, LTI and other benefits such as pension (as the fact that the composition of the underlying employee reported in this Remuneration report) versus the average population changes from year to year as a consequence of total global employee (i.e., including Dutch) of among others retirements, new hires, restructurings, and remuneration, is for the CEO 41:1 (2018: 40:1). The pay ratio M&A activities. of the average Managing Board total remuneration versus the average of total global employee remuneration is 32:1 Pay ratio (2018: 31:1). The increase is due to the higher number of Under the Dutch Corporate Governance Code companies are shares that now vested (so a lower number of shares that required to publish a pay ratio. As the Code does not provide were forfeited over the period 2016-2018) of the total a definition of the pay ratio, the calculation method applied number of shares that were granted in 2016, due to the good will vary per company, which will make the pay ratio data performance of the company. incomparable. The pay ratio per company will also differ year on year, since the variable pay (as a percentage of annual base salary) of the CEO/Managing Board is typically much higher (150% at target) than the variable pay of the comparable average employee group (limited or no variable Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 138 www.dsm.com Report by the Supervisory Board Remuneration report 2019 However, if the pay ratio is calculated on the basis of the estimated vesting percentage, so without the additional non-cash vesting of shares for the series 2016–2018, the pay ratio compared to the Dutch employee average for the CEO would be 20:1 (2018: 22:1) and for the average of the Managing Board remuneration 15:1 (2018: 17:1). Compared to the total global employee remuneration, these would be 33:1 (2018: 34:1) for the CEO and 25:1 (2018: 26:1) for the average of the Managing Board. Underlying data for the pay ratio calculation can be retrieved from the table 'DSM's remuneration expense for the Managing Board' (including table notes) in the section 'Total remuneration' of this Remuneration report, as well as from the table 'Geographical information' on page 185 in Note 4, and Note 5, 'Net sales and costs' on page 188. Data for the Netherlands are explicitly mentioned as they are not directly retrievable. Remuneration Supervisory Board Koninklijke DSM N.V. 2019 Summary of the remuneration policy Supervisory Board Koninklijke DSM N.V. The remuneration policy is designed to engage qualified leaders with the right balance of personal skills, competences and experience required to oversee (the execution of) the company's strategy, its performance and long-term value creation, recognizing the interests of all stakeholders. In line with the Dutch Corporate Governance Code, the remuneration is not linked to company and individual performance. As a reference, the remuneration of the Supervisory Board is benchmarked to market practice, predominantly against AEX companies, given the company's country of domicile. The total fixed remuneration should approach the median of the reference market. The full version of the remuneration policy Supervisory Board Koninklijke DSM N.V. as approved by the 2019 AGM is available on the company website. The table below summarizes the key elements of the remuneration policy, describing purpose, design and (potential) value. PURPOSE DESIGN VALUE Fixed fee Reward and incentivize Supervisory Board members to Approaching the median of the market Basic pay for doing the job utilize their skills and competences to the maximum reference (predominantly AEX companies). extent possible in executing their tasks. The reward Position and fee reflects the nature of responsibilities and time spent. Chair € 105,000 Aims to provide a fair and competitive pay level to Deputy Chair € 75,000 engage qualified leaders. Member € 70,000 Review: in principal every three years, based on inChair Audit Committee € 18,500 depth benchmarking. Member Audit Committee € 12,000 Chair other Committees € 14,000 Member other Committees € 8,500 Intercontinental travel fee Fixed amount representing time commitment related € 5,000 for each time it is required to travel to intercontinental travel. outside the continent of residence. Expenses Expenses incurred in fulfilling duties are reimbursed. Depending on level of expenses. Fixed per To be paid upon submission of a statement of annum: € 1,250. expenses, partially covered by a fixed allowance. Shareholding requirement In line with Dutch Corporate Governance Code no Not applicable. mandatory shareholding requirement. Supervisory Board members are encouraged to invest in privately owned DSM shares. Benefits and loans Supervisory Board members are not entitled to Not applicable. participate in any benefits program offered to employees. Loans will not be provided. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 139 www.dsm.com Total remuneration 2019 Committee overview The Supervisory Board members are assigned to the various committees. Committee overview Audit Nomination Remuneration Sustainability Rob Routs (Chair) Chair Member Pauline van der Meer Mohr (Deputy Chair) Member Chair Victoria Haynes Member Member Eileen Kennedy Member Chair Erica Mann (as of 8 May 2019) Member Member Frits van Paasschen Member Member Pradeep Pant Member Member John Ramsay Chair Member Total Remuneration The table provides an overview of total remuneration provided in 2019; as of 8 May 2019, the revised policy as approved by the 2019 AGM applies. Remuneration Supervisory Board Members in € Fixed Total Proportion fixed/ remuneration variable compensation Annual fee Committee fee Other costs1 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Rob Routs, Chair 96,667 85,000 20,208 17,000 6,250 5,250 123,125 107,250 100:0 100:0 Pauline van der Meer Mohr, Dep. Chair 68,750 60,000 20,208 17,000 6,250 5,250 95,208 82,250 100:0 100:0 Tom de Swaan, Dep. Chair (until 9 May 2018) 30,000 8,800 625 39,425 100:0 Victoria Haynes, Member 65,833 60,000 19,042 17,000 24,250 17,250 109,125 94,250 100:0 100:0 Eileen Kennedy, Member 65,833 60,000 20,209 17,000 24,250 13,250 110,292 90,250 100:0 100:0 Erica Mann, Member (as of 8 May 2019) 40,833 11,958 14,730 67,521 100:0 Frits van Paasschen, Member 65,833 60,000 19,042 17,000 29,250 25,250 114,125 102,250 100:0 100:0 Pradeep Pant, Member 65,833 60,000 19,042 17,000 24,250 21,250 109,125 98,250 100:0 100:0 John Ramsay, Member 65,833 60,000 24,917 17,200 6,250 5,250 97,000 82,450 100:0 100:0 Total 535,415 475,000 154,626 128,000 135,480 93,375 825,521 696,375 100:0 100:0 1 Involves International travel fee, expenses allowance and expenses exceeding expenses allowance In line with the remuneration policy, no variable compensation applies, and Supervisory Board members do not participate in any pension scheme. No extraordinary items apply. The total spent in 2019 was higher compared to 2018. This is based on an extension of the Supervisory Board in view of succession planning and the renewal of the remuneration policy that allows for an adjustment of the annual fixed fees by an average of 20% (note that the last adjustment of fees took place in 2016). Benefits and loans Members of the Supervisory Board are not eligible for any benefit programs offered by the company (or any beneficiary) to its employees, neither have any loans been provided. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 140 www.dsm.com Report by the Supervisory Board Remuneration report 2019 Equity based compensation As confirmed in the remuneration policy, Supervisory Board members do not receive any equity-based compensation. They are, however, encouraged to hold privately owned shares. At year-end 2019, Pauline van der Meer Mohr held 1,529 shares (2018: 1,529); Victoria Haynes held 300 shares (2018: 300) and John Ramsay held 1,057 shares (2018: 1,057). No other member of the Supervisory Board held shares in the company during 2019. Remuneration over time The table provides an overview of the total remuneration of the Supervisory Board members over a five-year period. A comparison of the development of total remuneration compared to company performance is not provided, as the Supervisory Board's total remuneration is not linked to company performance (Dutch Corporate Governance Code and remuneration policy Supervisory Board Koninklijke DSM N.V.). 5-year Remuneration overview Supervisory Board 5-year 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 average Rob Routs Chair -3.5% 15.5% 10.9% 0.0% 14.8% 7.5% Pauline van der Meer Mohr Dep. Chair -5.4% 14.9% 10.2% 0.0% 15.8% 7.1% Victoria Haynes Member 3.9% 10.5% 7.6% 0.0% 15.8% 7.6% Eileen Kennedy Member 4.2% 26.5% 0.4% -4.2% 22.2% 9.8% Erica Mann Member (as of 8 May 2019) Frits van Paasschen Member (as of 3 May 2017) 11.6% Pradeep Pant Member (as of 29 April 2016) -3.9% 11.1% John Ramsay Member (as of 3 May 2017) 17.6% Closing remarks and shareholder vote The company did not provide any loans to any member of the Supervisory or Managing Board. The company website contains an overview of the main terms and conditions of employment of both Co-CEOs. The 2019 AGM approved the remuneration policy Supervisory Board Koninklijke DSM N.V. (98.45% in favor) as well as the remuneration policy Managing Board Koninklijke DSM N.V. (97.48% in favor). The total remuneration delivered in 2019 is aligned with the respective remuneration policies: no deviations or derogations applied. As in 2018, no revision or claw-back of any incentives occurred in 2019. The remuneration for the financial year 2019, as described in this report, is subject to an advisory vote at the 2020 AGM. Questions raised in the 2019 AGM regarding remuneration items have been addressed in the respective meeting, reference is made to the minutes of the meeting, posted on the company website. As a result, there were no specifics raised that needed to be addressed in this Remuneration report. Heerlen, 26 February 2020 The Supervisory Board Rob Routs, Chair Pauline van der Meer Mohr, Deputy Chair Victoria Haynes Eileen Kennedy Erica Mann Frits van Paasschen Pradeep Pant John Ramsay Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 141 www.dsm.com Supervisory Board and Managing Board Royal DSM Supervisory Board Rob Routs (1946, m), Chair Pauline van der Meer Mohr First appointed: 2010. End of current term: (1960, f), Deputy Chair 2020. Nationality: Dutch. Nomination First appointed: 2011. End of current term: Committee (Chair), Remuneration 2021. Nationality: Dutch. Remuneration Committee (member). Last executive Committee (Chair), Nomination Committee position held: Executive Director (member). Last executive position held: Downstream and member of the Board of President Executive Board Erasmus Royal Dutch Shell plc. Supervisory University Rotterdam. Supervisory directorships/other positions: member of directorships/other positions: nonthe Board of Directors of AECOM; member executive Director HSBC Holdings plc., nonof the Board of Directors of ATCO Group Ltd.; executive director of the Board of Mylan N.V.; and member of the Board of Directors of Chair, Supervisory Board EY Netherlands; Maersk Drilling. Chair, Board of Trustees Nederlands Danstheater; Chair of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code Monitoring Committee. Victoria Haynes (1947, f) Eileen Kennedy (1947, f) First appointed: 2012. End of current term: First appointed: 2012. End of current term: 2020. Nationality: American. Audit 2020. Nationality: American. Sustainability Committee (member), Remuneration Committee (Chair), Nomination Committee Committee (member). Last executive (member). Position: Professor Nutrition position held: President and CEO of the Friedman School of Nutrition Science and Research Triangle Institute International. Policy at Tufts University in Boston (USA); Supervisory directorships/other positions: Supervisory directorships/other positions: member of the Board of Directors of PPG. Member of High Level Panel of Experts on Food Security and Nutrition of the UN Committee on World Food Security; Chair of the Sight and Life Foundation. Erica Mann (1958, f) Frits Dirk van Paasschen (1961, m) First appointed: 2019. End of current term: First appointed: 2017. End of current term: 2023. Nationality: Australian. Sustainability 2021. Nationality: Dutch and American. Audit Committee (member), Audit Committee Committee (member), Sustainability (member). Last executive position held: Committee (member). Last position held: Member of the Board of Management of CEO Starwood Hotels and Resorts. the Bayer Group and Global President of Supervisory directorships/other positions: Bayer's Consumer Health Division. non-executive board member Williams Supervisory directorships and other Sonoma (USA); Chairman Board of Convene; positions: Non-executive member of the Board member of CitizenM Hotels (NL); Boards of Perrigo and Kellogg Company. Advisor to private equity firm TPG, three tech companies and CEO practice at Russell Reynolds; member of the cross country industry advisory council of RBC (CA); and CEO and Founder of The Disruptor's Feast Advisory. Pradeep Pant (1953, m) John Ramsay (1957, m) First appointed: 2016. End of current term: First appointed: 2017. End of current term: 2020. Nationality: Singaporean. Audit 2021. Nationality: British. Audit Committee Committee (member), Sustainability (Chair), Remuneration Committee (member). Committee (member). Last executive Last position held: Chief Financial Officer position held: EVP and President APAC and (CFO) and interim CEO of Syngenta AG. EMEA of Mondelez International. Supervisory directorships/other positions: Supervisory directorships/other positions: non-executive director of RHI Magnesita NV, Honorary Council Member Food Industry non-executive director of G4S plc. and nonAsia; non-executive Director Max BUPA executive director of Croda International (as Health Insurance Co Ltd. and of MAX Life of 1 January 2020). Insurance Co Ltd. (India), non-executive Director Antara Senior Living Ltd. (India); advisor to Aptar Group Inc (USA) and President Pant Consulting Pte. Ltd. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 142 www.dsm.com Supervisory Board and Managing Board Royal DSM Managing Board Feike Sijbesma (1959, m), CEO/Chairman Position: CEO/Chairman, Managing Board since May 2007; member, Managing Board since July 2000. Honorary Chairman Royal DSM after the handover of the CEO role to his successors in the first quarter of 2020. Nationality: Dutch. Supervisory directorships/other positions held: Non-executive Director of Unilever; Member Supervisory Board Dutch Central Bank (DNB); Member Global CEO Council (GCC) Chinese People's Association for Friendship with Foreign Countries (CPAFFC); Climate Leader for the World Bank Group, and Chair of the High-Level Leadership Forum on Competitiveness and Carbon Pricing, convened by the World Bank Group; Member of Board of Trustees of the World Economic Forum since August 2019; e-mail: feike.sijbesma@dsm.com Geraldine Matchett (1972, f), Co-CEO Position: member, Managing Board since August 2014, CFO since December 2014. End of current term: 2022. Nationality: British, French, Swiss. Supervisory directorships/other positions held: Non-Executive Director of ABB; Board member of Catalyst Europe; Co-Chair of HRH Prince of Wales' A4S (Accounting 4 Sustainability) CFO Leadership Network; Board member of FCLTGlobal. e-mail: geraldine.matchett@dsm.com Dimitri de Vreeze (1967, m), Co-CEO Position: member, Managing Board since September 2013. End of current term: 2021. Nationality: Dutch. Supervisory directorships/other positions held: Chairman Supervisory Board DSM Netherlands; Board member of CEFIC (European Chemical Industry Council) and chair Sustainability Advisory Forum; Board member ChemicaInvest; Chairman 'Fonds voor de topsport' (NOC*NSF; Dutch Olympic Committee Fund for top sport); member Supervisory Board Sanquin; member Advisory Board ECP (Electronic Commerce Platform Netherlands); Board member Young Captain Foundation. e-mail: dimitri.vreeze-de@dsm.com Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 143 www.dsm.com What still went wrong in 2019 We are always trying to improve, but sometimes things still At DSM Nutritional Products in Dalry (United Kingdom), an go wrong. Here we share the most significant incidents of employee fractured his knee after tripping over incorrectly 2019 across all three dimensions of People, Planet and stored scaffolding material. Profit. This includes health, safety, environment, and security incidents (including fraud) as well as what we have Logistical incidents learned from our businesses that has not developed as At DSM Resins and Functional Materials in Pingtung planned. (Taiwan), an employee hit a beam of the building with the mast of the electrical pallet truck he was operating. The Preventing repeat problems requires us to understand each mast got stuck and could not be freed. The employee tried incident to the best of our ability. When an accident occurs, lowering the forks of the truck a couple of times, when the first priority is to take care of any injuries and repair any suddenly the forks fell onto his left foot. The foot was damage. We investigate every recordable incident using a broken where it was not protected by the steel of his safety fixed root cause analysis method. We also trigger an boot. improvement cycle, see 'Safety, Health & well-being' on page 41. This includes investigating root causes and trying Other health and safety incidents to eliminate them. We put new requirements or operating At DSM Nutritional Products in Shanghai (Zhejiang Province, procedures in place as needed. China), a flash fire occurred during the removal of packing materials from a distillation column. A contractor sustained We apply zero tolerance to violations of the 'DSM Code of second-degree burns to large parts of his body. Business Conduct' on page 113. We do not disclose any personal details in cases involving individuals. At DSM Nutritional Products in Buk (Poland), a contractor was hit in the eye by a webbing cable and sustained an eye In line with our reporting policy, this overview includes not injury. only incidents but also some serious near-misses. Nearmisses are cases that did not result in injury, illness or At DSM Nutritional Products in Dalry (United Kingdom), an damage but which could have done so. Even when a crisis employee accidentally opened a valve of a hot water drain, is averted, it is our responsibility to learn from it and do the open end of which was not properly secured. Hot water better the next time. We have a process in place to collect poured over his shoe, scalding his foot. the information about incidents and some serious nearmisses as presented in this overview, using various sources At DSM Nutritional Products in Jiangshan (Jiangsu Province, including our internal Letter of Representation, see China), the voluntary fire brigade carried out a fire drill. 'Monitoring activities' on page 118 and our reporting system While handling a fire hose, an employee lost his balance, for SHE and Security incidents. fell to the ground and broke his thigh. People During an occupational health check, an employee from Incidents involving falls DSM Nutritional Products in Jiangshan (Jiangsu Province, At DSM Nutritional Products in Grenzach (Germany), a China) was diagnosed to have sustained limited hearing contractor fell from a scaffold while the scaffolding was loss resulting from a longer-term noise exposure and was being erected. He suffered multiple fractures to his body. To transferred to another working environment. prevent similar incidents, very strict scaffolding standards as well as contractor requirements have been issued At DSM Nutritional Products in Mexico, a truck carrying DSM company-wide. products was forced to stop on the highway. The two drivers were threatened with firearms and had to hand over the At DSM Nutritional Products in Grenzach (Germany), an truck and cargo. Later on, the truck was retrieved but all employee slipped on an icy zebra crossing when walking the cargo had disappeared. Fortunately, no personal from the parking lot to the office buildings and sustained injuries were sustained. a broken arm. During a business trip in South Africa, two employees from While on a business trip, an employee of DSM Engineering DSM Food Specialties in Delft (Netherlands) were Plastics in Geleen (Netherlands) slipped on the icy surface threatened by three robbers armed with knives and robbed of the parking lot of his hotel and tore his knee ligaments. of their mobile phones. Fortunately, they did not sustain any physical injury. In response to the latter two incidents, a campaign on preparing for winter was initiated and new safety standards were set. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 144 www.dsm.com What still went wrong in 2019 Planet At DSM Nutritional Products in the US, operational delays in meeting production demand at a number of premix sites In the context of Chemelot, DSM Netherlands (Geleen) was led to a loss of business. mentioned in the media in relation to several years of incorrect reporting of nitrous oxide (N2O) emissions. At DSM Nutritional Products in Sisseln (Switzerland), an Although DSM itself did not have the responsibility for interruption in the nitrogen supply resulted in a loss of reporting these emissions, looking back, we feel that DSM production. could have pointed out to the other parties involved the obligation to include the N2O emissions in their environmental reporting to the authorities. DSM regrets this. At DSM Nutritional Products in Dalry (United Kingdom), a storage vessel partly imploded shortly after being filled up with new stock material. Fortunately, there were no personal injuries, nor was there any loss of containment. Profit DSM Nutritional Products in Fort Worth (Texas, USA) is involved in the recall of canned dog food initiated by a customer, as a consequence of the allegedly incorrect composition of a vitamin premix provided to that customer. The matter is ongoing at the time of publication of this Report. At DSM Nutritional Products in Mexico, non-conformities in product registration resulted in a loss of sales. At DSM Nutritional Products in Russia, the renewal of product certification was delayed. The sales of a number of products from Switzerland to Russia had to be put on hold and alternative supply had to be set up, leading to a loss of margin. At DSM China, a call was received by the customer helpdesk in connection with a product allegedly manufactured by DSM. After checking with all business groups, it turned out that DSM had never produced this type of product. The product in question appeared to be a counterfeit product that was being sold online. After the resignation of an employee of DSM Nutritional Products (Americas), it appeared that the employee had misused a company credit card to make personal and other expenditures prohibited. An employee from DSM Food Specialties (Europe) made false business travel expense claims, thus violating the company's business travel policy. At DSM Engineering Plastics in Emmen (Netherlands), a faulty filter allowed granulate to enter the demineralized water system, causing the machinery to break down and putting a production line out of operation for several days. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 145 www.dsm.com Information on the DSM share Shares and listings shall as much as possible be calculated on the basis of Ordinary shares in Koninklijke DSM N.V. are listed on the the trading prices of ordinary shares on the Euronext Euronext stock exchange in Amsterdam (Netherlands) Amsterdam Stock Exchange. (Stock code 00982, ISIN code NL0000009827). Options on ordinary DSM shares are traded on the European Option Distribution of shares Exchange in Amsterdam (Euronext.liffe). In the US, a Under the Dutch Financial Markets Supervision Act, sponsored unlisted American Depositary Receipts (ADR) shareholdings of 3% or more in any Dutch company must program is offered by Deutsche Bank Trust Co. Americas (DR be disclosed to the Netherlands Authority for the Financial ISIN US7802491081), with four ADRs representing the value Markets (AFM). According to the register kept by the AFM, of one ordinary DSM share. the following shareholders had disclosed that they have a direct or indirect (potential) interest between 3% and 10% Besides the ordinary shares, 44.04 million cumulative in DSM's total share capital on 31 December 2019: preference shares A (cumprefs A) are in issue, which are not listed on the stock exchange; these have been placed with ASR Nederland N.V. institutional investors. The cumprefs A have the same voting BlackRock, Inc. rights as ordinary shares, as their nominal value of € 1.50 Capital Research and Management Company, Capital per share is equal to the nominal value of the ordinary Group International Inc. and EuroPacific Growth Fund shares. NN Group N.V. Rabo Participaties B.V. The dividend percentage of the cumprefs A is based upon the dividend yield of the ordinary shares (dividend as a Repurchase of own shares percentage of the average share price). This percentage may The company may acquire paid-up own shares by virtue of be increased or decreased by a markup or discount of no a decision of the Managing Board, provided that the par more than one hundred (100) basis points, to be determined value of the acquired shares in its capital amounts to no by the Managing Board in consultation with the Supervisory more than one tenth of the issued capital. Such a decision Board. The basis of computation of the dividend on the is subject to the approval of the Supervisory Board. In the Preference Shares is € 5.2942. Annual General Meeting of Shareholders of 8 May 2019, the Managing Board was authorized to acquire own shares for Transfer of the cumprefs A requires the approval of the a period of 18 months from said date (i.e., up to and Managing Board, unless the shareholder is obliged by law including 8 November 2020), up to a maximum of 10% of to transfer his shares to a previous shareholder. the issued capital, provided that the company will hold no more shares in stock than at maximum 10% of the issued The average number of ordinary shares outstanding in 2019 capital. was 175,730,949. All shares in issue are fully paid. On 31 December 2019, the company had 172,448,755 ordinary In 2019, DSM announced a share buyback program with an shares outstanding. aggregate market value of € 1 billion starting in the second quarter of 2019, with the intention to reduce its issued Issue of shares capital. This program was in addition to the usual The issue of shares takes place by a decision of the repurchase programs which DSM executes from time to time Managing Board. The decision is subject to the approval of to cover commitments under share-based compensation the Supervisory Board. The scope of this power of the plans and the stock dividend. In 2019, DSM repurchased Managing Board shall be determined by a resolution of 5,362,936 of its own shares for a consideration of the General Meeting of Shareholders and shall relate to at € 600 million. most all unissued shares of the authorized capital, as applicable now or at any time in the future. In the Annual In 2019, DSM repurchased 2,600,000 shares for a total General Meeting of Shareholders of 8 May 2019 this power consideration of € 268 million for the purpose of covering was extended up to and including 8 November 2020, on the company's commitments under existing management the understanding that this authorization of the Managing and employee share plans and stock dividend. This program Board is limited to a number of ordinary shares with a included share-based compensation plans (800,000 nominal value amounting to 10% of the issued capital at shares) and stock dividend as part of the final dividend 2019 the time of issue, and to an additional 10% of the issued (1,800,000 shares). capital at the time of issue if the issue takes place within the context of a merger or acquisition within the scope of In total, DSM repurchased 7,962,936 of its own shares for a DSM's strategy as published on the company website. The combined consideration of € 869 million. issue price will be determined by the Managing Board and Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 146 www.dsm.com Information on the DSM share Development of the number of ordinary DSM shares 2019 2018 Issued Repurchased Outstanding Outstanding Balance at 1 January 181,425,000 5,774,425 175,650,575 174,643,475 Changes: Reissue of shares in connection with share-based payment plans (3,395,405) 3,395,405 2,090,107 Repurchase of shares 7,962,936 (7,962,936) (2,700,000) Dividend in the form of ordinary shares (1,365,711) 1,365,711 1,616,993 Balance at 31 December 181,425,000 8,976,245 172,448,755 175,650,575 DSM share prices on Euronext Amsterdam (€ per ordinary share): Highest closing price 117.90 92.98 Lowest closing price 69.54 68.98 At 31 December 116.10 71.44 Market capitalization at 31 December (€ million)1 21,063 12,961 1 Source: Bloomberg. Geographical spread of DSM shares outstanding DSM share price development versus AEX and Dow Jones Euro StoXX Chemical Index (rebased versus DSM share price) in % (excl. cumprefs A) 2019 2018 (x €) DSM North America 39 38 AEX Index United Kingdom 17 16 Dow Jones Euro StoXX Chemical Index Netherlands 12 14 France 11 11 120 Germany 4 5 Switzerland 4 4 110 Asia–Pacific 4 5 100 Other countries 9 7 90 80 7 70 60 01/19 02/19 03/19 04/19 05/19 06/19 07/19 08/19 09/19 10/19 11/19 12/19 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 147 www.dsm.com Trading volume ordinary DSM shares 2019 x million shares as reported by Euronext Amsterdam 25 20 15 10 5 0 y y M il M ne ly t r er r r ar ar ar Ap ay Ju Ju Au be Oc be be nu ru ch r gu pt to No ce Fe s em b m Ja b ve Se m De Article 10 of Directive 2004/25 This will be proposed to the Annual General Meeting of With regard to the information referred to in the Resolution Shareholders to be held on 8 May 2020. An interim dividend of article 10 of the EC Directive pertaining to a takeover bid of € 0.77 per ordinary share having been paid in August 2019, which is required to be provided according to Dutch law, the final dividend would then amount to € 1.63 per ordinary the following can be reported: share. Information on major shareholdings can be found above The dividend will be payable in cash or in the form of (Distribution of shares) ordinary shares at the option of the shareholder, with a There are no special statutory rights attached to the maximum of 40% of the dividend amount available for stock shares of the company dividend. If more than 40% of the total dividend is There are no restrictions on the voting rights of the requested by the shareholders to be paid out in shares, company's shares. When convening a General Meeting those shareholders who have chosen to receive their of Shareholders, the Managing Board is entitled to dividend in shares will receive their stock dividend on a prodetermine a registration date in accordance with the rata basis, the remainder being paid out in cash. Dividend relevant provisions of the Dutch Civil Code in cash will be paid after deduction of 15% Dutch dividend The applicable provisions regarding the appointment withholding tax. The ex-dividend date is 12 May 2020. and dismissal of members of the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board and amendments to the Articles Dividend per ordinary DSM share in € of Association can be found in the chapter 'Corporate 2019 dividend subject to approval by Annual General Meeting of Shareholders governance and risk management' on page 106 The powers of the Managing Board regarding the issue 3 and repurchase of shares in the company can be found 2.40 2.30 in the sections Issue of shares and Repurchase of own 2 1.85 shares above 1.65 1.65 1.65 1.75 1.45 1.50 Other information can be found in the 'Notes to the 1.35 consolidated financial statements' (16 'Equity', 19 1 'Borrowings', 27 'Share-based compensation') Dividend on ordinary shares 0 DSM's dividend policy is to provide a stable and preferably 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 rising dividend. DSM proposes to increase the dividend by about 4.3% to € 2.40 per ordinary share for 2019, reflecting our confidence in expected future earnings and cash Dividend on Cumulative Preference Shares A generation. DSM will pay a dividend of € 0.17 per share for 2019, identical to the dividend on the Cumulative Preference Shares A (cumprefs A) for 2018. The dividend on the cumprefs A is based on the dividend yield of the ordinary shares, being about 2.31% for 2019. The Managing Board in consultation with the Supervisory Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 148 www.dsm.com Information on the DSM share Board decided to use their discretionary power to increase (ii) A bearer share certificate which has not been handed this percentage of about 95 bps to 3.26%. Where the in to DSM on or before 31 December 2020 shall become void proposed dividend for the ordinary shareholders will and the share represented by the bearer share certificate increase by about 4.3% versus 2018, the Managing Board felt shall be acquired by DSM for no consideration, irrespective it appropriate to keep the dividend on the cumprefs A equal of whether DSM's Articles of Association allow the to 2018. acquisition of its own shares. Section 2:98a (3) DCC does not apply to this acquisition. DSM shall be registered as the Bearer shares shareholder thereof in DSM's shareholders register. DSM On 27 April 2006, all bearer shares ('aandelen aan toonder') shall hold the shares until the end of the period mentioned in DSM's issued share capital were converted into registered in (iii) below. shares ('aandelen op naam') (pursuant to an amendment of the Articles of Association made at the time). In order to (iii) A shareholder who hands in a bearer share certificate exercise the rights vested in the shares, holders of former to DSM no later than five years after the acquisition bearer shares were required to hand in their bearer share mentioned in (ii) above, therefore no later than 1 January certificates ('aandeelbewijzen') to DSM. 2026, is entitled to receive from DSM a replacement registered share provided that this share is registered in Pursuant to an amendment of Section 2:82 of the Dutch Civil DSM’s shareholders register in the name of a central Code (DCC) in 2019, DSM shareholders who still have not securities depository, and DSM will instruct the handed in their bearer share certificates will lose any shareholder’s bank to credit the share in a securities entitlement to exchange their bearer share certificates for account in the name of holder of the bearer share a replacement share as per 2 January 2026. certificate. In accordance with Section 2:391(2) DCC, DSM hereby gives The procedure described above follows from Section 2:82(3) notice of the following: up to and including (9) DCC, whose provisions apply. (i) A shareholder may not exercise the rights vested in a share until after he/she has handed in his/her bearer share certificates to DSM. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 149 www.dsm.com Sustainability statements Sustainability statements – People 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Total workforce 22,174 20,977 21,054 20,786 20,796 Female:male ratio 28:72 28:72 27:73 27:73 28:72 % by age category1 <26 years2 5 5 6 6 5 26–35 years 26 25 26 25 26 36–45 years 29 30 28 28 30 46–55 years 25 26 25 27 27 >55 15 14 15 14 12 % under-represented nationalities1 Executives (non-European) 31 31 Executives (non-Dutch) 62 60 56 53 49 Management (non-European) 44 43 Other (non-European) 59 59 % female 1 Executives 20 19 17 15 15 Management 29 28 27 26 27 Other 28 28 28 29 29 % executive hires1 Non-European 55 61 Female 323 61 43 13 38 Non-Dutch 86 83 95 88 79 % new hires by region1 Netherlands 11 13 11 5 11 Rest of Europe 24 22 26 23 22 North America 22 25 20 27 16 China 18 16 16 20 18 Rest of Asia–Pacific 12 9 11 8 13 Rest of the world 13 15 15 17 22 Total number new hires (excluding acquisitions) 2,372 3,005 2,203 1,730 2,171 Acquisitions 1,161 80 247 46 1810 Outflow of employees 1 Voluntary resignations 1,118 1,098 766 585 1,153 Total outflow (excluding divestments) 2,352 2,868 1,943 1,729 2,212 Divestments 0 357 42 57 2,324 Voluntary resignations (% total workforce)1 5.4 5.3 4.1 2.8 5.5 Total turnover (% total workforce)1 11.2 13.9 10.2 8.3 10.6 Development training in hours per employee 8.1 64 Net sales per employee (x € 1,000) 421 4295 420 386 374 Safety Frequency Index of Recordable Injuries (per 100 DSM employees and contractor employees) 0.28 0.33 0.36 0.33 0.41 1 For the indexes based on age, nationalities, gender, inflow and outflow, the companies that are not integrated into the HR systems (approximately 6% of the total workforce) are not taken into account. 2 We do not employ people younger than 15 under DSM contract. We require our suppliers to not use forced labor or child labor according to our Supplier Code of Conduct. 3 The decrease in 2019 is due to the relatively low number of executives onboarded in 2019, with a number of female executives who were recruited in 2019 expected to be onboarded in 2020 4 In 2018, development training hours per employee were measured using a new standard with stricter definitions. Figures of previous years cannot be recalculated according to the new definitions, which means there are no relevant figures available for previous years. 5 Excluding the temporary vitamin effect in 2018, see table on page 65. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 150 www.dsm.com Sustainability statements Sustainability statements – Brighter Living Solutions 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Brighter Living Solutions sales as % of net sales (underlying business) 631 622 62 633 1 For a small percentage of sales (approximately 2%) classified as BLS, the environmental impact is considered 'best in class' together with other solutions. 2 Excluding the temporary vitamin effect in 2018, see table on page 65. 3 2016 was the first year of reporting; consequently, there are no comparative figures for the previous years. Sustainability statements − Planet 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Energy and greenhouse gas Primary energy use (in PJ) 21.2 20.8 23.6 22.6 20.9 Energy efficiency improvement (year-on-year) 2.3 1.4 0.7 21 Greenhouse gas emissions scope 1 + 2, market-based (in CO2 equivalents x million tons) 1.17 1.232 1.50 1.571 Electricity purchased from renewable resources (%) 50 41 21 8 Total purchased renewable electricity (GWh) 632 446 229 79 Emissions to air Volatile Organic Compounds (x 1,000 tons) 2.7 4.9 6.6 8.9 3.1 Nitrogen oxide (NOx) (x 1,000 tons) 0.4 0.5 0.7 0.8 0.4 Sulfur dioxide (SO2) (x 1,000 tons) 0.06 0.09 0.28 0.33 0.04 Discharges to water and landfill Chemical Oxygen Demand discharges to surface waters (x 1,000 tons) 2.1 2.2 2.5 2.4 2.1 Waste recycled (in %) 88 83 84 831 (Landfilling) Non-hazardous waste (x 1,000 tons) 15 18 16 17.5 12.9 Total process-related waste (x 1,000 tons) 222 177 Water Water consumption (x million m3) 23 22 23 221 Water use (x million m3) 111 114 114 104 101 Raw materials Renewable raw materials (in %) 14.7 14.3 15.4 16.5 16 Biodiversity Sites in or adjacent to protected areas (in %) 25 66 61 60 58 Fines (in €) 115,100 23,500 128,400 27,900 35,600 Non-monetary sanctions 2 6 4 2 5 Environmental incidents 60 71 101 1093 257 Environmental complaints 58 53 35 21 31 1 The baseline emissions for 2016 were recalculated due to the inclusion of nine acquired sites in the reporting scope. 2 Including a one-time effect of large plant shutdowns, estimated at roughly 150 kt. These effects did not occur in 2019. 3 As of 2016, the Loss of Primary Containment on non-hazardous substances is no longer included in this number. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 151 www.dsm.com Stakeholder engagement applying and paying for our solutions. Digital technologies and capability development of our commercial employees In the following pages, we present some examples of how are important investments that enable us to deliver a we engage with external stakeholders, including the modern customer experience. This includes improving the partners in our value chain. For an overview of all our digital expertise of our people, and amplifying the stakeholders, see 'Stakeholders' on page 32. For information importance of being curious, empathic and agile. This also on how we engage with our employees, see 'People' on page enables us to bring the voice of the customer to our 40. functional areas such as innovation, procurement and finance. Customers Brand Value Implementing our Strategy 2021 throughout our businesses Our brand is an important business asset. We are a where we enable, innovate and advocate on the three purpose-led, performance-driven company that aspires to domains — Nutrition & Health, Climate & Energy and provide innovative products and solutions that support our Resources & Circularity — has allowed us to strengthen our purpose to create brighter lives for all. In 2019, our brand relationship with our customers and increase our impact on value continued to grow. Brand Finance attributed this the total eco-system. Our customers are key stakeholders, growth to improved revenue expectations and a slightly and understanding their role in the total eco-system and lower risk profile. their stakeholders is of utmost importance. DSM Brand Value1 Customer loyalty and satisfaction (x € million) Customer loyalty and satisfaction starts with understanding our customers, their needs and their journey when 1,000 interacting with us. In addition to daily connections with our 901 844 customers, we worked in 2019 to understand better how 807 800 they relate to us, both via digital channels and offline. 729 Customer loyalty and satisfaction are measured through 650 the Net Promoter Score (NPS) methodology and via 600 Customer Journey mapping. These enable us to track results of the ongoing customer relationship improvement 400 activities in all of our business groups. Longer-term customer loyalty and satisfaction are measured at fixed time intervals via a uniform system of online customer 200 satisfaction research, followed by personal interviews with individual customers to better understand what lies behind 0 customer feedback. 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 In 2019, our NPS score was 41 (2018: 40). With this 1 As measured by the Brand Finance valuation methodology. improvement, we have seen an increase of our overall NPS score for four consecutive years (2016: 38). Additionally, Customer Value Propositions several business groups have implemented an automated We continuously sharpen our understanding of our survey process to continuously measure customer customers' needs and build them into our value satisfaction during specific interactions throughout the propositions. We emphasize why our solutions enable our year. This provides instant performance feedback and new customers to satisfy the needs of the consumers they serve customer insights. Results are taken up in cross-functional as well as enable them to succeed in the market, ensuring meetings to drive the immediate optimization of processes we match the evolving customer needs and customer value and frontline staff interaction. Learnings from these drivers. Our value propositions clarify what the benefits are initiatives are currently being applied to other business for our customers and for others in the ecosystems that groups and will help us to further improve the overall might benefit from our solutions. The value propositions customer experience with DSM. also highlight how these solutions fit our purpose-led, performance-driven portfolio. Lead generation and lead management are one of the crucial roles that our marketing and sales professionals perform in the company. In addition, we know from our NPS methodology that customers expect a high ease of doing business along the full journey of considering, buying, Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 152 www.dsm.com Sustainability statements Suppliers framework against which we deliver our Sustainable DSM Sustainable Procurement Program Procurement Program. Procurement is essential to enabling our sustainable growth ambitions. Sustainable procurement is the process Every year, our procurement community awards teams who of making balanced purchasing decisions in such a way that have developed successful sourcing projects, including they benefit not only our business, but society as a whole, those with significant sustainability benefits. The Global while minimizing our impact on the environment. In a joint Procurement Award recognizes and celebrates those effort with our suppliers, we take responsibility to grow in committed to excellence in the procurement profession. an environmentally sustainable, economically viable and socially desirable way. We engage with approximately 32,000 Collaboration suppliers across our company. We work with external partners to enhance collaboration with our suppliers in the supply chain such as the DSM's Sustainable Procurement Program (SPP) is Roundtable for Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO), Friends of instrumental in ensuring that we deliver on our promise to the Sea, the Marine Stewardship Council, and Together for reduce our environmental footprint and improve the lives Sustainability (TfS). for people today and generations to come through our activities, products and innovations. Collaboration and We use a limited amount of palm oil when making certain innovation with our suppliers are important for sharing best nutritional products. DSM Nutritional Products is a member practices and finding new sustainable solutions. Our of RSPO to mitigate the potential risks to the environment, commitment to sustainability is at the heart of everything human rights issues and labor practices in the palm oil we do. supply chain. DSM Food Specialties sources RSPO 'Mass Balance' certified palm-derived glycerin in Asia. Our Our Supplier Procurement Program comprises three objective is to use 100% RSPO-certified sustainable palm oil elements: scope 2 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (from and palm-derivative products using RSPO 'Mass Balance' purchased electricity), scope 3 GHG emissions (throughout supply chain models by 2020. Going forward, we aim to have our value chain) and supplier development and evaluation. all the production sites that use palm oil or palm oil For more information on scope 2, see 'Scope 1+ 2 GHG derivative products RSPO-certified. For more information on emissions' on page 52, and on scope 3, see 'Scope 3 GHG palm oil, see the company website. emissions' on page 53. As part of our supplier development and evaluation program, we focus on assessing, auditing Protecting our marine environment is important to us as a and further improving our suppliers' sustainability company. We are committed to the responsible and performance by actively developing and following up on sustainable use of natural marine resources. We have corrective actions. 'Friends of the Sea' certification for all our fish oil purchases. This certification helps ensure that the fisheries involved Internal skills and capabilities in providing fish oil for the production of our omega-3 Internal capability-building focused on supplier product range are sustainable. Furthermore, we are sustainability continued in 2019. We shifted the focus from currently in the deployment phase to have all our tuna oil delivering training toward providing hands-on support and suppliers Marine Stewardship Council (MSC) certified in promoting peer learning. Peer learning offers practical 2020. We are proud to partner with the MSC, the global gold experience and knowledge-sharing about integrating standard for certification and eco-labeling of seafood, to sustainability into the daily work of sourcing professionals. offer MEG-3® tuna DHA oils and powders that are MSC Chain of Custody (CoC) certified. This certification guarantees In 2019, we developed the Procurement Vision 2021 to align 'ocean-to-purchase' traceability throughout the entire with Strategy 2021. Five strategic choices were identified in supply chain, providing assurance that our tuna DHA the Procurement Vision: Customer-Centricity, World-Class products can be easily traced to certified fisheries. Procurement, Value Creation, Sustainability Leadership and Innovation. Within the Sustainability Leadership stream, a Supplier Sustainability Evaluation new tool to assess Sustainability Maturity was developed. In 2019, all procurement groups within DSM performed a Sustainable Procurement Program results baseline assessment of their maturity, giving us insight into their current status and enabling us to set priorities for 2019 2018 improvement and development in 2020. Three priorities Spend coverage SCoC 95% 95% were set for 2020: sustainable tenders, incorporating EcoVadis assessments 322 237 sustainability in category strategies, and key supplier Together for Sustainability management. Our Procurement Vision provides a audits 15 14 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 153 www.dsm.com Our approach to compliance is defined by our Supplier Code renewable resources for commercial production sites. For of Conduct (SCoC). In 2019, 95% of our supplier spend was more information on our commitment to responsible and covered by the SCoC versus our target level of 95%. Through efficient use of energy, see 'Renewable energy' on page 53. assessments and audits, we check that suppliers act in compliance with our norms and values. When suppliers CO2REDUCE is our supplier engagement program covering cannot meet our expectations we will work with them to scope 3. It focuses on understanding our run on suppliers' define and execute an improvement plan. performance in reducing GHG emissions and developing reduction roadmaps in close cooperation with our Since 2015, we have been a member of Together for suppliers. For more information on CO2REDUCE, see 'Scope Sustainability (TfS), a joint initiative of 23 chemical 3 GHG emissions' on page 53. companies. Founded in 2011, TfS has developed and implemented a global assessment and audit program to The Global Logistics and Packaging (GL&P) team continued improve sustainability practices within the chemical its journey on driving sustainability with its suppliers and industry's supply chain. Through this initiative, TfS members set the ambition to reduce 20% CO2 emissions by 2025 can share all assessments and audit reports, which allows (compared to 2016). Via the CO2 Emission Reduction us to screen and address sustainability performance and Initiative, the GL&P team investigated suppliers' footprints risks for a high number of our suppliers. not only in road, marine and air transportation, but also in various packaging categories. The successful achievement To ensure a consistent and reliable supplier assessment can be attributed to joint initiatives with suppliers that led approach, TfS selected EcoVadis as its partner and service to environmental benefits in the value chain. Projects such provider. The objective of the EcoVadis methodology is to as stimulating shipment consolidation and optimizing and measure the quality of a company's sustainability system by redesigning packaging products resulted in significant checking its policies, actions and results. The assessment reductions in CO2 emissions. focuses on 21 criteria grouped in four themes: Environment, Labor & Human Rights, Ethics and Sustainable The GL&P team has also developed a 'Purpose Led Wooden Procurement. Pallet Sourcing Strategy', whereby we influence our contracted suppliers in Europe to purchase sustainably In 2019, TfS changed its metrics to increase the impact on harvested wood. At the same time, the GL&P team sustainability for all its members. The revised focus is on established a unique collaboration with the European wood enlarging the number of assessed and re-assessed and pallet industry whereby we commonly drive the suppliers, and at the same time driving improvements to industry toward using only sustainably sourced wood to support sustainability development in the value chain. In make pallets and packaging crates. previous years, TfS' metrics focused on suppliers invited for an assessment by the individual member, whereas as of Investors 2019, its metrics focused on the relevant supplier pool for each member, independent of the fact that our company or We value the essential role of our capital providers for the another TfS member initiated the assessment or resuccess and prosperity of the company, allowing us to assessment. pursue a long-term oriented, value-creating strategy. This should also lead to a continuous increase of the company's Through TfS, we assessed 322 suppliers in 2019, of which 295 valuation for the benefit of its shareholders and provide a were re-assessments. Of the re-assessed suppliers, 57% low risk profile for our debt holders. received an improved sustainability score. Moreover, the average EcoVadis assessment score of our suppliers was 52 We ensure that accurate financial and relevant nonin 2019 compared to 50 in 2018. The average of the supplier financial information is communicated to the financial performance level indicates that our suppliers are further markets in a transparent and simultaneous way. All engaging in sustainability. information is made easily accessible to the public via the company website. Next to the Annual General Meeting of Supplier Projects Shareholders, we also reach out to the financial markets As part of our drive to foster better business through our through events like the Capital Markets Day, participation supplier projects, our procurement organization engages in investor conferences, and by organizing roadshows. We in proactive dialogue with suppliers in order to move the also actively seek engagement with financial advisors who business agenda forward in our focus domains of Nutrition cover DSM on behalf of their financial market clients, such & Health, Climate & Energy and Resources & Circularity. as brokers, credit rating agencies, proxy advisors, shareholder representative organizations, and ESG As part of our scope 2 program, we remain committed to (Environment, Social, Governance) rating agencies. further increase the amount of purchased electricity from Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 154 www.dsm.com Sustainability statements We actively seek feedback from the financial markets, which in sustainability and at the same time showing continued is periodically discussed and assessed by the Managing good financial progress, we were frequently invited for inBoard and the Supervisory Board. We highly value the depth engagement calls and meetings on how to include — insights gained through these engagements. and compare — important non-financial parameters in their investment processes. We engage with our investors and their representatives on topics such as the SDGs, climate change, governance, Society sustainability in supply chain management, natural and social capital, and responsible taxation. We engage with society at multiple levels – from local community initiatives to collaborations with universities Our Strategy 2021: Growth & Value Purpose led, and research institutes. We work with NGOs and civil society Performance driven was launched in 2018, where we to develop solutions for societal issues, and advocate with presented how we will capture growth opportunities offered governments and society on important issues relating to by global megatrends and the UN SDGs, and disclosed our the Sustainable Development Goals and the Paris targets for profit growth and cash generation, as well as our Agreement. We also engage in philanthropic and clear step-up in sustainability aspirations. During 2019, we sponsorship activities to the average yearly amount of continued to update the market on our progress against our approximately € 6 million. Here we share some examples strategic targets as well as the sustainability ambitions and of our collaborations with society. our progress with the large sustainability-driven innovation projects. We provided updates through quarterly In Brazil, we continued our support of a number of conference calls and at various roadshows covering all large educational initiatives. These included the Agrinho Program investor cities, as well as in conferences, visits from (providing teaching materials and teacher training), CEAP investors and by many telephone and video calls. (Vocational Educational Center, providing disadvantaged youths with educative and vocational training) and the Purpose and profit go hand in hand at DSM, which has been Young Professional Project (hosting discussions for demonstrated by a continuing strong performance on both students on education, career development and the labor financial and non-financial metrics. In 2019, DSM actively market). advocated purpose-driven entrepreneurship among our shareholders. We engaged with investors, including pension In China, we collaborated with universities and institutes on funds, to discuss their responsibility in long-term value research projects, such as with Beijing University on creation for their customers, but also for the society and polymer physics, Shanghai Jiao Tong University on the environment their participants live in. We actively composite processing, the Institute of Chinese Academy of participated in various impact investment initiatives Science on application formulations for vitamins and including De Nederlandsche Bank (DNB) working group on Wuhan University of Science and Technology on additional SDG Impact Measurement and the WBCSD Chemical sector application possibilities. We also participated in the 12th TCFD Preparer Forum on climate-related risks. annual Bright Experience Hunger Walk in support of the UN World Food Programme and the China Foundation for We engaged with FCLT (Focusing Capital to the Long Term), Poverty Alleviation. which works to encourage a longer-term focus in business and investment decision-making and whose mission is to In India, we partnered with CII (Confederation of Indian motivate business leaders to actively combat short-termism Industries) to institute CAP 2.0°, a unique Climate Action in our financial markets. Our engagement with FCLT Program to recognize industry best practices and innovation emphasizes the need for including non-financial long-term on climate action, as well as to enable capacity-building for metrics (environmental, societal and governance related) corporates. CAP 2.0° helps companies seek expert in the investment decisions of investors. In particular, we intervention on climate action, with assistance throughout emphasize the need to make the metrics uniform, the process, and a gap/feedback report at the end of the comparable and auditable. cycle. In addition, the program provides certified training for selected professionals on the assessment methodology. We further stepped up our engagement with leading ESG advisors to the financial sector, including Sustainalytics, In Japan, the Oranda-Jima House, donated by the OrandaMSCI, Vigeo-Eiris and ISS-ESG. For more information, see Jima Foundation, celebrated its fifth anniversary in 2019. We 'ESG Ratings and Benchmarks' on page 39. provided in-kind and financial support for the construction of the House to support children in the region recovering We also saw the number of direct engagements between from the East Japan earthquake and tsunami in 2011. The investors and DSM on ESG topics including SDG impact, President of DSM Japan, who is Representative Director of substantially increase in 2019. Being recognized as a leader the Foundation, made a congratulatory speech at the Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 155 www.dsm.com anniversary celebrations and expressed his hopes for the In Switzerland, DSM Nutritional Products participated in continued good use of the House. EXPO 19, a regional trade show. Our participation supported engagement with the local Rhine Valley community and In the Netherlands, we celebrated 150 years of helped showcase our science and expertise. Participants biotechnology in Delft. To mark this occasion, we presented, also had the opportunity to learn more about the role of UV together with ARTIS-Micropia, the ARTIS-Micropedia filters in sun-creams, how to measure anti-oxidants through Experience titled 'Small Life, Major Impact: Microbes a vitality check, and how consumer preferences differ determine our world'. For more information, see 'Enabling between countries regarding color and pigmentation in DSM's Bright Science' on page 95. We also joined forces with eggs. three companies and eight knowledge institutes in a consortium for a project called 'Soft Advanced Materials'. For In the US, we continued our support of the Union County more information, see 'Innovation Partnerships' on page 99. College Foundation Close the Gap initiative that provides We also extended our co-operation with The Ocean Cleanup scholarships to African American students. We also design team, where ropes with Dyneema® are used as continued to underwrite the costs of two Fellows with the towlines to support the net that catches plastic in the Great Global Health Corps. Pacific Garbage Patch. The Oranda-Jima House in Yamada, Japan. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 156 www.dsm.com Sustainability statements Management approach for material topics In the following tables, we elaborate on the material topics defined in the Materiality matrix, see 'Materiality' on page 33 and describe how we manage these topics. Environment Climate & Energy Management approach Relevant references This topic addresses our climate impacts in Climate & Energy is a focus domain of DSM, and DSM & the Sustainable terms of greenhouse gas emissions, as well as we manage this topic by improving our own Development Goals developing and providing sustainable carbon footprint, enabling our customers solutions that help other avoid emissions. through innovative solutions and advocating Strategy 2021 actions toward a low-carbon future. This supports our efforts to manage the physical Stakeholders — and transitional opportunities and risks Collaborative relating to climate change mitigation and platforms & networks adaptation. We publicly disclose our impact and strategy via this Report, CDP and others. Planet Review of business Resources & Circularity Management approach Relevant references Resources & Circularity refers to the efficient Resources & Circularity is a focus domain of DSM & the Sustainable use of natural resources in order to minimize DSM, and we manage this topic by improving Development Goals stress on the environment. A transition to a the value extracted from the limited resources circular economy, addressing closed-loop that are available, enabling the transition to a Strategy 2021 solutions and renewable materials, is key to circular and bio-based economy through our meeting the needs of current and future solutions and advocating a shift away from a Stakeholders — generations. linear to a circular and bio-based economy. Collaborative platforms & networks Planet Review of business Water security Management approach Relevant references Water is essential to life and all ecosystems. As We are committed to the responsible use of Planet water is becoming a scarcer resource, both water. Our approach is defined in the new DSM the quality and quantity of available water Responsible Care Plan. We believe that water constitute a global issue that has local risks are local by nature, so we focus on local consequences, from water scarcity to floods water risk assessments and thorough followand storms. up on these. We are a signatory to the UN Global Compact CEO Water Mandate and disclose our water management and strategy via CDP. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 157 www.dsm.com Biodiversity Management approach Relevant references Biodiversity refers to the variety and variability Biodiversity is a locally relevant issue that Planet of life on earth and is an important condition potentially impacts our operational locations. for a sustainable planet. Biodiversity supports The DSM Responsible Care Plan defines how Biodiversity position relevant ecosystem services that we require, we monitor and assess the impact of our paper such as food, water and clean air. operations on these locations. We support the ambitions of the Convention on Biological Diversity and we continue to explore the role the Natural Capital Protocol can play in supporting our decision making. Our position paper on Biodiversity can be found on the company website. Social Nutrition & Health Management approach Relevant references This topic refers to the transition to Nutrition & Health is a focus domain of DSM, Strategy 2021 sustainable food systems within planetary and we manage this topic by improving the boundaries that is needed to secure the future health of our own workforce, enabling healthy Stakeholders — availability of food. An increasing global food systems through our Nutrition businesses Collaborative population and the impact of climate change targeting health and well-being and our platforms & networks will put greater strain on our ability to provide Biomedical business improving health and sufficient food that is also nutritionally the quality of life for surgical patients. We Review of business complete — addressing issues including advocate for a change in food systems within malnutrition, non-communicable diseases planetary boundaries. and obesity. Occupational health & safety Management approach Relevant references Occupational health & safety addresses the The occupational health and safety of all our People company's ability to create and maintain a safe employees and contractors is our highest and healthy workplace environment that is priority. Our approach to safety is defined in free of injuries, fatalities, and illness (both the DSM Responsible Care Plan and is chronic and acute). spearheaded by our Life Saving Rules. We apply an occupational health model based on prevention, primary care and promotion to support employee health. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 158 www.dsm.com Sustainability statements Labor practices & human rights Management approach Relevant references This topic encompasses decent working DSM has installed a cross-functional human People conditions for DSM employees, suppliers and rights steering committee and working group other partners across the value chain. It to manage our approach toward human rights DSM Code of Business addresses, among others, freedom of which is defined in our position paper. Our Conduct association, non-discrimination, the whistleblower policy (DSM Alert) is available prohibition of child labor and forced labor, and for employees and external stakeholders to Sustainability fair compensation. report potential violations of human rights. Statements — Suppliers Human Rights position paper Whistleblower policy – DSM Alert Leadership & development Management approach Relevant references This topic refers to the continuous Leadership & development fuels the growth People development of employees' skills through of our employees and leaders, which in turn training and development programs, and the should enable our overall growth as an company's ability to generate commitment organization. The DSM Leadership Model among employees to the organization and its provides the common vision and language for goals. leadership at DSM. Our People & Organization strategy shapes our engagement with our employees. Internationalization & diversity Management approach Relevant references This topic revolves around equal opportunities We focus our activities on increasing the People in the workforce, and ensuring that company representation of women and the nationality culture and hiring and promotion practices diversity of our executive population and embrace the building of a diverse and inclusive management pipeline. Through our Women's workforce that reflects the makeup of local Inspired Network activities and training talent pools and our customer base. opportunities, we address gender diversity and bias. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 159 www.dsm.com Business & Governance Business ethics & transparency Management approach Relevant references This topic addresses the company's approach We take our responsibilities as a business DSM Code of Business to and public disclosure on ethical and fair seriously. Our approach to ethics and Conduct business conduct, corporate governance and transparency is led by the DSM Code of compliance. This includes taxation, privacy, Business Conduct and our Supplier Code of Corporate governance bioethics, fraud, bribery & corruption and Conduct. DSM's tax position is consistent with and risk management fiduciary responsibilities. the normal course of our business operations and reflects the corporate strategy as well as Taxation position the geographic spread of our activities. It is paper available through our position paper. We transparently report on our business through this Report and our public statements. Geopolitical shifts & (trade) dynamics Management approach Relevant references This topic refers to geopolitical shifts and Through our partnerships and stakeholder Stakeholders — dynamics such as political tensions and engagement activities, we monitor topics Collaborative inequalities. It also includes the impact of relevant to our business. We identify risks and platforms & networks trade policies and barriers. mitigating actions through our risk management approach, and apply standard DSM Code of Business business processes and practices to manage Conduct trade control compliance. Risk management Innovation Management approach Relevant references This topic refers to the company's technology Our innovation and research & development Review of business — capabilities and research & development capabilities support us in achieving our growth Innovation Center investments to develop innovative, targets. Through collaborations with our value sustainable solutions. chain partners, we bring new thinking and new solutions into the company. Through our venturing activities, we invest in emerging innovative companies around the world. Advocacy, engagement & partnering Management approach Relevant references When companies engage with stakeholders, We engage with our stakeholders to help Stakeholders they become aware of the relevant issues that define the topics that are material to our arise from business activities. Multibusiness and our reporting. We collaborate in stakeholder collaboration may support the platforms and networks that contribute to our achievement of the Sustainable Development purpose and align with our focus domains of Goals, in particular in developing countries Nutrition & Health, Climate & Energy and through the development of suitable products Resources & Circularity. and processes. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 160 www.dsm.com Sustainability statements Product stewardship Management approach Relevant references Product stewardship addresses the Our product stewardship statement describes Planet incorporation of sustainability factors in our approach on this topic. We assess our characteristics of products provided by the products and will have an action plan in place Product stewardship company. It covers managing the lifecycle for substances of very high concern. We take on the company impacts of products along the value chain, a risk-based approach to product stewardship website such as sourcing, packaging, distribution, useand will use alternatives where feasible, and phase resource efficiency, and other always where required. We also see the environmental and social externalities. opportunities for safer products with fewer or no hazardous properties in the circular economy. Digital transformation Management approach Relevant references Digital transformation refers to the application Our Data Analytics Center of Excellence and People of digital technologies to all aspects of Digital Acceleration Group will support us in business and society. the acceleration of digital insights and Risk management solutions. Digital solutions also support and strengthen our customer relationships. We Sustainability monitor and mitigate potential risks relating to Statements — digital through Group Risk Management. Our Customers Information Security Office and Privacy Policy guide our approach toward the security of information assets. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 161 www.dsm.com Taskforce for Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) The Taskforce for Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) recommendations are a set of voluntary, climate-related financial disclosures for use by companies to provide information to their stakeholders. In 2017, we were among the first companies to commit to implementing, as fully as practicable, these recommendations over the following three years as outlined in the TCFD's implementation path. The recommendations are structured around four elements — Governance, Strategy, Risk Management, and Metrics and Targets. This Report includes various disclosures relevant for the TCFD recommendations. To highlight this, for each TCFD theme reference is made to relevant sections. Core Element References Governance Planet Sustainability, including climate-related risks & opportunities, is a direct responsibility of the Managing Board. The Managing Board is supported in this by advice from our external Sustainability Advisory Board and reports Sustainability Governance on progress to the Supervisory Board, via its Sustainability Committee. Framework Our approach toward assessing and managing climate-related risks and opportunities is steered by our climate action agenda, containing key actions and deliverables that are owned by members of the Managing Supervisory Board — Board and Executive Committee. The DSM Responsible Care Plan and our greenhouse gas (GHG) reduction committees program translate the climate action agenda into concrete operational programs managed by Operations & Responsible Care, Sourcing and business management. All of these are regularly discussed and reviewed during the MB/EC meetings. Strategy Strategy 2021 DSM has recognized climate change as a global megatrend for more than a decade. Climate change will impact our company directly, and indirectly via shifts in our value chains and end-markets. This poses a risk to our Purpose current business while providing ample opportunities for growth. Our portfolio and innovations seek to offer solutions to address changes coming from the shift to a lowPlanet carbon society. For example, in our nutrition business, we address transition risks through innovations, such as Project Clean Cow which reduces methane emissions from current animal (ruminant) protein production, Review of business as well as through plant-based proteins like CanolaPRO®. We are reducing our exposure to transition risks like carbon pricing and changing legislation through actively Innovation reducing GHG emissions from our own operations and in our value chain. Projects to underpin our related GHG targets for 2030 and 2050 are ongoing. We believe that the implementation of our business strategy and delivery upon our GHG targets provide some resilience toward transition risks, but more extensive risk assessments will provide further insight into additional transition risks. We believe that our exposure to short-term physical risks in our direct operations is limited, however we are still assessing the mediumand long-term impact on our operational footprint and total value chain. Risk Management Planet The management of climate-related risks is fully integrated into our regular risk management cycles. Climaterelated risk is identified in the Corporate Risk Assessment in ‘Emerging risk 1’ (end-markets) and ‘Emerging Risk management risk 2’ (supply chain and own operations), with mitigating actions defined where appropriate. As with all risks, the responsibility for identifying and managing climate risks is with the management of the units, supported by Group Risk Management and assessed by Corporate Operational Audit. To support management, we have started a project to develop heatmaps for physical climate risks. These will provide more detailed insights into physical (acute and chronic) risks linked to climate change based on two different climate scenarios. Targets and Metrics Strategy 2021 We report our climate-related metrics and targets via this Report and the company website. Our Science Based Targets are our key environmental targets within the DSM Responsible Care Plan, supported by supplementary Planet targets and programs. Furthermore, we also report on avoided emissions, water, waste and other emissions. We apply a carbon price of € 50/t CO2eq in our large investment decisions and in the Profit & Loss statements Managing Board of the business groups for internal management reporting. Building on this, we now require all business Remuneration report growth projects to be carbon neutral, or else compensated for in the same business. Climate-related metrics form part of the Long-Term Incentives of the Managing Board and executives. Note 27 to the Financial statements Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 162 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting previously classified as operating leases and that met the policies definition of a lease under IFRS 16. The lease liabilities were measured at the present value of the remaining lease Basis of preparation payments, discounted using DSM's incremental borrowing DSM's consolidated financial statements have been rate at 1 January 2019 applicable to the respective lease prepared in accordance with International Financial object. The weighted-average rate applied is 3.2%. The lease Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European liabilities and right-of-use assets related to leases that were Union and the provisions of section 362-8 of Book 2 of the previously classified as finance leases are recognized at Dutch Civil Code. The accounting policies applied by DSM their respective carrying amounts immediately before comply with IFRS and the pronouncements of the transition upon the transition date. The following table International Financial Reporting Interpretation Committee summarizes the impact of the transition to IFRS 16 on the (IFRIC) effective at 31 December 2019. lease liability: Impact of new accounting standards adopted in 2019 The International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) and 1 January 2019 IFRIC have issued IFRS 16, which became effective as of Operating Lease commitments under 1 January 2019. DSM's accounting policies were updated to IAS 17 (31 December 2018) 240 reflect the changes driven by the implementation of this Operating lease commitments related to standard. For completeness, a summary of the impact on contracts that do not meet the definition the accounting policies is provided below as well. of lease under IFRS 16 at 31 December 2018 (4) IFRS 16 Leases Operating lease commitments under IFRS 16 (31 December 2018) 236 With effect from 1 January 2019, DSM has adopted IFRS 16 Discounted using the incremental borrowing rate (1 January 2019) 215 Leases. IFRS 16 replaces IAS 17 Leases and establishes a new Finance lease liabilities recognized at model for lessee accounting that requires a lessee to 31 December 2018 21 recognize lease liabilities and corresponding right-of-use Lease liabilities recognized at assets, reflecting the future commitments and rights 1 January 2019 236 created by lease contracts. The introduction of IFRS 16 primarily affects the accounting for leases that were previously accounted for as operating leases. IFRS 16 Impact for the period replaces the straight-line operating lease expenses with a depreciation charge for right-of-use assets and interest In addition to the balance sheet impact, the nature of expense on lease liabilities. In addition, operating lease expenses related to leases changed as IFRS 16 replaces cash flows that were previously presented as operating cash the operating lease expense with a straight-line flows are reported as financing cash flows under IFRS 16. depreciation charge for right-of-use assets, and interest expense on lease liabilities. The following table summarizes At the date of adoption, DSM applied IFRS 16 using the the impact of IFRS 16 on the consolidated income modified retrospective approach under which the right-ofstatement, consolidated cash flow statement, and main use asset is measured at an amount equal to the lease performance measures in 2019. liability, adjusted for any prepayments or accruals. Accordingly, the comparative information presented for 2018 has not been restated. Impact on transition At the transition date, DSM recognized lease liabilities and corresponding right-of-use assets for contracts that were Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 163 www.dsm.com Impact of IFRS 16 Reported 2019 IFRS 16 impact Excluding IFRS 16 impact EBITDA 1,586 52 1,534 Depreciation, amortization and impairments (see Note 5 'Net sales and costs') 632 49 583 Operating profit 954 3 951 Financial income and expense (see Note 6 'Financial income and expense') (92) (6) (86) Profit for the year 764 (3) 767 Net earnings per ordinary share (in €) 4.27 (0.02) 4.29 Adjusted EBITDA 1,684 52 1,632 Nutrition 1,250 30 1,220 Materials 509 7 502 Innovation 22 2 20 Corporate Activities (97) 13 (110) Adjusted operating profit 1,075 3 1,072 Capital employed (see Note 2 'Alternative performance measures') 9,311 213 9,098 Average capital employed (see Note 2 'Alternative performance measures') 8,936 209 8,727 ROCE in % 12.0 (0.3) 12.3 Net debt (see Note 25 'Net debt') 1,144 217 927 Cash flow (see Consolidated cash flow statement on page 175) Operating cash flow 1,385 52 1,333 Payment of lease liabilities in financing activities (53) (52) (1) New IFRIC interpretations are not expected to have a Subsidiaries are consolidated from the acquisition date material effect on the financial statements of DSM. until the date on which DSM ceases to have control. From the acquisition date onwards, all intra-group balances and Consolidation transactions and unrealized profits or losses from intraThe consolidated financial statements comprise the group transactions are eliminated, with one exception: financial statements of Royal DSM and its subsidiaries unrealized losses are not eliminated if there is evidence (together 'DSM' or 'group'). As a parent company, DSM is of an impairment of the asset transferred. In such cases, an exposed, or has right to, the variable returns from its impairment of the asset is recognized. involvement with its subsidiaries and has the ability to affect the returns through its power over the subsidiary. Business combinations The financial data of subsidiaries are fully consolidated. Business combinations are accounted for using the Non-controlling interests in the group's equity and profit acquisition method. The cost of an acquisition is measured and loss are stated separately. A joint arrangement is an as the aggregate of the consideration transferred, including entity in which DSM holds an interest and which is jointly liabilities incurred, measured at acquisition date fair value, controlled by DSM and one or more other venturers under and the amount of any non-controlling interest in the a contractual arrangement. A joint arrangement can either acquiree. Acquisition costs incurred are expensed. be a joint venture where DSM and the other partner(s) have rights to the net assets of the arrangement or a joint As of the acquisition date, identifiable assets acquired, operation where DSM and the partner(s) have rights to the liabilities assumed and any non-controlling interest in the assets, and obligations for the liabilities of the acquiree are recognized separately from goodwill. arrangement. For joint ventures, the investment in the net Identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed are assets is recognized and accounted for in accordance with measured at acquisition date fair value. For each business the equity method. For a joint operation, assets, liabilities, combination, DSM elects whether it measures the nonrevenues and expenses are recognized in the financial controlling interest in the acquiree at fair value or at the statements of DSM in accordance with the contractual proportionate share of the acquiree's identifiable net entitlement or obligations of DSM. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 164 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies assets. Any contingent consideration payable is measured exchange differences arising from borrowings and other at fair value at the acquisition date. financial instruments insofar as those instruments hedge the currency risk related to the net investment. On disposal Segmentation of an entity with a functional currency other than the euro, Segment information is presented in respect of the group's the cumulative exchange differences relating to the operating segments, about which separate financial translation of the net investment are recognized in profit or information is available that is regularly evaluated by the loss. chief operating decision maker. DSM has determined that Nutrition, Materials and the Innovation Center represent Distinction between current and non-current reportable segments in addition to Corporate Activities. An asset (liability) is classified as current when it is expected The Managing Board decides how to allocate resources and to be realized (settled) within 12 months after the balance assesses the performance of the clusters. Cluster sheet date. performance is reported and reviewed down to the level of Adjusted EBITDA. The clusters are organized in Offsetting accordance with the type of products produced and the Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the nature of the markets served. The same accounting policies net amount is presented in the balance sheet when DSM that are applied for the consolidated financial statements has a legal right to offset the amounts and intends either of DSM are also applied for the operating segments. Prices to settle them on a net basis or to realize the asset and for transactions between segments are determined on an settle the liability simultaneously. arm's length basis. Segment results, assets and liabilities include items directly attributable to a segment as well as Intangible assets those that can reasonably and consistently be allocated. Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition Selected information on a country and regional basis is over DSM's share in the net fair value of the identifiable provided in addition to the information about operating assets and liabilities of an acquired subsidiary, joint venture segments. or associate. Goodwill paid on acquisition of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets. Goodwill paid on acquisition Foreign currency translation of joint ventures or associates is included in the carrying The presentation currency of the group is the euro. amount of these entities. Goodwill recognized as an intangible asset is not amortized but tested for impairment Each entity of the group records transactions and balance annually and when there are indications that the carrying sheet items in its functional currency. Transactions amount may exceed the recoverable amount. A gain or loss denominated in a currency other than the functional on the disposal of an entity includes the carrying amount currency are recorded at the spot exchange rates prevailing of goodwill relating to the entity sold. at the date of the transactions. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in a currency other than the Intangible assets acquired in a business combination are functional currency of the entity are translated at the recognized at fair value on the date of acquisition and closing rates. Exchange differences resulting from the subsequently amortized over their expected useful lives, settlement of these transactions and from the translation which vary from 4 to 20 years. of monetary items are recognized in the income statement. Separately acquired licenses, patents, drawing rights and Non-monetary assets that are measured on the basis of application software are carried at historical cost less historical costs denominated in a currency other than the straight-line amortization and less any impairment losses. functional currency continue to be translated against the The expected useful lives vary from 4 to 15 years. Costs of rate at initial recognition and will not result in exchange software maintenance are expensed when incurred. Capital differences. expenditure that is directly related to the development of application software is recognized as an intangible asset On consolidation, the balance sheets of subsidiaries that and amortized over its estimated useful life (5 to 8 years). do not have the euro as their functional currency are translated into euros at the closing rate. The income Research costs are expensed when incurred. Development statements of these entities are translated into euros at expenditure is capitalized if the recognition criteria are met the average rates for the relevant period. Goodwill paid on and if it is demonstrated that it is technically feasible to acquisition is recorded in the functional currency of the complete the asset; that the entity intends to complete acquired entity. Exchange differences arising from the the asset; that the entity is able to sell the asset; that the translation of the net investment in entities with a asset is capable of generating future economic benefits; functional currency other than the euro are recorded in that adequate resources are available to complete the Other comprehensive income. The same applies to asset; and that the expenditure attributable to the asset can Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 165 www.dsm.com be reliably measured. Development expenditure is leases is in principle 10 years. However, the contractual amortized over the asset's useful life. Development projects terms or specific circumstances could require applying the under construction are included under 'Development shorter non-cancellable period in determining the projects'. expected lease term. For vehicle leases, the expected lease term is set equal to the contractual term (4–5 years). Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are measured at cost less The lease liability is initially measured at the present value depreciation calculated on a straight-line basis and less any of the remaining lease payments that are not paid at the impairment losses. Interest during construction is commencement date. If an implicit interest rate can readily capitalized when it meets the criteria of a qualifying asset. be determined for a lease contract, this rate is used to Expenditures relating to major scheduled turnarounds are discount the future payments. If this rate is not available, capitalized and depreciated over the period up to the next DSM uses the applicable incremental borrowing rate as turnaround. the discount rate. In determining the incremental borrowing rate, DSM applies the practical expedient to use a single Property, plant and equipment are systematically discount rate to portfolios of leases with reasonably similar depreciated over their estimated useful lives. The estimated characteristics. remaining lives of assets are reviewed every year, taking account of commercial and technological obsolescence as Concerning the subsequent measurement, the lease well as normal wear and tear. The initially assumed liability is increased by the interest expense related to the expected useful lives are in principle as follows: for unwinding of the lease liability over time and decreased by buildings 10–50 years; for plant and machinery 5–15 years; the lease payments made. The lease liability is remeasured for other equipment 4–10 years. Land is not depreciated. when DSM reassesses or modifies the contractual terms and conditions. These remeasurements include the indexation An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognized of lease payments based on a variable index, the upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are reassessment of the likelihood of available extension or expected to arise from the continued use or the sale of termination options, changes in the lease term due to the asset. Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the contract renegotiations, or early terminations. asset is recorded in profit or loss. Associates and joint ventures Leases An associate is an entity over which DSM has significant DSM's lease portfolio mainly includes lease contracts for influence but no control or joint control, usually evidenced buildings and vehicles. by a shareholding that entitles DSM to between 20% and 50% of the voting rights. A joint venture is an entity over DSM recognizes a lease liability and a corresponding rightwhich DSM has joint control and is entitled to its share of of-use asset at the commencement date of a lease. Under the net assets and liabilities. Investments in associates and IFRS 16, a lease is a contract — or part of a contract — that joint ventures are accounted for by the equity method, conveys a right to control the use of an identified asset for which involves recognition in the income statement of a period of time in exchange for consideration. In general, DSM's share of the associate's or joint venture's profit or loss DSM splits the contractual consideration into a lease and for the year determined in accordance with the accounting a non-lease component based on their relative stand-alone policies of DSM. Any other results at DSM in relation to prices. For vehicle leases, however, DSM applies the associated companies are recognized under Other results practical expedient not to make this split but rather related to associates and joint ventures. DSM's interest in accounts for the fixed consideration as a single lease an associate or joint venture is carried in the balance sheet component. In addition, payments related to short-term at its share in the net assets of the associate or joint venture leases (leases with a term shorter than 12 months) are together with goodwill paid on acquisition, less any recognized on a straight-line basis in profit or loss. impairment loss. The right-of-use assets are measured at cost, initially at an When DSM's share in the loss of an associate or joint amount equal to the lease liability, adjusted for any venture exceeds the carrying amount of that entity, the prepayments or accruals. Subsequently, the right-of-use carrying amount is reduced to zero. No further losses are assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis over the recognized, unless DSM has responsibility for obligations expected lease term and adjusted for any impairment relating to the entity. losses or remeasurements of the lease liability. In line with the initially assumed expected useful life of the Financial instruments corresponding asset class within Property, plant and Financial instruments are contractually agreed rights and equipment, the minimum expected lease term for building obligations resulting in an inflow or outflow of financial Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 166 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies assets or the issue of equity instruments. They are initially Impairment of non-financial assets measured at fair value plus any directly attributable When there are indications that the carrying amount of a transaction costs. Transaction costs for financial non-financial asset (an intangible asset or an item of instruments assigned to the category at fair value through property, plant and equipment) may exceed the estimated profit and loss are recognized directly in the income recoverable amount (the higher of its value in use and fair statement. Subsequent measurement is based on the value less costs to sell), the possible existence of an classification of financial instruments defined in IFRS 9. impairment loss is investigated. If an asset does not generate largely independent cash flows, the recoverable Non-derivative financial instruments amount is determined for the cash generating unit (CGU) to DSM initially recognizes loans and receivables and debt which the asset belongs. In assessing the value in use, the securities on the date when they are originated. All other estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present financial assets and financial liabilities are initially value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current recognized on the date when DSM becomes a party to the market interest rates and the risks specific to the asset. contractual provisions of the instrument. DSM derecognizes a financial asset when the contractual rights to the cash When the recoverable amount of a non-financial asset is flows from the asset expire, or when it transfers the rights less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount is to receive the contractual cash flows in a transaction in impaired to its recoverable amount and an impairment which substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership charge is recognized in profit or loss. An impairment loss is of the financial asset are transferred, or when DSM neither reversed when there has been a change in estimate that is transfers nor retains substantially all of the risks and relevant for the determination of the asset's recoverable rewards of ownership and does not retain control over the amount since the last impairment loss was recognized. transferred asset. DSM derecognizes a financial liability Impairment losses for goodwill are never reversed. when its contractual obligations are discharged or cancelled, or expire. Expected credit loss All financial assets measured at amortized cost and fair Other financial assets value through other comprehensive income include an Other financial assets comprise loans to associates and expected credit loss as of the date of initial recognition of joint ventures, other participating interests, other the asset. Credit losses are measured as the present value receivables and other deferred items. of the difference between the cash flows due to DSM, and the cash flows that DSM expects to receive. Expected credit DSM's business model objective for loans is to hold-tolosses are recognized in the income statement. Loss collect contractual cash flows only. Loans and long-term allowances for trade receivables are always measured at receivables, for which the contractual cash flows consist lifetime expected credit loss. solely of principal and interest, are measured at amortized cost, using the effective interest method, which generally Inventories corresponds to nominal value, less an adjustment for Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realizable expected credit loss. The proceeds from these assets and value. The first in, first out (FIFO) method of valuation is used the gain or loss upon their disposal are recognized in profit unless the nature of the inventories requires the use of a or loss. different cost formula, in which case the weighted average cost method is used. The cost of intermediates and finished Other receivables, for which the contractual cash flows are goods includes directly attributable costs and related not solely principal and interest, are recognized at fair value, production overhead expenses. Net realizable value is with changes in fair value recognized in profit or loss. determined as the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs of completion Other participating interests comprise equity interests in and the estimated costs necessary to make the sale. entities in which DSM has no significant influence; these are Products whose manufacturing cost cannot be calculated accounted for as assets at fair value through profit or loss, because of joint cost components are stated at net or else DSM uses the irrevocable election to present the fair realizable value after deduction of a margin for selling and value changes in other comprehensive income (Fair value distribution efforts. reserve) instead of profit or loss. Fair value changes in OCI will not be recycled through profit and loss upon disposal Current receivables of the asset. All dividends received will be presented in Current receivables for which the contractual cash flows are profit or loss. solely principal and interest are initially recognized at fair value plus any directly attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, they are measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method, which Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 167 www.dsm.com generally corresponds to nominal value, less an adjustment shares are sold or reissued, the amount received is for expected credit loss. recognized as an increase in equity. Dividend to be distributed to holders of cumulative preference shares is Current investments recognized as a liability when the Supervisory Board Current investments are initially recognized at fair value approves the proposal for profit distribution. Dividend to be plus any directly attributable transaction costs. Subsequent distributed to holders of ordinary shares is recognized as to initial recognition, they are measured at amortized cost a liability when the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders using the effective interest method. Deposits with banks approves the profit appropriation. with a maturity between 3 and 12 months are classified as current investments. Provisions Provisions are recognized when all of the following Cash and cash equivalents conditions are met: (1) there is a present legal or Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at banks and in constructive obligation as a result of past events, (2) it is hand and deposits held at call with banks with a maturity probable that a transfer of economic benefits will settle of less than three months at inception. Bank overdrafts are the obligation, and (3) a reliable estimate can be made of included in current liabilities. Included in cash and cash the amount of the obligation. equivalents are investments in money market funds that do not meet the SPPI (Solely Payments of Principal & Interest) The probable amount required to settle long-term criterion but are held to meet short-term cash demand. obligations is discounted if the effect of discounting is Cash and cash equivalents are measured at fair value material. Where discounting is used, the increase in the through profit and loss, or amortized cost. provision due to the passage of time is recognized as interest costs. Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale Non-current assets and disposal groups (assets and Borrowings liabilities relating to an activity that is to be sold) are Borrowings are not held for trading and are initially classified as 'held for sale' if their carrying amount is to be recognized at fair value of the proceeds received, net of recovered principally through a sales transaction rather transaction costs. Subsequently, borrowings are stated at than through continuing use. The reclassification takes amortized cost using the effective interest method. place when the assets are available for immediate sale and Measurement at amortized cost includes any discount or the sale is highly probable. These conditions are usually met premium on the borrowing. Interest expenses are recorded as from the date on which a letter of intent or agreement to in profit or loss. sell is ready for signing. Non-current assets held for sale and disposal groups are measured at the lower of carrying Where the interest rate risk relating to a long-term amount and fair value less costs to sell. Non-current assets borrowing is hedged through a fair value hedge, and the held for sale are not depreciated or amortized. For hedge is effective, the carrying amount of the long-term transparency, non-current assets and disposal groups that loan is adjusted for changes in fair value of the interest will contribute to joint ventures are reported separately component of the hedged loan. from other assets and liabilities held for sale. Other current liabilities Discontinued operations Other current liabilities are measured at amortized cost, Discontinued operations comprise those activities that which generally corresponds to the nominal value. were disposed of during the period or which were classified as held for sale at the end of the period and represent a Revenue for contracts with customers separate major line of business or geographical area that Revenues from contracts with customers are recognized by can be clearly distinguished for operational and financial identifying the contract and its performance obligations as reporting purposes. well as determination and allocation of the transaction price to these performance obligations. At DSM, revenue Royal DSM Shareholders' equity related to the sale of goods is recognized in the income DSM's ordinary shares and cumulative preference shares statement when the performance obligation is satisfied. are classified as Royal DSM Shareholders' equity. This is This is at the point in time when transfer of control of the the case for the latter, as there is no mandatory redemption, goods passes to the buyer. Revenue is measured at the fair and distributions to the shareholders are at the discretion value of the transaction price received. of DSM. The price paid for repurchased DSM shares (treasury shares) is deducted from Royal DSM Shareholders' equity Income coming from the rendering of services is recognized until the shares are cancelled or reissued. Treasury shares when the service, i.e., the performance obligation, has been are presented in the treasury share reserve. When treasury Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 168 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies performed. The revenue is measured at the fair value of shares and restricted share units is measured by reference the transaction price received. to the fair value of the DSM shares on the date on which the performance shares and restricted share units were Net sales represent the invoice value less estimated granted and is recognized in profit or loss (Employee benefit rebates, cash discounts, and indirect taxes. costs) during the vesting period, together with a corresponding increase in equity. Income related to the sale or licensing of technologies or technological expertise is recognized in the income Emission rights statement either at a point in time or over time, depending DSM is subject to legislation encouraging reductions in on when the contractually identified performance greenhouse gas emissions and has been awarded emission obligations are satisfied. Performance obligations related to rights (principally CO2 emission rights) in a number of license income include the transfer of rights and jurisdictions. Emission rights are reserved for meeting obligations associated with those technologies. delivery obligations and are recognized at cost (usually zero). Revenue is recognized when surplus emission rights License income is reported in Net sales when the income is are sold to third parties. When actual emissions exceed part of the ordinary and recurring activities of the business the emission rights available to DSM, a liability is recognized and, if not, in Other operating income. for the expected additional costs. Interest income is recognized on a time-proportionate basis Alternative performance measures (APMs) using the effective interest method. DSM uses Alternative performance measures to present and discuss DSM's financial results. To arrive at these APMs, Dividend income is recognized when the right to receive adjustments are made to material items of income and payment is established. expense arising from circumstances such as Acquisitions/ divestments, Restructuring, Impairments and Other. Government grants Government grants are recognized at their fair value if there 'Other' APM adjustments include site closure costs, is reasonable assurance that the grant will be received and environmental cleaning, litigation settlements or other all related conditions will be complied with. Cost grants are non-operational (contractual) arrangements. Other than recognized as income over the periods necessary to match items related to acquisition and integration costs incurred the grant on a systematic basis to the cost that it is intended in the first year from the acquisition date (including nonto compensate. If the grant is an investment grant, its fair recurring inventory value adjustments) as well as value is initially recognized as deferred income in Other adjustments due to previously recognized APM adjusting non-current liabilities and then released to profit or loss events, the threshold is € 10 million. over the expected useful life of the relevant asset. Income tax Share-based compensation Income tax expense is recognized in the income statement The costs of option plans are measured by reference to except to the extent that it relates to an item recognized the fair value of the options on the date on which the directly in Other comprehensive income or Shareholders' options are granted. The fair value is determined using equity. the Black-Scholes model, taking into account market conditions linked to the price of the DSM share. The costs Current tax is the expected tax payable or receivable on of these options are recognized in profit or loss (Employee the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted at benefit costs) during the vesting period, together with a the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable corresponding increase in Equity in the case of with respect to previous years, and reflects uncertainty equity-settled options or Other non-current liabilities in related to income taxes, if any. Deferred tax assets and the case of cash-settled options (Share Appreciation liabilities are recognized for the expected tax consequences Rights). No expense is recognized for options that do not of temporary differences between the carrying amount of ultimately vest, except for options where vesting is assets and liabilities and their tax base. Deferred tax assets conditional upon a market condition, which are treated as and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that have been vesting, irrespective of whether or not the market condition enacted or substantially enacted at the balance sheet date, is satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions and reflect uncertainty related to income taxes, if any. They are met. are expected to apply when the related deferred tax assets are realized or the deferred tax liabilities are settled. Performance shares and restricted share units are granted Deferred tax assets, including assets arising from losses free of charge and vest after three years on the achievement carried forward and tax credits, are recognized to the extent of previously determined targets. The cost of performance that it is probable that future taxable profits will be Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 169 www.dsm.com available against which the deductible temporary comprehensive income (Translation reserve) to the extent differences and unused tax losses can be utilized. Deferred that the hedge is effective and the change in fair value is tax assets and liabilities are stated at nominal value. caused by changes in currency exchange rates. Accumulated gains and losses are released from Other comprehensive Deferred taxes are not provided for the following temporary income and are included in profit or loss when the net differences: the initial recognition of goodwill, the initial investment is disposed of. Changes in the fair value of recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither financial derivatives designated and qualifying as fair value accounting nor taxable profit, and differences relating to hedges are immediately recognized in the income investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will statement, together with any changes in the fair value of probably not reverse in the foreseeable future. Deferred tax the hedged assets or liabilities attributable to the hedged assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset and presented risk. net when there is a legally enforceable right to offset, and the assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by Pensions and other post-employment benefits the same taxation authority. DSM has both defined contribution plans and defined benefit plans. In the case of defined contribution plans, Derivatives obligations are limited to the payment of contributions, Derivatives are initially measured at fair value. Subsequent which are recognized as Employee benefit costs. In the case to initial recognition, derivatives are measured at fair value, of defined benefit plans, the aggregate of the value of the and changes therein are generally recognized in profit or defined benefit obligation and the fair value of plan assets loss, unless hedge accounting is applied. for each plan is recognized as a net defined benefit liability or asset. Defined benefit obligations are determined using Financial derivatives and hedging the projected unit credit method. Plan assets are recognized Financial derivatives are recognized on the day of trading at at fair value. If the fair value of plan assets exceeds the fair value, with changes recognized in profit or loss. The present value of the defined benefit obligation, a net asset group uses financial derivatives such as foreign currency is only recognized to the extent that the asset is available forward contracts and interest rate swaps to hedge risks for refunds to the employer or for reductions in future associated with foreign currency and interest rate contributions to the plan. Defined benefit pension costs fluctuations. Financial derivatives are initially recognized consist of three elements: service costs, net interest, and in the balance sheet at fair value. Subsequently, financial remeasurements. Service costs are part of Employee benefit derivatives, bank balances and deposits in foreign currency costs and consist of current service costs. Past service costs are valued using the rates applicable on the balance sheet and results of plan settlements are included in Other closing date. Changes in fair value are recognized in profit operating income or expense. Net interest is part of or loss unless cash flow hedge accounting or net investment Financial income and expense and is determined on the hedge accounting is applied. For the measurement basis, basis of the value of the net defined benefit asset or liability see 'Fair value of financial instruments'. at the start of the year, and on the interest on high-quality corporate bonds. Remeasurements are actuarial gains and Changes in the fair value of financial derivatives designated losses, the return (or interest cost) on net plan assets (or and qualifying as cash flow hedges are recognized in Other liabilities) excluding amounts included in net interest and comprehensive income (Hedging reserve) to the extent that changes in the effect of the asset ceiling. These the hedge is effective. Upon recognition of the related asset remeasurements are recognized in Other comprehensive or liability, the cumulative gain or loss is transferred from income as they occur and are not recycled through profit or the hedging reserve and included in the carrying amount loss at a later stage. of the hedged item if it is a non-financial asset or liability. Any ineffective portion of the changes of the fair value of the derivative is recognized immediately in profit and loss. If the forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or the designation is revoked, then hedge accounting is discontinued prospectively. If the forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, then the amount accumulated in equity is reclassified to profit or loss. If the hedged item is a financial asset or liability, the gain or loss is transferred to profit or loss. Changes in the fair value of financial derivatives designated and qualifying as net investment hedges are recognized in Other Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 170 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Consolidated financial statements Consolidated financial statements Consolidated income statement x € million Notes 2019 2018 Net sales 5 9,010 9,267 Cost of sales 5 (5,957) (5,862) Gross margin 3,053 3,405 Marketing and sales (1,263) (1,303) Research and development (349) (348) General and administrative (525) (530) Other operating income 146 104 Other operating expense (108) (83) 5 (2,099) (2,160) Operating profit 954 1,245 Financial income 6 30 18 Financial expense 6 (122) (119) Profit before income tax expense 862 1,144 Income tax expense 7 (152) (194) Share of the profit of associates and joint ventures 10 (9) 11 Other results related to associates and joint ventures 10 63 118 Profit for the year 764 1,079 Of which: Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 17 6 2 Net profit attributable to equity holders of Koninklijke DSM N.V. 758 1,077 Dividend on cumulative preference shares (8) (8) Net profit available to holders of ordinary shares 750 1,069 Earnings per share (EPS) (in €): Net basic EPS 2 4.27 6.10 Net diluted EPS 2 4.24 6.06 See Note 2 'Alternative performance measures' for the reconciliation to Adjusted EBITDA of € 1,684 million (2018: € 1,822 million) and other adjusted IFRS performance measures. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 171 www.dsm.com Consolidated statement of comprehensive income x € million 2019 2018 Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss Remeasurements of defined benefit pension plans (24) (77) Fair value changes in Other participating interests (21) 16 Transfer of fair value of other participating interests to retained earnings 4 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations relating to the non-controlling interests 2 (1) Items that may subsequently be reclassified to profit or loss Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations Change for the year 134 129 Reclassification adjustment to the income statement (9) 14 Hedging reserve Change for the year (18) (44) Reclassification adjustment to the income statement 66 22 Equity accounted investees — share of Other comprehensive income 1 (4) Other comprehensive income, before tax 135 55 Income tax (expense)/income relating to: Remeasurements of defined benefit plans 9 11 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 2 Hedging reserve (4) 7 Total income tax (expense) / income 5 20 Other comprehensive income, net of tax 140 75 Profit for the year 764 1,079 Total comprehensive income 904 1,154 Of which: Attributable to non-controlling interests 8 1 Attributable to equity holders of Koninklijke DSM N.V. 896 1,153 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 172 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Consolidated financial statements Consolidated balance sheet at 31 December x € million Notes 2019 2018 Assets Non-current assets Intangible assets 8 3,515 3,090 Property, plant and equipment 9 4,040 3,511 Deferred tax assets 7 217 248 Share in associates and joint ventures 10 155 205 Financial derivatives 23 27 14 Other financial assets 11 265 263 8,219 7,331 Current assets Inventories 12 2,019 1,993 Trade receivables 13 1,592 1,575 Income tax receivables 13 61 83 Other current receivables 13 45 80 Financial derivatives 23 19 21 Current investments 14 688 1,277 Cash and cash equivalents 15 800 1,281 5,224 6,310 Total 13,443 13,641 Equity and liabilities Equity 16 Shareholders' equity 7,731 7,782 Non-controlling interests 17 104 33 7,835 7,815 Non-current liabilities Deferred tax liabilities 7 296 254 Employee benefit liabilities 24 413 413 Provisions 18 120 116 Borrowings 19 2,464 2,272 Financial derivatives 23 7 3 Other non-current liabilities 20 145 197 3,445 3,255 Current liabilities Employee benefit liabilities 24 43 46 Provisions 18 48 37 Borrowings 19 189 380 Financial derivatives 23 18 51 Trade payables 21 1,345 1,430 Income tax payables 21 42 100 Other current liabilities 21 478 527 2,163 2,571 Total 13,443 13,641 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 173 www.dsm.com Consolidated statement of changes in equity (Note 16) x € million Share Share Treasury Other Retained Total NonTotal capital premium shares reserves earnings controlling equity interests Balance at 1 January 2018 338 489 (398) (199) 6,732 6,962 103 7,065 Dividend (365) (365) (3) (368) Options / performance shares granted 25 25 25 Options / performance shares exercised / canceled (23) 23 Reissued shares 263 (21) 242 242 Acquisition (divestment) of subsidiary with NCI (67) (67) Repurchase of shares (236) (236) (236) Other 1 1 (1) Total comprehensive income 142 1,011 1,153 1 1,154 Balance at 31 December 2018 338 489 (371) (55) 7,381 7,782 33 7,815 Dividend (414) (414) (4) (418) Options / performance shares granted 34 34 34 Options / performance shares exercised / canceled (36) 36 Reissued shares 335 (11) 324 324 Acquistion of NCI without a change in control (13) (13) 9 (4) Acquisition (divestment) of subsidiary with NCI 57 57 Repurchase of shares (869) (869) (869) Other 1 (10) (9) 1 (8) Total comprehensive income 152 744 896 8 904 Balance at 31 December 2019 338 489 (905) 96 7,713 7,731 104 7,835 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 174 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Consolidated financial statements Consolidated cash flow statement (Note 26) x € million 2019 2018 Operating activities Profit for the year 764 1,079 Share of the profit of associates and joint ventures (54) (129) Income tax 152 194 Profit before income tax expense 862 1,144 Financial income and expense 92 101 Operating profit 1 954 1,245 Depreciation, amortization and impairments 632 509 Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA)1 1,586 1,754 Adjustments for: (Gain) or loss from disposals (4) (22) Acquisition/divestment related in EBITDA 13 16 Change in provisions 26 (41) Defined benefit plans (39) (25) (4) (72) Income tax received 9 15 Income tax paid (149) (122) Share-based compensation 34 25 Contract settlements and other non-cash items (70) 29 Other (8) Changes, excluding working capital (188) (125) Operating cash flow before changes in working capital 1,398 1,629 Changes in operating working capital: Inventories 114 (166) Trade receivables 59 (74) Trade payables (121) (6) 52 (246) Changes in other working capital (65) 8 Changes in working capital (13) (238) Cash provided by operating activities 1,385 1,391 1 See Note 2 'Alternative performance measures' for the reconciliation to Adjusted EBITDA of € 1,684 million (2018: € 1,822 million) and other adjusted IFRS performance measures. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 175 www.dsm.com Consolidated cash flow statement (Note 26) continued x € million 2019 2018 Cash provided by operating activities 1,385 1,391 Investing activities Capital expenditure for:1 Intangible assets (107) (108) Property, plant and equipment (520) (565) Payments regarding drawing rights (14) (20) Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 6 18 Acquisition of subsidiaries and associates (556) (22) Disposal of subsidiaries, businesses and associates 37 316 Additions to fixed-term deposits (1,195) (1,544) Withdrawal from fixed-term deposits 1,783 1,222 Interest received 10 20 Other financial assets: Capital payments and acquisitions (53) (77) Dividends received 75 2 Additions to loans granted (17) (4) Repayment of loans granted 25 156 Proceeds from disposals 1 1 Cash from/(used in) investing activities (525) (605) Financing activities Settlement derivatives from internal loans (5) 1 Capital payments from/to non-controlling interests 1 Loans taken up 7 25 Repayment of loans (302) (12) Payments of lease liabilities (53) (1) Change in debt to credit institutions 57 9 Dividend paid (291) (225) Interest paid (57) (59) Proceeds from reissued treasury shares 180 97 Repurchase of shares (869) (236) Cash (used in)/from financing activities (1,332) (401) Change in cash and cash equivalents (472) 385 Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 1,281 899 Exchange differences relating to cash held (9) (3) Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 800 1,281 1 An amount of € 18 million included in capital expenditure was funded by customers (2018: € 9 million) and in 2018 € 18 million via financial lease (in 2019 all lease payments are recognized as cash used in financing activities). Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 176 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM 1 General information Unless stated otherwise, all amounts are in € million. A list of DSM participations has been filed with the Chamber of Commerce (Netherlands) and is available from the company upon request. The list can also be downloaded from the company website. The preparation of financial statements requires estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements. The policies that management considers to be the most important for the presentation of the financial condition and results of operations are discussed in the relevant Notes. The same holds for the issues that require management judgments or estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. Management cautions that future events often vary from forecasts and that estimates routinely require adjustment. Areas of judgment that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognized in the financial statements relate to the categorization of certain items as 'APM adjustments' relating to the alternative performance measures and the identification of cash generating units (CGUs). Key assumptions and estimates that need to be made by management relate to the useful lives of non-current assets (Notes 8 and 9), the establishment of provisions for restructuring costs, environmental costs (Note 18) and retirement and other postemployment benefits (Note 24), the recognition and measurement of income taxes (Note 7), the determination of fair values for financial instruments (Note 23) and for share-based compensation (Note 27). The uncertainty concerning the actual outflows of provisions relates to both the amounts and the timing of potential future events. Furthermore, impairment testing mainly of goodwill and development projects requires judgments by management, among other things with respect to the determination of CGUs, the estimation of future cashflows, growth rates and discount rates to apply (Notes 2, 8, 9 and 10). Significant judgment is also required for the determination of the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in business combinations (Note 3) and for the valuation of drawing rights (Note 8). For drawing rights, the most important judgments relate to the estimation of the required maintenance and replacement outlays. Estimates are based on historical quoted market prices, experience and assumptions that are considered reasonable under the circumstances. For lease contracts under IFRS 16 that include renewal options, determining the lease term involves judgment based on the underlying asset class, past practices and current business outlooks. The assessment of these renewal options affects the lease term of these contracts and, in turn, the recognized lease liabilities and the corresponding right-of-use assets. Exchange rates The currency exchange rates that were used in preparing the consolidated financial statements are listed below for the most important currencies. 1 euro = Exchange rate at balance sheet Average exchange rate date 2019 2018 2019 2018 US dollar 1.12 1.15 1.12 1.18 Swiss franc 1.09 1.13 1.11 1.16 Brazilian real 4.52 4.44 4.41 4.31 Chinese renminbi 7.82 7.88 7.73 7.81 Presentation of consolidated income statement DSM presents expenses in the consolidated income statement in accordance with their function. This allows the presentation of gross margin on the face of the income statement, which is a widely used performance measure in the industry. The composition of the costs allocated to the individual functions is explained below. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 177 www.dsm.com Cost of sales encompasses all manufacturing costs (including raw materials, employee benefits, and depreciation and amortization) related to goods and services captured in net sales. These are measured at their actual cost based on FIFO, or weighted average cost. Marketing and sales relates to the selling and marketing of goods and services, and also includes all costs that are directly related to the sale of goods, but are not originated by the manufacturing of the goods (e.g., outbound freight). Research and development consists of: Research, which is defined as original and planned investigation undertaken with the prospect of gaining new scientific or technical knowledge and understanding Development, which is defined as the application of research findings or other knowledge to a plan or design for the production of new or substantially improved materials, devices, products, processes, systems or services before the start of commercial production or use General and administrative relates to the strategic and governance role of the general management of the company as well as the representation of DSM as a whole in the financial, political or business community. It also relates to business support activities of staff departments that are not directly related to the other functional areas. 2 Alternative performance measures In presenting and discussing DSM's financial position, operating results and net results, management uses certain Alternative performance measures not defined by IFRS. These Alternative performance measures (APMs) should not be viewed in isolation as alternatives to the equivalent IFRS measures and should be used as supplementary information in conjunction with the most directly comparable IFRS measures. Alternative performance measures do not have standardized meaning under IFRS and therefore may not be comparable to similar measures presented by other companies. To provide clear reporting on the developments of the business, APM adjustments are made that impact the EBIT(DA), net profit, ROCE and the EPS. A reconciliation of these Alternative performance measures to the most directly comparable IFRS measures can be found in the table Alternative performance measures. The APM adjustments to net profit, as included in the APMs, can be specified as follows: 2019 2018 APM adjustments: Acquisitions/divestments 13 Other consolidation changes (11) Restructuring 68 68 Other 17 11 Impairments of PPE and intangible assets 23 32 Income tax related to adjustments (27) (23) Adjustments to result in associates and joint ventures (28) (122) Total APM adjustments (income)/expense 66 (45) Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 178 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM 2019 2018 The APM adjustments in 2019 are listed below: The APM adjustments in 2018 are listed below: Acquisition and divestment costs of € 13 million relate Restructuring costs of € 68 million relate to project costs mainly to the acquisition of Yimante, Andre Pectin and of the restructuring projects together with the Royal CSK redundancy schemes associated with the dismissal of Restructuring costs of € 68 million relate to project costs employees and costs of termination of contracts of the restructuring projects together with the The other consolidation change relates to the redundancy schemes associated with the dismissal of deconsolidation of Yantai Andre Pectin, which led to an employees and costs of termination of contracts accounting profit of € 11 million The other APM adjustment of € 17 million relates to the The other APM adjustments of € 11 million relate to a provision for soil cleaning within Corporate Activities changed and remeasured earn-out arrangement with Impairments of property, plant and equipment (PPE) and Amyris Brasil intangible assets of € 23 million relate mainly to a Impairments of property, plant and equipment (PPE) and development project of DSM Nutritional Products and intangible assets of € 32 million relate mainly to an R&D the impairment of an investment project within DSM building of DSM Nutritional Products in Switzerland and Food Specialties the impairment of a development project within DSM APM adjustments to the result from associates and joint Food Specialties ventures of € 28 million mainly relate to the step-up to APM adjustments to the result from associates and joint the fair value of the associate Andre Pectin prior to the ventures mainly relate to the gain on the sale of the 50% acquisition share in DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals (DSP) of € 109 million and the gain on the sale of the shares in Essential Medical of € 13 million Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 179 www.dsm.com Alternative performance measures 2019 2018 Operating profit 954 1,245 Depreciation, amortization and impairments 632 509 EBITDA 1,586 1,754 APM adjustments to EBITDA: Acquisitions/divestments 13 Other consolidation changes (11) Restructuring 68 68 Other 17 11 Total APM adjustments 98 68 Adjusted EBITDA 1,684 1,822 Operating profit 954 1,245 APM adjustments to Operating profit: APM adjustments to EBITDA 98 68 Impairments of PPE and intangible assets 23 32 Total APM adjustments 121 100 Adjusted operating profit 1,075 1,345 Profit for the year 764 1,079 APM adjustments to: Operating profit 121 100 Result relating to associates/joint ventures (28) (122) Income tax related to APM adjustments (27) (23) Total APM adjustments 66 (45) Adjusted net profit 830 1,034 Profit attributable to non-controlling interests (7) (2) Dividend on cumulative preference shares (8) (8) Adjusted net profit available to holders of ordinary shares 815 1,024 Earnings per share Average number of ordinary shares outstanding (x 1,000) 175,731 175,323 Effect of dilution due to share options (x 1,000) 1,088 1,000 Adjusted average number of ordinary shares outstanding (x 1,000) 176,819 176,323 Earnings per share (EPS) (in €): Net basic EPS 4.27 6.10 Net diluted EPS 4.24 6.06 Adjusted net basic EPS 4.64 5.84 Adjusted net diluted EPS 4.61 5.81 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 180 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM Alternative performance measures 2019 2018 Capital employed Intangible assets 3,515 3,090 Property, plant and equipment 4,040 3,511 Investment grants / drawing rights (96) (94) Inventories 2,019 1,993 Current receivables 1,698 1,738 Current liabilities (1,865) (2,057) Capital employed at 31 December 9,311 8,181 Average capital employed Capital employed at 1 January 8,3961 7,766 Capital employed at 31 March 8,907 7,740 Capital employed at 30 June 8,735 8,115 Capital employed at 30 September 9,330 8,220 Capital employed at 31 December 9,311 8,181 Average capital employed 8,936 8,004 Adjusted operating profit 1,075 1,345 ROCE in % 12.0 16.8 Cash provided by operating activities 1,385 1,391 Cash impact APM adjustments 57 94 Capital expenditure (627) (673) Payments regarding drawing rights (14) (20) Financial lease IAS 17 (2018) 18 Adjusted net operating free cash flow 801 810 1 Increased by € 215 million compared to 31 December 2018 due to the adoption of IFRS 16. 3 Change in the scope of the consolidation Acquisitions In 2019, DSM acquired businesses for a total consideration of € 585 million. On 14 March 2019, DSM Hydrocolloids purchased an additional 46.05% stake in Andre Pectin (Yantai, China) for a cash consideration of € 159 million, leading to a total shareholding of 75% and full control in Andre Pectin. The remaining 25% of the shares in Andre Pectin continues to be held by the Shandong Andre Group Co., Ltd., which supplies raw materials and utilities. Based on the contractual agreement in the Sales and purchase agreement, the company was consolidated as of 1 January 2019. In accordance with IFRS 3, the purchase price was allocated to identifiable assets and liabilities acquired, resulting in a goodwill amount of € 134 million. The acquisition of Andre Pectin contributed € 58 million to net sales and € 25 million to Adjusted EBITDA in 2019. On 31 July 2019, DSM Engineering Plastics acquired the specialty materials business of SRF Ltd. (Pantnagar, India) for a cash consideration of € 41 million. The acquisition will further cement DSM Materials' position in India as the leading player in, among other industrial sectors, engineering plastics in this fast-growing economy, and fits with its strategic aim of generating Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 181 www.dsm.com leading positions in fast-growing economies. In accordance with IFRS 3, the purchase price was allocated to identifiable assets and liabilities acquired, resulting in a goodwill amount of € 13 million. The acquisition of SRF's specialty materials business contributed € 10 million to net sales and € 1 million to Adjusted EBITDA in 2019. If the acquisition had occurred on 1 January 2019, the contribution to net sales would have been approximately € 27 million and Adjusted EBITDA € 3 million. On 27 August 2019, DSM Nutritional Products acquired the vitamin E business of Nenter & Co., Inc., with Nenter keeping a 25% non-controlling interest, via a newly created company, Yimante Health Ingredients (Jingzhou) Company Ltd. By this transaction, DSM acquired all Nenter's Jingzhou vitamin E production and related assets and now owns and will operate the vitamin E production facilities in Jingzhou (Hubei Province, China). Yimante has a minority shareholding of 33% in Nenter's Shishou facility (Hubei Province, China), where an intermediate for vitamin E is produced. The company will produce vitamin E exclusively for DSM. DSM immediately started implementing the anticipated upgrading and refurbishment activities to secure a high-quality and sustainable supply of vitamin E that complies with DSM's safety, health and environmental standards, and therefore stopped production. In accordance with IFRS 3, the purchase price amounting to € 139 million was provisionally allocated to identifiable assets and liabilities acquired, pending completion of an independent valuation process. Due to the shutdown as from the transaction date, the acquisition of Nenter's vitamin E business did not contribute to net sales and Adjusted EBITDA in 2019. On 27 December 2019, DSM Food Specialties acquired a 100% interest in specialty dairy solutions provider Koninklijke CSK Food Enrichment C.V. (Royal CSK) (Wageningen, Netherlands) for a cash consideration of € 160 million. With the acquisition of Royal CSK, DSM will further strengthen its product portfolio and application know-how and expertise in food & beverage. In accordance with IFRS 3, the purchase price was provisionally allocated to identifiable assets and liabilities acquired, pending completion of an independent valuation process. The acquisition did not yet contribute to net sales and Adjusted EBITDA in 2019. If the acquisition had occurred on 1 January 2019, additional net sales would have been approximately € 65 million and Adjusted EBITDA € 11 million. Together, the acquisitions in 2019 contributed € 68 million to net sales and € 26 million to Adjusted EBITDA. If all acquisitions had occurred on 1 January 2019, additional net sales would have been approximately € 150 million and Adjusted EBITDA € 39 million. The goodwill recognized for these acquisitions is in general not deductible for corporate income tax with the exception of SRF. The main impact of a Purchase Price Allocation is the recognition of intangible assets. The valuation techniques DSM used for measuring the fair value of these intangible assets were as follows: Technology: was valued by applying the relief-from-royalty method, an income approach whereby the value of an asset is estimated by capitalizing the royalties saved as a result of owning the asset; and by applying the multi-period excess earnings method (MEEM) considering the present value of net cash flows expected to be generated by the customer relationships Customer relationships: the fair values were determined by applying the MEEM and via the cost approach based on historic market and sales expenses of the business Supplier relationships: were valued using the discounted cash flow (DCF) method, based on discounting the cash flows that can be attributed to the supplier relationships and after taking into account the contribution of other assets to the cash flow of these intangible assets The impact of the acquisitions on DSM's consolidated balance sheet (measured at the date of acquisition) is shown in the following table. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 182 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM Andre Pectin Yimante Royal CSK SRF Other Total Acquisitions 2019 (provisional) (provisional) Book Fair Book Fair Book Fair Book Fair Book Fair Book Fair value value value value value value value value value value value value Assets Intangible assets 3 76 10 28 18 3 13 125 Property, plant and equipment 33 43 63 55 42 42 6 7 144 147 Other non-current assets 22 22 22 22 Inventories 27 29 28 29 12 12 3 3 70 73 Receivables 23 23 13 13 10 10 4 3 50 49 Cash and cash equivalents 10 10 2 2 5 5 1 1 18 18 Total assets 96 181 138 149 69 69 13 31 1 4 317 434 Non-controlling interests and liabilities Non-controlling interests 32 23 25 23 57 Non-current liabilities 16 21 24 9 9 1 30 50 Current liabilities 17 38 25 25 14 14 3 3 59 80 Total non-controlling interests and liabilities 17 86 69 74 23 23 3 3 1 112 187 Net assets 79 95 69 75 46 46 10 28 1 3 205 247 Acquisition price (in cash) 159 125 160 41 15 500 Fair value of associate contributed 66 66 Acquisition price (payable) 4 14 1 19 Consideration 229 139 160 41 16 585 Goodwill 134 64 114 13 13 338 Acquisition costs recognized in APM adjustments 3 4 1 1 9 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 183 www.dsm.com 4 Segment information Materials is a global player in specialty plastics, which are used in components for the electrical and electronics, DSM's operating segments are Nutrition, Materials and the automotive, flexible food-packaging, and consumer goods Innovation Center. DSM has segmented its operations by industries. Furthermore, Materials is a global player in business activity from which revenues are earned and providing innovative, sustainable resins solutions for paints expenses incurred. These operating results are regularly and industrial and optical fiber coatings, as well as the fiber reviewed by the entity's chief operating decision maker Dyneema®. (CODM) to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and assess its performance. DSM uses The Innovation Center focuses on innovation and the Adjusted EBITDA as the main indicator to evaluate the growth of DSM's existing core business through adjacent consolidated performance as well as the performance per technologies via its Corporate Research Program as well as segment. Discrete financial information is available for each through the company's venturing and licensing activities. identified segment. The accounting policies of the operating Additionally, it identifies and invests in new and innovative segments are the same as those described in the Summary growth options. The Innovation Center is responsible for of significant accounting policies. Transactions between developing and extracting value from DSM's Emerging segments are generally executed at market-based prices. Business Areas. Interest income, interest expense, and income tax expense or income are not allocated to segments as these amounts Any consolidated activities outside the three reported are not included in the measure of segment profit or loss segments are reported as 'Corporate Activities'. These reviewed by the CODM, or otherwise regularly provided to mainly comprise operating and service activities as well as the CODM. several costs that cannot be allocated to the clusters. Nutrition serves the global industries for animal feed, food DSM does not have a single external customer that & beverages, pharmaceuticals, infant nutrition, dietary represents 10% or more of total sales. supplements, and personal care. It does so by the production of pure active ingredients, their incorporation into sophisticated forms, and the provision of tailored premixes and forward solutions. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 184 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM Geographical information NetherRest of Eastern North Latin China India Japan Rest of Rest of Total lands Western Europe America America Asia the 2018 Europe world Net sales by origin In € million 2,299 3,301 195 1,403 574 938 95 113 264 85 9,267 In % 25 36 2 15 6 10 1 1 3 1 100 Net sales by destination In € million 405 2,229 597 2,070 1,081 1,131 233 322 906 293 9,267 In % 4 24 7 22 12 12 3 3 10 3 100 Workforce at year-end (headcount) 3,827 5,069 523 3,281 2,214 4,104 556 204 904 295 20,977 Average workforce (FTE) 3,644 4,851 511 3,258 2,139 4,335 545 199 884 284 20,650 Intangible assets and Property, plant and equipment Capital expenditure 150 208 7 121 36 116 3 3 6 3 653 Carrying amount 1,678 1,961 33 1,823 362 568 19 41 93 23 6,601 Total assets (total DSM) 5,094 2,732 143 2,778 939 1,064 132 170 482 107 13,641 2019 Net sales by origin In € million 2,173 2,667 197 1,568 722 976 97 136 370 104 9,010 In % 24 30 2 17 8 11 1 2 4 1 100 Net sales by destination In € million 351 2,088 591 2,046 1,116 1,098 236 301 898 285 9,010 In % 4 23 7 23 12 12 3 3 10 3 100 Workforce at year-end (headcount) 3,960 5,133 575 3,346 2,134 4,960 681 205 888 292 22,174 Average workforce (FTE) 3,785 5,004 534 3,336 2,232 4,515 558 209 924 293 21,390 Intangible assets and Property, plant and equipment Capital expenditure 164 210 10 125 22 76 1 3 9 3 623 Carrying amount 2,052 2,071 44 1,946 380 822 56 50 102 32 7,555 Total assets (total DSM) 4,111 3,109 156 2,874 944 1,406 165 148 419 111 13,443 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 185 www.dsm.com Business segments Nutrition Materials Innovation Corporate EliminaTotal 2019 Center Activities tions Financial performance Net sales 6,028 2,746 194 42 9,010 Supplies to other clusters 50 11 19 (80) Supplies 6,078 2,757 213 42 (80) 9,010 Adjusted EBITDA1 1,250 509 22 (97) 1,684 EBITDA 1,224 493 18 (149) 1,586 Adjusted operating profit 1 881 363 (19) (150) 1,075 Operating profit 832 347 (23) (202) 954 Depreciation and amortization 350 144 37 41 572 Impairments 42 2 4 12 60 of which included in APM adjustments 23 23 Additions to provisions 8 11 2 50 71 Result related to associates and joint ventures 7 (2) 49 54 R&D costs2 148 106 63 32 349 Employee benefit costs 1,062 373 90 286 1,811 Financial position Total assets 8,324 2,238 776 2,105 13,443 Total liabilities 2,119 628 57 2,804 5,608 Capital employed at year-end 6,731 1,927 616 37 9,311 Capital expenditure 420 139 34 30 623 Share in equity of associates and joint ventures 29 3 74 49 155 Adjusted EBITDA margin (in %) 20.7 18.5 18.7 Workforce Average in FTE 13,874 4,767 707 2,042 21,390 Year-end (headcount) 14,599 4,762 726 2,087 22,174 1 See Note 2 'Alternative performance measures' for the reconciliation to Adjusted EBITDA of € 1,684 million (2018: € 1,822 million) and other IFRS performance measures. 2 R&D costs relate to the functional area Research and development and exclude R&D costs included in the functional areas Cost of sales and Marketing and sales as well as R&D expenditure capitalized. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 186 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM Business segments Nutrition Materials Innovation Corporate EliminaTotal 2018 Center Activities tions Financial performance Net sales 6,137 2,913 172 45 9,267 Supplies to other clusters 46 9 19 (74) Supplies 6,183 2,922 191 45 (74) 9,267 Adjusted EBITDA 1,407 512 8 (105) 1,822 EBITDA 1,379 490 7 (122) 1,754 Adjusted operating profit 1,111 383 (14) (135) 1,345 Operating profit 1,050 362 (15) (152) 1,245 Depreciation and amortization 291 128 22 28 469 Impairments 38 2 40 of which included in APM adjustments 33 (1) 32 Additions to provisions 8 11 2 14 35 Result related to associates and joint ventures 3 (2) 128 129 R&D costs 1 153 114 50 31 348 Employee benefit costs 1,023 361 79 290 1,753 Financial position Total assets 7,201 2,293 735 3,412 13,641 Total liabilities 2,011 729 59 3,027 5,826 Capital employed at year-end 5,683 1,878 597 23 8,181 Capital expenditure 463 132 32 26 653 Share in equity of associates and joint ventures 54 3 71 77 205 Adjusted EBITDA margin (in %) 22.9 17.6 19.7 Workforce Average in FTE 13,432 4,566 681 1,971 20,650 Year-end (headcount) 13,628 4,643 701 2,005 20,977 1 R&D costs relate to the functional area Research and development and exclude R&D costs included in the functional areas Cost of sales and Marketing and sales as well as R&D expenditure capitalized. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 187 www.dsm.com 5 Net sales and costs Total costs Net sales In 2019, total operating costs amounted to € 8.1 billion, € 0.1 billion higher than in 2018, when these costs stood at € 8.0 billion. Total operating costs in 2019 included Cost of 2019 2018 sales amounting to € 6.0 billion (2018: € 5.9 billion); gross margin as a percentage of net sales stood at 34% Goods sold 8,833 9,091 (2018: 37%). Services rendered 159 164 Royalties 18 12 Employee benefit costs Total 9,010 9,267 2019 2018 Fulfillment of the performance obligations related to goods Wages and salaries 1,474 1,433 sold is measured using the commercial shipment terms as Social security costs 187 185 an indicator for the transfer of control. Fulfillment of the Pension costs (see also Note performance obligations for services rendered is identified 24) 116 110 according to the individual contract. The payment terms are Share-based compensation determined per business segment on a customer basis. (see also Note 27) 34 25 DSM has neither specific obligations for returns or refunds, nor specific warranties or other related obligations. Total 1,811 1,753 Disaggregation of net sales Depreciation, amortization and impairments 2019 2018 2019 2018 Nutrition DSM Nutritional Products: Amortization of intangible Animal Nutrition & Health 2,892 3,134 assets 175 149 Human Nutrition & Health 2,046 2,019 Depreciation of property, plant Personal Care & Aroma and equipment 347 320 Ingredients 425 382 Depreciation of right-of-use Other 93 112 assets 50 5,456 5,647 Impairment losses 60 40 DSM Food Specialties 572 490 Total 6,028 6,137 Total 632 509 Materials DSM Engineering Plastics 1,406 1,516 DSM Dyneema 338 344 DSM Resins & Functional Materials 1,002 1,053 Total 2,746 2,913 Innovation Center 194 172 Corporate Activities 42 45 Total 9,010 9,267 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 188 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM Other operating income 6 Financial income and expense 2019 2018 2019 2018 Release of provisions 6 8 Financial income Gain on sale of assets and Interest income 9 13 activities 7 25 Fair value change in Insurance benefits 16 18 derivatives 20 Amendments/settlements to Unwinding of discounted pension plans 16 11 receivables 1 5 Earn-out payments and other settlements 48 10 Total financial income 30 18 Release translation reserve 11 Legal settlements 8 2 Financial expense Sundry 34 30 Interest expense (92) (102) Interest relating to lease Total 146 104 liabilities (7) Interest relating to defined benefit plans (7) (6) Other operating expense Capitalized interest during construction 3 5 Exchange differences (2) (3) 2019 2018 Unwinding of discounted payables (8) (12) Additions to provisions 67 36 Sundry (9) (1) Exchange differences 10 7 Acquisitions/Disposals 11 7 Total financial expense (122) (119) Earn-out Amyris Brasil 11 Sundry 20 22 Financial income and expense (92) (101) Total 108 83 In 2019, the interest rate applied in the capitalization of interest during construction was 3% (2018: 4%). Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 189 www.dsm.com 7 Income tax The relationship between the income tax rate in the Netherlands and the effective tax rate on the result is as The income tax expense on the total result was € 152 million, follows: which represents an effective income tax rate of 17.6% (2018: € 194 million, representing an effective income tax rate of Effective tax rate 17.0%) and can be broken down as follows: in % 2019 2018 2019 2018 Domestic income tax rate 25.0 25.0 Current tax expense: Tax effects of: Current year (89) (162) Deviating rates (6.9) (8.0) Prior-year adjustments (4) 3 Change in tax rates 2.6 0.7 Tax-exempt income and non-deductible Tax credits compensated 3 4 expense (1.5) (0.9) Non-recoverable withholding tax (1) (1) Other effects (1.0) 0.6 (91) (156) Effective tax rate adjusted result 18.2 17.4 Deferred tax expense: APM adjustments (see Note 2) (0.6) (0.4) Originating from temporary differences and their reversal (12) 23 Total effective tax rate 17.6 17.0 Tax benefit from innovation facilities 14 Prior-year adjustments 6 4 The balance of deferred tax assets and deferred tax Change in tax rate (26) (8) liabilities increased by € 73 million owing to the changes Changes arising from (reversal of) writedown of deferred tax assets (3) (8) presented in the following table: Other changes in tax losses and tax credits (40) (49) Deferred tax assets and liabilities (61) (38) 2019 2018 Total (152) (194) Balance at 1 January Deferred tax assets 248 281 Of which related to: Deferred tax liabilities (254) (259) Adjusted taxable result (179) (217) APM adjustments 27 23 Total (6) 22 Changes: The effective tax rate in 2019 was negatively impacted by Income tax income/(expense) in income the change in tax rate of -€ 26 million (mainly an increase statement (35) (30) in the tax rate in Switzerland with effect from 1 January 2020, Income tax: change in tax percentage (26) (8) impacting the deferred tax position as at 31 December 2019), Total income statement (61) (38) which was partly compensated for by the tax benefit from innovation facilities of € 14 million. Income tax expense in OCI 5 20 Acquisitions and disposals (20) (17) The effective tax rate on the Adjusted taxable result was Other consolidation changes 3 18.2% in 2019 (2018: 17.4%). The change in tax rates primarily Exchange differences (6) relates to the increase in the tax rate in Switzerland with Transfer 9 4 effect from 1 January 2020, impacting the deferred tax position as at 31 December 2019. Balance at 31 December (79) (6) Within other effects, the impact of the tax benefits for Of which: innovation facilities previous years was included with an Deferred tax assets 217 248 impact of -1.5%. Deferred tax liabilities (296) (254) Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 190 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM In various countries, DSM has taken standpoints regarding its tax position which may at any time be challenged, or have already been challenged, by the tax authorities, because the authorities in question interpret the law differently. These uncertainties are taken into account in determining the probability of realization of deferred tax assets and liabilities. The deferred tax assets and liabilities relate to the following balance sheet items: Deferred tax assets and liabilities by balance sheet item 2019 2018 Deferred tax Deferred tax Deferred tax Deferred tax assets liabilities assets liabilities Intangible assets 8 (184) 12 (161) Property, plant and equipment 27 (182) 21 (166) Right-of-use assets 3 (47) Financial assets 7 (10) 3 (10) Inventories 44 (40) 64 (34) Receivables 8 (21) 8 (14) Equity 1 (1) Lease liabilities non-current 36 (1) Other non-current liabilities 9 (2) 14 (3) Non-current provisions 100 (5) 77 (2) Other current liabilities 86 (4) 87 (5) Lease liabilities current 11 339 (496) 287 (396) Tax losses carried forward 78 103 Set-off (200) 200 (142) 142 Total 217 (296) 248 (254) No deferred tax assets were recognized for loss carryforwards amounting to € 273 million (2018: € 237 million). Unrecognized loss carryforwards amounting to € 104 million will expire in the years up to and including 2024 (2018: € 58 million up to and including 2023), € 87 million between 2025 and 2029 (2018: € 112 million between 2024 and 2028) and the remaining € 82 million in 2030 and beyond (2018: € 67 million between 2029 and beyond). The valuation of deferred tax assets depends on the probability of the reversal of temporary differences and the utilization of tax loss carryforwards, tax credits and withholding tax. Deferred tax assets are recognized for future tax benefits arising from temporary differences and for tax loss carryforwards to the extent that the tax benefits are likely to be realized. In the Netherlands, tax losses may be carried forward for six years. DSM has to assess the likelihood that deferred tax assets will be recovered from future taxable profits. Deferred tax assets are reduced if, and to the extent that, it is not probable that all or some portion of the deferred tax assets will be realized. In the event that actual future results differ from estimates, and depending on tax strategies that DSM may be able to implement, changes to the measurement of deferred taxes could be required, which could impact on the company's financial position and profit for the year. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 191 www.dsm.com 8 Intangible assets Goodwill Licenses Under Development Other Total and patents construction projects Balance at 1 January 2018 Cost 1,950 225 66 215 1,657 4,113 Amortization and impairment losses 17 100 33 905 1,055 Carrying amount 1,933 125 66 182 752 3,058 Changes in carrying amount: Capital expenditure 38 70 108 Put into operation 7 (31) 24 Acquisitions (53) 18 98 63 Deconsolidation (1) (19) (3) (23) Amortization (11) (11) (127) (149) Impairment losses (1) (14) (2) (17) Exchange differences 30 1 3 14 48 Other reclassifications (12) (24) 23 15 2 (24) (18) (16) 71 19 32 Balance at 31 December 2018 Cost 1,927 206 50 296 1,776 4,255 Amortization and impairment losses 18 99 43 1,005 1,165 Carrying amount 1,909 107 50 253 771 3,090 Changes in carrying amount: Capital expenditure 1 50 51 8 110 Put into operation 4 (26) 22 Acquisitions 338 1 124 463 Amortization (13) (26) (136) (175) Impairment losses (2) (21) (8) (31) Exchange differences 36 2 1 4 12 55 Other (4) 6 1 3 374 (7) 21 14 23 425 Balance at 31 December 2019 Cost 2,301 216 71 338 1,966 4,892 Amortization and impairment losses 18 116 71 1,172 1,377 Carrying amount 2,283 100 71 267 794 3,515 The amortization of intangible assets is included in Cost of sales, Marketing and sales, Research and development and General and administrative expenses. Over the past few years, DSM has acquired several entities in business combinations that have been accounted for by the acquisition method, resulting in recognition of goodwill and other intangible assets. The amounts assigned to the acquired assets and liabilities are based on assumptions and estimates about their fair values. In making these estimates, management Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 192 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM consults independent, qualified appraisers if appropriate. A change in assumptions and estimates could change the values allocated to certain assets and their estimated useful lives, which could affect the amount or timing of charges to the income statement, such as amortization of intangible assets. The impairments of € 31 million mainly relate to several development projects. See also Note 2 'Alternative performance measures'. The breakdown of the carrying amount of goodwill at year-end 2019 is as follows: Goodwill per acquisition Functional Year of Acquisition 2019 2018 Cash generating unit currency acquisition Martek 413 406 DSM Nutritional Products USD 2011 NeoResins 358 358 DSM Resins & Functional Materials EUR 2005 Fortitech 310 304 DSM Nutritional Products USD 2012 Ocean Nutrition Canada 204 191 DSM Nutritional Products CAD 2012 Kensey Nash 144 141 DSM Biomedical USD 2012 Andre Pectin 135 DSM Hydrocolloids CNY 2019 Royal CSK1 114 DSM Food Specialties EUR 2019 Tortuga 89 90 DSM Nutritional Products BRL 2013 The Polymer Technology Group 78 76 DSM Biomedical USD 2008 Yimante1 65 DSM Nutritional Products CNY 2019 Other acquisitions 373 343 Total 2,283 1,909 1 Based on provisional PPA, see Note 3 'Change in the scope of the consolidation'. Goodwill per Cash generating unit The annual impairment tests of goodwill are performed in the fourth quarter. The recoverable amount of the Cash Cash generating unit 2019 2018 generating units (CGUs) concerned is based on a value-inuse calculation. DSM Nutritional Products, DSM Resins & DSM Nutritional Products 1,2601 1,155 Functional Materials and DSM Biomedical are the three DSM Resins & Functional CGUs to which significant amounts of (provisional) goodwill Materials 384 384 are allocated. DSM Biomedical 222 218 DSM Food Specialties 164 1 22 The cash flow projections are derived from DSM's business DSM Hydrocolloids 157 49 plan (Corporate Strategy Dialogue) as adopted by the DSM Dyneema 42 40 Managing Board and updated on a yearly basis. Mature DSM Engineering Plastics 29 16 businesses come to a terminal value after five years. The DSM Advanced Solar 16 16 terminal value growth rate is determined with the DSM Bio-based Products & assumption of limited inflationary growth. For emerging Services 9 9 businesses, an explicit forecast period of ten years is used with the same assumption for growth in the terminal value. Total 2,283 1,909 The key assumptions in the cash flow projections relate to the market growth for the CGUs and the related revenue 1 Contains provisional PPA, see Note 3 'Change in the scope of the consolidation'. projections, EBITDA developments, and the rates used for discounting cash flows. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 193 www.dsm.com Key assumptions for goodwill impairment tests For DSM Nutritional Products the growth assumptions are based on the growth of the global food and feed markets, 2019 2018 for DSM Resins & Functional Materials on the demand for advanced coating resins (influenced by growth in building Forecast period (years) and construction markets), for DSM Biomedical on the Mature business 5 5 growth of the market for medical devices. Emerging business 10 10 A sensitivity test was performed on the impairment tests Terminal value growth 1% 1% of the CGUs and showed that the conclusions of these tests would not have been different if reasonable possible Pre-tax discount rate adverse change in key parameters had been assumed. DSM Nutritional Products 8.1% 7.9% DSM Resins & Functional The market capitalization of DSM at 31 December 2019 Materials 10.2% 9.7% amounted to € 21,063 million (31 December 2018: DSM Biomedical 10.2% 9.8% € 12,961 million) and was clearly above the carrying amount of net assets, thus providing an additional indication that Organic Sales growth goodwill was not impaired. DSM Nutritional Products Year 1–5 2-6% 3-8% Development costs DSM Resins & Functional Materials The carrying amount of development costs at 31 December Year 1–5 3-9% 3-9% 2019 included € 125 million (2018: € 224 million) mainly DSM Biomedical relating to strategic projects which are not being amortized Year 1–10 8% 8% yet. The recoverable amount of these CGUs was estimated based on the present value of the future cash flows expected to be derived from the CGUs (value-in-use). Other intangible assets 2019 2018 Cost Amortization Carrying Of which Of which amount acquisitionacquisitionrelated related Application software 288 (235) 53 2 3 Marketing-related 126 (45) 81 71 77 Customer-related 675 (365) 310 279 283 Technology-based 506 (397) 109 82 48 Drawing rights 244 (78) 166 Other 127 (52) 75 50 15 Total 1,966 (1,172) 794 484 426 Total 2018 1,776 (1,005) 771 426 396 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 194 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM Other intangible assets include drawing rights contracts with Fibrant. Fibrant will continue to supply at least 80% of DSM Engineering Plastics' caprolactam needs in Europe and North America for 15 years (2015–2030) via a drawing rights contract, effectively maintaining DSM Engineering Plastics' backward integration. Initially the fair value of this contract has been recognized as an intangible asset by DSM Engineering Plastics; for subsequent measurement, the initial fair value is the deemed cost of the asset, which is subject to straight-line amortization. At the end of 2019, it had a carrying amount of € 167 million (2018: € 184 million), a remaining useful life of 11 years, and an amount of € 44 million was still payable to Fibrant for the acquisition of the drawing rights (2018: € 57 million). Other intangible assets also include the customer relationships that were part of the Fortitech acquisition in 2012, with a carrying amount at the end of 2019 of € 88 million (2018: € 94 million). Furthermore, acquisition-related intangibles are included in the annual goodwill impairment test previously discussed in this section. These intangible assets are amortized on a straight-line basis. There are no intangible assets with an indefinite useful life (same as in 2018). 9 Property, plant and equipment 'Property, plant and equipment' includes both owned and right-of-use assets. Composition of Property, plant and equipment 31 December 2019 1 January 2019 31 December 2018 Property, plant and equipment owned 3,808 3,490 3,490 Right-of-use assets 232 236 21 Total 4,040 3,726 3,511 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 195 www.dsm.com Property, plant and equipment owned Land and Plant and Other Under Not used for Total buildings machinery equipment construction operating activities Balance at 1 January 2018 Cost 2,070 4,177 219 613 14 7,093 Depreciation and impairments 889 2,726 157 8 3,780 Carrying amount 1,181 1,451 62 613 6 3,313 Changes in carrying amount: Capital expenditure 8 38 21 478 545 Put into operation 53 340 13 (406) Acquisitions (1) (1) Disposals (7) (1) (8) Deconsolidation (11) (15) (26) Depreciation (72) (230) (18) (320) Impairment losses (17) (8) (25) Impairment reversals 2 2 Exchange differences 12 16 5 33 Other changes 3 (2) (1) (2) (2) (29) 137 15 75 198 Balance at 31 December 2018 Cost 2,104 4,618 247 689 12 7,670 Depreciation and impairments 952 3,030 170 1 6 4,159 Carrying amount at 31 December 2018 1,152 1,588 77 688 6 3,511 Transfer finance leases to Right-of-use assets (21) (21) Carrying amount at 1 January 2019 1,152 1,588 56 688 6 3,490 Changes in carrying amount: Capital expenditure 7 45 4 457 513 Put into operation 82 401 15 (498) Acquisitions 48 77 2 12 139 Disposals (3) (3) Depreciation (75) (255) (17) (347) Impairment losses (18) (10) (1) (29) Exchange differences 18 22 1 12 53 Other changes (8) (8) 59 280 4 (25) 318 Balance at 31 December 2019 Cost 2,232 5,019 235 664 12 8,162 Depreciation and impairments 1,021 3,151 175 1 6 4,354 Carrying amount 1,211 1,868 60 663 6 3,808 In 2019, impairment losses of € 29 million (2018: € 25 million) were recognized on Property, plant and equipment. See also Note 2 'Alternative performance measures'. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 196 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM Right-of-use assets Land and Plant and Other Vehicles Other Total Buildings Machinery Equipment Balance at 31 December 2018 Opening balance (adoption of IFRS 16) 170 10 31 4 215 Transfer finance leases (from owned PPE) 21 21 Balance at 1 January 2019 170 10 21 31 4 236 Changes in carrying amount: New leases / terminations 12 15 13 (1) 39 Remeasurements 1 (2) (1) Acquisitions 7 1 8 Depreciation (30) (2) (3) (14) (1) (50) (10) (2) 12 (2) (2) (4) Balance at 31 December 2019 Cost 189 9 35 42 3 278 Depreciation and impairment losses (29) (1) (2) (13) (1) (46) Carrying amount 160 8 33 29 2 232 For the disclosures on the lease liabilities that correspond with the right-of-use assets, see Note 19 'Borrowings'. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 197 www.dsm.com 10 Associates and joint arrangements Associates and joint ventures The following table analyses, in aggregate, the carrying amount and share of profit and other results of associates and joint ventures. 2019 2018 Associates Joint Ventures Total Total Balance at 1 January 139 66 205 227 Share of the profit of associates and joint ventures 8 (20) (12) 5 Other results related to associates and joint ventures 35 35 31 Other comprehensive income 1 1 2 3 Capital payments 3 27 30 54 Dividends received (73) (73) (1) Acquisitions 22 22 Fair value step-up 1 26 26 Consolidation changes (66) (66) 43 Disposals (14) (14) (146) Transfers 15 15 (3) Other (14) (1) (15) (8) Balance at 31 December 82 73 155 205 1 In the 'Consolidated income statement' included in 'Other results related to associates and joint ventures'. The joint venture POET-DSM Advanced Biofuels has decided The fair value step-up of € 26 million and the consolidation to pause production of cellulosic biofuels and shift its changes of -€ 66 million both relate to the acquisition of activities to R&D. These activities will focus on improving Andre Pectin (increase in share from 29% to 75%). Prior to operational efficiency to create licensing technology which the acquisition, the value of the associate was increased by supports the use of low-carbon fuels from crop residue and € 26 million to reflect the fair value. The fair value of other biomass products. This strategic reorientation is € 66 million was brought in as part of the consideration of mainly driven by the stalling of developments in US the 75% share in Andre Pectin. See also Note 3 'Change in environmental policies. the scope of the consolidation'. Other results related to associates and joint ventures Transfers includes the change of an Other participating includes the excess part of dividend received from an interest to an associate, due to an increase of DSM's share associate beyond its investment amount. As DSM holds no in the company. See Note 11 'Other financial assets'. obligation to fund beyond its original investment, no provision should be recognized and the excess part of Joint operations € 28 million is recognized in the income statement. In 2017, DSM and Evonik established Veramaris, a joint operation for omega-3 fatty acid products from natural With the acquisition of Yimante Health Ingredients marine algae for animal nutrition. DSM Nutritional Products (Jingzhou) Company Ltd. in 2019 (see Note 3 'Change in the and Evonik Nutrition & Care each hold a 50% share in the scope of the consolidation'), DSM also indirectly acquired joint operation. In 2019, the commercial-scale USD 25% of the shares of Nenter & Co., Inc. (Shishou). The initial 200 million facility located in Blair (Nebraska, USA) opened. value of this investment amounts to € 22 million and has The joint operation is headquartered in Delft (Netherlands). been recognized under 'Acquisitions'. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 198 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM In 2019, DSM and Cargill established Avansya V.O.F., a joint operation in which DSM and Cargill each hold a 50% share. Avansya started production at the first commercial-scale fermentation facility for stevia sweeteners in the US. The facility produces EverSweet™, a non-artificial, zero-calorie stevia sweetener. The USD 50 million fermentation facility is located in Blair (Nebraska, USA) and is operated by Cargill. The joint operation is headquartered at the Biotech Campus Delft (Netherlands). DSM accounts for the assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses relating to Veramaris and Avansya V.O.F. in accordance with IFRS 11 for joint operations. 11 Other financial assets Loans Other Other Other Total associates participating receivables deferred and joint interests items ventures Balance at 1 January 2018 193 89 177 16 475 Changes: Charged to the income statement (29) (5) (34) Acquisitions (13) (1) (14) Capital payments 22 22 Loans granted / prepayments 8 2 10 Repayments (175) (29) 5 (199) Other consolidation changes (6) (6) Exchange differences (1) (1) Transfers (24) (18) (42) Changes in fair value 16 16 Other 37 (1) 36 Balance at 31 December 2018 2 164 88 9 263 Changes: Charged to the income statement 9 (2) 7 Acquisitions 1 1 Capital payments 23 23 Loans granted / prepayments 4 9 13 Repayments (2) (5) (7) Exchange differences 1 1 Transfers (1) (15) 3 (13) Changes in fair value (21) (21) Other (1) (1) (2) Balance at 31 December 2019 3 150 105 7 265 'Transfers' includes the change of an Other participating interest to an associate, due to an increase of DSM's share in the company. See Note 10 'Associates and joint arrangements'. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 199 www.dsm.com 12 Inventories Current receivables 2019 2018 2019 2018 Trade receivables Raw materials and Trade accounts receivable 1,354 1,395 consumables 524 509 Other trade receivables 202 174 Intermediates and finished Deferred items 43 39 goods 1,576 1,574 Receivables from associates 10 2 1,609 1,610 2,100 2,083 Value adjustment (17) (35) Adjustments to lower net realizable value (81) (90) Total Trade receivables 1,592 1,575 Total 2,019 1,993 Income tax receivable 61 83 Other current receivables The carrying amount of inventories adjusted to net Other taxes and social security realizable value was € 272 million (2018: € 271 million). contributions 31 20 Employee-related receivables 5 7 Changes in the adjustment to net realizable value Acquisition-/disposal-related receivables 3 26 Loans 24 2019 2018 Other receivables 4 2 Deferred items 2 1 Balance at 1 January (90) (61) Total Other current Additions charged to income receivables 45 80 statement (66) (97) Utilization/reversals 76 69 Total current receivables 1,698 1,738 Exchange differences (1) (1) Balance at 31 December (81) (90) 14 Current investments 13 Current receivables 2019 2018 Information about the expected credit loss that relates to Fixed term deposits 688 1,277 trade accounts receivable resulting in a value adjustment is included under 'Credit risk' in Note 23. Total 688 1,277 Deferred items comprised € 45 million (2018: € 40 million) in prepaid expenses that will impact profit or loss in future All fixed-term deposits have been placed with institutions periods. with a high credit rating in line with the policy as outlined in Note 23 'Financial instruments and risks'. The purpose of the deposits is either to meet short-term cash commitments, or to manage liquidity to such extent that yields are optimized while allowing DSM sufficient freedom in fulfilling its (strategic) goals. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 200 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM 15 Cash and cash equivalents 16 Equity 2019 2018 2019 2018 Deposits 104 245 Balance at 1 January 7,815 7,065 Money market funds 45 340 Cash at bank and in hand 605 683 Net profit 764 1,079 Payments in transit 44 11 Other comprehensive income 140 75 Bills of exchange 2 2 Options / performance shares granted 34 25 Dividend (418) (368) Total 800 1,281 Proceeds from reissue of ordinary shares 324 242 Acquisition of NCI without a change in Deposits will be classified as 'cash equivalent' if held at control (4) banks with a maturity of less than three months at Acquisition (divestment) of subsidiary inception. Deposits will be classified as 'current with NCI 57 (67) investments' if the maturity is more than three months but Repurchase of shares (869) (236) less than or equal to one year. The purpose of the deposits Other changes (8) is either to meet short-term cash commitments, or to manage liquidity to such extent, that yields are optimized, Balance at 31 December 7,835 7,815 while allowing DSM sufficient freedom in fulfilling its (strategic) goals. 'Acquisition of subsidiary with NCI' relates to the Cash at year-end 2019 was not being used as collateral and acquisitions of Andre Pectin and Yimante. See Note 17 'Nontherefore was not restricted (same as in 2018). controlling interests'. In a few countries, DSM faces cross-border foreign exchange Other changes of -€ 8 million mainly relates to transactions controls and/or other legal restrictions that limit its ability with minority shareholders, together with a transfer of the to make these balances available at short notice for general fair value reserve to retained earnings. use by the group. The amount of cash held in these countries was € 185 million (2018: € 104 million). The cash In 2019, the following dividends were proposed by the will generally be invested or held in the relevant country Managing Board: and, given the other liquidity resources available to the group, does not significantly affect the ability of the group Dividend to meet its cash obligations. 2019 2018 Per cumulative preference share A: € 0.17 (2018: € 0.17) 8 8 Per ordinary share: € 2.40 (2018: € 2.30) 417 404 Total 425 412 The proposed final dividend on ordinary shares is subject to approval by the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders and has not been deducted from Equity. For a description of the rules of profit appropriation and of the statutory rights attached to preference shares B, see Note 7 'Shareholders' equity'. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 201 www.dsm.com Share capital On 31 December 2019, the authorized capital amounted to € 1,125 million (2018: € 1,125 million), distributed over 330,960,000 ordinary shares, 44,040,000 cumulative preference shares A and 375,000,000 cumulative preference shares B. All shares have a nominal value of € 1.50 each. The changes in the number of issued and outstanding shares in 2018 and 2019 are shown in the following table. Overview of shares Issued shares Treasury shares Ordinary Cumprefs A Ordinary Balance at 1 January 2018 181,425,000 44,040,000 6,781,525 Reissue of shares in connection with share-based payments (2,090,107) Repurchase of shares 2,700,000 Dividend in the form of ordinary shares (1,616,993) Balance at 31 December 2018 181,425,000 44,040,000 5,774,425 Number of treasury shares at 31 December 2018 (5,774,425) Number of shares outstanding at 31 December 2018 175,650,575 44,040,000 Balance at 1 January 2019 181,425,000 44,040,000 5,774,425 Reissue of shares in connection with share-based payments (3,395,405) Repurchase of shares 7,962,936 Dividend in the form of ordinary shares (1,365,711) Balance at 31 December 2019 181,425,000 44,040,000 8,976,245 Number of treasury shares at 31 December 2019 (8,976,245) Number of shares outstanding at 31 December 2019 172,448,755 44,040,000 The average number of ordinary shares outstanding in 2019 was 175,730,949 (2018: 175,322,889). All shares issued are fully paid. The cumulative preference shares A have been classified as equity, because there is no mandatory redemption and distributions to the shareholders are at the discretion of DSM. On 31 December 2019, no cumulative preference shares B were outstanding (same as 2018). Share premium Of the total share premium of € 489 million (2018: € 489 million), an amount of € 93 million (2018: € 99 million) can be regarded as entirely free of tax. Treasury shares On 1 April 2019, DSM started a € 1 billion share buy-back program with the intention to reduce its issued capital. In the reporting year, € 601 million was realized, being 5.4 million shares. At 31 December 2019, DSM possessed 8,976,245 (2018: 5,774,425) ordinary shares with a nominal value of € 13 million, or 3.98% (2018: 2.56%) of the share capital. The average purchase price of the ordinary treasury shares as at 31 December 2019 was € 100.78 (2018: € 64.22). At 31 December 2019, 3,020,830 (2018: 5,616,235) of the total number of treasury shares outstanding were held for servicing share-option rights and share plans, 592,479 (2018: 158,190) shares for stock dividend, and 5,362,936 (2018: 0) shares earmarked for capital reduction. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 202 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM Other reserves in Shareholders' equity Translation Hedging Reserve for Fair value Total reserve reserve share-based reserve compensation Balance at 1 January 2018 (107) (148) 51 5 (199) Changes: Fair-value changes of derivatives (44) (44) Release to income statement 14 22 36 Fair-value changes of other financial assets 16 16 Exchange differences 129 129 Options and performance shares granted 25 25 Options and performance shares exercised/canceled (23) (23) Changes in joint ventures and associates (1) (3) (4) Income tax 2 7 9 Total changes 144 (18) 2 16 144 Balance at 31 December 2018 37 (166) 53 21 (55) Changes: Fair-value changes of derivatives (18) (18) Release to income statement (9) 66 57 Fair-value changes of other financial assets (21) (21) Exchange differences 134 134 Options and performance shares granted 34 34 Options and performance shares exercised/canceled (36) (36) Transfer to retained earnings 4 4 Changes in joint ventures and associates 1 1 Income tax (4) (4) Total changes 125 44 (2) (16) 151 Balance at 31 December 2019 162 (122) 51 5 96 The increase in the Translation reserve in 2019 is mainly caused by a weakening of the euro against the US dollar and Swiss franc, partly offset by a strengthening against the Brazilian real. As a consequence, the total value of the subsidiaries increased, which led to a positive exchange difference of € 134 million. In addition, there was a € 9 million release of the cumulative translation reserve to the income statement. The Translation reserve, Hedging reserve and the Fair value reserve are legal reserves in accordance with Dutch law and cannot be distributed to shareholders. Additional information is provided in Note 7 to the 'Parent company financial statements'. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 203 www.dsm.com 17 Non-controlling interests 2019 2018 Andre Pectin Yimante Other Total Total % of non-controlling interest 25% 25% Balance at 1 January 33 33 103 Changes: Share of profit/charged to income statement 2 4 6 2 Acquisitions 32 25 57 (1) Other consolidation changes 9 9 (67) Capital payments 1 1 Dividend paid (4) (4) (3) Exchange differences 2 2 (1) Total changes 35 25 11 71 (70) Balance at 31 December 35 25 44 104 33 Acquisitions are related to the consolidation of Andre Pectin, due to the acquisition of an additional 46.05% of the shares and gain of control on 1 January 2019, and the acquisition of 75% of Yimante Health Ingredients (the vitamin E business of Nenter). See also Note 3 'Change in the scope of the consolidation'. 'Other consolidation changes' relates to the increase of DSM's share in DSM-NIAGA from 51% to 100%. Not fully-owned subsidiaries on a 100% basis 2019 2018 Andre Pectin Yimante Other Total Assets Intangible assets 70 28 32 130 34 Property, plant and equipment 48 57 178 283 173 Other non-current assets 22 35 57 27 Inventories 34 15 27 76 27 Receivables 16 31 52 99 60 Cash and cash equivalents 5 1 35 41 20 Total assets 173 154 359 686 341 Liabilities Provisions (non-current) 15 2 2 19 2 Borrowings (non-current) 1 38 25 64 14 Other non-current liabilities 2 17 19 20 Borrowings and financial derivatives (current) 3 72 75 79 Other current liabilities 13 11 107 131 90 Total liabilities 32 53 223 308 205 Net assets (100% basis) 141 101 136 378 136 Net sales 58 162 220 157 Profit for the year 9 (1) 8 16 7 Operating cash flows (4) (16) (35) (55) 86 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 204 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM 18 Provisions Restructuring EnvironOther longOther Total costs and mental term provisions termination costs employee benefits benefits Balance at 1 January 2018 39 70 42 53 204 Of which current 31 10 3 9 53 Changes in 2018 Additions 33 1 2 2 38 Releases (2) (9) (3) (2) (16) Uses (53) (4) (2) (11) (70) Other change (3) (3) Total changes (22) (12) (3) (14) (51) Balance at 31 December 2018 17 58 39 39 153 Of which current 12 10 3 12 37 Changes in 2019 Additions 43 19 4 5 71 Releases (3) (13) (3) (19) Uses (26) (5) (3) (5) (39) Other change 1 1 2 Total changes 14 1 2 (2) 15 Balance at 31 December 2019 31 59 41 37 168 Of which current 21 13 4 10 48 In cases where the effect of the time value of money is The provisions for other long-term employee benefits material, provisions are measured at the present value of mainly relate to length-of-service and end-of-service the expenditures expected to be required to settle the payments. The average life of this provision is estimated to obligation. The discount rate used decreased from 1.8% to be between 10 and 12 years. 1.2%. The balance of provisions measured at present value increased by € 0.3 million in 2019 in view of the passage of Several items have been combined under Other provisions, time (2018: increase of € 0.6 million). for example demolition costs, onerous contracts and legal risks. These provisions have an average life of 1 to 3 years. The provisions for restructuring costs and termination benefits mainly relate to the costs of redundancy schemes The additions to the provisions for restructuring costs and connected to the dismissal of employees and costs of termination benefits in 2019 mainly relate to the various termination of contracts. These provisions have an average restructuring projects (same as in 2018). life of 1 to 3 years. The provisions for environmental costs relate to soil cleanup obligations, among other things. These provisions have an average life of around 10 years. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 205 www.dsm.com 19 Borrowings A breakdown of the borrowings by currency is given in the 2019 2018 following table: Total Of which Total Of which current current Borrowings by currency Debenture loans 2,244 2,543 300 2019 2018 Private loans 41 8 16 7 Lease liabilities 236 49 21 1 EUR 2,413 2,566 Credit institutions 132 132 72 72 USD 101 25 CNY 74 21 Total 2,653 189 2,652 380 TWD 6 17 BRL 15 19 Other 44 4 In agreements governing loans with a residual amount at year-end 2019 of € 2,244 million (31 December 2018: Total 2,653 2,652 € 2,543 million, of which € 300 million was of a short-term nature), negative pledge clauses have been included that restrict the provision of security. On balance, total borrowings increased by € 1 million due to the following changes: The documentation of the € 500 million bond issued in March 2014, the € 500 million bond issued in April 2015, Movements of borrowings the € 500 million bond issued in September 2015 and the € 750 million bond issued in September 2016 include a 2019 2018 change-of-control clause. This clause allows the bond investors to request repayment at par if 50% or more of Balance at 1 January 2,652 2,628 the DSM shares are controlled by a third party and if the company is downgraded below investment grade (< BBB-). Opening balance lease In August 2019, Moody's confirmed DSM's credit rating of 'A3' liabilities (adoption IFRS 16) 215 with a stable outlook. Standard & Poor's confirmed DSM's Loans taken up 7 7 credit rating of 'A-' with a stable outlook in September 2019. Repayments (302) (12) At 31 December 2019, there was € 1,840 million in borrowings Unwinding (interest) 8 outstanding with a remaining term of more than 5 years (at Acquisitions/consolidation 31 December 2018, there was € 1,756 million in borrowings changes 29 10 outstanding with a remaining term of more than 5 years). Changes in debt to credit institutions 57 3 The schedule of repayment of borrowings is as follows: New lease arrangements (incl. remeasurements) 39 18 Borrowings by maturity Payment of lease liabilities (53) (1) Exchange differences 1 (1) 2019 2018 Balance at 31 December 2,653 2,652 2019 380 2020 189 10 The average effective interest rate on the portfolio of 2021 41 1 borrowings outstanding in 2019, including hedge 2022 37 503 instruments related to these borrowings, amounted to 2.31% 2023 and 2024 546 505 (2018: 2.24%). After 2024 1,840 1,253 Total 2,653 2,652 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 206 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM A breakdown of debenture loans is given below: Lease liabilities by maturity Debenture loans 2019 2018 Operating Nom. lease amt. 2019 2018 commitments EUR loan 1.75% 2013—2019 300 300 2019 49 EUR loan 2.38% 2014—2024 500 499 498 2020 49 39 EUR loan 1.00% 2015—2025 500 498 498 2021 40 30 EUR loan 1.38% 2015—2022 500 499 499 2022 33 25 EUR loan 0.75% 2016—2026 750 748 748 2023 27 21 2024 24 20 Total 2,550 2,244 2,543 After 2024 83 56 Total undiscounted lease All debenture loans have a fixed interest rate and are listed liabilities at 31 December 256 240 on the AEX. Lease liabilities included in The 2.375% EUR bond 2014–2024 of € 500 million was prethe balance sheet at hedged by means of forward starting swaps, resulting in an 31 December 236 effective interest rate for this bond of 3.97%, including the Current 49 settlement of the pre-hedge. Non-current 187 The 1% EUR bond 2015–2025 of € 500 million was pre-hedged by means of forward starting swaps, resulting in an effective In addition to the contractual lease commitments, DSM has interest rate for this bond at 3.65%, including the settlement identified explicit renewal options available to DSM, which of the pre-hedge. are currently not reasonably certain to be exercised and are therefore not included in the measurement of the lease. The 1.375% EUR bond 2015–2022 of € 500 million has an The associated future lease payments which are effective interest rate of 1.40%. uncommitted and optional for DSM, are estimated around € 76 million (undiscounted). The 0.75% EUR bond 2016–2026 of € 750 million was prehedged by means of a collar resulting in an effective interest The interest expense on the lease liabilities was € 7 million rate for this bond of 1.08%, including the settlement of the and the total repayments of the lease liabilities amounted pre-hedge. to € 53 million in 2019. These cash flows are reported as financing cash flows. A breakdown of private loans is given below: DSM's policy regarding financial-risk management is described in Note 23. Private loans 2019 2018 20 Other non-current liabilities CNY loan 40 15 Other loans 1 1 2019 2018 Total 41 16 Investment grants 65 42 Deferred items 28 17 Drawing rights 31 52 A breakdown of the lease liabilities is given below: Other non-current liabilities 21 86 Total 145 197 The decrease in the other non-current liabilities relates mainly to the settlement of the earn-out agreements regarding the acquisition of Amyris Brasil. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 207 www.dsm.com 21 Current liabilities 2019 2018 Operating leases and rents 2019 2018 under IAS 17 240 Guarantee obligations on Trade payables behalf of associates and third Received in advance 7 5 parties 182 167 Trade accounts payable 1,330 1,405 Outstanding orders for Notes and cheques due 1 3 projects under construction 8 8 Owing to associates and joint Other 61 42 ventures 7 17 Total 251 457 Total Trade payables 1,345 1,430 Income tax payable 42 100 Guarantee obligations are principally related to VAT and duties on the one hand and to financing obligations of Other current liabilities associated companies on the other. Guarantee obligations Other taxes and social security will only lead to a cash outflow when called upon. At yearcontributions 46 58 end, no obligations had been called upon. Most of the Interest 19 21 outstanding orders for projects under construction will be Pensions 3 completed in 2020. Investment creditors 115 109 Employee-related liabilities 268 293 Litigation Payables associates and joint DSM has a process in place to monitor legal claims ventures relating to cash periodically and systematically. facility 5 5 Other liabilities 25 36 DSM is involved in several legal proceedings, most of which Deferred items 2 are related to the ordinary course of business. DSM does not expect these proceedings to result in liabilities that have Total Other current liabilities 478 527 a material effect on the company's financial position. In cases where it is probable that the outcome of the Total current liabilities 1,865 2,057 proceedings will be unfavorable, and the financial outcome can be measured reliably, a provision has been recognized Included in trade accounts payable are amounts due to in the financial statements and disclosed in Note 18 suppliers which could be part of a supply chain finance 'Provisions'. arrangement between the supplier and a third-party bank. DSM suppliers have the option to enter into such supply In 2015, an award was issued against DSM Sinochem chain finance arrangements with third party banks, which Pharmaceuticals India Private Ltd. (DSP India) in a provides them with the option of earlier payment based on protracted arbitration case in India going back to 2004 terms linked to DSM's investment grade credit rating. If a involving a joint venture that DSP India had formed with supplier chooses to participate in such an arrangement, this Hindustan Antibiotics Ltd., which suspended its operations does not impact the classification of the trade payable for in 2003. DSP India (renamed to Centrient Pharmaceuticals DSM as these supply chain finance arrangements are after divestment by DSM in 2018) is covered by an indemnity concluded between the banks and the suppliers and do not from Koninklijke DSM N.V. for this case. In 2015, DSP India alter the payment conditions between the supplier and made an application with the Civil Court in Pune (India) to DSM. Therefore, these amounts remain classified as trade set aside the arbitral award. The award amounts to INR 127.5 payables. crore (approximately € 16 million as at year-end 2019) excluding interest of 12% per year as of 2004. In 2019, DSM provided the Bombay High Court a bank guarantee of INR 22 Contingent liabilities and other financial obligations 150 crore (approximately € 19 million). At the end of 2019, the application proceedings were still pending. DSM has The contingent liabilities and other financial obligations always viewed this case as unfounded and is of the opinion in the following table are not recognized in the balance that the likelihood of the award being ultimately set aside sheet. is high. Therefore, no liability is recognized in respect of this case. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 208 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM In 2019, Brazilian tax authorities disagreed with certain tax unexpected drop in cash inflows, or some other event treatment as applied by the company in 2014–2016, which causes counterparties to avoid trading with or lending to would have an effect on such prior year income tax returns the institution. A company is also exposed to liquidity risk of around BRL 65 million (approximately € 15 million as at if financial markets on which it depends are subject to loss year-end 2019), including penalties and interest. DSM views of liquidity. this case as unfounded and considers that the possibility of winning this case is high, as confirmed by external legal The primary objective of liquidity management is to counsel. Therefore no liability relating to this case is optimize the corporate cash position, among other things, recognized. by securing availability of sufficient liquidity for execution of payments by DSM entities, at the right time and the right 23 Financial instruments and risks place. Policies on financial risks At December 2019, DSM had cash and cash equivalents of General € 800 million (2018: € 1,281 million). As an international company, DSM is exposed to financial risks in the normal course of business. A major objective At the end of 2019, DSM had one committed credit facility of our group policy is to minimize the impact of market, of € 1.0 billion, after the first extension maturing on 29 May liquidity and credit risk on the value of the company and its 2024. The agreement for the committed credit facility has profitability. In order to achieve this, a systematic financial neither financial covenants nor material adverse changes and risk management system has been established. For clauses. The committed credit facility links the interest rate the purpose of securing compliance with the risk to DSM's greenhouse gas (GHG) emission reduction. At yearmanagement policies, an internal control framework has end 2019, no loans had been taken up under the committed been implemented, and the controls are monitored and credit facility. tested periodically. Furthermore, DSM has a commercial paper program The financial derivatives contracts used by DSM are entered amounting to € 1,500 million (2018: € 1,500 million). The into exclusively in connection with the corresponding company will use the commercial paper program to a total underlying transaction (hedged item) relating to normal of not more than €1,000 million (2018: € 1,000 million). operating business. The instruments used are customary At 31 December 2019, € 0 million had been issued as products, such as currency swaps, cross-currency interest commercial paper (2018: € 0 million). DSM has no derivative rate swaps, collars, forward exchange contracts and interest contracts to manage currency risk or interest rate risk rate swaps. outstanding under which margin calls by the counterparty would be permitted. An important element of DSM's financial policy and capital management is the allocation of cash flow. DSM primarily Floating-rate and fixed-rate borrowings and monetary allocates cash flow to investments aimed at strengthening liabilities analyzed by maturity are summarized in the its business positions and securing the dividend payment following table. Borrowings excluding credit institutions are to its shareholders. The remaining cash flow is further used shown after taking into account related interest rate for acquisitions and partnerships that strengthen DSM's derivatives in designated hedging relationships. DSM competences and market positions. The net debt to equity manages financial liabilities and related derivative ratio (gearing) is 12.7 (2018: 1.4), see also Note 25 'Net debt'. contracts on the basis of the remaining contractual maturities of these instruments. The remaining maturities Liquidity risk presented in the following table provide an overview of Liquidity risk is the financial risk due to uncertain the timing of the cash flows related to these instruments. development of liquidity. An entity may not get access to Financial assets are not linked to financial liabilities in order sufficient liquidity if its credit rating falls, when it to meet cash outflows on these liabilities. experiences sudden unexpected cash outflows or an Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 209 www.dsm.com Financial liabilities Carrying Within 1 1 to 2 2 to 3 3 to 4 4 to 5 After 5 amount year years years years years years 2018 Borrowings 2,652 380 10 1 504 1 1,756 Monetary liabilities 2,267 2,129 41 9 7 9 72 Guarantees 167 167 Derivatives 54 51 2 1 Interest payments 184 35 29 29 29 23 39 Cash at redemption1 89 5 18 14 14 12 26 Total 5,413 2,600 98 55 555 45 2,060 2019 Borrowings 2,653 189 41 37 524 22 1,840 Monetary liabilities 2,049 1,997 17 3 2 3 27 Guarantees 182 182 Derivatives 25 18 3 1 3 Interest payments 183 33 30 30 30 22 38 Cash at redemption1 26 5 4 4 3 3 7 Total 5,118 2,242 95 75 562 50 2,094 1 Difference between nominal redemption and amortized costs. The following table reflects the exposure of the financial derivatives to liquidity risk. The table contains the cash flows from derivatives with positive fair values and from derivatives with negative fair values to have a complete overview of the financial derivatives related cash flows. The amounts are gross and undiscounted. Financial derivatives cash flow 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 Total 2018 Inflow 3,157 42 38 22 56 3,315 Outflow (3,181) (41) (39) (22) (55) (3,338) 2019 Inflow 1,690 38 37 56 19 1,840 Outflow (1,688) (38) (37) (58) (19) (1,840) Market risk Market risk can be subdivided into interest rate risk, currency risk and price risk. Interest rate risk Interest rate risk is the risk that adverse movements of interest rates lead to high costs on interest-bearing debt or assets, which negatively impact the company's capability to honor its commitments. DSM's interest rate risk policy is aimed at minimizing the interest rate risks associated with the financing of the company and thus at the same time optimizing the net interest costs. This policy translates into a certain desired profile of fixed-interest and floating-interest positions, including cash and cash equivalents, with the floating-interest position not exceeding 60% of net debt. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 210 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM At 31 December 2019, there was a CNY 255 million credit facility held by DSM Inner Mongolia Rainbow, based on floating rate SHIBOR (2018: same). There were no outstanding fixed-floating interest rate swaps (end of 2018 none). The following analysis of the sensitivity of borrowings, assets and related financial derivatives to interest rate movements assumes an instantaneous 1% change in interest rates for all maturities from their level on 31 December 2019, with all other variables held constant. A 1% reduction in interest rates would result in a € 8 million pre-tax loss in the income statement and equity on the basis of the composition of financial instruments on 31 December 2019, as floating-rate borrowings are more than compensated for by floating-rate assets (mainly cash). The opposite applies in the case of a 1% increase in interest rates. The sensitivity of financial instruments with a floating interest rate on 31 December 2019 to changes in interest rates is set out in the following table: Sensitivity to change in interest rate 2019 2018 Carrying Sensitivity Carrying Sensitivity amount amount +1% (1%) +1% (1%) Loans to associates and joint ventures 3 26 Current investments 688 7 (7) 1,277 13 (13) Cash and cash equivalents 800 8 (8) 1,281 13 (13) Short-term borrowings (189) (2) 2 (380) (1) 1 Long-term borrowings (2,464) (2) 2 (2,272) Currency risk Currency risk is the risk that adverse movements of foreign currencies negatively impact the results of operations and the financial condition of the company, for example due to losses on assets or liabilities in foreign currencies. It is DSM's policy to hedge 100% of the currency risks resulting from sales and purchases at the moment of recognition of the receivables and payables. This is realized by transferring at spot rates the respective exposures to the group, which are, consequently (on a netted basis), hedged externally. In addition, operating companies may — under strict conditions — opt for hedging currency risks from firm commitments and forecast transactions. The currencies giving rise to these risks are primarily USD, CHF, GBP and JPY. The risks arising from currency exposures are regularly reviewed and hedged when appropriate. DSM uses currency forward contracts, spot contracts, and average-rate currency options to hedge the exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. At year-end, these instruments had remaining maturities of less than one year. For the hedging of currency risks from firm commitments and forecast transaction cash flows, hedge accounting is applied. Hedge accounting is not applied for hedges of recognized trade receivables and trade payables hedged with short-term derivatives. To hedge intercompany loans, receivables and payables denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the subsidiaries, DSM uses currency swaps or forward contracts. The following analysis of the sensitivity of net borrowings and derivative financial instruments to currency movements against the euro assumes a 10% change in all foreign currency rates against the euro from their level on 31 December 2019, with all other variables held constant. A +10% change indicates a strengthening of the foreign currencies against the euro. A -10% change represents a weakening of the foreign currencies against the euro. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 211 www.dsm.com Sensitivity to change in exchange rate 2019 2018 Carrying Sensitivity Carrying Sensitivity amount amount +10% (10%) +10% (10%) Loans to associates and joint ventures 3 26 Current investments 688 1 (1) 1,277 1 (1) Cash and cash equivalents 800 37 (37) 1,281 26 (26) Short-term borrowings (140) (4) 4 (380) (7) 7 Long-term borrowings (2,277) (3) 3 (2,272) (1) 1 Lease liabilities (236) (17) 17 Currency forward contracts (8) 23 (23) 1 35 (35) Currency forwards related to net investments in foreign entities1 (1) (9) 9 (5) (42) 42 Average-rate forwards used for economic hedging2 (2) (38) 38 (22) (68) 68 Other derivatives 26 3 (3) 7 1 (1) 1 Fair-value change reported in Translation reserve. 2 Fair-value change reported in Hedging reserve. Sensitivity changes on these positions will generally be recognized in profit or loss or in the translation reserve in equity, with the exception of the instruments for which cash flow hedge accounting or net-investment hedge accounting is applied. In case of a strengthening or weakening of the euro against USD, CHF and CNY (being the key currencies), this would affect the translation of financial instruments denominated in these currencies, assuming all other variables being constant. Profit or loss Equity Strengthening Weakening Strengthening Weakening EUR USD (10% movement) (126) 126 (247) 247 CHF (10% movement) 24 (24) (264) 264 CNY (10% movement) (24) 24 (63) 63 Price risk In line with IFRS 9 standard 'Financial Instruments', the Financial instruments that are subject to changes in stock estimation of the value adjustment for doubtful accounts exchange prices or indexes are subject to a price risk. At receivable is now based on an expected credit loss (ECL) year-end 2019, price risks related to investments in model. DSM uses an allowance matrix to measure the ECL securities were limited. for trade receivables. The loss rates depend among other things on the specified aging categories and are based on Credit risk historical write-off percentages, taking market Credit risk is the risk that a (commercial or financial) developments into account. counterparty may not be able to honor a financial commitment according to the contractual agreement with The ECL is based on the allocation of a credit risk grade DSM. The company manages the credit risk to which it is which is based on data that is determined to be predictive exposed by applying credit limits per institution and by of the risk of loss (including but not limited to external dealing exclusively with institutions that have a high credit ratings, audited financial statements, management rating. accounts and cash flow projections and available press information about customers) and applying experienced At the balance sheet date, there were no significant credit judgement. Credit risk grades are defined using concentrations of credit risks. qualitative and quantitative factors that are indicative of the risk of default and are aligned to external credit rating definitions from Moody's. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 212 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM The loss allowance on non-current financial assets that has or financial instruments were available at the reporting date been taken into consideration at the end of 2019 was that would reduce the maximum exposure to credit risk. € 1 million. Exposure to credit risk related to derivatives With regard to treasury activities (for example cash, cash equivalents and financial derivatives held with banks or 2019 2018 financial institutions) it is ensured that financial transactions are only concluded with counterparties that Receivables from derivatives 40 18 have at least a Moody's credit rating of A3 for long-term Liabilities from derivatives (19) (36) instruments. At business group level, outstanding receivables are continuously monitored by management. Net amount 21 (18) Appropriate allowances are made for any credit risks that have been identified in line with the expected credit loss policy. Information about financial assets is presented in Note 10 'Associates and joint arrangements', Note 11 'Other financial The table below provides information about the credit risk assets', Note 13 'Current receivables', Note 14 'Current exposure per aging category and the ECL for trade accounts investments', Note 15 'Cash and cash equivalents' and Note receivable of € 17 million at 31 December 2019, see Note 13 23 'Financial instruments and risks'. Information about 'Current receivables'. material impairments is presented in Note 2 'Alternative performance measures'. Weighted Gross Loss DSM's policy is to grant corporate guarantees for credit average carrying Allowance support of subsidiaries and associates, to get access to loss rate amount credit facilities which are necessary for their operating working capital needs and which cannot be funded by the Neither past due nor corporate cash pools and/or for bank guarantees needed impaired 0.1% 1,055 (1) for local governmental requirements. Information on 1–29 days overdue 0.3% 199 (1) guarantees is presented in Note 22 'Contingent liabilities 30–89 days overdue 2.3% 77 (2) and other financial obligations'. 90 days or more overdue 60.5% 23 (14) Hedge accounting Total 1,354 (17) DSM uses derivative financial instruments to manage financial risks relating to business operations and does not enter into speculative derivative positions. The purpose of The changes in the loss allowance for trade accounts cash flow hedges is to minimize the risk of volatility of future receivable are as follows: cash flows. These may result from a recognized asset or liability or a forecast transaction that is considered highly probable (firm commitment). The hedge ratio is dependent 2019 2018 on the risk analysis related to the specific cash flow, and can vary from 50 to 100%. Changes in fair value are Balance at 1 January (35) (21) recognized in Other comprehensive income (Hedging reserve), and material ineffectiveness (mainly as a result Net remeasurement of loss of changes in timing of the hedged transactions) will be allowance 14 (19) recognized in the income statement. As soon as the forecast Deductions 4 5 transaction is realized (the underlying hedged item materializes), the amount recognized in the Other Balance at 31 December (17) (35) comprehensive income will be reclassified to the income statement. In case the hedged future transaction is a nonfinancial asset or liability, the gain or loss recognized in The maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by Other comprehensive income will be included in the cost the carrying amounts of financial assets that are recognized of acquisition of the asset or liability. in the balance sheet, including derivative financial instruments. DSM has International Swaps and Derivatives The purpose of a hedge of a net investment is to reduce Association (ISDA) agreements in place with its financial the foreign currency risk of an investment in a company counterparties that allow for the netting of exposures in whose functional currency is not the euro. Changes in fair case of a default of either party. No significant agreements value are recognized in Other comprehensive income Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 213 www.dsm.com (Translation reserve), and material ineffectiveness will be the four quarters of 2020. DSM also hedged the projected recognized in the income statement. The amount CHF obligations against the EUR, namely CHF 304 million at recognized in the Other comprehensive income will be an average exchange rate of CHF 1.11 per EUR. These hedges reclassified to the income statement, upon divestment of have fixed the exchange rate for part of the USD and JPY the respective foreign subsidiary. receipts and CHF payments in 2020. Cash flow hedge accounting is applied for these hedges. As a result of similar The purpose of a fair value hedge is to hedge the fair value hedges concluded in 2018 for the year 2019, € 43 million of assets or liabilities reflected on the balance sheet. negative (2018: € 1 million positive) was recognized in the Changes of fair value in hedging instruments, as well as 2019 operating profit of the segments involved in hedged items, will be recognized in the income statement. accordance with the realization of the expected cash flows. There was no material ineffectiveness in relation to these Cash flow hedges hedges. In 2019, DSM hedged USD 712 million (2018: USD 654 million) of its 2020 projected net cash flow in USD against the EUR by Net investment hedges means of average-rate currency forward contracts at an The partial hedging of the currency risk associated with average exchange rate of USD 1.15 per EUR for the four the translation of DSM's CHF-denominated investments was quarters of 2020. Each quarter, the relevant hedges for that continued for an amount of CHF 100 million quarter will be settled and recognized in the income (2018: CHF 474 million). There was no material statement. In 2019, DSM also hedged JPY 7,453 million (2018: ineffectiveness in relation to these hedges. JPY 6,550 million) of its 2020 projected net cash flow in JPY against the EUR by means of average-rate currency forward Fair value hedges contracts at an average exchange rate of JPY 122 per EUR for There were no fair value hedges. Cash flow hedges Net investment hedges Foreign exchange – denominated Foreign currency risk debt (CHF currency) Inventory purchases Other1 Assets Liabilities 2018 Nominal amount hedged item 30 359 416 Carrying amount assets Carrying amount liabilities 6 22 5 Financial Financial Financial Financial Line item balance sheet derivatives derivatives derivatives derivatives Change in the value of the hedging instrument (16) (34) (5) Costs of hedging recognized in OCI (10) (33) (5) Reclassified from hedging reserve to income statement (6) (1) Line item income statement Cost of sales Sales Finex2 Finex2 2019 Nominal amount hedged item 31 406 92 Carrying amount assets Carrying amount liabilities 1 2 1 Financial Financial Financial Financial Line item balance sheet derivatives derivatives derivatives derivatives Change in the value of the hedging instrument 5 20 4 Costs of hedging recognized in OCI 5 (23) 6 Reclassified from hedging reserve to income statement (1) 43 Line item income statement Cost of sales Sales Finex2 Finex2 1 Forward contracts, sales, receivables and borrowings. 2 Financial income and expense. For movements in Hedging or Translation reserve, see also Note 16 'Equity'. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 214 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM Fair value of financial instruments The following methods and assumptions were used to determine the fair value of financial instruments: cash, current investments, current receivables, current borrowings (excluding current portion of long-term instruments) and other current liabilities are stated at carrying amount, which approximates fair value in view of the short maturity of these instruments. The fair value of derivatives and long-term instruments are based on calculations, quoted market prices or quotes obtained from intermediaries. The portfolio of financial derivatives consists of average-rate forward contracts that are valued against average foreign exchange forward rates obtained from Bloomberg and other derivatives that are valued using a discounted cash flow model, applicable market yield curves and foreign exchange spot rates. Inputs for the fair value calculations represent observable market data that are obtained from external sources that are deemed to be independent and reliable. DSM uses the following hierarchy for determining the fair value of financial instruments: Level 1: quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs that have a significant effect on the fair value are observable, either directly or indirectly Level 3: techniques that use inputs that have a significant effect on the fair value that are not based on observable market data The following table shows the carrying amounts and fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities, including their levels in the fair value hierarchy. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 215 www.dsm.com Fair value of financial instruments Carrying amount Fair Value Fair value Amort. hedging Cost instr. FVTPL FVOCI Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Assets 2018 Non-current financial derivatives 1 13 14 14 14 Other participating interests 164 164 63 33 68 164 Non-current loans to associates and JVs 2 2 2 2 Other non-current receivables 88 88 88 88 Other non-current deferred items 9 9 9 9 Trade receivables 1,575 1,575 1,575 1,575 Current loans to associates and JVs 24 24 26 26 Other current receivables 80 80 80 80 Current financial derivatives 21 21 21 21 Current investments 1,277 1,277 1,277 1,277 Cash and cash equivalents 941 340 1,281 340 941 1,281 Liabilities 2018 Non-current borrowings (2,272) (2,272) (2,321) (2,321) Non-current financial derivatives (3) (3) (3) (3) Other non-current liabilities (197) (197) (117) (80) (197) Current borrowings (380) (380) (384) (384) Current financial derivatives (51) (51) (51) (51) Trade payables (1,430) (1,430) (1,430) (1,430) Other current liabilities (527) (527) (527) (527) Assets 2019 Non-current financial derivatives 27 27 27 27 Other participating interests 150 150 44 40 66 150 Non-current loans to associates and JVs 3 3 3 3 Other non-current receivables 105 105 105 105 Other non-current deferred items 7 7 7 7 Trade receivables 1,592 1,592 1,592 1,592 Other current receivables 45 45 45 45 Current financial derivatives 19 19 19 19 Current investments 688 688 688 688 Cash and cash equivalents 755 45 800 45 755 800 Liabilities 2019 Non-current borrowings (2,464) (2,464) (2,397) (187) (2,584) Non-current financial derivatives (7) (7) (7) (7) Other non-current liabilities (145) (145) (126) (19) (145) Current borrowings (189) (189) (140) (49) (189) Current financial derivatives (18) (18) (18) (18) Trade payables (1,345) (1,345) (1,345) (1,345) Other current liabilities (478) (478) (478) (478) During the year there were no material transfers between individual levels of the fair value hierarchy. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 216 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM Notional value of derivative financial instruments 2019 2018 Non-current Current Total Non-current Current Total Cross-currency interest rate swaps (200) (163) (363) (157) (195) (352) Forward exchange contracts, currency options, currency swaps (1,629) (1,629) (2,986) (2,986) Other derivatives 27 (31) (4) 13 (30) (17) Total (173) (1,823) (1,996) (144) (3,211) (3,355) For interest rate swaps, the notional value is the principal Pension costs on which the swap agreement is based. For cross-currency interest rate swaps, forward exchange contracts, currency 2019 2018 options and currency swaps, the notional value is the hedged foreign exchange amount converted into euros. Defined benefit plans: The notional value of the Other derivatives is the hedged Current service costs procurement cost translated into euros. pension plans 29 27 Other post-employment 24 Post-employment benefits benefits 2 2 Defined contribution plans 85 81 The group operates a number of defined benefit plans and Total pension costs included defined contribution plans throughout the world, the assets in employee benefit costs 116 110 of which are generally held in separately administered funds. The pension plans are generally funded by payments Pension costs included in from employees and from the relevant group companies. Other operating (income) / The group also provides certain additional healthcare expense (16) (10) benefits to retired employees in the US. Total in operating profit 100 100 Post-employment benefits relate to obligations that will be Pension costs included in settled in the future and require assumptions to project financial income and expense 7 6 benefit obligations. Post-employment benefit accounting is intended to reflect the recognition of post-employment Total 107 106 benefits over the employee's approximate service period, based on the terms of the plans and the investment and Of which: funding. The accounting requires management to make Defined contribution plans 85 81 assumptions regarding variables such as discount rate, Defined benefit plans 22 25 future salary increases, life expectancy, and future healthcare costs. Management consults with external actuaries regarding these assumptions at least annually for For 2020, costs for the defined benefit plans relating to significant plans. pensions are expected to be € 43 million (2019: € 38 million). Changes in these key assumptions can have a significant impact on the projected defined benefit obligations, Changes in Employee benefit net liabilities recognized in funding requirements and periodic costs incurred. the balance sheet are shown in the following overview: The charges for pension costs recognized in the income statement (Note 5) relate to the following: Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 217 www.dsm.com Employee benefit net liabilities DNP AG Pension Plan in Switzerland The DNP AG Pension Plan is a typical Swiss Cash Balance 2019 2018 plan. For accounting purposes, this plan is qualified as a defined benefit plan. It is a contribution-based plan. There Balance at 1 January 458 394 is no promise of indexation for on-going pensions. The Swiss state minimal requirements for occupational benefit Changes: plans have however to be respected; the Minimum Balance of actuarial Guaranteed Interest Return on the cash balance accounts (gains)/losses 24 77 for 2019 was 1.00% (2018: 1.00%) for the mandatory portion Employee benefit costs 21 24 (BVG/LPP). There is also a minimal conversion rate Contributions by employer (54) (44) applicable. The weighted average duration of the defined Acquisitions and disposals 1 benefit obligation is 16.4 years (2018: 12.4 years) which could Exchange differences 4 4 be seen as an indication of the maturity profile of the Transfers 3 scheme. Total changes (4) 64 The pension plan is managed and controlled by a DSM company pension fund. The Board of Trustees consists of Balance at 31 December 454 458 representatives of the employer and the employees who have an independent role. In 2019, the Trustees agreed a package of plan changes. The financial result of these The Employee benefit net liabilities of € 454 million changes is recognized in 2019. The plan assets are (2018: € 458 million) consist of € 434 million related to collectively invested (no individual investment choice). pensions (2018: € 438 million), € 6 million related to The current (estimated) funding level, based on local healthcare and other costs (2018: € 6 million) and standards, is 119% (2018: 108%), which is above the legally € 14 million related to other post-employment benefits required minimum funding level but below the long-term (2018: € 14 million). buffer target. Pensions DSM UK Pension Scheme The DSM group companies have various pension plans, The DSM UK Pension Scheme was closed as of 30 September which are geared to the local regulations and practices in 2016 for all pension accruals. An unconditional indexation the countries in which they operate. As these plans are policy is applicable for the vested pension rights. The designed to comply with the statutory framework, tax weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation legislation, local customs and economic situation of the is 19.4 years (2018: 19.4 years), which could be seen as an countries concerned, it follows that the nature of the plans indication of the maturity profile of the scheme. varies from country to country. The plans are based on local legal and contractual obligations. The pension plan is managed and controlled by a DSM company pension fund. The Board of Trustees consists of DSM's current policy is to offer defined contribution representatives of the employer and the employees who retirement benefit plans to new employees wherever have an independent role. The 2018 valuation was finalized possible. However, DSM still has a (small) number of defined in 2019 and as a result DSM will continue to pay an annual benefit pension and healthcare schemes from the past or recovery contribution of GBP 0.9 million into the plan. There in countries where legislation does not allow us to offer a are two company guarantees in place: (1) a guarantee from defined contribution scheme. Generally, these schemes DNP AG (capped at GBP 14 million) related to the 2012 have been funded through external trusts or foundations, valuation, and (2) a guarantee from Royal DSM (capped at where DSM faces the potential risk of funding shortfalls. GBP 11 million) related to arrangements with respect to The most significant defined benefit schemes are: former UK divestments. There is a long-term de-risking strategy for the DSM UK Pension Scheme in place with the Pension Plan at DSM Nutritional Products AG in objective to align the company's intentions and the Trustees Switzerland (DNP AG) responsibility with respect to this plan. The current funding DSM UK Pension Scheme in the UK level, based on local standards, is estimated at 99% (2018: Consolidated Pension Plan of DSM North America, Inc. 98%). in the US Pension Plan at DSM Nutritional Products GmbH in Consolidated Plan in the US Germany (DNP GmbH) The Consolidated Plan in the US has been closed to new entrants since 2014. As of 31 December 2016, the plan was For each plan, the following characteristics are relevant: closed for pension accrual of the non-unionized employees. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 218 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM New accrual is only applicable for a small group of Present value of defined benefit obligations unionized employees. There is no indexation applicable for the vested pension rights. The weighted average duration 2019 2018 of the defined obligations is 12.1 years (2018: 11.8 years), which could be seen as an indication of the maturity profile Balance at 1 January 1,808 1,675 of the scheme. Changes: The pension plan is managed and controlled by a DSM Service costs 33 27 company pension fund. The Board of Trustees consists of Interest costs 29 25 representatives of the employer and the employees, who Contributions 15 13 have an independent role. Actuarial (gains)/losses 216 (17) Past service costs (16) (10) In 2018, an ALM study was performed which will lead to an Exchange differences 59 47 adjustment of the investment strategy that was Disbursements (65) (45) implemented in the course of 2019. The internal funding New pension plan policy of this plan is based on IFRS valuation. This implies Switzerland 91 a stricter funding policy than the minimum requirements Other 2 on local funding. The current IFRS funding level is 99% (2018: 95%), whereas the funding level on local standards (Pension Balance at 31 December 2,079 1,808 Protection Act) is estimated at 124% (2018: 109%). The minimum required funding level on local standards is 80% on the basis of this Act. Fair value of plan assets DNP GmbH Pension Plan in Germany 2019 2018 The DNP GmbH Pension Plan in Germany has been closed to new entrants as of 31 December 2008. The accrual is still Balance at 1 January 1,370 1,301 applicable for employees who have been participating in the plan since 2008. The pension plan is a final-pay pension Changes: plan (averaged over the last 12 months prior to retirement) Interest income on plan and service-related benefit. In 2019, DSM added a lump-sum assets 23 19 pay-out option to the plan. The financial result of this Actuarial gains/(losses) 192 (94) change is recognized in 2019. The liability is on the balance sheet of DSM Nutritional Products GmbH. No assets are Actual return on plan assets 215 (75) allocated to this liability. All reimbursements will be paid Contributions by employer 42 30 out by the local company. The weighted average duration Contributions by of the defined benefit obligation is 15.2 years (2018: 15.5 employees 14 13 years), which could be seen as an indication of the maturity Disbursement (52) (33) profile of the scheme. Exchange differences 55 43 New pension plan The most important unfunded plans are in Germany, for Switzerland 91 which the associated liability amounts to € 344 million Balance at 31 December 1,644 1,370 (2018: € 308 million). The changes in the present value of the defined benefit The fair value of the plan asset consists of 97% of quoted obligations and in the fair value of plan assets of the major assets (2018: 98%). plans are listed below: Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 219 www.dsm.com The actuarial gains/losses as included in the previous The amounts recognized of these plans in the balance sheet tables can be specified as follows: are as follows: Remeasurement effects as included in Other Net assets/liabilities comprehensive income 2019 2018 2019 2018 Major plans: Defined benefit obligation Present value of funded major pension plans obligations (1,724) (1,490) Actuarial (gain)/loss due to Fair value of plan assets 1,644 1,370 experience 36 35 Actuarial (gain)/loss due to Net (80) (120) demographic assumption (4) Present value of unfunded Actuarial (gain)/loss due to obligations (354) (318) financial assumption changes 184 (52) Total 216 (17) Net (liabilities) / assets major plans (434) (438) Plan assets major pension plans Net (liabilities) / assets other Return on plan assets plans (20) (20) (greater)/less than discount rate 192 (94) Total net (liabilities) assets (454) (458) Total 192 (94) Of which: Actuarial (gain)/loss major Liabilities (Employee plans 24 77 benefit liabilities) (456) (459) Assets (Prepaid pension Actuarial (gain)/loss other costs) 2 1 plans Total actuarial (gain)/loss 24 77 In 2020, DSM is expected to contribute € 36 million (actual 2019: € 43 million) to its major defined benefit plans. The major categories of pension-plan assets as a The main actuarial assumptions for the year (weighted percentage of total plan assets are as follows: averages) are: Pension-plan assets by category Actuarial assumptions for major plans outside the Netherlands 2019 2018 2019 2018 Bonds 45% 47% Equities 30% 29% Discount rate 0.92% 1.61% Property funds 17% 18% Price inflation 1.44% 1.68% Other 8% 6% Salary increase 2.08% 2.31% Pension increase 0.80-2.25% 0.85-2.10% The pension-plan assets include neither ordinary DSM shares nor property occupied by DSM. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 220 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM Year-end amounts for the current and previous periods are as follows: Major defined benefit plans per year 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Defined benefit obligations (2,079) (1,808) (1,675) (1,806) (1,745) Plan assets 1,644 1,370 1,301 1,297 1,224 Funded status of asset/(liability) (435) (438) (374) (509) (521) Experience adjustments on plan assets, gain/(loss) 192 (94) 115 60 (22) Experience adjustments on plan liabilities, gain/(loss) (36) (35) (24) 15 (39) Gain/(loss) on liabilities due to changes in assumptions (180) 52 (21) (80) (4) Sensitivities of significant actuarial assumptions The discount rate, the future increase in wages and salaries and the pension increase rate were identified as significant actuarial assumptions. The following impacts on the defined benefit obligation are to be expected: A 0.25% increase/decrease in the discount rate would lead to a decrease/increase of 3.8% (2018: 3.2%) in the defined benefit obligation A 0.25% increase/decrease in the expected increase in salaries/wages would lead to an increase/decrease of 0.3% (2018: 0.3%) in the defined benefit obligation A 0.25% increase/decrease in the expected rate of pension increase would lead to an increase/decrease of less than 1.0% (2018: 1.0%) in the defined benefit obligation The sensitivity analysis is based on realistically possible changes as at the end of the reporting year. Each change in a significant actuarial assumption was analyzed separately as part of the test. Interdependencies were not taken into account. Healthcare and other costs In some countries, particularly the US, group companies provide retired employees and their surviving dependents with postemployment benefits other than pensions, mainly allowances for healthcare expenses and life-insurance premiums. Some of these are unfunded; in these cases, approved expense claims are reimbursed out of the financial resources of the group companies concerned. These plans are not sufficiently material to warrant the individual disclosures required by IAS 19. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 221 www.dsm.com 25 Net debt The development of the components of net debt is as follows: Cash and Current NonCurrent Credit Derivatives Total cash investcurrent borrowings institutions equivalents ments borrowings Balance at 1 January 2018 899 954 (2,551) (8) (69) 33 (742) Change from operating activities 1,391 (1) 6 1,396 Change from investing activities (605) 323 (10) 3 1 (288) Reclassification from non-current to current 304 (304) Transfers 22 (24) 12 (9) (1) Dividend (225) (225) Interest (59) (59) Proceeds from reissued shares 97 97 Repurchase of shares (236) (236) Derivatives (58) (58) Change from financing activities (401) 280 (292) (9) (59) (481) Exchange differences (3) 2 3 2 Total changes 382 323 279 (300) (3) (52) 629 Balance at 31 December 2018 1,281 1,277 (2,272) (308) (72) (19) (113) Change from operating activities 1,385 (8) 28 1,405 Change from investing activities (525) (589) (27) (2) 3 (1,140) Reclassification from non-current to current 50 (50) Opening balance lease liabilities (adoption) (215) (215) Transfers (290) 46 301 (57) Dividend (291) (291) Interest (62) 5 (57) Proceeds from reissued shares 180 180 New/unwinding leases (39) (39) Repurchase of shares (869) (869) Derivatives (6) (6) Other 2 2 Change from financing activities (1,332) (156) 251 (57) (1) (1,295) Exchange differences (9) (1) (1) 10 (1) Total changes (481) (589) (192) 251 (60) 40 (1,031) Balance at 31 December 2019 800 688 (2,464) (57) (132) 21 (1,144) In 2019, the gearing (net debt / equity plus net debt) was 12.7% (in 2018: 1.4%). Due to the introduction of IFRS 16, the gearing increased by 2.6% (from 1.4% to 4.0%). Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 222 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM 26 Notes to the cash flow statement The cash flow statement provides an explanation of the changes in cash and cash equivalents. It is prepared on the basis of a comparison of the balance sheets at 1 January and 31 December. Changes that do not involve cash flows, such as changes in exchange rates, amortization, depreciation, impairment losses and transfers to other balance sheet items, are eliminated. Changes in working capital due to the acquisition or disposal of consolidated companies are included under Investing activities. Most of the changes in the cash flow statement can be traced back to the detailed statements of changes for the balance sheet items concerned. For those balance sheet items for which no detailed statement of changes is included, the table below shows the link between the change according to the balance sheet and the change according to the cash flow statement: Change in operating working capital 2019 2018 Operating working capital Balance at 1 January 2,138 1,938 Balance at 31 December 2,266 2,138 Balance sheet change 128 200 Adjustments: Exchange differences (52) (34) Changes in consolidation (including acquisitions and disposals) (67) 34 Transfers/non-cash value adjustments (61) 46 Total change in operating working capital according to the cash flow statement (52) 246 In 2019, the operating working capital was € 2,266 million (2018: € 2,138 million), which amounts to 26.3% of annualized fourth quarter net sales (2018: 24.2%). Due to the introduction of IFRS 16, operating lease cash flows amounting to -€ 53 million that were presented as operating cash flows under IAS 17 are now reported as financing cash flows. 27 Share-based compensation The DSM Stock Incentive Plan provides rules for the grant of Restricted Share Units (RSU) and Performance Share Units (PSU), which have been granted as of 2017 to executives. The grant date of these management share units is the last trading day at the Amsterdam Stock Exchange in March. The number of management share units to be granted is based on the face value of the DSM share. The grant value (depending on job level) to eligible employees will be divided by the share price at the beginning of the first performance year. As a result, the number of share units to be granted annually will fluctuate with the share price development. The grant concerns the maximum number of Restricted Share Units (RSUs) and Performance Share Units (PSUs) that may vest. RSUs and PSUs are subject to a vesting period of 3 years starting at the grant date. Vesting of RSUs is subject to continued employment until the vesting date ('time vesting'); vesting of PSUs is additionally subject to the achievement of predetermined performance goals at the end of the vesting period. The PSUs granted in 2019 are subject to the realization of four equally weighted goals: Relative Total Shareholder Return (TSR) performance versus a peer group Return on Capital Employed (ROCE) growth Energy Efficiency Improvement (EEI) Greenhouse Gas Emissions (GHGE) Efficiency Improvement Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 223 www.dsm.com Non-vested share units will be forfeited. If employment is terminated prior to the vesting date, specific rules regarding vesting and forfeitures apply. Prior to 2017, stock options were granted to eligible staff. Stock options have a term of 8 years and are subject to a vesting period of 3 years. Like RSUs, non-performance related stock options are subject to 'time vesting', whereas the vesting of performance related stock options depends on the realization of the same predefined performance goals as applicable to PSUs. Vested stock options can be exercised during a period of 5 years starting as per vesting date, subject to the plan rules. Unvested stock options will be forfeited. If employment is terminated prior to the vesting date, specific rules regarding vesting and forfeitures apply. Share units and stock options are settled by delivery of DSM shares. Overview of stock options 1 Year of grant Outstanding In 2019 Outstanding Fair value on Exercise Expiry date at 31 Dec. 2018 Exercised Average Forfeited/ at 31 Dec. 2019 grant date (€) price (€) price (€) expired 2011 112,363 (112,363) 93.67 9.60 46.20 2 May 2019 2012 120,400 (105,025) 104.99 15,375 6.88 40.90 15 May 2020 2013 283,525 (130,175) 98.57 153,350 9.23 48.91 7 May 2021 2014 438,330 (223,050) 101.78 215,280 10.66 52.00 9 May 2022 2015 1,167,737 (643,512) 98.61 524,225 9.89 50.98 5 May 2023 2016 2,127,625 (1,344,475) 103.47 (49,000) 734,150 9.36 52.57 3 May 2024 2019 Total 4,249,980 (2,558,600) 101.48 (49,000) 1,642,380 Of which vested 2,250,605 1,642,380 at 31 Dec. 2017 at 31 Dec. 2018 2018 Total 6,211,236 (1,620,206) 87.17 (341,050) 4,249,980 Of which vested 1,711,536 2,250,605 1 This table also forms part of the 'Remuneration report' on page 130 as included in the Supervisory Board Report. Overview of management share units1 Year of issue Outstanding at In 2019 Outstanding at Share price at Expiry date 31 Dec. 2018 Granted Vested Forfeited/ 31 Dec. 2019 date of grant (€) expired2 2017 377,730 (27,417) (25,313) 325,000 67.33 5 May 2020 2018 274,390 (16,870) (14,110) 243,410 80.04 31 Mar 2021 2019 328,088 (6,462) (4,393) 317,233 97.74 31 Mar 2022 2019 Total 652,120 328,088 (50,749) (43,816) 885,643 at 31 Dec. 2017 at 31 Dec. 2018 2018 Total 440,143 292,270 (28,046) (52,247) 652,120 1 This table also forms part of the 'Remuneration report' on page 130 as included in the Supervisory Board Report. 2 Restricted and Performance Share Units may partly vest upon termination of employment in connection with, for example, divestments, retirement or early retirement. DSM granted certain members of senior management share units based on Adjusted EBITDA and ROCE performance measures set for 2018 and 2019. Settlement in shares takes place after this two-year period. If employment is terminated prior to the Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 224 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM settlement date, specific rules regarding vesting and forfeitures apply. Under this plan 42,892 shares in total were granted, of which at the end of 2019 39,539 shares were outstanding and 3,539 were forfeited. The fair value of these shares is determined based on the market price at the end of the first quarter of 2019, adjusted for loss of dividend. Certain employees in the Netherlands are entitled to employee stock options, to be granted on the first day on which the DSM stock is quoted ex-dividend following the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders. The opening price of the DSM stock on that day is the exercise price of such stock options. Employee stock options can immediately be exercised and have a term of five years. Overview of stock options for employees1 Year of grant Outstanding In 2019 Outstanding Fair value on Exercise Exercise at 31 Dec. Granted Exercised Average Forfeited/ at 31 Dec. grant date price (€) period until 2018 price (€) expired 2019 (€) 2014 37,435 (29,690) 96.16 (7,745) 5.68 52.00 May 2019 2015 18,950 (9,860) 100.73 (105) 8,985 4.50 50.98 May 2020 2016 100,285 (52,405) 101.24 (100) 47,780 4.38 52.57 May 2021 2017 187,370 (103,060) 101.37 (1,105) 83,205 6.14 67.33 May 2022 2018 440,955 (252,605) 102.13 (6,780) 181,570 8.50 85.00 May 2023 2019 482,600 (162,055) 112.73 (4,275) 316,270 8.88 98.00 May 2024 2019 Total 784,995 482,600 (609,675) 104.43 (20,110) 637,810 2018 Total 553,630 490,820 (240,705) 86.52 (18,750) 784,995 1 This table also forms part of the 'Remuneration report' on page 130 as included in the Supervisory Board Report. Measurement of fair value The costs of management share units are measured by reference to the fair value of the DSM share at the date on which the management share units are granted, ex-dividend as the share units do not accumulate dividend during the three-year vesting period. The costs of option plans are measured by reference to the fair value of the options at the date on which the options are granted. The fair value is determined using the Black-Scholes model, taking into account market conditions linked to the price of the DSM share. Stock-price volatility is determined on the basis of historical volatilities of the DSM share price measured each month over a period equal to the expected option life. The costs of these options are recognized in the income statement (Employee benefit costs). Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 225 www.dsm.com Assumptions determining fair value 28 Related parties The following assumptions were used to determine the fair value at grant date: Koninklijke DSM N.V. is the group holding company that is listed on the Euronext Amsterdam stock exchange. The Plan assumptions financial statements of the company are included in the chapter 'Parent company financial statements'. 2019 2018 Management shares In the ordinary course of business, DSM buys and sells Risk-free rate -0.57% -0.44% goods and services from/to various related parties in which Expected share life in years 3 3 DSM has significant influence. Transactions are conducted Nominal share life in years 3 3 under terms and conditions that are equivalent to those Share price in € 97.74 80.04 that apply to arm's length transactions. Expected dividend in € 6.90 5.55 Fair value of share unit granted Transactions and relationships with related parties are in € 90.84 74.49 reported in the table below. Employee options Transactions with related parties Risk-free rate -0.59% -0.42% Expected option life in years 2.5 2.5 Joint ventures Associates Nominal option life in years 5 5 2019 2018 2019 2018 Share price in € 98.00 85.00 Exercise price in € 98.00 85.00 Sales to 1 2 13 6 Volatility 20.0% 21.0% Purchases from 7 52 332 Expected dividend 2.35% 2.18% Loans to 3 26 Fair value of option granted Receivables from 1 42 8 in € 8.88 8.50 Payables to 5 23 Interest from 7 Commitments to 4 4 An amount of € 34 million is included in the costs for wages and salaries for share-based compensation (2018: € 25 million). The following table specifies the share-based DSM may issue guarantees as credit enhancement of compensation: associates to acquire bank facilities for these associates. DSM has provided guarantees to third parties for debts of Share-based compensation associates and to a third party (a former associate) for an amount of € 59 million (2018: € 72 million). 2019 2018 Other related-parties disclosures relate entirely to key Employee stock options 4 4 management of DSM, being represented by the company's Management stock options Managing Board, Executive Committee and the Supervisory and share units 22 16 Board. For further details about their remuneration, see Performance shares 8 5 Note 13 to the 'Parent company financial statements'. Total expense 34 25 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 226 www.dsm.com Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM 29 Service fees paid to external auditors The service fees recognized in the financial statements 2019 for the services of KPMG amounted to € 5.4 million (2018: € 5.3 million). The amounts per service category are shown in the following table. Total service fee Of which KPMG KPMG KPMG NL KPMG NL 2019 2018 2019 2018 Audit of the Group financial statements 4.3 4.4 2.8 3.0 Audit of other (statutory) financial statements 0.5 0.5 0.1 0.1 Other assurance services 0.6 0.4 0.6 0.4 Total assurance services 5.4 5.3 3.5 3.5 The services rendered by KPMG NL in 2019 in addition to the statutory audit include assurance engagements on non-financial information, on internal controls of DSM Pension Services, government grants and a regulatory filing, as well as agreed-upon procedures on certain information for the Remuneration Committee of Royal DSM and the pension fund and their external auditor. 30 Events after the balance sheet date In February 2020, DSM launched a program in DSM Nutritional Products to increase its agility to drive above-market profitable growth. By simplifying the operating model and further improving business steering, the program aims to better serve customers and respond to the differentiated needs of their respective end-markets. At the same time, it creates a more efficient organization. The new operating model will be enabled by a revised organizational structure. The structure is designed to support the more focused business priorities, and to operate with more streamlined central business steering. The new set-up will lead to around 350 redundancies (~3% of total DSM Nutritional Products' workforce and ~1.5% of total DSM's workforce), mainly in central and at managerial levels, affecting mostly DSM Nutritional Products' global HQ in Switzerland and its organization in North America. DSM announced on 21 February 2020 that it has reached agreement to acquire 100% of the shares of Glycom A/S, the world's leading supplier of Human Milk Oligosaccharides (HMO) for an enterprise value of € 765 million. This transaction represents an EV/EBITDA multiple of 20.6 based on the 2019 reported EBITDA, and roughly 15 based on the estimated 2021 EBITDA. The company achieved around € 74 million of sales in 2019 and has around 150 employees. The transaction is expected to close in Q2 2020. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 227 www.dsm.com Parent company financial statements Balance sheet at 31 December of Koninklijke DSM N.V. before profit appropriation x € million Notes 2019 2018 Assets Non-current assets Intangible assets 2 428 431 Property, plant and equipment 3 12 13 Financial assets 4 10,747 10,480 Deferred tax assets 5 71 82 Other deferred items 2 2 11,260 11,008 Current assets Receivables 6 101 123 Cash and cash equivalents 1 102 123 Total 11,362 11,131 Shareholders' equity and liabilities Shareholders' equity 7 Share capital 338 338 Share premium 489 489 Treasury shares (905) (371) Other reserves 96 (55) Retained earnings 6,955 6,304 Profit for the year 758 1,077 7,731 7,782 Non-current liabilities Borrowings 8 2,244 2,243 Other non-current liabilities 8 8 2,252 2,251 Current liabilities Borrowings 8 300 Financial derivatives 1 5 Other current liabilities 9 1,378 793 1,379 1,098 Total 11,362 11,131 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 228 www.dsm.com Parent company financial statements Income statement of Koninklijke DSM N.V. x € million Notes 2019 2018 Other income 1 184 167 Cost of outsourced work and other external costs (88) (88) Wages and salaries 11 (70) (65) Social security and pension charges (8) (7) Amortization of intangible assets and depreciation of Property, plant and equipment (10) (9) Total operating expenses (176) (169) Operating profit 8 (2) Financial expense 12 (79) (76) Result before income tax (71) (78) Income tax 5 23 14 Share of the profit of subsidiaries 4 800 1,054 Result after income tax 752 990 Share of the profit of associates and joint ventures 4 11 Other results related to associates and joint ventures 4 6 76 Net profit attributable to equity holders of Koninklijke DSM N.V. 758 1,077 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 229 www.dsm.com Notes to the parent company financial statements 1 Summary of the accounting policies Unless stated otherwise, all amounts are in € million. The Parent company financial statements are the financial statements of Koninklijke DSM N.V., which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the Netherlands. The accounting policies used are the same as those used in the consolidated financial statements, in accordance with the provisions of article 362-8 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. In these separate financial statements, investments in subsidiaries are accounted for using the net asset value. The balance sheet presentation is aligned with the consolidated financial statements in order to enhance transparency and facilitate understanding. The statutory seat of Koninklijke DSM N.V. is Het Overloon 1, Heerlen (Netherlands). A list of DSM participations has been filed with the Chamber of Commerce (Netherlands) and is available from the company upon request, as well as on the company website. DSM is registered in the Dutch Commercial Register under number 14022069. Information on the use of financial instruments and on related risks for the group is provided in the 'Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM'. Other income consists mainly of the charged corporate overhead and services to the group companies. The company forms a fiscal unity for corporate income tax purposes together with the group companies in the Netherlands. Each of the companies recognizes the portion of corporate income tax that the relevant company would owe as an independent tax payer, taking into account the tax liabilities applicable to the company. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 230 www.dsm.com Parent company financial statements Notes to the parent company financial statements 2 Intangible assets The carrying amount of intangible assets mainly comprises goodwill on the acquisition of NeoResins in 2005 (€ 358 million), Crina in 2006 (€ 8 million) and Pentapharm in 2007 (€ 36 million). For further information on these assets including the discussion of the related impairment tests, see Note 8 'Intangible assets' in the 'Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM'. Goodwill Under Other Total construction Balance at 1 January 2018 Cost 399 1 83 483 Amortization and impairment losses 50 50 Carrying amount 399 1 33 433 Change in carrying amount Capital expenditure 4 4 Put into operation (1) 1 Exchange difference 1 1 Amortization (7) (7) 1 3 (6) (2) Balance at 31 December 2018 Cost 400 4 85 489 Amortization and impairment losses 58 58 Carrying amount 400 4 27 431 Change in carrying amount Capital expenditure 3 3 Put into operation (3) 3 Exchange difference 2 2 Amortization (8) (8) 2 (5) (3) Balance at 31 December 2019 Cost 402 4 88 494 Amortization and impairment losses (66) (66) Carrying amount 402 4 22 428 3 Property, plant and equipment This item mainly relates to land and buildings. Capital expenditure in 2019 was € 0 million (2018: € 2 million), while the depreciation charge in 2019 was € 1 million (2018: € 2 million). The historical cost of Property, plant and equipment at 31 December 2019 was € 63 million (2018: € 63 million); accumulated depreciation amounted to € 51 million (2018: € 50 million). Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 231 www.dsm.com 4 Financial assets Subsidiaries Associates and JVs Other Receivables Total Share in Loans Share in Loans participating equity equity interests Balance at 1 January 2018 9,409 140 91 9,640 Changes: Share in profit 1,054 11 1,065 Charged to income statement (33) (33) Dividend received (198) (198) Capital payments 49 49 Net actuarial gains/(losses) (66) (66) Change in Fair value reserve 15 1 16 Change in Hedging reserve (38) (2) (40) Exchange differences 138 138 Disposals (144) (144) Others 44 (5) 36 (22) 53 Balance at 31 December 2018 10,407 37 36 10,480 Changes: Share in profit 800 800 Charged to income statement (9) (9) Dividend received (877) (877) Capital payments 254 254 Net actuarial gains/(losses) (16) (16) Change in Fair value reserve (19) (1) (20) Change in Hedging reserve 21 21 Exchange differences 129 129 Other (13) (2) (15) Balance at 31 December 2019 10,686 36 25 10,747 For movements in 'Associates and joint arrangements', see Note 10 to the 'Consolidated financial statements'. Disposals in 2018 relate to the divestment of DSM's share in DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals. 5 Deferred tax assets This item mainly relates to net operating losses in the Dutch fiscal unity. In 2019, a tax income of € 23 million (2018: tax income of € 14 million) was included and other movements (mainly settlements with group companies and utilization of net operating losses) of -€ 34 million (2018: -€ 63 million). Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 232 www.dsm.com Parent company financial statements Notes to the parent company financial statements 6 Receivables balance of the net profit of € 425 million (2018: € 412 million), dividend is first distributed on the cumulative preference shares B. At the end of 2019 no cumprefs B were in issue 2019 2018 (same as for 2018). Subsequently, a 3.26% (2018: 3.26%) dividend is distributed on the cumulative preference shares Receivables from subsidiaries 94 94 A, based on a share price of € 5.29 (2018: € 5.29) per Other receivables / deferred cumulative preference share A. For 2019, this distribution items 7 29 amounts to € 0.17 (2018: € 0.17) per share, which is € 8 million in total. An interim dividend of € 0.06 per cumulative Total 101 123 preference share A having been paid in August 2019, the final dividend will then amount to € 0.11 per cumulative preference share A. 7 Shareholders' equity The profit remaining after distribution of these dividends on the cumulative preference shares A of € 750 million (2018: € 1,069 million) will be put at the disposal of the Annual 2019 2018 General Meeting of Shareholders in accordance with the provisions of Article 32, section 5 of the Articles of Balance at 1 January 7,782 6,962 Association. Net profit 758 1,077 The Managing Board proposes a dividend on ordinary Exchange differences, net of shares outstanding for the year 2019 of € 2.40 (2018: € 2.30) income tax 125 144 per share. With an interim dividend of € 0.77 (2018: € 0.77) Net actuarial gains/(losses) on defined benefit obligations (15) (66) per ordinary share having been paid in August 2019, the final Dividend (414) (365) dividend would then amount to € 1.63 (2018: € 1.53) per Repurchase of shares (869) (236) ordinary share. Proceeds from reissue of ordinary shares 324 242 If the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders makes a Other changes 40 24 decision in accordance with the proposal, the net profit will be appropriated as follows: Balance at 31 December 7,731 7,782 Profit appropriation For details see the consolidated statement of changes in 2019 2018 Note 16 'Equity'. Net profit 758 1,077 Legal reserve In Shareholders' equity, an amount of € 162 million (2018: Profit appropriation: € 37 million) is included for Translation reserve, To be added to the reserves 333 665 -€ 122 million (2018: -€ 166 million) for Hedging reserve, Dividend on cumprefs A 8 8 € 5 million (2018: € 21 million) for Fair value reserve and Interim dividend on € 267 million (2018: € 253 million) for intangible assets ordinary shares 136 135 related to product development projects. In addition, a legal Final dividend reserve of € 116 million (2018: € 108 million) is recognized for distributable on ordinary profits that cannot be distributed and received in the shares 281 269 Netherlands. Profit appropriation According to article 32 of the Articles of Association of Koninklijke DSM N.V. and with the approval of the Supervisory Board, every year the Managing Board determines the portion of the net profit to be appropriated to the reserves. For the year 2019, the net profit is € 758 million (2018: € 1,077 million) and the amount to be appropriated to the reserves has been established at € 333 million (2018: € 665 million). From the subsequent Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 233 www.dsm.com 8 Borrowings 9 Other current liabilities 2019 2018 2019 2018 Total Of which Total Of which current current Liabilities to subsidiaries 1,333 732 Other liabilities 45 61 Debenture loans 2,244 2,543 300 Total 1,378 793 Total 2,244 2,543 300 10 Contingent liabilities At 31 December 2019, there were four debenture loans (€ 2,244 million, maturing in 2022 and from 2024 through Guarantee obligations on behalf of affiliated companies 2026). and third parties amounted to € 502 million (31 December 2018: € 462 million). Koninklijke DSM N.V. has declared in The repayment schedule for borrowings (excluding writing that it accepts several liabilities for debts arising commercial paper) is as follows: from acts in law of a number of consolidated companies (including relating to the fiscal unity for income tax and Borrowings by maturity VAT). These debts are included in the consolidated balance sheet. 2019 2018 11 Personnel 2019 300 2020 The average number of employees working for Koninklijke 2021 DSM N.V. in 2019 was 330 (2018: 350), all of whom are based 2022 and 2023 499 500 in the Netherlands. 2024 through 2026 1,745 1,743 Total 2,244 2,543 12 Financial income and expense Financial expense of € 79 million (2018: net € 76 million) In agreements governing loans with a residual amount at mainly consists of the interest costs on bonds issued and year-end 2019 of € 2,244 million (31 December 2018: the counterpart of the net investment hedge. See also Note € 2,543 million, of which € 300 million was of a current 19 and Note 23 to the 'Consolidated financial statements'. nature), clauses have been included which restrict the provision of security. More information on borrowings is provided in Note 19 to the 'Consolidated financial statements'. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 234 www.dsm.com Parent company financial statements Notes to the parent company financial statements 13 Remuneration of Managing Board and Supervisory Board Disclosure of the total board remuneration is based on section 383 book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. Furthermore, the members of the Executive Committee (which includes the Managing Board) and the Supervisory Board meet the definition of key management personnel as defined in IAS 24 ‘Related Parties’. IAS 24 requires disclosure of the total of short-term employee benefits (salary and short-term incentive), post-employment (pension expenditure) and other long-term benefits (none), termination benefits and share based payment cost (Share-based compensation), which are reported in the table below: Key management personnel compensation and total board remuneration x € thousand 2019 2018 Salary 4,695 4,215 Short-term incentive 2,565 3,387 Pension Expenditure 982 869 Share-based compensation 6,494 4,799 Supervisory Board remuneration 826 696 Other1 2,022 1,393 Total key management personnel compensation 17,584 15,359 Of which: Managing Board remuneration 7,705 7,836 1 Includes € 1,265,000 (2018: € 727,000), subject to article 32bb of the Dutch Wage Tax Act, being in fact a penalty to the company due to vesting of already granted share units in previous years. Heerlen, 26 February 2020 Heerlen, 26 February 2020 Managing Board, Supervisory Board, Geraldine Matchett, Co-CEO Rob Routs, Chair Dimitri de Vreeze, Co-CEO Pauline van der Meer Mohr, Deputy Chair Victoria Haynes Eileen Kennedy Erica Mann Frits van Paasschen Pradeep Pant John Ramsay Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 235 www.dsm.com Other information Independent auditor's report regulations in the Netherlands. Furthermore, we have complied with the 'Verordening gedragsen beroepsregels To: the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders and the accountants' (VGBA, Dutch Code of Ethics). Supervisory Board of Koninklijke DSM N.V. We believe the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient Report on the audit of the financial statements 2019 and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. included in the Integrated Annual Report Our opinion Audit approach In our opinion: Summary the accompanying consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of Koninklijke DSM N.V. (hereafter: Royal DSM) as at Materiality 31 December 2019 and of its result and its cash flows for • Materiality of € 45 million • 4.6% of profit before tax, excluding APM the year then ended, in accordance with International adjustments as identified by management of Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the Royal DSM European Union (EU-IFRS) and with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code Group audit • Audit at (business) group and local entity level the accompanying parent company financial statements resulting in a coverage of 73% of total net sales give a true and fair view of the financial position of Royal and 76% of total assets DSM as at 31 December 2019 and of its result for the year then ended in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Key audit matters Dutch Civil Code • Valuation of goodwill • Accounting for acquisitions of subsidiaries What we have audited Opinion We have audited the financial statements 2019 of Royal DSM • Unqualified based in Heerlen. The financial statements include the consolidated financial statements and the parent company financial statements. Materiality Based on our professional judgement we determined the The consolidated financial statements comprise: materiality for the financial statements as a whole at 1. the consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2019 € 45 million (2018: € 40 million). The materiality is 2. the following consolidated statements for 2019: the determined with reference to profit before tax, excluding income statement, the statements of comprehensive APM adjustments as identified by management of Royal income, changes in equity and cash flows DSM, resulting in a percentage of 4.6% (2018: 3.2%). In 3. the notes comprising a summary of the significant addition, the appropriateness of the materiality was accounting policies and other explanatory information assessed by comparing the amount to consolidated net sales of which it represents 0.5% (2018: 0.4%). We have also The parent company financial statements comprise: taken into account misstatements and/or possible 1. the parent company balance sheet as at 31 December misstatements that in our opinion are material for the users 2019 of the financial statements for qualitative reasons. 2. the parent company income statement for 2019 3. the notes comprising a summary of the accounting We agreed with the Supervisory Board that misstatements policies and other explanatory information in excess of € 2 million (2018: € 1.5 million) which are identified during the audit, would be reported to them, as Basis for our opinion well as smaller misstatements that in our view must be We conducted our audit in accordance with Dutch law, reported on qualitative grounds. including the Dutch Standards on Auditing. Our responsibilities under those standards are further Scope of the group audit described in the 'Our responsibilities for the audit of the Royal DSM is at the head of a group of reporting entities financial statements' section of our report. (hereafter: entities). The financial information of this group is included in the financial statements of Royal DSM. We are independent of Royal DSM in accordance with the 'Verordening inzake de onafhankelijkheid van accountants Because we are ultimately responsible for the auditor's bij assurance-opdrachten' (ViO, Code of Ethics for report, we are also responsible for directing, supervising Professional Accountants, a regulation with respect to and performing the group audit. In this respect we have independence) and other relevant independence determined the nature and extent of the audit procedures Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 236 www.dsm.com Other information Independent auditor's report to be carried out for entities reporting for group audit (2018: € 5 million to € 12.5 million), based on the mix of size purposes. Decisive were the size and/or the risk profile of and risk profile of the entities within the group. the entities or operations. On this basis, we selected 22 entities (2018: 22 entities) to perform audits for group The group audit team provided detailed instructions to all reporting purposes on a complete set of financial business group and local entity auditors part of the group information. In addition, we selected 14 entities (2018: 17 audit, covering the significant audit areas, including the entities) to perform specified audit procedures for group relevant risks of material misstatement, and the reporting purposes on specific items of financial information required to be reported back to the group audit information. team. The group audit team visited local entity auditors and entity locations in the United States of America, Switzerland, This resulted in a coverage of 73% (2018: 73%) of total net China, United Kingdom and the shared service center in sales and 76% (2018: 80%) of total assets. The remaining 27% India. of total net sales (2018: 27%) and 24% of total assets (2018: 20%) is represented by a significant number of entities Telephone conferences were held with all local entity ('remaining entities'), none of which individually represents auditors part of the group audit. During these visits and more than 2% of total net sales and 2% of total assets. telephone conferences, we discussed the audit approach and the audit findings and observations reported to the For these remaining entities, we performed among others group audit team. For a number of these entities we also analytical procedures at (business) group level to validate performed audit file reviews. our assessment that there are no risks of material misstatement within these entities. By performing the procedures mentioned above, together with additional procedures at (business) group level, we Our procedures as described above can be summarized as have been able to obtain sufficient and appropriate audit follows: evidence about the group's financial information to provide an opinion about the financial statements. Total assets Audit scope in relation to fraud 65% 11% 24% In accordance with the Dutch standards on auditing we are Full scope Specified Central procedures responsible for obtaining a high (but not absolute) level audits audit procedures remaining of assurance that the financial statements taken as a whole entities are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. Total net sales As part of our risk assessment process we have evaluated 54% 19% 27% events or conditions that indicate an incentive or pressure Full scope Specified Central procedures to commit fraud or provide an opportunity to commit fraud audits audit procedures remaining ('fraud risk factors') to determine whether fraud risks are entities relevant to our audit. During this risk assessment we made use of our own forensic specialist. We have: We communicated identified fraud risks within our team performed audit procedures ourselves at (business) and remained alert to any indications of fraud throughout group level in respect of areas such as the annual the audit. This included communication from the group to goodwill impairment tests, other asset impairment local entity audit teams of relevant fraud risks identified at assessments, accounting for associates and joint group level. ventures including acquisitions and divestments, valuation of deferred tax assets, acquisitions of In accordance with the auditing standard we evaluated subsidiaries, restructuring provisions, treasury and the fraud risks that are relevant to our audit: shared service centers used the work of local KPMG auditors when auditing fraud risk in relation to revenue recognition, specifically financial information or performing specified audit being the risk of manual override with respect to the cutprocedures at business group and local entity level off of revenue in the period close to the financial yearend (the presumed risk) The group audit team has set materiality levels for the fraud risk in relation to management override of controls entities, which ranged from € 5 million to € 12.5 million to meet targets and/or expectations (the presumed risk) Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 237 www.dsm.com Our audit procedures included an evaluation of the design The potential effect of these laws and regulations on the and implementation of internal controls relevant to financial statements varies considerably: mitigate these fraud risks and supplementary substantive audit procedures. This included inquiries of management, Firstly, Royal DSM is subject to laws and regulations that detailed testing of high risk journal entries and an directly affect the financial statements, in particular evaluation of key estimates and judgment by management, corporate income taxation and financial reporting such as estimates relating to goodwill impairment testing (including related Company legislation). We assessed and accounting for the acquisition of subsidiaries. the extent of compliance with these laws and regulations Furthermore, in relation to the correct recognition of as part of our procedures on the related financial revenues for the period close to the financial year-end, we statement items carried out inspection and testing of documentation such Secondly, Royal DSM is subject to many other laws and as agreements with customers and shipping documents. regulations where the consequences of non-compliance could have an indirect material effect on amounts In determining the audit procedures we made use of the recognized or disclosures provided in the financial evaluation of management of Royal DSM in relation to fraud statements, or both, for instance through the imposition risk management (prevention, detection and response), of fines or litigation including the set-up of ethical standards to create a culture of honesty. Based on Royal DSM's nature of operations and their geographical spread, the areas that we identified as those As part of our evaluation of any instances of fraud, we most likely having such an indirect effect include laws and inspected the incident register/whistle blowing reports and regulations regarding employment, health and safety, follow up by management. products, environmental and anti-competition. We communicated our risk assessment and audit response Auditing standards limit the required audit procedures to to the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board. Our audit identify non-compliance with laws and regulations that procedures differ from a specific forensic fraud have an indirect effect to inquiring of relevant management investigation, which investigation often has a more in-depth and inspection of regulatory and legal correspondence, if character. any. Through these procedures, we did not identify any additional actual or suspected non-compliance other than Our audit is based on the procedures described in line with those already identified by Royal DSM in each of the above applicable auditing standards and are not primarily areas. We considered the effect of actual or suspected nondesigned to detect fraud. compliance as part of our procedures with respect to provisions and disclosures of contingent liabilities. Audit scope in relation to non-compliance with laws and regulations Our audit is not primarily designed to detect noncompliance with laws and regulations and note that We have made an assessment of laws and regulations that management is responsible for such internal control as are relevant to Royal DSM. In this assessment we made use management determines is necessary to enable the of our own forensic specialist. preparation of the financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, We identified laws and regulations that could reasonably be including compliance with laws and regulations. expected to have a material effect on the financial statements based on our general understanding and sector The more non-compliance with indirect laws and experience, through discussion with relevant management regulations (irregularities) is distant from the events and and evaluating Royal DSM's policies and procedures transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less regarding compliance with laws and regulations. likely the inherently limited procedures required by auditing standards would identify such instances. In We communicated identified laws and regulations within addition, as with any audit, there remained a higher risk our team and remained alert to any indications of nonof non-detection of irregularities, as these may involve compliance throughout the audit. This included collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, communication from the group audit team to local entity misrepresentations, or the override of internal controls. audit teams of relevant laws and regulations identified at group level. Our key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 238 www.dsm.com Other information Independent auditor's report financial statements. We have communicated the key audit We consider management's key assumptions and estimates matters to the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board. to be within the acceptable range and we assessed the The key audit matters are not a comprehensive reflection disclosure (Note 8) to the financial statements as being of all matters discussed. proportionate. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit Accounting for acquisitions of subsidiaries of the financial statements as a whole and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion Description on these matters. During 2019, Royal DSM closed multiple acquisitions of Compared to last year we have added as a key audit matter subsidiaries, of which Andre Pectin was the most significant the accounting for acquisitions of subsidiaries as the acquisition. The acquisitions involved a total consideration acquisitions closed in 2019 on an accumulated basis are of EUR 585 million. These acquisitions had an aggregated significant for the financial statements. Last year's key audit impact on Goodwill and Intangible assets of EUR 338 million matter about the divestment of DSM Sinochem and EUR 125 million respectively. The acquisitions were Pharmaceuticals is not included anymore in 2019, given significant to our audit due to the complexity of purchase the one-off nature of the divestment. price accounting and related judgments and assumptions such as the fair values of assets and liabilities acquired. Valuation of goodwill Our response Description We inspected the agreements and other documents Royal DSM carries a significant amount of goodwill in the underlying the acquisitions to gain an understanding of balance sheet. In accordance with the group's accounting the contractual terms and conditions to assess the policies Royal DSM is required to test the amount of consideration and the acquired identifiable assets and goodwill for impairment at least annually. The impairment liabilities. We obtained the reports from the external tests were significant to our audit due to the complexity of valuation experts engaged by Royal DSM to assist the assessment process and judgments and assumptions management with the purchase price accounting and the involved which are affected by expected future market and identification of identifiable assets and liabilities in the economic developments. respective business combinations. We involved a valuation specialist ourselves to evaluate management's valuation Our response methodologies, and assumptions used such as growth rates and discount rates to arrive at the fair value of assets and We evaluated the design and implementation of controls liabilities recognised in the purchase price allocation. Our with respect to Royal DSM's impairment testing process. We assessment of key assumptions used by management challenged the cash flow projections included in the annual included a comparison with available external data. We also goodwill impairment tests. Our audit procedures included, evaluated the adequacy of the disclosure (Note 3) of the among others, the involvement of a valuation specialist to acquisitions in the financial statements. assist us in evaluating the assumptions, in particular the terminal growth and pre-tax discount rates, and the Our observation valuation methodology used by Royal DSM. We furthermore assessed the appropriateness of other data used, by We consider that the acquisitions are appropriately comparing them to external and historical data, such as reflected in the financial statements. Management's key external market growth expectations and by analysing assumptions and estimates are within the acceptable range sensitivities in Royal DSM's valuation model. We specifically and we assessed the disclosure (Note 3) to the financial focused on the sensitivity in the available headroom for statements as being proportionate. the cash generating units. By doing so, we assessed management's evaluation whether a reasonably possible Report on the other information included in the Integrated change in key assumptions could cause the carrying Annual Report amount to exceed its recoverable amount. Furthermore, we assessed the historical accuracy of management's In addition to the financial statements and our auditor's estimates. Finally, we assessed the adequacy of the report thereon, the Integrated Annual Report contains other disclosure (Note 8) to the financial statements. information. Our observation Based on the following procedures performed, we conclude that the other information: Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 239 www.dsm.com is consistent with the financial statements and does not that may cast significant doubt on the Royal DSM's ability to contain material misstatements continue as a going concern in the financial statements. contains the information as required by Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. The Supervisory Board is responsible for overseeing Royal DSM's financial reporting process. We have read the other information. Based on our knowledge and understanding obtained through our audit Our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements of the financial statements or otherwise, we have Our objective is to plan and perform the audit engagement considered whether the other information contains in a manner that allows us to obtain sufficient and material misstatements. appropriate audit evidence for our opinion. By performing these procedures, we comply with the Our audit has been performed with a high, but not absolute, requirements of Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code and level of assurance, which means we may not detect all the Dutch Standard 720. The scope of the procedures material errors and fraud during our audit. performed is substantially less than the scope of those performed in our audit of the financial statements. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they The Managing Board is responsible for the preparation of could reasonably be expected to influence the economic the other information, including the information as decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial required by Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. statements. The materiality affects the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and the evaluation of the Report on other legal and regulatory requirements effect of identified misstatements on our opinion. Engagement We were engaged by the Annual General Meeting of A further description of our responsibilities for the audit Shareholders as auditor of Royal DSM on 7 May 2014, as of of the financial statements is included in the appendix to the audit for the year 2015 and have operated as statutory this auditor's report. This description forms part of our auditor ever since that financial year. auditor's report. No prohibited non-audit services Amstelveen, 26 February 2020 We have not provided prohibited non-audit services as referred to in Article 5(1) of the EU Regulation on specific KPMG Accountants N.V. requirements regarding statutory audits of public-interest entities. E.H.W. Weusten RA Description of responsibilities regarding the financial statements Responsibilities of the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board for the financial statements The Managing Board is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in accordance with EU-IFRS and Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. Furthermore, the Managing Board is responsible for such internal control as the Managing Board determines is necessary to enable the preparation of the financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. As part of the preparation of the financial statements, the Managing Board is responsible for assessing Royal DSM's ability to continue as a going concern. Based on the financial reporting frameworks mentioned, the Managing Board should prepare the financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Managing Board either intends to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. The Managing Board should disclose events and circumstances Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 240 www.dsm.com Other information Independent auditor's report Appendix: Description of our responsibilities for the audit We communicate with the Supervisory Board regarding, of the financial statements among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any We have exercised professional judgement and have significant findings in internal control that we identify maintained professional scepticism throughout the audit, during our audit. In this respect we also submit an in accordance with Dutch Standards on Auditing, ethical additional report to the Supervisory Board in accordance requirements and independence requirements. Our audit with Article 11 of the EU Regulation on specific requirements included among others: regarding statutory audits of public-interest entities. The identifying and assessing the risks of material information included in this additional report is consistent misstatement of the financial statements, whether due with our audit opinion in this auditor's report. to fraud or error, designing and performing audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtaining We provide the Supervisory Board with a statement that we audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting independence, and to communicate with them all a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher relationships and other matters that may reasonably be than the risk resulting from error, as fraud may involve thought to bear on our independence, and where collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, applicable, related safeguards. misrepresentations, or the override of internal control obtaining an understanding of internal control relevant From the matters communicated with the Supervisory to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are Board, we determine the key audit matters: those matters appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the that were of most significance in the audit of the financial purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness statements. We describe these matters in our auditor's of Royal DSM's internal control report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates not communicating the matter is in the public interest. and related disclosures made by the Managing Board concluding on the appropriateness of the Managing Board's use of the going concern basis of accounting, and based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on Royal DSM's ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor's report to the related disclosures in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor's report. However, future events or conditions may cause a Company to cease to continue as a going concern evaluating the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, including the disclosures evaluating whether the financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation We are solely responsible for the opinion and therefore responsible to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within the group to express an opinion on the financial statements. In this respect we are also responsible for directing, supervising and performing the group audit. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 241 www.dsm.com Assurance report of the independent Applicable criteria auditor The Sustainability Information needs to be read and To: the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders and the understood together with the reporting criteria. Royal DSM Supervisory Board of Koninklijke DSM N.V. is solely responsible for selecting and applying these reporting criteria, taking into account applicable law and Report on the audit of the sustainability information 2019 regulations related to reporting. included in the Integrated Annual Report The reporting criteria used for the preparation of the Our opinion Sustainability Information are the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards and Royal DSM's internally developed We have audited the sustainability information in the supplemental reporting criteria as disclosed in the section sections 'Introduction letter', 'DSM and the Sustainable 'Non-financial reporting policy' on page 104 of the Development Goals', 'Report by the Managing Board', Integrated Annual Report. consisting of the chapters Purpose, Strategy 2021, How we create value for our stakeholders, Stakeholders, People, The GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards are the most Planet, and the 'Sustainability Statements', as included in widely adopted global standards for sustainability reporting the Integrated Annual Report for the year 2019 (hereafter and are used by Royal DSM for reporting publicly on its the 'Sustainability Information') of Koninklijke DSM N.V. economic, environmental and social sustainability (hereafter 'Royal DSM'), based in Heerlen, Netherlands. indicators. In our opinion, the Sustainability Information is prepared, Scope of the group audit in all material respects, in accordance with the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards and Royal DSM's Royal DSM is the parent company of a group of reporting internally developed supplemental reporting criteria as entities (hereafter: 'entities'). The Sustainability Information disclosed in the section 'Non-financial reporting policy' on incorporates the consolidated information of this group of page 104 of the Integrated Annual Report. entities. Basis for our opinion Our group audit procedures consisted of audit procedures at corporate, business group and at local entity level. Our We performed our audit on the Sustainability Information selection of entities in scope of our assurance procedures in accordance with Dutch law, including Dutch Standard is primarily based on the local entity's individual 3810N 'Assurance-opdrachten inzake maatschappelijke contribution to the consolidated Sustainability Information. verslagen' (Assurance engagements relating to Furthermore, our selection of entities considered relevant sustainability reports), which is a specified Dutch standard reporting risks and geographical spread. that is based on the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 'Assurance Engagements Other By performing our procedures at corporate, business group than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information'. and local entity level, we have been able to obtain sufficient This engagement is aimed to obtain reasonable assurance. and appropriate assurance evidence about Royal DSM's Our responsibilities in this regard are further described in reported Sustainability Information to provide an opinion the 'Our responsibilities for the audit of the Sustainability about the Sustainability Information. Information' section of our report. Our key assurance matter We are independent of Royal DSM in accordance with the 'Verordening inzake de onafhankelijkheid van accountants Key assurance matters of our audit are those matters that, bij assurance-opdrachten' (ViO, Code of Ethics for in our professional judgment, were of most significance in Professional Accountants, a regulation with respect to our audit of the Sustainability Information. We have independence). Furthermore, we have complied with the communicated the key assurance matter to the Managing 'Verordening gedragsen beroepsregels accountants' Board and the Supervisory Board. The key assurance matter (VGBA, Dutch Code of Ethics). is not a comprehensive reflection of all matters discussed. We believe the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and This assurance matter was addressed in the context of our appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. audit of the Sustainability Information as a whole, and we do not provide a separate opinion on this matter. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 242 www.dsm.com Other information Assurance report of the independent auditor The sustainability indicator on DSM's solutions labelled as Responsibilities of the Managing Board and the Brighter Living Solutions was determined to be a key Supervisory Board for the Sustainability Information assurance matter as the assessment is inherently subject to assumptions and management judgement, whereas the The Managing Board of Royal DSM is responsible for the determination of other important sustainability indicators preparation of the Sustainability Information in accordance on Safety, Health and Environment and Human Resources with the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards and Royal do require such judgement to a lesser extent. DSM's internally developed supplemental reporting criteria as disclosed in the section 'Non-financial reporting policy' Brighter Living Solutions on page 104 of the Integrated Annual Report, including the identification of stakeholders and the definition of material Description matters. The choices made by the Managing Board regarding the scope of the Sustainability Information and the Royal DSM reports on Brighter Living Solutions ( BLS ) which reporting policy are summarized in the section 'Nonare products and services that have specific environmental financial reporting policy' of the Integrated Annual Report. or social benefits compared to mainstream reference solutions. The KPI is defined as net sales from BLS as a Furthermore, the Managing Board is responsible for such percentage of total net sales of Royal DSM. BLS was internal control as it determines is necessary to enable significant to our audit since we identified that it serves as the preparation of the Sustainability Information that is free a material indicator for Royal DSM to report on the from material misstatements, whether due to fraud or error. environmental and social impact of its solutions and because the assessment of solutions to qualify as BLS is The Supervisory Board is, among other things, responsible inherently subject to assumptions and judgement. for overseeing Royal DSM's sustainability reporting process. Our response Our responsibilities for the audit of the Sustainability Information We evaluated the reporting process, internal controls and the applicable definitions and criteria. We interviewed Royal Our responsibility is to plan and perform our assurance DSM's staff members to understand the application of these engagement in a manner that allows us to obtain sufficient definitions and criteria and we challenged the underlying and appropriate assurance evidence for our opinion. evidence, such as the life cycle assessments and expert opinions for solutions classified as BLS and assessed the Our audit has been performed with a high, but not absolute, calculation of the BLS percentage. Finally, we assessed level of assurance, which means we may not have detected whether the criteria, assumptions and definitions are all material misstatements due to fraud or error. sufficiently explained in the Integrated Annual Report and on the website of Royal DSM. Misstatements can arise from fraud or errors and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they Our observation could reasonably be expected to influence the decisions of users taken on the basis of the Sustainability We consider that the definitions and criteria for BLS as Information. The materiality affects the nature, timing and described in Royal DSM's internally developed extent of our audit procedures and the evaluation of the supplemental reporting criteria on page 105 are applied and effect of identified misstatements on our opinion. that the assumptions are adequately explained. We also consider the disclosure on BLS as being proportionate. We apply the 'Nadere Voorschriften Kwaliteitssystemen' (Regulations on Quality management systems) and Limitations to the scope of our audit accordingly maintain a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures The Sustainability Information includes prospective regarding compliance with ethical requirements, information such as ambitions, strategy, plans, expectations professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory and estimates. Inherently the actual future results are requirements. uncertain. We do not provide any assurance on the assumptions and achievability of prospective information We have exercised professional judgement and have included in the aforementioned sections of Royal DSM's maintained professional skepticism throughout the audit, Integrated Annual Report. in accordance with the Dutch Standard 3810N, ethical requirements and independence requirements. Our audit engagement included among others: Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 243 www.dsm.com Performing an analysis of the external environment and Reconciling the relevant financial information with the obtaining an understanding of relevant social themes financial statements and issues, and the characteristics of Royal DSM Evaluating the consistency of the Sustainability Evaluating the appropriateness of the reporting criteria Information with the information in the Integrated used, their consistent application and related Annual Report which is not included in the scope of our disclosures in the Sustainability Information. This audit includes the evaluation of the results of the Evaluating the overall presentation, structure and stakeholders' dialogue and the reasonableness of content of the Sustainability Information estimates made by management of Royal DSM To consider whether the Sustainability Information as a Obtaining an understanding of the systems and whole, including the disclosures, reflects the purpose processes for collecting, reporting and consolidating of the reporting criteria used the Sustainability Information, including obtaining an understanding of internal control relevant to our audit, We communicate with the Supervisory Board regarding, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the effectiveness of Royal DSM's internal control the audit and significant findings, including any significant Evaluating the procedures performed by the internal findings in internal control that we identify during our audit. audit department Identifying and assessing the risks if the Sustainability Amstelveen, 26 February 2020 Information is misleading or unbalanced, or contains material misstatements, whether due to errors or fraud. KPMG Accountants N.V. Designing and performing further audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtaining audit evidence E.H.W. Weusten RA that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk that the Sustainability Information is misleading or unbalanced, or the risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from errors. Fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. These further procedures include among others: Interviewing management and relevant staff of Royal DSM at corporate, business group and local entity level responsible for the sustainability strategy, policy and results Interviewing relevant staff of Royal DSM responsible for providing the information for, carrying out internal control procedures on, and consolidating the data in the Sustainability Information; Determining the nature and extent of the audit procedures at corporate, business group and local entity level. For this, the nature, extent and/or risk profile of these local entities are decisive. Based thereon we selected the local entities to visit. The visits and remote reviews to eight production sites in six countries were aimed at, on a local level, validating source data and evaluating the design, implementation and operation of controls and validation procedures Obtaining assurance information that the Sustainability Information reconciles with underlying records of Royal DSM Evaluating relevant internal and external documentation, on a test basis, to determine the reliability of the information in the Sustainability Information Performing an analytical review of the data and trends Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 244 www.dsm.com Other information Special statutory rights Special statutory rights Important dates DSM Preference Shares Foundation The DSM Preference Shares Foundation was established in Annual General Meeting of Shareholders 1989. The Annual General Meeting of Shareholders is to be held at the DSM head office in Heerlen (Netherlands) on Friday, 8 May By virtue of DSM's Articles of Association, 375,000,000 2020 at 14:00 hours CET. cumulative preference shares B can be issued. The listing prospectus of 1989 stated that if, without the approval of Important dates the Managing Board and Supervisory Board, either a bid is Publication of first-quarter made for the ordinary shares or a significant participation results Thursday, 7 May 2020 in ordinary shares is built up, or such an event is likely to Ex-dividend quotation Tuesday, 12 May 2020 occur, then these preference shares B may be issued, which Publication of second-quarter shall have the same voting rights as the ordinary shares. results Tuesday, 4 August 2020 Publication of third-quarter Under an agreement entered into in 1999, and subsequently results Tuesday, 3 November 2020 amended, between the DSM Preference Shares Foundation and DSM, the Foundation has the right to acquire such preference shares (call option) to a maximum corresponding to 100% of the capital issued in any form other than preference shares B, less one. The objective of the Foundation is to promote the interest of DSM, and the enterprise maintained by DSM and all parties connected therewith, whereby influences that would threaten the continuity, independence or identity, contrary to the aforementioned interests, are resisted to the maximum extent possible. The purpose of the agreement with the Foundation is, among other things, for the Foundation to allow DSM the opportunity to determine its position, for example with regard to a possible bidder for DSM shares or a party or parties tempting to obtain (de facto) control, to examine any plans in detail and, to the extent applicable, to look for (better) alternatives. Preference shares B will not be outstanding longer than necessary. As soon as there are no longer any reasons for the preference shares B to remain outstanding, the Managing Board will convene a General Meeting of Shareholders and recommend the cancellation of the preference shares B that are still outstanding. The Foundation acquired no preference shares B in 2019. The DSM Preference Shares Foundation is an independent legal entity within the meaning of article 5:71, first paragraph, under c of the Dutch Act on Financial Supervision (Wet op het financieel toezicht). On 31 December 2019, the board of the Foundation was composed as follows: Gerard Kleisterlee, Chair Cees Maas, Deputy Chair Bas Kortmann Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 245 www.dsm.com DSM figures: five-year summary Balance sheet x € million 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Assets Intangible assets 3,515 3,090 3,058 3,188 3,228 Property, plant and equipment 4,040 3,511 3,313 3,325 3,171 Deferred tax assets 217 248 281 355 366 Share in associates and joint ventures 155 205 227 586 644 Financial derivatives 27 14 16 32 Other financial assets 265 263 475 463 419 Non-current assets 8,219 7,331 7,370 7,917 7,860 Inventories 2,019 1,993 1,848 1,800 1,627 Current receivables 1,698 1,738 1,690 1,653 1,556 Financial derivatives 19 21 41 40 15 Current investments 688 1,277 954 944 9 Cash and cash equivalents 800 1,281 899 604 665 5,224 6,310 5,432 5,041 3,872 Assets held for sale 11 Current assets 5,224 6,310 5,432 5,041 3,883 Total assets 13,443 13,641 12,802 12,958 11,743 Equity and liabilities Shareholders' equity 7,731 7,782 6,962 6,072 5,541 Non-controlling interests 104 33 103 108 90 Equity 7,835 7,815 7,065 6,180 5,631 Deferred tax liabilities 296 254 259 278 319 Employee benefit liabilities 413 413 356 490 496 Provisions 120 116 151 128 98 Borrowings 2,464 2,272 2,551 2,552 2,557 Financial derivatives 7 3 4 14 182 Other non-current liabilities 145 197 188 158 228 Non-current liabilities 3,445 3,255 3,509 3,620 3,880 Employee benefit liabilities 43 46 39 40 44 Provisions 48 37 53 54 41 Borrowings 189 380 77 853 253 Financial derivatives 18 51 20 239 50 Current liabilities 1,865 2,057 2,039 1,972 1,842 2,163 2,571 2,228 3,158 2,230 Liabilities held for sale 2 Current liabilities 2,163 2,571 2,228 3,158 2,232 Total equity and liabilities 13,443 13,641 12,802 12,958 11,743 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 246 www.dsm.com DSM figures: five-year summary Income statement x € million 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Net sales underlying business1 9,010 8,852 8,632 7,920 7,722 Net sales 9,010 9,267 8,632 7,920 8,935 Adjusted EBITDA underlying business1 1,684 1,532 1,445 1,262 1,075 Adjusted EBITDA2 1,684 1,822 1,445 1,262 1,170 EBITDA 1,586 1,754 1,348 1,146 1,046 Adjusted operating profit (EBIT) underlying business1 1,075 1,055 957 791 573 Adjusted operating profit (EBIT)2 1,075 1,345 957 791 650 Operating profit (EBIT) 954 1,245 846 657 304 Financial income and expense (92) (101) (104) (133) (174) Income tax expense (152) (194) (115) (89) (68) Share of the profit of associates and joint ventures 54 129 1,154 194 30 Profit for the year 764 1,079 1,781 629 92 Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 6 2 12 8 4 Net profit attributable to equity holders of Koninklijke DSM N.V. 758 1,077 1,769 621 88 Dividend on cumulative preference shares (8) (8) (8) (4) (10) Net profit available to holders of ordinary shares 750 1,069 1,761 617 78 Key figures and financial ratios Capital employed 9,311 8,181 7,766 7,889 7,553 Capital expenditure: Intangible assets and Property, plant and equipment 623 653 586 485 570 Acquisitions 585 50 264 16 106 Disposals 44 335 1,546 87 307 Depreciation, amortization and impairments 632 509 502 489 742 Net debt (1,144) (113) (742) (2,070) (2,321) Dividend 425 412 331 310 297 Workforce at 31 December, headcount 22,174 20,977 21,054 20,786 20,796 Employee benefit costs (x € million) 1,811 1,753 1,768 1,752 1,778 Financial ratios2 ROCE in % underlying business1 12.0 13.3 12.3 10.4 7.6 ROCE in % 12.0 16.8 12.3 10.4 8.2 Net sales underlying business / average capital employed1 1.01 1.11 1.11 1.04 1.03 Current assets / current liabilities 2.42 2.45 2.44 1.58 1.62 Equity / total assets 0.58 0.57 0.55 0.48 0.48 Gearing (net debt / equity plus net debt) 0.13 0.01 0.10 0.25 0.29 Adjusted EBIT underlying business / net sales in % underlying business1 11.9 11.9 11.1 10.0 7.4 Net profit / average Shareholders' equity available to holders of ordinary shares in % 10.0 24.7 28.0 11.1 1.4 Adjusted EBITDA underlying business / Financial income and expense1 18.3 15.2 13.9 9.5 7.2 1 Continuing operations, excluding temporary vitamin effect 2018, see table in 'Key business figures at a glance' on page 65. 2 In presenting and discussing DSM's financial position, operating results and cash flows, DSM uses certain Alternative performance measures (APMs) not defined by IFRS. These APMs are used because they are an important measure of DSM's business development and DSM's management performance. A full reconciliation of IFRS performance measures to the APMs is given in the 'Alternative performance measures' on page 178. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 247 www.dsm.com Information about ordinary DSM shares per ordinary share in € 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Adjusted Net profit 4.64 5.84 3.92 2.90 2.14 Net profit 4.27 6.10 10.07 3.52 0.45 Operating cash flow 7.84 7.89 5.65 5.79 3.93 Dividend: 2.40 2.30 1.85 1.75 1.65 Interim dividend 0.77 0.77 0.58 0.55 0.55 Final dividend 1.63 1.53 1.27 1.20 1.10 Pay-out including dividend on cumulative preference shares as % of Adjusted net profit 52 40 48 61 71 Dividend yield (dividend as % of average price of an ordinary DSM share) 2.3 2.7 2.8 3.3 3.5 Share prices on Euronext Amsterdam (closing price): Highest price 117.90 92.98 81.66 64.18 55.11 Lowest price 69.54 68.98 57.20 41.40 39.62 At 31 December 116.10 71.44 79.67 56.96 46.28 (x 1,000) Number of ordinary shares outstanding: At 31 December 172,449 175,651 174,643 175,002 174,923 Average 175,731 175,323 174,795 175,100 174,357 Daily trading volumes on Euronext Amsterdam: Average 635 732 676 787 912 Lowest 75 130 238 152 130 Highest 2,242 2,617 2,110 2,554 4,506 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 248 www.dsm.com Explanation of some concepts and ratios PEOPLE Morgan's Law and Probability Theory — Independence). Brighter Living Solutions The actual overlap may be larger or smaller than calculated See below, Planet — Brighter Living Solutions. based on this assumption. Eubiotics Key assumptions are used to perform these calculations The general term 'Eubiotics', is related to the Greek term and include DSM's market share, total consumer markets, 'Eubiosis' and relates to feed ingredients that support an share of wallet and consumer consumption behavior. These optimal balance of microbiota in the gastrointestinal tract assumptions are made based on external market data of livestock animals. They promote efficient gut where available, supplemented with market and business performance so as to produce well-nourished animals that intelligence insights. get the most from their feed, while at the same time sustaining their health and welfare and protecting the For more information on Lives Reached, see the company environment. website. Frequency Index (FI) Occupational Health Case The Frequency Index is a way to measure safety This refers to any abnormal condition or disorder requiring performance. The number of accidents of a particular medical treatment — other than one resulting directly from category per 100 employees per year. an accident — caused by, or mainly caused by, repeated exposure to work-related factors. Inclusion Index The Inclusion Index is a subset of items in the Employee PSI rate Engagement (Pulse) Survey to specifically measure The PSI rate is the number of Process Safety Incidents per Inclusion. Inclusion is: A working environment where all 100 DSM employees and contractor employees in the past employees are a full and equal member of a team; 12 months: PSI rate = 100 * (number of PSIs (past 12 where diverse perspectives are valued, and investment is months) / average effective manpower including contractor made in their development; where people are respected employees (past 12 months)). and able to contribute as they are and not having to conform; where they can reach their potential, and where REC-rate DSM all they can speak up without fear of retribution. The REC-rate DSM all is the number of recordable injuries per 100 DSM employees and contractor employees in the LWC-rate DSM own past 12 months: REC-rate = 100 * (number of RECs (past 12 The Lost Workday Case (LWC)-rate DSM own is the number months) / average effective manpower including contractor of lost workday cases per 100 DSM employees in the past 12 employees (past 12 months)). months: LWC-rate = 100 * (number of LWCs (past 12 months) / average Safety, Health and Environment (SHE) effective manpower (past 12 months)). DSM's policy is to maintain business activities and produce products that do not adversely affect safety or health, and Lives Reached that fit with the concept of sustainable development. The Lives Reached is a measure of consumers already reached company does this by setting the following objectives: to through consumer products of third parties containing DSM provide an injury-free and incident-free workplace; to products and solutions. This measure addresses key endprevent all work-related disabilities or health problems; to markets representing more than 25% of DSM's total sales. control and minimize the risks associated with DSM's These end-markets cover our business segments — products for their whole life cycle and to choose production Nutrition, Materials and Innovation Center. The increase to processes and products such that the use of raw materials ‘more than 2.5 billion people’ is due to the inclusion of and energy is minimized; to evaluate and improve DSM's additional cases in the Lives Reached scope. practices, processes and products continuously in order to make them safe and acceptable to its employees, the The number of Lives Reached is calculated for each market customers, the public and the environment. separately and then aggregated. As a business-to-business company, our products reach end-consumers via third United Nations Global Compact parties, so calculations per market are performed at global A strategic policy initiative for businesses that are level. Consumer touch points are assumed to be unrelated, committed to aligning their operations and strategies with and overlap is eliminated using statistical methods (De Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 249 www.dsm.com ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human Circular economy rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. Circular economy refers to an economy that is restorative and in which materials flows are of two types: biological United Nations' Universal Declaration of Human Rights nutrients, designed to re-enter the biosphere safely, and On 10 December 1948, the General Assembly of the United technical nutrients, which are designed to circulate at high Nations adopted and proclaimed the Universal Declaration quality without entering the biosphere throughout their of Human Rights. Following this historic act, the Assembly entire lifecycle. called upon all Member countries to publicize the text of the Declaration and to cause it to be disseminated, CO2 displayed, read and expounded principally in schools and Carbon dioxide, a gas that naturally occurs in the other educational institutions, without distinction based on atmosphere. It is part of the natural carbon cycle through the political status of countries or territories. photosynthesis and respiration. It is also generated as a byproduct of combustion. Carbon dioxide is a greenhouse gas. PLANET Biofuel Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) A fuel which is derived from renewable organic resources, COD is an indicator of the degree of pollution of waste water as distinct from one which is derived from non-renewable by organic substances. resources such as crude oil and natural gas. Eco-efficiency Brighter Living Solutions Eco-efficiency is a concept (created in 1992 by the WBCSD) Brighter Living Solutions (BLS) are products and services that refers to the creation of more goods and services while that, when considered over the product life cycle, offer an using less resources and creating less waste and pollution environmental benefit (ECO+) and/or a social benefit throughout their entire life cycle. In the context of DSM's SHE (People+) compared to mainstream reference solutions. targets, eco-efficiency relates specifically to the reduction of emissions and energy and water consumption, relative to ECO+ qualifications are made based on comparative Eco Life the production volumes of DSM's plants. Cycle Assessment (LCA). DSM is using the standard approach to evaluate environmental footprint as published by the Energy WBCSD Chemical sector in 2014. Qualifications are also Primary energy is energy that has not yet been subjected to made based on documented expert opinion by business a human engineered conversion process. It is the energy managers or relevant internal experts based on identified contained in unprocessed fuels. mainstream reference solutions and identified environmental differentiators. Final (consumed) energy is the energy that is consumed by end-users. The difference between primary energy and final The People+ qualifications are made based on DSM People consumed energy is caused by the conversion process LCA method or expert opinions, similar as for ECO+. The between the two as well as any transmission losses. People LCA method helps to identify social impacts of products on the dimensions health, comfort and well-being, Essential for life working conditions, and community development. This Essential for life refers to products that have a proven methodology is developed by DSM based on internal beneficial nutritional or pharmaceutical effect when used standards and external stakeholder dialogues. at the officially recommended dose. More information and definitions can be found on the Greenhouse gas emissions (GHGE) company website. Scope 1: Direct GHG emissions Direct GHG emissions occur from sources that are owned or Carbon footprint controlled by the company (i.e., emissions from combustion The total set of direct and indirect greenhouse gas in owned or controlled boilers, furnaces, vehicles, etc.). emissions expressed as CO2eq. Scope 2: Indirect GHG emissions Carbon price Indirect GHG emissions relate to the generation of The price that is paid to emit one ton CO2eq into the purchased energy (i.e., electricity, heat or cooling) atmosphere. DSM implements an internal carbon price of consumed by the company. Purchased energy is defined as € 50/t CO2eq. energy that is purchased or otherwise brought into the organizational boundary of the company. Scope 2 emissions physically occur at the facility where the energy is generated. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 250 www.dsm.com Explanation of some concepts and ratios Scope 3: Value chain emissions Net-zero emissions Scope 3 emissions are all indirect emissions (not included The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change states: in scope 2) that occur in the value chain of the reporting Net-zero emissions are achieved when anthropogenic company, including both upstream and downstream emissions of greenhouse gases to the atmosphere are emissions. balanced by anthropogenic removals over a specified period. Where multiple greenhouse gases are involved, Location-based emissions the quantification of net zero emissions depends on the Reflects the average GHG emissions intensity of grids on climate metric chosen to compare emissions of different which electricity consumption occurs (using mostly national gases (such as global warming potential, global grid-average emission factor data). Corresponding emission temperature change potential, and others, as well as the factor: in most cases, the country emission factor. chosen time horizon) . Market-based emissions NOx Reflects GHG emissions from electricity supplies that Nitrogen oxides. These gases are released mainly during companies have purposely chosen (or their lack of choice) combustion and cause acidification. and contracted. Corresponding emission factors: Renewable resource Supplier specific emission factor (provided by the A natural resource which is replenished by natural supplier) processes at a rate comparable to, or faster than, its rate Residual emission factor (country-based grid factor, of consumption by humans or other users. The term covers corrected for allocated purchased electricity from perpetual resources such as solar radiation, tides, winds renewable resources) and hydroelectricity as well as fuels derived from organic matter (bio-based fuels). Greenhouse gas emissions (GHGE) efficiency improvement The GHGE efficiency improvement is the amount of GHG SO2 emissions per unit of output (specific emissions) in a given Sulfur dioxide. This gas is formed during the combustion year compared to the specific emissions in the prior year. of fossil fuels and causes acidification. GHGE efficiency improvements are one of the ratios in the Long-Term Incentive part of the Managing Board VOC remuneration and relate to a three-year period. Volatile organic compounds. The term covers a wide range of chemical compounds, such as organic solvents, some of GRI which can be harmful. The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) has developed Sustainability Reporting Guidelines that strive to increase Water use and water consumption the transparency and accountability of economic, Water use includes water used for 'once-through cooling' environmental, and social performance. The GRI was that is returned to the original water source after use. Water established in 1997 in partnership with the UN Environment consumption is the portion of water used that is not Programme. It is an international, multi-stakeholder and returned to the original water source after being withdrawn. independent institution whose mission is to develop and disseminate globally applicable Sustainability Reporting PROFIT Guidelines. These Guidelines are for voluntary use by General organizations for reporting on the economic, In calculating financial profitability ratios, use is made of environmental, and social dimensions of their activities, the average of the opening and closing values of balance products and services. sheet items in the year under review. Levelized Cost of Energy (LCOE) The financial indicators per ordinary share are calculated LCOE is a figure used to compare the average cost of energy on the basis of the average number of ordinary shares coming from different sources. It measures the cost of outstanding (average daily number). In calculating energy production over the lifetime of an asset like a Shareholders' equity per ordinary share, however, the photovoltaic panel. number of shares outstanding at year-end is used. Loss of Primary Containment (LOPC) In calculating the figures per ordinary share and the 'net Loss of Primary Containment is an unplanned or profit as a percentage of average Shareholders' equity uncontrolled release of material from the container that is available to holders of ordinary shares', the amounts in direct contact with the material. available to the holders of cumulative preference shares are deducted from the profits and from Shareholders' equity. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 251 www.dsm.com Adjusted net operating free cash flow Return on capital employed (ROCE) The cash flow from operating activities, corrected for the Adjusted operating profit from continuing operations as a cash flow of the APM adjustments, minus the cash flow of percentage of weighted average capital employed. capital expenditures and drawing rights. Temporary vitamin effect Capital employed DSM's best estimate of the effect on sales and Adjusted The total of the carrying amount of intangible assets and EBITDA of the exceptional supply disruptions in the industry property, plant and equipment, inventories, trade that started toward the end of 2017 and ended in the third receivables and other receivables, less trade payables and quarter of 2018, including derived measurements. other current liabilities. Total shareholder return (TSR) Capital expenditure Total shareholder return is capital gain plus dividend paid. This includes all investments in intangible assets and property, plant and equipment. Underlying business Sales and Adjusted EBITDA (including derived Disposals measurements), corrected for DSM's best estimate of the This includes the disposal of intangible assets and property, temporary vitamin effect. plant and equipment as well as the disposal of participating interests and other securities. Working capital The total of inventories and current receivables, less current Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization payables. (EBITDA) EBITDA is the sum of operating profit plus depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA is the EBITDA adjusted for material items of profit or loss coming from acquisitions/ divestments, restructuring and other circumstances that management deem it necessary to adjust in order to provide clear-reporting on the developments of the business. Earnings per ordinary share Net profit attributable to equity holders of Koninklijke DSM N.V. minus dividend on cumulative preference shares, divided by the average number of ordinary shares outstanding. High-growth economies High-growth economies relate to the following regions: Latin America, Middle East, Asia (excluding Japan) and Eastern Europe. Innovation sales Innovation sales are defined as sales from products and applications that have been introduced in the last five years. Operating working capital The total of inventories and trade receivables, less trade payables. Organic sales growth Organic sales growth is the total impact of volume and price / mix. Impact of acquisitions and divestments as well as currency impact are excluded. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 252 www.dsm.com List of abbreviations ADR American Depositary Receipts IASB International Accounting Standards Board AFM The Dutch Authority for the Financial Markets ICF Internal Control Framework API Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients IFRIC International Financial Reporting Interpretation APM Alternative performance measures Committee CDP The new name for the Carbon Disclosure Project ILO International Labour Organization CEFIC Conseil Européen des Fédérations de l'Industrie IP Intellectual Property Chimique (European Chemical Industry Council) LCA Life Cycle Assessment CGU Cash Generating Unit LoR Letter of Representation COA Corporate Operational Audit department LTI Long-Term Incentive CoBC Code of Business Conduct LWC Lost Workday Case COD Chemical Oxygen Demand NCI Non-controlling interests CPLC Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition NGO Non-Governmental Organization CRA Corporate Risk Assessment NPS Net Promoter Score CRP Corporate Research Program OCI Other Comprehensive Income CSD Corporate Strategy Dialogue OECD Organisation for Economic Co-operation and CSR Corporate Social Responsibility Development DHA Docosahexaenoic Acid PDN Stichting Pensioenfonds DSM Nederland DNP DSM Nutritional Products PPA Purchase Price Allocation DSGC Dutch Sustainable Growth Coalition PRA Process Risk Assessment DSP DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals PSI Process Safety Incident EBA Emerging Business Area PV Photovoltaic EBIT Earnings Before Interest and Taxes (Operating R&D Research & Development Profit) ROCE Return on Capital Employed EBITDA Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation SDG Sustainable Development Goal and Amortization SHE Safety, Health and Environment EEI Energy Efficiency Improvement SHIBOR Shanghai Interbank Offered Rate EPA Eicosapentaenoic Acid SPP Sustainable Procurement Program EPS Earnings per share STI Short-Term Incentive EVP Executive Vice President SUN Scaling Up Nutrition Movement FIFO First in, first out TCFD Taskforce for Climate-related Financial FTE Full-time equivalent Disclosures FVTPL Fair value through profit and loss TSR Total Shareholder Return FVOCI Fair value other comprehensive income UN United Nations GHG Greenhouse gas VOC Volatile Organic Compound GHGE Greenhouse gas emissions WBCSD World Business Council for Sustainable GMO Genetically Modified Organisms Development GRI Global Reporting Initiative WEF World Economic Forum IAS International Accounting Standards WFP United Nations World Food Programme Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2019 253 www.dsm.com DSM – Bright Science. Brighter Living.™ Royal DSM is a global, purpose-led, science-based company active in Nutrition, Health and Sustainable Living. DSM’s purpose is to create brighter lives for all. DSM addresses with its products and solutions some of the world’s biggest challenges while simultaneously creating economic, environmental and societal value for all its stakeholders – customers, employees, shareholders, and society at large. DSM delivers innovative solutions for human nutrition, animal nutrition, personal care and aroma, medical devices, green products and applications, and new mobility and connectivity. DSM and its associated companies deliver annual net sales of about €10 billion with approximately 23,000 employees. The company was founded in 1902 and is listed on Euronext Amsterdam. More information can be found at www.dsm.com. © 2020 Royal DSM. All rights reserved. Questions about or feedback on this Report can be addressed to: Royal DSM P.O. Box 6500 6401 JH Heerlen Netherlands T +31 (0)45 578 8111 E media.contact@dsm.com W www.dsm.com For printing of this Report 100% biological ink and FSC-paper was used. This Report is printed carbon neutral.
