Stieler & Co. has been a member of UN In the beginning of 2020, we did an environmental Global Compact since 2017, who works initiative in our showroom, in order to showcase within The Ten Principles in order to environmentally friendly and sustainable establish fundamental responsibilities in products such as corporate bicycles, recycled the areas of human rights, labor, pens, water bottles, umbrellas, mugs, tote bags, environment and anti-corruption. We caps etc. support these principles and this report is based on the four topics, in order to clarify our initiatives in this matter. On the following pages, you can read about our Stieler approach and how we aim to With a global network we recognize our take the lead when it comes responsibility to influence our suppliers, thus we to sustainable solutions for believe our supply chain to be the area of which our costumers. All mentioned we have our biggest impact and opportunities to initiatives have strengthened improve social, ethical and environmental our business and given us conditions. Stieler & Co. constantly works to knowledge about a new customer improve the supplier selection process in order to need: sustainable merchandise. You can improve socialand environmental standards read a more concrete and comprehensive within the factories. A 2020 goal for us is to be description about all our initiatives in the following even more transparent towards our customers, pages. why a new, tailor-made platform is being developed so all our customers will be able to Enjoy! read factory audits, see photos and follow each order closely. We believe this is the best way to do business; honest and reliable. Yours sincerely, Stieler & Co. are continuously dedicated improving our influence on the environment. We make sure to always look at new ways to optimize our processes and switch products to sustainable solutions in order to minimize the environmental impact. Stieler & Co.’s selection process plays an impact. It is typically these suppliers we can important role in reducing risk, costs and influence the most, since we are an important response time. Sourcing & Project coordinator, partner for them. Together with our Lisa Ha explains: “When we engage in a dialog representatives in Hong Kong and China we visit with new suppliers, the first stage is to request the the suppliers we are particular dependent on”. suppliers to read and comply with our ”Code of Conduct”. To eliminate the risk of adverse impacts on our CSR principles, we include suppliers where we have a justified suspicion of adverse CSR performance”. Suppliers must have a certification to prove, they meet the requirements regarding working She elaborates: “Preventive activities will depend environment. Stieler & Co. always looks for on the resources we have available to engage in certifications, that indicates good standards a dialog with the specific supplier. We focus efforts on suppliers with highest commercial within work environment such as SA8000, ISO “Factories must be certified within environmental 9001 and BSCI1 certification. management to prove they meet the requirements. When selecting a factory in China, we strive to select factories with an ISO 14001 certificate in order to secure that the organization meets the standards regarding environmental management. The certificate is a part of the management system used to manage Lisa Ha, Sourcing & Project coordinator environmental aspects, fulfill compliance obligations, and address risks and opportunities The SA8000 Standard is the leading social and it specifies requirements for an effective certification standard for factories and environmental management system (EMS)” says organizations across the globe and involves fair Lisa Ha. treatment of workers across industries. The certification touches elements such as child CEO & Partner Kent Pedersen adds additionally: labor, forced or compulsory labor, health and “We will in 2020 launch a new platform for all safety, discrimination, working hours and more. customers special made for them to see our engagement with the specific factory who The BSCI certification includes workplace produce the order. This means, our customers in conditions in accordance with human rights, ILO the future will be able to see the reports from the conventions and national labor law. This factory concerning Social compliance and certification is designed to improve working sustainability”. conditions for the suppliers of BSCI’s participating member companies. Stieler & Co. developed their own Code of Conduct in 2017 in order to build lasting collaborative relationships with suppliers and other partners. The Code of Conduct is an essential and integral part of all business agreements with Stieler & Company why acceptance and compliance with this Code of Conduct is mandatory for all suppliers. The Code of Conduct touches areas such as anti-corruption, labour, working environment, environment, discrimination and human rights. Diversity is about gender as well as age, survey also gives us great insights on where to experience, ethnicity and education, though improve for us to reach our goal that all areas are studies show, that if a company has an equality in above 8 in average” says CEO & Partner, Kent genders, they will experience a higher financial Pedersen. He elaborates: “We always priorities return. Stieler & Co. joined Ring the Bell for having fun while working which also reflects the Gender Equality which is in compliance with 5th Employee Satisfaction Survey and the amount of SDG (Gender Equality). Stieler & Co. are social activities throughout the year such as the continuous focusing towards a more diverse annual Kick off event and the DHL Relay Race.”. working environment including a balance Stieler & Co. has participated in the DHL Relay between age as well as proportion of men and Race since 2006, and Kent Pedersen believes this women. particular event is a good occasion to get out of the company’s walls and enjoy a great day of fun, exercise and bonding with colleagues and family members. I am able to accomplish all my 8,625 tasks within my working hours I get praised and acknowledges 6,875 Stieler & Co. makes a yearly Employee for my work Satisfaction Survey among all employees in order I look forward going to work 8,75 to improve and gain insights of the work I have a positive relationship with 9,25 environment (see below chart, rated from 1-10). colleagues and managers My ressources are used in a good “We are pleased to see, that the general picture way 7,375 of the work environment among employees is I have an impact on the planning 8,625 of my work positive. There have been some organizational changes in 2019 and in the beginning of 2020 so I thrive at work 8,875 it’s very rewarding to see, that our employees are 0 2 4 6 8 10 thriving and happy going to work. However, the In last year’s COP report, Stieler & Co. aimed to be climate. CEO & Partner, Kent Pedersen explains: an even more active and engaging member of “Climate action is one of Stieler & Co.’s focus UN Global Compact and to actively participate in SDGs, since we believe that we can make the the upcoming events. Nearly 50% of all fastest and biggest change here by improving our employees have in 2019 participated in different day-to-day business internally and externally”. events hosted by UN Global Compact or other relevant stakeholders. Furthermore, Stieler & Co. participated in “SMV COP 2019” hosted by UN Global Compact, where Stieler & Co. joined the webinar “Academy the best reports were acknowledged and Special Briefing Business Ambition for 1.5ºC: Our highlighted for other SMV’s to learn best practice. Only Future” which complies the 13th SDG Student Assistant, Amanda Harvest tells: “We (Climate Action). By developing more sustainable decided to join the event since we wished to get alternatives for our costumers and continuous inspiration on how to approach the 17 SDGs within focusing on internal processes, Stieler & Co. aims our business model. We gained so much to make a distinctive action towards better knowledge and ideas in which we actually work on integrating in our business model as we speak. I really look forward to continue working on these projects in order to be even better when it comes Stieler & Co. strives to support FN’s 17 SDGs to a more sustainable and responsible business whether it is small day-to-day routines or bigger model”. initiatives like the earlier mentioned special made platform for our existing customers. Stieler & Co. have in 2019 invested in three company bicycles in order to limit using the car for customer visits in In 2018 Stieler & Co. started to provide sustainable the neighborhood. By having the bicycles Stieler products for their customers in order to aim & Co. expects to see a radically decline in the fuel towards a ‘greener future’. In 2019 this was consumption in the years to come. The developer reinforced when the company supplied the of this initiative, Creative Director & Partner, postal company PostNord with 500 water bottles Thomas Kjersgaard explains “A proportion of our made from 100% recycled PET bottles and employees take public transport to work, which bamboo. The water bottles support the Plastic means they often choose the company car Bank; a social enterprise headquartered in whenever they need to visit a customer. We saw Canada which aims to clean up plastic waste an opportunity by developing our own bicycles, from our oceans while providing valuable as we can reduce fuel costs, implement a green opportunities for impoverished communities. day-to-day solution while our employees can do Stieler & Co. will in 2020 have an even bigger their daily workout when going out to meet focus on providing customers with sustainable customers. We think this is an ideal win-win solutions whenever possible. initiative, which befits both the environment, employee health, brand value and the bottom line”. The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, adopted by all United Nations Member States in 2015, provides a shared blueprint for peace and prosperity for people and the planet, now and into the future. At its heart are the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), which are an urgent call for action by all countries developed and developing in a global partnership. They recognize that ending poverty and other deprivations must go hand-in-hand with strategies that improve health and education, reduce inequality, and spur economic growth – all while tackling climate change and working to preserve our oceans and forests. Source: www.sustainabledevelopment.un.org Stieler & Co. have implemented a responsible offer practical tools, services and a community supply chain management system, which is network to help companies, like Stieler & Co. to based on CSRand product/quality compliance. improve their responsible and sustainable Sourcing & Project coordinator, Lisa Ha explains: business practices, and source responsibly. “The overall focus in our CSR strategy is driven by following ambitions:” We strive to create positive value for all shareholders. Both present and future 2019 was the year, where Stieler & Co. started to associations with Stieler & Co. shall create take a serious action towards factories in the East. long-term value by an enhanced corporate With a long history working in China and the Far image. East, Stieler & Co. recognizes that the working We believe that by working responsibly and conditions needs extra attention. The managers sustainably we can reduce the negative should appoint one or more representatives with impact and develop innovative solutions to the responsibility to formulate written policies advance our positive contribution to the and procedures with respect to health, safety, environment and society upon which we social welfare and facilities management. depend for our future growth. We recognize the complexity of global procurement and the risks that can occur when buying promotional products. Therefore, we take every effort to select and monitor our global network of suppliers, and manage their performance over time to establishing long lasting collaborative Flemming Bendixen, Client Director relationships. The representatives will monitor policies and procedures and secure they are communicated Sourcing & Project coordinator, Lisa Ha tells: ”I and respected. It is important that the participated in UN Global Compact’s workshop management team and the representatives about responsible supply chain management. I understand the impact of having healthy and do a lot of sourcing every day so this workshop motivated employees. Stieler & Co. encourage was an ideal event for me to join. It gave me great and motivate suppliers to maintain and improve a insights on how to be even better when sourcing positive safe and healthy working environment, and selecting suppliers for future collaborations. by focusing on benefits that reduces sickness. By In relation to this workshop we have become encouraging and promoting a good healthy more aware on how to make fully use of our workforce, the suppliers can improve membership at Sedex”. productivity, moral, employee engagement and performance. Sedex is one of the World’s leading ethical trade service providers. They work on improving working conditions in global supply chains. They Stieler & Co. is against all forms of corruption. China, which is our primary used supplier country, Client Director, Flemming Bendixen elaborates: is ranked as no. 80 out of 180, which is a “I’m very proud, that we every day prove that it is substantially better ranking than their no. 87 last possible to achieve success without accepting or year. This is of course considered very positive engaging in any form of corruption.” since China’s Government increased focus on anti-corruption obviously has born fruit” says Denmark is according to the Transparency Client Director, Flemming Bendixen. International and the Corruption Perceptions Index 2020 again this year ranked as no. 1 out of Stieler & Co. have within the company an 180 countries. This shows Denmark is the least excellent check system over transactions. The corrupted country in the world alongside New records are maintained with proper proves where Zealand, who also is ranked as no. 1. Furthermore, each DKK goes to and what is done with it. The Denmark has scored 87 points out of a 100. “Also accountant and management board control this information in close cooperation. Since its inception in 1995, the Corruption Perceptions Index, Transparency International’s flagship research product, has become the leading global indicator of public sector corruption. The index offers an annual snapshot of the relative degree of corruption by ranking countries and territories from all over the globe. In 2012, Transparency International revised the methodology used to construct the index to allow for comparison of scores from one year to the next. The 2019 CPI draws on 13 surveys and expert assessments to measure public sector corruption in 180 countries and territories, giving each a score from zero (highly corrupt) to 100 (very clean) Source: www.transparency.org
