United National Global Compact: Communication on Progress 3 October 2019 to 3 October 2020 Zeya & Associates Company Limited Tax ID : 194825072 Energy, Healthcare, Industry & Reforestation Table of Contents Message from Our Chairman/ CEO……………………………………………………………………….... 1 United Nations Global Compact Human Rights Principles……………………………………. 2 United Nations Global Compact Labor Standards Principles………………………………….. 9 United Nations Global Compact Environmental Principles…………………………………….. 14 United Nations Global Compact Anticorruption Principle……………………………………… 20 Date: 2 October 2020 Ref: 001/UNGC/2020 H.E. António Guterres Secretary-General United Nations New York, NY 10017 Dear Mr. Secretary-General We, Zeya & Associates Co., Ltd. (RGK + ZNA Group) support the ten principles of the UN Global Compact on human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. As we are committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company, and to engaging in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goal of the United Nations, particularly the Millennium Development goals, Zeya & Associates Co., Ltd. (RGK + ZNA Group) will make a clear statement of this commitment to our stakeholders and the general public. This is the sixth Communication on Progress as we have joined since 7 October 2014. We have been pursuing the rules, regulations and notifications issued by Ministry Of Health and Sports & WHO on COVID 19 Epidemic. We are strongly supporting healthcare sector and people who are facing difficulties by COVID 19 Epidemic. We will keep continuing our best to blend the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. Moreover, to fight global warning and climate change, we start reforestation to rebuild habitats and degradation. We are pleased to share this information with our stakeholders using our channels of communication. Sincerely yours Zeya Thura Mon Chairman/ CEO 1 Date: 2 October 2020 Ref: 001/ UNGC/ 2020 H.E. António Guterres Secretary-General United Nations New York, NY 10017 Dear Mr. Secretary-General We, Zeya & Associates Co., Ltd. (RGK + ZNA Group) support the ten principles of the UN Global Compact on human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. We are committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company, and to engaging in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goal of the United Nations, particularly the Millennium Development goals, Zeya & Associates Co., Ltd. (RGK + ZNA Group) will make a clear statement of this commitment to our stakeholders and the general public. This is the sixth Communication on Progress as we have joined since 7 October 2014. We have been pursuing the rules, regulations and notifications issued by Ministry Of Health and Sports & WHO on COVID 19 Epidemic. We are strongly supporting healthcare sector and people who are facing difficulties by COVID 19 Epidemic. We will keep continuing our best to blend the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. Moreover, to fight global warming and climate change, we start reforestation to rebuild habitats and degradation. We are pleased to share this information with our stakeholders using our channels of communication. Sincerely yours Zeya Thura Mon Chairman/ CEO United Nations Global Compact Human Rights Principles “At Zeya, we believe that discrimination and equal opportunities are great important things to the management of our employees in real life. Our obligation to nondiscrimination in human right policies applies to all aspects of employment, including advertisements, recruitment and selection programmes, access to training, promotion, disciplinary procedures, redundancy and dismissal.” We also commit to provide a safe and healthy working environment for all employees and our visitors. 2 Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Assessment, Policy and Goals We strongly respect and support the human rights with applicable international and national practices. We do act with due diligence to avoid infringing the rights of others. We persist to enforce our Standard human right policies that safeguard non-discrimination or equal opportunities to the management of our employees based on equal access to benefits and fair treatment. We support Social Rights which are the rights a person should expect from living in a society, such as the right to healthcare and education, food, water, housing. We have awareness that Human Rights starts from birth and cannot be taken away. We strongly believe that discrimination and equal opportunities are great important things to the management of our employees in real life. Our obligation to non-discrimination in human right policies applies to all aspects of employment, including advertisements, recruitment and selection programs, access to training, promotion, disciplinary procedures, redundancy and dismissal. We also pursue The Social Security Law which was enacted in 2012 in Myanmar. According to Social Security Law, 2012, we enforce to enjoy more security in social life and health care for our employees who are major productive force of the Company and State. We commit to provide a safe and healthy working environment for all employees and our visitors. We have a practice on assisting Cultural Rights, which encompass many activities such as right to eat, wear clothes, marry, celebrate events and so on. 3 Implementation The main business stream of Zeya is Engineering, though, 25% of our workforce is women and the pay level and structure of workforce is depend on their respective skills and merits regardless of gender, giving equal opportunities to the women workforce for promotion, transfer and training and also increasing the opportunities for women to participate in management level to implement “Gender Equality as a Human Right”. To develop skills requirements of our people, we provide educational assistance and financial supports to the every employees in our company, their families members and the families those who are in difficulties. We make sure that all staff understand that safety is everybody’s responsibility. We provides all employees with Health & Safety workplace training programs to cover both general and function specific Health and Safety knowledge. We also takes care not only health and safety of our employees but also clients, contractors and visitors to our offices and events. We work with governments, law firms and NGOs to institute policies to help better protect individual’s right to privacy. We closely perform with Hospitals, Health Care organizations, Charity Organizations, Border Areas Development Association and local societies. We keep on assisting Border Areas Development Association (BDA). BDA has launched a Microfinance Company and supporting farmers in Upper Myanmar. We has signed Memorandum Of Understanding (MOU) with AYA Bank for AYA HOME LOAN SCHEME in which all staff from our organization could purchase home with special rate since 2 April 2018. We donated Modular Operation Theatre (MEDIK) & Emergency Rooms Simulation during the process of developing Medical Skill, Simulation and Research Centre to UNIVERSITY OF MEDICINE 1, YANGON on 02 December 2019 and total donation amount was MMK 352,500,000. We spent more than MMK 150,000,000 for donating Hospitals, Clinics for healthcare and improvement activities between October 2019 and end of September 2020. We donated cash, PPEs, medical equipment, air-conditioning systems to COVID-19 Quarantine Centers, Hospitals and Health care Centers. Besides, we has provided a six-stories building as a temporary residence for front line doctors and health care professionals who are fighting against COVID-19 epidemic. Total donation amount was MMK 175,000,000. 4 Donation of Modular Operation Theatre (MEDIK) & Emergency Rooms Simulation RGK+Z&A Group donated Modular Operation Theatre (MEDIK) & Emergency Rooms Simulation during the process of developing Medical Skill, Simulation and Research Centre to UNIVERSITY OF MEDICINE 1, YANGON on 02 December 2019. Total donation amount MMK 352,500,000 5 Donation for prevention and control of COVID – 19 in Myanmar (April to Sept 2020) No. Description Amount/ Goods 1 Ministry of Health & Sports MMK 50,000,000 & 20 units of Non-Contact Infra-red Thermometer and 2 units of deep freezers 2. North Okkalapa General Hospital 350 Nos of PPE & Portable Air Conditioners 3. Yangon General Hospital MMK 11,500,000 4. National Health Laboratory Yangon MMK 10,100,000 5. Myanmar Football Federation MMK 5,000,000 6. Ayeyarwady Foundation MMK 30,000,000 7. University of Medicine 1 & 2, Yangon MMK 13,828,000 8. Quarantine Centers MMK 21,650,000 6 Donation of Six Stories Building as Doctors’ House RGK+Z&A Group donated six stories building with 21 rooms (2 people stay in one room) as a temporary residence for frontline doctors & healthcare professional who are fighting against COVID-19 during COVID-19 period. Total donation amount MMK 175,000,000 7 Measurement of outcomes We accomplish periodic review of results by management team and the results show there is no case of human right violations, complaints and breaches during this report period. The areas reviewed were Working Condition and Hours, Employment Status, Employee Benefits Programs, Training Development, Performance. And the period is October 2019 to end of September 2020. We have the awareness of right to education, thus our Education Supports for 2020 2021 Academic year have been planned. Below is the budget plan for 13th Education Support (2020-2021 Academic Year). 5 8 United Nations Global Compact Labor Standards Principles “The long-term sustainability of our company is heavily dependent on our people and our people is a key source of competitive advantage and ultimately, profitability. We do need to sure that our workforce has the right mix of people, with appropriate skills and experiences, allowing the business to compete effectively and innovatively. We view our people as a business asset, rather than just a cost.” 9 Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Assessment, Policy and Goals Zeya supports freedom of association and, where applicable, recognize the right to collective bargaining. We disclosure of standard operating procedures and job descriptions through our employee handbook, create an open and a favorable work environment. We have an obligation to respect, protect and fulfill economic, social and cultural rights. Staff members want to work for an organization that encourages and respects individuals, and this is one of our core values across the Zeya network. We have a strict policy regarding with not employing child labor. Our organization prohibits sub-contractors not to employ child labor. Our Company’s Human Capital Manual clearly reveals that it covers policies concerning employee rights and responsibilities, compensations and benefits. 10 Implementation We understand that by putting effective anti-discrimination and anti-harassment procedures in place in business, we can improve productivity and increase efficiency. We uphold a dignity at work policy which aims to foster and atmosphere of mutual respect in which staff can feel accepted, able to work with dignity and to their full potential and embrace the benefits which diversity can bring. We do not recruit any person who is under the age of 18. We also send staff abroad to attend trainings regarding with technical, management and secretarial skills. We support the staff who are learning Post Graduate Diplomas, such as Diploma in Business Law, Diploma in International Law. We perform financial support for homes for employees as well as health care. According to rules and regulations, we allow staff to take maternity leave, paternity leave and so on. Employees can go to the hospitals (Victoria, Asia Royal, SSC, Aung Yadanar Hospital and so on) for their health care and they can re-claim the expenses according to the principles. We do not execute any discrimination on the basis of racial or ethnic origin in relation. We do not assign any child labor (or) forced labor in our organization. We pursue employ equal opportunity standards, besides offering a healthy lifestyle workplace and appropriate requirement. 23% of our workforce is women and we give the same opportunities to our women workforce in respect of employment and occupation including advertisements, recruitment and selection programmes, access to training, promotion, disciplinary procedures, redundancy and dismissal. 11 Measurement of outcomes We performed a 40% random check in all working sites including sub-contractor sites and there was no child labor and force labor. We found out that all employees are above 18 years old. According to the feedback from the staff, they satisfy the health care system. We view our people as a business asset, rather than just a cost. The below is the total training investment in our people up to the reported period. Zeya & Associates has offers online Capacity Enhancement programs during 2020 as follows: Module Leadership Development Programme Programme Date 1 Transformational Leadership for COVID Crisis 27-28 June 2020 2 Work From Home and Human Resource Management 11-12 July 2020 3 Time and Stress Management 25-26 July 2020 4 Wining Customers during COVID Crisis 08-09 August 2020 5 Financial Literacy for Business Leaders 22-23 August 2020 6 Soft Skill Development for Business Leaders 05-06 September 2020 Module Social Development Programme Programme Date 1 6 weeks Online Yoga Programme 04 July to 9 August 2020 2 21 Days Mindful Living Collective (MLC) Programme to Relieve 21 September to 12 october Anxiety Naturally provided by Elisha Goldstein, PhD 2020 12 Leadership Development Programme Social Development Programme Online Yoga Mindful Living Collective 13 United Nations Global Compact Environmental Principles “Our commitment is using our resources responsibly to support the long-term sustainability of our company and of the environment in which we and our clients live and operate. In the same way that humans and animals leave physical footprints that show where they have been, so Zeya tries to leave good evidence of our operations in the environment.” 14 Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Assessment, Policy and Goals We aim to be a paperless organization. Besides, we are trying to increase percentage of recyclable waste and encourage generating power (energy) from waste. We avoid using coal plant power generation which shall impact the environment. Besides, we support in environmental conservation by growing and maintaining trees. We reduce the usage of resources and practice the waste management system. We educate the cost and benefits of clean technology, besides utilize clean technology for Public Transportation in Yangon Region. 15 Implementation We educate our employees about the environmental awareness frequently. We are involved in Electric Power Generation and we have fossil-fuel power plants, located in Hlaw Gar, Yangon, however we do not use coal for power generation. Environmental and Social Impact analysis was thorough performed. Furthermore, we educate not only employees but also natives about benefits of growing trees. We have grown trees in the area of 230 acres in Upper Myanmar, along the express way between Nay Pyi Taw (Capital) and Mandalay (238 miles). We also have been growing trees in Mingalardon township, where the power generation plant located. In order to reduce electric power consumption, we installed special glasses in air-conditioned rooms. We do switch-off the unnecessary lights and electrical appliances. We use low emission cars and travelling together instead of using individuals. We try not to print out papers and reuse one-sided papers. We encourage using electronic communication in order to obtain proficiency and conservation of environment. We maintain no leakage water system and safe the water. In addition to this, we have installed reclaimed water system so that it will not harm environment. We have preventive maintenance programs for all machines and we do regular maintenance, thus, it helps to reduce air pollution. We have been donating Incinerators that help environmental conservation. As we are one of the founders of Yangon Bus Public Co., Ltd., we encourage using CNG for Buses. We plan to establish “Waste to Energy Power Generation Plants” which are located in Nay Pyi Taw and Yangon. Those plants will run on Municipal Waste. That will help protecting air pollution, water pollution, besides we can obtain energy. 16 Measurement of outcomes In accordance with Organization’s policy, Environmental and Social Impact Assessments are conducted. RGK + Z&A Group conducted Environmental GAP Analysis in our 50 MW Gas Engine Power Plant in Hlawga, Myanmar in June 2014. This analysis was done by AF-Consult Switzerland Ltd. This analysis was conducted according to IFC (International Finance Corporation) guidelines for IFC’s Performance Standards on Social & Environmental Sustainability and IFC’s Environmental Health and Safety Guidelines for Thermal Power Plants. Our 50 MW Gas Engine Power Plant complies 5 numbers of Performance Standards (PS) on Social & Environmental Sustainability. Furthermore, 1300MW Natural Gas and Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) based (11) Power Plants with overseas investments. Another milestone is that Myanmar’s First LNG – to – Power Project started generating electricity for Yangon in August 2020. Complied Performance Standards Description Performance Standard 1 Social and Environmental Assessment and Management Systems Performance Standard 2 Labor and Working Conditions Performance Standard 3 Pollution Prevention and Abatement Performance Standard 4 Community Health, Safety and Security Performance Standard 5 Biodiversity Conservation and Sustainable Natural Resource Management 17 We have been growing trees since 2013 between Nay Pyi Taw and Mandalay Expressway. The area is 230 Acres, which is located in Tat Kone Township (Nay Pyi Taw Region) They type of trees are Ironwood trees, Gum-Kino trees, Eucalyptus trees, Mahogany trees, Plat Fiber (White), Hardwood and Teak. Trees in (238) Miles (Yangon – Mandalay) Express Between October first week 2017 and end of September Way (End of September 2020) 2020, more trees were planted. The fruit trees were Sr. Name of Trees Number of Trees grown, thus we can provide food for the people. The list is as follows: 1 Eucalyptus 3,100 2 Ironwood Tree 26,501 Sr. Name of Fruit Trees Number of Fruit Trees 3 Gum-Kino Tree 15,144 1 Dragon Fruit 1,800 4 Mahogany 2,771 2 Mango Trees 96 5 Plant Fiber (White) 1,780 3 Banana 87 6 Other Hard wood 16,133 4 Papaya 71 7 Mun Jun Tree 1,553 8 Teak 99 Total 2,054 9 Plant Fiber 8,000 Total (End of Sept 2020) 75,081 Planting Trees near Myanmar Central Power compound in August 2019, Mingalardon Township, Yangon. No cases of impacts on environment and no complaints are reported during the report period. Total Number of Trees 77,135 18 Organic Fertilizer in ZNA Forestry Through Brown Process by Through Black Process by using dried leaf using cow dung Chairman/ CEO’s commitment on Reducing Carbon Footprint The group chairman/CEO is using VOLVO Xc90 T8 Hybrid for his office transport. The hybrid Xc90 T8 Twin Engine are environmentally friendly. An efficient 2.0-litre four-cylinder petrol engine combined with a powerful electric motor, the Xc90 T8 achieves CO2 emissions of just 49g/km, helping reduce carbon footprint. At the same time, Xc90 T8 Hybrid reduce fuel consumption and its consumption is 134.5 mpg. Bamboo Sharpening Activity 19 United Nations Global Compact Anticorruption Principle “We are committed to achieving a high standard of ethical behavior in everything that we do. Restrictions on accepting gifts prevent outside interests from giving things of value to employees. These restrictions prevent outside interests from exercising, an improper influence over decision-making.” . 20 Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Assessment, Policy and Goals We are committed to achieving a high standard of ethical behavior in everything that we do. Restrictions on accepting gifts prevent outside interests from giving things of value to employees. These restrictions prevent outside interests from exercising, an improper influence over decision-making. Implementation We provide Human Capital Manual which supports anticorruption commitment. Furthermore, we preserve internal accounting and audition procedures related to anticorruption. We promote anticorruption environment within the organization’s personnel. There is a restriction of accepting gifts in our organization. On the other hand, an employee may accept the promotional materials or souvenir or small gifts (not valuable). We effort with consultants, partners to promote Anti-Corruption Best Practices. We are the provider of foreign companies such as GUASCOR POWER, Rolls-Royces Power Systems Company and so on. Thus, we are complying with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and Other Laws Restricting Bribes through those foreign companies. According to requirements, our company staff also attending training regarding with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and Other Law Restricting Bribes. Furthermore, our company will strive to obtain the certification to conduct that kind of training for our employees. We will continue to promote and practice our principle and our high standards of ethics. 21 Measurement of outcomes Monthly review accomplished by management team. We keep on monitoring for the breach of policies and no case was arisen. Our Company has both internal and external audit functions, thereby ensuring that records, processes, and financial statements are closely examined at regular intervals. The other management members will strive to obtain the Certificates on FCPA Compliance as well. In our company, Mr Aung Thu Htoon/ Director of Power Systems, Mr Ravichandran Sabrinathan/ Director of Supply Chain, Mr Aung Kyaw Phyo/ EE, Mr Maung Maung Soe/ EE and Mr Tay Zar Lin/ EE have got their FCPA Compliance Certification from DRESSER-RAND on 7 August 2014. We have also received ISO 9001-2015 since 12 April 2017 which proves a quality Management System is implemented. No disciplinary action taken on any of our employees as a result of any acts of bribery, corruption or extortion. Furthermore, we cognizance CFO Principles on Integrated SDG Investments and Finance, which was recently launched by UNGC. 22 Participation in Improving Doing Business Environment of Myanmar RGK + Z&A Group participate in all of the 10 indicators task forces for improving Doing Business Environment of Myanmar. RGK+Z&A Group is doing the following activities 1) Preparing and presenting Master Work Plan 2) Preparing and presenting Contributor Lists Report 3) Preparing and presenting Six Countries Comparison Report 4) Studying and presenting 10 indicators Survey Questionnaires 5) Supporting to obtain Model answers for 10 indicators Survey Questionnaires 6) Supporting to Secretarial Task Force of Doing Business 7) Regular attending Doing Business meetings and making presentations to improve Doing Business Environment of Myanmar. DTF 2020 Distance to Frontier (DTF) on Doing Business Comparison with Myanmar and Regional Average 89.30 100.00 75.40 63.90 80.00 83.90 56.7075.10 56.50 47.7071.60 73.60 60.00 70.00 58.00 57.50 22.0049.70 26.4053.00 20.40 40.00 10.00 40.90 20.00 23
