UN GLOBAL COMPACT Communication On Progress (COP) May 2019 – Apr 2020 ue Table 8: Of Contents Hostage/kid Statement 3 Section 1: Human Rights 4 Section 2: Labor 11 Section 3: Environment 17 Section 4: Anti-Corruption 21 About this Report 28 2 Statement from Managing Director Commitment to the UN Global Compact Ecolog International FZE, and its subsidiaries worldwide, (“Ecolog”) reaffirms its support and participation in the United Nations Global Compact (“UNGC”) initiative. Ecolog is committed to responsible, sustainable business practices; while positively contributing to the quality of life of our employees, the communities in which we operate and beyond, and aiming for environmental excellence. Since joining the UNGC initiative in 2018, Ecolog has continued to demonstrate support and make progress on its commitments to key initiatives, with particular focus on labor and environmental standards, ethics and conduct, data protection, reporting and whistleblowing, vendor screening and vetting, anti-bribery, anti-corruption, anti-money laundering, amongst many others. Ecolog is dedicated to providing a safe, secure and ethical working environment with open, honest and transparent communication. Ecolog’s reputation, as a trustworthy provider of goods and services, is based on its integrity and ethics of every one of its employees. To protect the long-term interests of all our stakeholders, at Ecolog we ensure that, we: • Conduct business in an ethical manner, and comply with both national and international laws and regulations; • Recognize safety, health, and environmental considerations as basic elements of our business strategies; • Value diversity and respect the individuality of each employee, subcontractor and client; and • Contribute to the communities in which we operate. Ecolog remains committed to adhering to and progressing on the UNGC’s Ten Principles with respect to human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. We take this opportunity to issue Ecolog’s second Communication on Progress (“COP”) report (Ecolog_UNGC_ COP#2/2020 covering the reporting period: May 1, 2019 – Apr 30, 2020) summarizing the initiatives and results of our efforts to support the UNGC principles. Isni Aziri Managing Director Ecolog International FZE 3 Section 1: Human Rights Principle 1: businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Assessment, Policy & Goals Ecolog has a written policy titled Code of Business Ethics and Conduct where the topics of human rights are addressed. In this document, Ecolog’s leadership commits to implement the principles of ethics within the group of companies and also to ensure that Ecolog’s business partners comply with the same values. Ecolog has also implemented a global Ethics Hotline and Web-Portal in order to assess and act on any violation from any party. Ecolog’s policies, regulations, procedures and other guiding principles supporting and stipulating the respect and protection of internationally declared human rights, to ensure no involvement in any human rights abuses, are clearly communicated to employees at all levels of the business, through amongst others, our company’s employee induction training program, which is mandatory for each and every employee. Ecolog is committed to a harassment free work environment. Our zero tolerance towards, workplace harassment, including physical, verbal, sexual or psychological harassment, abuse, or threats are clearly communicated, amongst others, through our employee induction training program. All employees are made familiar with the reporting and incident handling procedures and encouraged to report such incidents with confidentiality, free from retaliation and harassment, either through their line of supervision or through our Ethics Hotline and Web-Portal. Reference Company Policies (Human Rights Principles): 1. Competence Training and Awareness Standard Operating Procedures (SOP); 2. Pre-deployment Training Record; 3. Pre-deployment Training Materials: a. Code of Business Ethics & Conduct; b. UN Supplier Code of Conduct; c. Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption; d. Combatting Trafficking in Persons; e. Ecolog Ethics Hotline; f. Grievance policy and procedures g. Performance and Disciplinary Policy and Procedures; h. GDPR Awareness i. Quality & Safety Induction Training Material & Records; j. Sexual Harassment; k. Medical Aid; l. Security – Anti Terrorism and Hostile Environment m. Security Identify and React to Improvised Explosive Devices (IED) ENG n. Health & Safety & Environment Policy Awareness 4 Section 1: Human Rights Implementation – through effective management systems. Prior to commencement of work, all employees are required to attend the induction training program. The aim of the program is to provide employees with an acceptable level of awareness and competence that will allow them to perform their jobs effectively, safely and ethically. The induction program, delivered partly prior to their deployment and partly upon arrival at work location, is executed in accordance with Ecolog’s Competence Training and Awareness Standard Operating Procedures (“SOP”), through an integrated effort by Human Resources (“HR”), Quality and Safety and other functional departments within which work is performed. The induction program focuses on the creation of awareness and understanding of the company’s policies, standards and guiding principles in support of general business operations regardless of geographical location, and specifically in relation to the respect and protection of human rights, and our commitment to combatting the abuse of human rights. Combatting Trafficking in Persons (“CTIPs”) The CTIPs policy establishes the responsibilities and implementation process for complying with the applicable laws and regulations related to combating trafficking in persons (including, but not limited to, UNODC Model law against trafficking in persons; UN Protocol to prevent, suppress and punish trafficking in persons especially women & children, E.U. Anti-Trafficking Legislative Directive 2011/36/EU, European Court of Human Rights, Council of Europe Convention against trafficking in human beings, U.S. Government’s Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) Subpart 22.17, 52.222-50, and 52.222-56, and Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (DFARS) Subpart 222.17, and 252.222-7006(B)). Ecolog’s CTIPs policy stipulates that no employee or subcontractor (including subcontractor’s employees) and/or their agents shall: • Engage in trafficking in persons during the period of performance of the contract; • Procure commercial sex acts during the period of performance of the contract; • Use forced labor in the performance of the contract; • Destroy, conceal, confiscate, or otherwise deny access by an employee to the employee’s identity or immigration documents, such as passports or drivers’ licenses, regardless of issuing authority; • Use misleading or fraudulent practices during the recruitment of employees or offering of employment; • Use recruiters that do not comply with local labor laws of the country in which the recruiting takes place i.e. no license to perform recruitment services; • Charge employees’ recruitment fees; • Fail to provide return transportation or requiring payment for the cost of return transportation for certain employees; • Provide or arrange housing that fails to meet the host country housing and safety standards ; • If required by law or contract, fail to provide an employment contract, recruitment agreement, or other required work document in writing. Such written work document shall be in a language the employee understands; 5 Section 1: Human Rights Ecolog’s CTIPs policy takes into account the universal condemnation of the crime of trafficking in human beings and reiterates that it constitutes a serious abuse of human rights and is, therefore, applicable to all Ecolog employees and subcontractor personnel, emphasizing the zero-tolerance towards any violations, with all of the following incorporated in our CTIPs policy: • Establishment of both education and of specific training to be used to raise the awareness of the issues connected to trafficking in human beings and of the means to combat it along with an internal reporting mechanism on violations of the policy; • Ecolog will provide all employees training and obtain written acknowledgement from the employee that they understand and abide by the terms of the statement; • Ecolog will take appropriate action, up to and including termination, against employees that violate the CTIPs policies; • Ecolog will include the substance of this clause in all subcontracts. Ecolog and all subcontractors, at all tiers, are reminded of the prohibition, against knowingly destroying, concealing, removing, confiscating, or possessing any actual or purported passport or other immigration or identification document, of another person to prevent or attempt to restrict, without lawful authority, the person’s liberty to move or travel in order to maintain the labor or services of the person, when the person is or has been a victim of a severe form of trafficking in persons; • Prevent inhumane living conditions; • Not withholding employee passports; • To supply the employees with signed employee contract copies translated in English and their native language and comply with international laws of the host country; and • Developing guidelines and procedures for relevant government authorities and officials such as police, border guards, immigration officials and others involved in the detection, detention, reception and processing of irregular migrants, to permit the rapid and accurate identification of trafficked persons. Measurement of Outcome – through effective monitoring & evaluation mechanisms. Ecolog’s HR systems and records are well maintained and keep track of all employment and grievance issues and actions are taken promptly and appropriately to resolve all issues. Employees receive training specifically addressing policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights upon joining, and an equal amount of hours every subsequent year as these training topics are subject to annual refreshment. The percentage of employees trained upon commencement of work through our deployment centers is 100%, and between 80-90% at any given time with respect to refreshment training on these topics, depending on country of operation. Following a recent update of the Sexual Harassment Prevention Policy, Ecolog’s HR department has held additional trainings to protect our organization from unwanted consequences, while building a positive work environment that is free from harassment and discrimination. Employees and supervisors are trained to understand and to recognize harassment in the workplace and to appropriately respond to the same. Even when sexual harassment prevention training is not mandated by local law, we are taking a proactive approach in protecting our employees, business partners and contractors from inappropriate conduct. Our programs meet all the latest global standards and is executed for perfect coverage across our multi-national enterprise. If a Sexual Harassment case is reported, it is immediately investigated and closed with the appropriate measures taken to correct the deficiency and prevent it from happening again. 6 Section 1: Human Rights All employees receive medical aid awareness training as part of their induction training focusing also on serious infectious deceases. The Infectious diseases training is updated to reflect the current situation with COVID-19 pandemic. All security personnel are subject to the same company induction training program as described above. As such, all security personnel are upon employment, made aware of company policies and procedures concerning relevant aspects of human rights. Corporate Social Responsibility (“CSR”) Ecolog continues to contribute to communities where it operates with local employment, training programs and by supporting a broad variety of local community projects that promote higher economic welfare and standards of living. We support and are involved in community development and charitable organizations, and participate in other volunteer activities. From rebuilding schools that have been damaged in conflict environments to donating waste-management trucks to municipalities, over the years, Ecolog has contributed to the building of thriving communities in the areas in which we serve. We are proud to support peace keeping missions and the work of humanitarian organizations within these regions. 1. Disaster Response 2019, Albania: After the tragic earthquakes in Albania that struck the country end of November 2019, Ecolog immediately deployed a response team and provided emergency recovery materials to the Civil Emergency unit and made a donation to help accommodate people who lost their homes (https://www.youtube. com/watch?v=_4_sjeeY-ig) 2. Education 2019, Iraq: Ecolog joined forces with a local social care foundation and provided support to orphans in Iraq that are in need of families. Ecolog’s donation to this NGO ensured that around 140 children and the families that take care of them have sufficient funds to provide for them. (www.aynyateem.com) 3. Food donation 2019, Mali: Ecolog donated food products to the orphanage in Bamako, Mali to provide the children with supplies as an Eid gift. 7 Section 1: Human Rights 4. Education 2019, North Macedonia: Ecolog built a special needs facility at the primary school “Liria” in Tetovo, North Macedonia. The new construction added two extra classrooms, a home room, a restroom and a reception to the facility. The new facility was tailored to the requirements of children with special educational needs and disabilities. (https://www.koha.mk/ecolog-nderton-klasat-per-femijet-me-nevoja-te-vecanta/) 5. Food donation 2020, Iraq: In collaboration with Ecolog’s client, we donated 103 food parcels (each weighing 32kg) to unprivileged families in Basrah, Iraq to provide them with food supplies during the holy month of Ramadan. 6. Education 2020, the Balkans: Ecolog donated thousands of technical equipment to children in North Macedonia, Albania and Kosovo who require technology to conduct online courses as part of the distance learning program, implemented for students across several nations to combat the COVID-19 outbreak. In order to further support communities during this difficult time and to ensure the educational process for students continues, Ecolog established a dedicated project team to procure technical equipment, plan logistics and distribute the devices. (https://finance.yahoo.com/news/ecolog-international-donates-technical-devices-040000089.html ; https://makpress.mk/Home/PostDetails?PostId=344619) 8 Section 1: Human Rights Ecolog’s CSR initiative within the last twelve months has strongly focused on education to ensure children can engage in development and growth, even during unprecedented circumstances. Ecolog continues to provide logistic and environmental services to peacekeeping missions and supports initiatives that improve overall living standards and have a positive social, economic and environmental impact on communities. Ecolog leads discussions at “Financing for Sustainable Development by 2030” forum during the 74th session of the United Nations General Assembly On 26 September 2019, Ecolog took part in a high level forum discussing “Financing for Sustainable Development by 2030” during the 74th session of the United Nations General Assembly. The event was held at the UN headquarters in New York and was jointly hosted by the governments of Canada and Ghana in collaboration with the Financing for Development Office, Department of Economic and Social Affairs, the UN Secretary-General’s Task Force on Digital Financing of the Sustainable Development Goals (“SDGs”) and the Global Partnerships Forum. The high-level forum was attended by President of the Republic of Ghana His Excellency Nana Akufo-Addo, Her Majesty Queen Máxima of The Netherlands and Her Excellency Mrs. Amina J. Mohammed, the Deputy Secretary of the United Nations Ecolog was the sole industry representative with CEO, Ali Vezvaei, delivering the welcome address. The session was aimed at promoting Public Private Partnerships (PPPs) as a way of financing the goals of the UN Sustainable Development Goals by 2030. Ecolog spoke about its commitment to the SDGs particularly in the following areas: SDG 4 Quality Education, SDG 9 – Industry, innovation and infrastructure and SDG 17 – Partnership for the goals. 9 Section 1: Human Rights Ecolog’s Commitment to SDG 4 Ecolog ensures that it works with local communities in underdeveloped economies at the grassroots level to attain the SDGs. We have: • Outfitted state-of-the-art computer facilities at the University of Bangui in the Central African Republic; • Continued to work with the institution to create trainee programmes to increase opportunities for local university graduates; and • Installed new mobile units to be used as school facilities for over 100 children in the Al Nasr community near Baghdad in Iraq. Ecolog’s Commitment to SDG 9 Environmental goals are intertwined with the SDG goals related to industry, innovation and infrastructure. This is a unique opportunity to develop a niche market with new and innovative technologies. We have: • Implemented an Environmental Management System certified to ISO 140001:2015 standards; • Promoted environmental friendly technologies like our Hybrid Power Project which combines mobile generators with high efficiency photo-voltaic cells that save 30% of fuel and reduce our carbon footprint while creating critical infrastructure for our remote business locations; and • Used “Smart Camp” technology to optimize integrated facility management to reduce the use of fossil fuels and general power consumption. Ecolog’s Commitment to SDG 17 Partnerships will harness the power of all stakeholders to make the world a better place. Partnering with Non-Governmental Organisations and International Governmental Organisations helps industry to realize goals through innovation and real action. 10 Section 2: Labor Principle 3: businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect to employment and occupation. Assessment, Policy & Goals Ecolog has well-defined written policies and procedures addressing various aspects of the labor principles (including but not limited to human trafficking, child labor, etc.), These labor principles are further prescribed in our employment contracts which are governed by the local labor laws of the country of residence and/or the standard set by International Labor Organization (“ILO”). Ecolog’s commitment to the effective elimination of forced or compulsory labor is amongst others clearly communicated as part of the company induction training to all employee levels through our mandatory Combatting Trafficking in Persons (CTIPS) Policy Awareness Training. Our CTIPs policy and training highlights our zero tolerance towards trafficking in persons and covers all relevant aspects of what trafficking in persons is, how it relates to our operation and their employment, how to combat trafficking in persons and forced or compulsory labor, and finally our responsibility to report any suspicions related to trafficking in persons. The latter is further supported by our Ethics Hotline Training enabling employees to confidentially report any such violations. Additionally, all our employees receive upon their employment (and continually thereafter on an annual basis), awareness training on the company grievance policy and procedures, and the company code of business ethics and conduct, which clearly communicates our commitment to equal opportunity for all and a discrimination free workplace, which is free of discrimination on the basis race, color, religion, age, gender, etc. Ecolog has also put in place an Equal Employment Opportunities Policy for effective application and monitoring of employment practices and a Sexual Harassment Prevention Policy clearly describing our zero-tolerance towards any form of sexual harassment in the workplace and associated procedures and measures in case of any violations. Ecolog ensures its adherence to the highly reputable ILO’s ETI Base Code in line with relevant contractual requirements, and for this purpose has specific clauses in the employment contracts. Equal Opportunities Ecolog is committed to promoting equal opportunities in employment and treating all employees with dignity and respect. All employees and any job applicants will receive equal treatment regardless of age, disability, gender identity, marital or civil partner status, pregnancy or maternity, race (color, nationality, ethnicity or national origin), religion or belief, sexual orientation, or any other characteristic protected by law (also referred to as Protected Characteristics). This policy sets out Ecolog’s approach and intention to equal opportunities, and the avoidance of discrimination at work. It applies to all aspects of employment with Ecolog, including recruitment, pay and conditions, training, appraisals, promo11 Section 2: Labor tion, conduct at work, disciplinary and grievance procedures, employee benefits, application of policies, termination of employment, and matters after termination including but not limited to visa issues, end of service benefits, and references. This policy is intended to help Ecolog achieve its diversity and anti-discrimination aims by clarifying the responsibilities and duties of all the staff in respect of equal opportunities and discrimination and conforms to the text and spirit of all applicable laws and regulations applicable under the national law of the countries of performance, in whole or in part, where a contract takes place. Reference Company Policies (Labor Principles): • Competence Training and Awareness Standard Operating Procedures (SOP); • Onboarding Acknowledgement Form; • Pre-deployment Training Materials & Records: • Code of Business Ethics & Conduct; • UN Supplier Code of Conduct; • Sexual Harassment; • Ecolog Ethics Hotline; • Equal Opportunities Policy; • Grievance policy and procedures; • Performance and Disciplinary Policy and Procedures; • Quality & Safety Induction. Implementation – through effective management systems. Awareness Training or training for employees on labor rights and policies: Prior to commencement of work, all employees are required to attend the induction training program. The aim of the program is to provide employees with an acceptable level of awareness and competence that will allow them to perform their jobs effectively, safely and ethically. The induction program, delivered partly prior to their deployment and part upon arrival at work location, is executed in accordance with Ecolog’s Competence Training and Awareness SOP; through integrated effort by HR, Quality and Safety and other functional departments within which work is performed. During the company’s induction training, employees are made familiar with all aspects of their job within the company to include their rights, what is expected of them in terms of both conduct and work performance, and associated policies and procedures. Our HR Department ensures that employees are made aware of their rights, benefit entitlements, and associated employee policies. While, the functional departments take care for their onboarding on the job, covering job related rights and expectations such as standards of performance, work location specific rules and policies, emergency response and procedures, etc. Our quality and safety department supplements these trainings with specific quality and safety training, both as part of their induction, and also on-the-job to enforce quality and safety regulations and procedures. their induction, and also on-the-job to enforce quality and safety regulations and procedures. 12 Section 2: Labor Support vocational training and counseling programs: Ecolog recognizes the essential importance of people and competency for the delivery of quality services, thus remains fully committed towards implementing and ensuring training and development opportunities at all levels and to include specifically local staff; allowing personnel to pursue and achieve excellence within their individual job roles and advance to higher levels of understanding and responsibility. To reach these objectives, the company utilizes existing recognized vocational and educational networks, where applicable and available. This, in addition to, in-house training activities and programs run at various levels and locations. Our Supervisor Trainee Programs are an example of this. Reporting Violations: Ecolog has defined procedures for reporting of any violations, discrimination or inappropriate conduct to the employee’s line management, HR department, and/or Ethics Hotline and Web-Portal, and proper investigation is conducted accordingly. Ecolog does not allow for any retaliation against an employee for reporting misconduct in good faith. All employees must cooperate in internal investigations of potential or alleged misconduct. A grievance procedure is in place for employees to use for reporting cases. Health & Safety Ecolog has developed and implemented a Safety Management System (“SMS”) to document company’s best business practices, better satisfy the requirements and expectations of our customers and improve the overall management of the company. This system provides the policy framework for our Health and Safety program. Underpinning this, it’s the company’s certified ISO 45001:2018 management system that provides procedures for managing health and safety at all levels. The SMS has been adapted to hazard management, prevention of harm to people and the environment, ensuring the company maintains a sustainable business. The SMS framework provides a broad-based set of expectations set out in our Leadership and Management Policy which is incorporated within the Integrated Management System (“IMS”). This framework helps managers focus on critical safety needs, forecasting and allocating resources, setting direction for Safety activities, and consistently delivering improved Safety performance. The commitment for health and safety is owned at the highest management levels along with all our employees to take ownership in performing their tasks safely. The Managing Director has full accountability for all health and safety matters within Ecolog and has assigned operational responsibilities and authority to the leadership team for all safety matters. It is their responsibility to ensure that this is communicated and understood across the organization. This includes: • Ensuring that the SMS conforms to the requirements of the ISO 45001:2018 International Standard • Reporting on the performance of the SMS and on opportunities for improvement to the leadership team 13 Section 2: Labor As Ecolog’s structure is decentralized, the responsibilities of health and safety cascade down through the management team as directed by the CEO and the regional General Managers. Ecolog communicates and allows participation with employees on health and safety matters through meetings, inspections, conducting risk reviews and feedback to understand their challenges on the job. At the operational level, health and safety through the SMS ensures that activities at the deepest level are reviewed for hazards and associated risks. Our health and safety program is structured in a way that continuously helps us put in place appropriate control measures in tasks where significant hazards to health and safety cannot be practicably reduced. Our commitment to health and wellbeing is also reinforced through medical surveillance checks for all employees, to ensure that they retain health and wellbeing through their employment with Ecolog. In the last 5 years, Ecolog has achieved great improvements in all areas of quality and safety. Some highlights of our success within the past 5 years are shown below: Personal Data Protection & Privacy At Ecolog, we ensure that the requirements, impact and implications of EU General Data Protection Regulation (“GDPR”) is effective since 25 May 2018 and are incorporated in our business processes to confirm that we are fully compliant with the new rules. We continue to be committed to the protection of all personal data relating to clients and employees, while ensuring that the company’s policy is, to the extent it is consistent with any local regulations, and such principles of GDPR will also guide our policies outside Europe. Ecolog is using GDPR as an opportunity to review the way we collect, store, process and safeguard personal data. The necessary additional new policies and tools are being introduced in the company to ensure that all data is stored and used in accordance with the GDPR’s new privacy, transparency and individuals’ rights provisions, while also ensuring that 14 Section 2: Labor we are communicating with our clients and contacts in a way that complies with the new rules. In this regard, the company has put in place its Data Privacy Policy, Privacy Notices, Cookies Policy, Data Protection Officer appointments, and other relevant procedures and processes. Ecolog takes personal data privacy seriously, and continuously conducts interactive GDPR Awareness trainings across all areas of operation, in order to provide employees with an overview of regulation and what practical actions to take in everyday tasks in order to comply with the same. Ecolog’s Information Security Policy, currently provides the mechanism to protect against information security threats and ensures that information is protected against unauthorized access, data confidentiality assured, data integrity maintained, and that regulatory requirements regarding Data Protection, Intellectual Property Rights, and Privacy of Personal Information are met. We highly value data privacy, and shall further continue to implement the adequate technical and organizational measures to ensure the lawful processing and proper safeguarding of personal data. Measurement of Outcome – through effective monitoring & evaluation mechanisms. Ecolog’s HR systems and records are well maintained and keep track of all employment and grievance issues and actions are taken promptly and appropriately to resolve all issues. Demographics of management and employees: There are about 57+ nationalities working with Ecolog amongst a total pool strength of 12,000+ employees. Employees receive mandatory training specifically addressing policies and procedures concerning aspects of human and labor rights upon joining, and equal amount of hours every subsequent year, as these training topics are subject to annual re-training. • The percentage of employees trained upon commencement of work through our deployment centers is 100% and between 80-90% at any given time, with respect to re-training on these topics depending on country of operation. 15 Section 2: Labor Occupational Health and Safety Ecolog’s ongoing mission to stand out in its commitment to occupational health and safety was again recognized by receiving a Gold Award at the RoSPA Occupational Health and Safety Awards in England, UK. The internationally renowned Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents (RosPA) Health and Safety Awards UK, has awarded Ecolog with a Gold award, which once again shows Ecolog’s continuous outstanding occupational health and safety performance. Being a RoSPA Gold Award winner, it means the company has achieved a very high level of performance, demonstrating well developed occupational health and safety management systems and culture, outstanding control of risk, and very low levels of injury, harm and loss. Health and safety has always been our number one priority, yet we are proud to have received outside recognition of our hard work and commitment by such a highly respected organization. Despite the benefit to our staff, this award also benefits our customers in terms of their confidence in our existing standards. 16 Section 3: Environment Principle 7: businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Assessment, Policy & Goals Reaching environmental excellence is one of the main business objectives of Ecolog by dedicating significant efforts and resources to address key sustainability-related issues, from recycling, waste prevention, conservation of natural environments to energy efficiencies, and emission reduction. Ecolog’s commitment is reflected in our Environmental Policy. Other key principles that guide our effort towards environmental excellence are also aligned with our contracts with international organizations, businesses and NGOs, whom all have various levels of environmental practices that Ecolog follows. Our clients and their guidelines include: Contaminated Land (EHS) Guidance, World Bank / IFC EPA/540/F-95/041 – Soil Screening Guidance, US EPA GPLC 1-3 – Contaminated Land Assessment, Environment Agency NATO Standard AJEPP-6 (Edition A Version 1, November 2014) Environmental Baseline Studies Science report: SC050021/SGV – Using Soil Guideline Values – Environment Agency CLEA model and software Environment Agency Hydrogeological Risk Assessment for Land Contamination – Environment Agency STANAG 7141 Joint NATO Doctrine for Environmental Protection During NATO-led Military Activities (AJEPP-4) STANAG 2510 Joint NATO Waste Management Requirements During NATO-led Military Activities (AJEPP-5) STANAG 2583 Environmental Management System in NATO Operations (AJEPP-3) UK MOD Global Food Contract Marine Stewardship Council LEAF (Linking Environment and Farming) Global Good Agricultural Practices (GAP) Ecolog has established a Vision 2020 strategy where we strive for zero intentional environmental releases and spills. An example of our partnerships with industry is linked with the UK Ministry of Defense contract, that utilizes efficient commercial sea routes that operate 40’ feet containers rather than the militaries normal shipping route where only 20’ feet can be used. This initiative aims to reduce carbon emissions by 10%. We intend to realize this by employing local companies with existing infrastructure and supply chains to fulfill deliveries to smaller locations. Our procurement teams source where possible local products to reduce food carbon footprint. Our UK teaming partner has put in place initiatives to mitigate environmental impact. In order to reduce the pollution and greenhouse gases produced by their fleet, they have committed to only purchasing vehicles that conform to the latest European emission standards. Our partner has also begun reducing food miles by using driver performance software to identify ever more fuel-efficiency. This has resulted in a reduced our CO2 eq. emissions in the UK by 32% relative to 2006. Ecolog is also committed to minimizing negative impacts to the local biodiversity and ecosystems that we operate in, this includes, but is not limited to, carefully studying of the potential impacts and aspects, and putting in place appropriate mitigation plans. 17 Section 3: Environment Environmental Policy Ecolog may only conduct its business when all associated environmental impacts and risks are understood and controlled to acceptable levels. Ecolog acknowledges that the principles of sustainable development are integral to responsible resource management that overlie all our activities, products and services. Therefore, Ecolog will strive to minimize impacts on the physical environment and avoid negative social impacts. Ecolog’s commitment to the Environment and its implementation of the Environmental Management System (“EMS”) will ensure: • Appropriate activities conducted by Ecolog are aligned to the EMS; • Achievable environmental objectives and targets are established; • A commitment to protecting the environment and the prevention of pollution; • Strong assurance in achieving compliance obligations; • Create a culture of continual improvements within the EMS for our environmental performance; and • Comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations, and where adequate laws do not exist, adopt and apply standards that reflect Ecolog commitment to a balanced environment. Implementation – through effective management systems. • Ecolog has an established Environmental Management System (EMS) that has been certified to ISO 14001:2015 from British Standard Institute (BSI) with UKAS accreditation. We are also liable to our contract holders’ audits that occur on yearly basis, and verify our own internal processes and system for compliance to environmental requirements. • We conduct internal Environmental audits, every quarter, to ensure our operations comply to the applicable statutory and contractual requirements. These audits are consolidated via our tracking system, on Microsoft SharePoint, and communicated to the management teams for further review and discussion at management board level. Each location has an impact and aspects study conducted, to determine the overall environmental impact our operations have on the environment. • Ecolog is a world class provider of comprehensive trash removal, recycling, and environmentally safe waste management solutions. It has developed a range of fully integrated waste management systems that are implemented through the collection, disposal, and recycling of discarded hazardous and non‐hazardous materials in a manner that is safe, efficient, and fully compliant to the strictest environmental regulations, and has access to a network of waste transfer and recycling centers and a regional network of landfill sites. • Ecolog has implemented environmental trainings across all our operations that starts from our initial induction on joining the company to the ongoing site trainings and task specific activities. Ecolog also encourages employees to seek further knowledge and learning through industry events and incidents to bring further knowledge to the business. 18 Section 3: Environment Promoting Environmental Friendly Technologies Ecolog has recently entered additional partnerships in promoting Environmental Friendly Technologies: 1. Ecolog signed a strategic partnership agreement with a provider of advanced pitless drilling and dewatering technologies, to provide an integrated and innovative solution to the hydrocarbon industry. In the line with our commitment to efficiency, sustainability and environmental values, the product of this cooperation intends to enable operators to drill faster, reduce the water consumption used for drilling by up to 90% as well as help eliminate the need for waste pits, which results in reducing the overall cost of drilling operations while improving the environment footprint. 2. Ecolog signed another strategic partnership agreement with a solar desalination technology company to scale and deliver a game-changing solution that harnesses the world’s two most abundant resources – sunshine and sea water – and purify even the toughest water types without the need for filters, chemicals or polluting fossil fuels. We expect to revolutionize water and energy services and create the foundation of Ecolog’s future growth in the energy and water sector. It is crucial for all of us to be creative, innovative and ambitious to meet our climate crisis and seize the enormous opportunities for a better tomorrow. As the current COVID-19 pandemic crisis demonstrates, access to reliable water underpins all aspects of life, from its use in medical services, to manufacturing and production of essentials to personal hygiene including simply washing our hands. Water scarcity and stress affects nearly 40% of the world’s population, an alarming figure that is projected to further rise as a result of climate change, urbanization and population growth. As the world deals with the collective impact of a pandemic like the COVID-19, the case for tackling the most pressing challenges of water and climate change is only strengthened. As the need for desalination grows rapidly, no technology was previously available to reduce dependency on fossil fuels, optimize the operational cost and deliver a robust and reliable performance even for remote areas and various water conditions. By harnessing solar energy in a more effective way and with a patented design, our solution can convert sea water into high quality drinking water at scale. 3. Ecolog and the Centre for Organic Electronics at a prominent university located in Australia signed a Strategic Memorandum of Understanding to commercialize its revolutionary low-cost, lightweight and highly portable solar energy solution. With rapid manufacturing, inexpensive replacement, ease of integration into structural materials, buildings, combat ensembles, temporary facilities, vehicles or as retractable solar fields, the Ecolog Energy Solution™ is to unlock potential in a wide range of applications across energy, defense, humanitarian and commercial sectors. The solution also reduces the need for generators or battery airlifting in remote operations. Unlike most de-centralized energy infrastructure, which require considerable upfront investment, this energy-as-a-service (EaaS) solution by Ecolog is set to disrupt the energy business model and allows substantial growth in consumer base. Users could sign onto the Ecolog Energy Solution™ platform, where they determine their energy needs, customize the plan, pay a monthly service fee and power up. They do not need to pay for the infrastructure, equipment, installation, or even repair and replacement. 19 Section 3: Environment Measurement od outcome Through effective monitoring & evaluation mechanisms. • Ecolog has achieved compliance to the ISO 14001:2015 Standard since its original certification in 2016 by QMSI (Quality Management Systems International) certifying that the Ecolog management system is in accordance with requirements of: ISO 14001: 2015 for the following scope (Facility Management; Supply Chain; and Environmental Services). • As part of Ecolog’s Supplier Sustainability Program, we work with many suppliers and service providers and rely heavily on them to deliver the requirements we set with our clients. We conduct background checks on all our suppliers to ensure no risk are associated with their previous activities, in terms of environmental breaches by providing us reassurance that we are working with ethical companies. • We continually invest in new technology to monitor hazardous and nonhazardous waste generation in our opera tions, either major or minor emissions. — In the Middle East, we processed over 12,500m3 of hydrocarbon contaminated solids for our clients utilizing efficient technology combining centrifuge and thermal desorption. The treatment standards for the output soil was: Total Hydrocarbons at <0.5 ppm as per TCLP method and Volatile Organic Compounds at <0.1 ppm and the measurements were carried out in accordance with United States Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA) 40 Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) Part 60 Appendix A test methods. Achieving such standards allowed the reuse of solids, as fill material, in the nearby port upgrade and reduction of hazardous landfill disposal of over 90% for total facility output. • Ecolog has never received any environmental citation or penalty in any of our operations which is testament to our ongoing monitoring and commitment towards environmental practices. 20 Section 4: Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Assesment, Policy & Goals Ecolog endeavors to fully comply with all laws, rules and regulations applicable to its business and in the countries in which it operates – and in this regard, Ecolog supports the UNGC principle on anti-corruption having a zero tolerance policy for corruption in all its forms, including bribery and extortion. Ecolog aims to act in accordance with the anti-corruption laws which prohibit improper payments, specifically with respect to anti-corruption laws inclusive of UK’s Bribery Act, US’s Foreign Corrupt Practices Law and all other anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws of the country in which it operates: • Ecolog acknowledges that it is illegal to give, pay, promise, offer, or authorize the payment of anything of value, either directly or indirectly through a third party, to an official of a government or a representative of a commercial entity to obtain or retain business, or to secure any improper advantage, for Ecolog or one of its affiliates. • Ecolog has a zero-tolerance policy towards its directors, officers, employees, and third parties acting on its behalf from offering or paying, directly or indirectly, any bribe to any employee, official, or agent of any government, commercial entity, or individual in connection with its business or activities – enforced with an immediate and strict disciplinary procedure. Since Ecolog has ongoing business with many governments, public and private entities, and regularly has legitimate business interactions with government officials and company representatives, Ecolog provides thorough training and guidance to its employees using the following resources at the time of induction, operations and pre-deployment: • code of business conduct and ethics; • global hotline available 24/7 which provides the reporter with anonymity in ‘whistle-blowing’; and • detailed training on anti-bribery and anti-corruption. Ecolog ensures strict adherence to the UN Supplier Code of Conduct in all of its UN-related contracts. Code of Business Ethics & Conduct In mid-2018, Ecolog embarked on a compliance project aimed at improving its code of business ethics and conduct to align it with evolving global ethical and compliance best practices for the current corporate industry environment. Ecolog’s Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (“Code”) highlights our business conduct policies, guides us in how to deal with ethical and compliance issues, and explains where we can get help when we have questions or concerns. The Code, and our core corporate values, guide us in delivering mission critical solutions to our clients around the world while doing it the right way. Each employee has the responsibility to comply with the code and to comply with the company’s policies and procedures, and the laws and regulations in the countries we operate. We expect business partners and third parties, such as suppliers, agents, representatives, contractors, subcontractors, and consultants, who serve as an extension of Ecolog to conduct themselves according to our values and our Code. 21 Section 4: Anti-Corruption The improved Code was completed in June 2019 with contributions from a number of departments: Compliance, Human Resources and Legal. This was formally adopted by the Ecolog Management Board, and officially launched across Ecolog field locations and offices in August 2019. As part of the re-launch, more than 4,500 employees underwent thorough and extensive mandatory awareness trainings on the Code and Ethics Hotline across all Ecolog offices and field locations, and provided their written undertakings to strictly abide by the Code in all their business practices. After the re-launch, these trainings became part of our mandatory employee induction program that is continuously provided to all new employees. Country No. of Trained Employees UAE 66 North Macedonia 179 USA 2 Kosovo 123 Germany 160 UK 7 Lithuania 12 Afghanistan 1225 Iraq 1103 Kuwait 132 Qatar 89 Somalia 180 South Sudan 412 Mali 590 Central African Republic 438 Kenya 4 Falkland Islands 5 Nepal 1 Uganda 1 Mozambique 7 Haiti 32 Total 4768 22 Section 4: Anti-Corruption Ecolog CEO Ali Vezvaei takes part in the Participants receiving a refresher on the relaunch of the Ecolog Code of Business Ecolog Code of Business Ethics and Conduct Ethics and Conduct. during the relaunch. In the near future, Compliance department will additionally introduce the ‘Living Code’, as an employee-facing, interactive, and customizable digital experience, being built and designed as a microsite with access on any device. The Living Code of Conduct will be an advanced, “live” product designed to capture the interest of personnel through a visually appealing, interactive format that brings to life the values, principles, and compliance topics from the Code of Business Ethics and Conduct. UN Supplier Code of Conduct In 2019, Ecolog continued to provide its commitment to the United Nations by reaffirming its participation and membership with the UN Global Compact and submitting its first Communication on Progress (COP) report and maintaining a GC-Active reporting status level by highlighting various sustainability development measures that the company undertook through protection of human rights, upholding labour rights, being environmentally responsible, and by furthering anti-corruption principles. The UNGC membership commitment was appropriately supported with global training and staff acknowledgement programs thus ensuring our continued adherence to the UN Supplier Code of Conduct (a mandatory compliance requisite for all of our UN contracts). Presented below is the number of employees who underwent through the abovementioned training and staff acknowledgement programs in all our UN contracts: Country No. of Trained Employees This training became part of our mandatory employee induction Somalia 180 program that is continuously followed by new employees. South Sudan 412 Mali 590 Central African Republic 438 Haiti 32 23 Section 4: Anti-Corruption Implementation – Through Effective Management Systems • Ecolog maintains signatory engagement with the UN Global Compact since May 9, 2018 (a voluntary initiative). https://www.unglobalcompact.org/what-is-gc/participants/132547-Ecolog-International. • Ecolog’s improved Code of Business Ethics and Conduct is posted on the company’s portal and is familiarized to new joiners as part of their orientation sessions through a formal mandatory training program. (https://secure.ethicspoint.eu/domain/media/en/gui/104564/code.pdf). Ecolog is close to finalizing the interactive Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (“Living Code”) which will also be available on our corporate website soon. • “TRACE has completed a TRACEcertification due diligence review of Ecolog. Certification by TRACE signifies that Ecolog International FZE has completed internationally accepted due diligence procedures and has been forthcoming and cooperative during the review process. TRACEcertification underscores Ecolog’s commitment to transparency in international commercial transactions.” Review our full TRACE Certified due diligence report at https://tpms.traceinternational.org/ IntermediaryDirectory by searching for [Ecolog International FZE]. Currently Ecolog is in the process of recertifying with TRACE for the period 2020-2021, which again reflects our continuous commitment to integrity and transparency in all our business transactions. Ecolog Compliance Framework Ecolog is committed to ethical business practices and to obeying both the spirit and letter of the law in every country in which it does business. Ecolog takes its legal and organizational responsibilities to prevent regulatory non-compliances seriously and expects all its employees/entities to do the same. Ecolog has a designated Chief Compliance Officer (“CCO”) to implement a well governed and compliant culture (in adherence with all local, national and international laws and regulations), while: • benchmarking with global compliance standards and regulatory guidelines; • focusing on ‘prevention, detection and response (remediation)’ compliance protocols; • leading and interfacing with management/regulators/clients to address potential areas of regulatory and global business compliance vulnerabilities and risks; and • adequately resourcing the compliance function to ensure success of deliverables, maintaining the required skills and competencies. 24 Section 4: Anti-Corruption Ecolog Compliance Framework: designed and benchmarked with the global compliance standards and guidelines: » Written standards of business conduct and compliance policies & procedures. » Top management level visible commitment: Designation of a Chief Compliance Officer (high-level person) with adequate resources & authority, and institution of a governing oversight body. » Effective compliance awareness, training, education and communication. » Regular audits, monitoring and evaluation techniques to provide independent and objective assurance to management (including external stakeholders). » Establishment of reporting processes and procedures for compliance complaints. » Appropriate enforcement, disciplinary and incentive mechanisms. » Investigation and remediation of systemic problems (response & prevention). Office of Ethics Standards of & Compliance Conduct, Policies & Procedures EMPLOYEES Compliance Practices, Vendors’ & Personnel Screening & Vetting Standards & Technology Monitoring, Testing & Oversight, Reporting Due Diligence of Business Evaluation CCO, Reporting, & & Leadership Partners & Intermediaries Board / Shareholder Oversight Body SUPPLY Business / Contracts Ecolog CHAIN Mgmt. Compliance Compliance Code of Business Conduct & Framework Ethics / Integrity Hotline Anti-Bribery & Anti-Corruption Compliance Program Corporate Governance, Lines of Defense Model, & Internal Data Protection & Privacy Education, Awareness Issues Mgmt. – Control Framework & Communication Response & Prevention Compliance Program Sanctions & Regulatory Compliance Monitor REGULATORS Benchmarks: US Federal Sentencing Guidelines Enforcement, Risk Assessments & Society of Corporate Compliance & Ethics, USA OECD, EU & UN Regulatory Guidelines Discipline & Incentives Assurance Reviews COSO Internal Control Framework + IIA Standards 25 Section 4: Anti-Corruption Internal Controls Ecolog has adopted and continues to implement good internal controls, systems and processes, to integrate its anti-bribery and anti-corruption principles, and compliance philosophies with day-to-day business activities: • SAP software (Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system) with defined segregation of duties and multiple approval layers for key processes. • Procurement and Expenses: All purchases and expenses are undertaken using the procure-to-pay process, embedded in the SAP software through approved purchase orders and/or contracts (as per defined level of authority). Further, detailed ‘Travel and Expenses Reimbursement’ policy and SOP is also in place. • Ecolog ensures that the necessary anti-bribery and anti-corruption provisions are enshrined in all its contractual agreements with all of its stakeholders including, but not limited to client contracts, goods and/or services with subcontractors and/or consultants, and employment contracts. • Vendor Selection: Ecolog uses reputable third party databases and applies online politically exposed person and denied party (PEP/DP) screening processes, prior to establishing any contractual and business relationships with its business partners. • Payments: Adequate internal controls are in place to process the payments and funds transfer i.e., three-way matching, approval authorities, segregation of duties, etc. Appropriate processes are in place and improvements being made for review, approval and reconciliation of cash payments and expenses. • Personnel Screening: Ecolog implements personnel background screening procedures for new hires and employs a reputable third-party service provider to screen all senior appointments and hires. Measurement of Outcome – Through Effective Monitoring & Evaluation Mechanisms. • Ecolog has setup a “Global Ethics and Integrity Hotline” in 2018-19 where employees can report any ethical issues by telephone or web-portal under anonymity. (https://secure.ethicspoint.eu/domain/media/en/gui/104564/index. html). A total of 5 minor cases were reported through Ethics Hotline web portal during the period. All cases were investigated promptly and closed in due time with the appropriate remedial measures. Global Ethics & Integrity Hotline Ecolog is committed to an environment where open, honest communications are the expectation, not the exception. Employees can feel 12 comfortable in approaching their supervisor or management in instances 9 where they believe violations of policies or standards have occurred. In 4 15 10 16 8 situations where employees prefer to place an anonymous report in 3 confidence, they are encouraged to use the multilingual Global Ethics 11 7 1 Hotline (toll-free), hosted by a third party hotline provider, available 24/7 13 16 5 2 (across 17 countries) and through an online reporting system accessible to 17 14 everyone (company website / portal). 6 Ecolog adopts a non-retaliation policy to protect employees who report misconduct in good faith – the company will suitably conduct an investigation in compliance with applicable laws – taking appropriate corrective actions for proven compliance / code violations. 26 Section 4: Anti-Corruption Internal Controls • In addition to its including in the Code of Business Ethics and Conduct and corporate website, during the course of 2019, the Ecolog’s Global Ethics and Integrity Hotline was adequately communicated to all its employees through trainings and awareness posters that have been posted across more than 100 locations-points across all Ecolog global sites and offices. SAMPLE POSTERS: • Quarterly Compliance Updates were provided to Management Board, and 40+ management team members underwent online anti-bribery training with an international service provider in 2018. • On annual basis, internal controls, transactions and underlying supporting documents are reviewed and assessed by our external auditors (a reputable big 4 audit firm) from the perspective of anti-bribery and anti-corruption compliance inclusive of all other regular audit procedures. 27 About this Report Since 2018, Ecolog International FZE has been committed to the UN Global Compact corporate responsibility initiative and its principles in the areas of human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. This COP Report (Ecolog_UNGC_COP#2/2020 (MAY 2019 – APRIL 2020)) delivers relevant highlights of initiatives, activities and progress that ECOLOG is undertaking on a global basis to address UNGC principles on human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. The report covers the period between May 1, 2019 and April 30, 2020. For all enquiries related to this report, please contact Mr. Erdogan Halimi, Head of Compliance (Compliance@ecolog-international.com), Ecolog International FZE. This report will be published on the UN Global Compact website and the Ecolog corporate website. Ecolog is a leading provider of Camp Management, Supply Chain, Engineering, Oil & Gas, Energy, Environmental Solutions, Infrastructure Projects and Industrial Services.. We provide turnkey and customized solutions to governments and defense, humanitarian organizations and commercial clients in the sectors of Government Contracting, Defense, Oil & Gas, Mining, Energy and Infrastructure. Ecolog has built long lasting partnerships with organizations such as the US Army, NATO, German Army (Bundeswehr), EUFOR, , and UN. Additionally, Ecolog works with major peacekeeping missions including MINUSMA, MINUSCA, UNSOM, UNMISS, UNSOS, Ministry of Defense of United Kingdom, and other countries including The United States of America, Germany, France, as well as private international companies. Headquartered in Dubai (UAE) and incorporated almost two decades ago, Ecolog has carried out over 1,100 projects and is now active in more than 30 countries by providing mission critical support services in a wide range of environments, including some of the world’s most remote and challenging locations. For more details about ECOLOG, visit www.ecolog-international.com. 28 www.ecolog-international.com
