Environmental, Social & Governance (ESG) Progress Report 2019/2020 Contents 3-7 Introduction GRI/SASB disclosures 86–95 GRI/SASB indices This is the Environmental, Social & Governance (ESG) Progress Report 2019/2020 of Merck & Co., Inc., Kenilworth, N.J., U.S.A., which is known as MSD outside 8–22 General Disclosures the U.S. and Canada. This report is a supplement to our comprehensive online An SDG index can be found at report, available at MSDresponsibility.com. Information on documents filed 23–35 Economic MSDresponsibility.com with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), such as our Form 10-K and 36–58 Environmental Proxy Statement, can be found on our corporate website, which is intended 59–85 Social only for residents of the U.S. and Canada. MSD ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 2 Highlights Access to Health Employees Ethics & Values 100% 43% $2.4B Top 20 global burdens of Management roles held Spend with minority-, women-, veteran-, disease addressed by our by women.1 LGBTand disability-owned suppliers.1 products and pipeline.1,2,3 We are currently Zero advancing two Employees laid off in 2020 as the result of the pandemic, SARS-CoV-2/COVID-19 including our 500-person summer internship program. vaccine candidates. Ebola Environmental Sustainability Our Ebola Zaire Vaccine, ERVEBO, has been prequalified by the WHO, 25.4% approved by the U.S. FDA, and approved by the Government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC).1 1 As of December 31, 2019. Purchased electricity from 2 A s defined by the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation (IHME) renewable sources.1,4 using GBD 2017 data; excluding road injury, self-harm, interpersonal 344M By 2040, our goal is 100%. violence and neonatal disorders. 3 This number is slightly higher in 2019 than in years past due to our expanded collaboration with MSD-Welcome Trust Hilleman 15% Laboratories and our acquisitions of Immune Design and Peloton, Treatments for the Tilos Therapeutics and Calporta in 2019. elimination of river 4 We have defined “purchased electricity” as electricity sourced from blindness and lymphatic external suppliers as well as renewable electricity that was generated filariasis (LF) shipped to Reduction in water use and utilized onsite where we retained the renewable attributes endemic countries.1 since 2015.1 or where we have obtained renewable attributes through contract. MSD ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 3 A message from our CEO Dear Stakeholders, for Systems Biology as well as the Latino Americans who have been In this report, we provide updates ACTIV (Accelerating COVID-19 disproportionately impacted by on our strategy and performance As we launch our 2019/2020 Therapeutic Interventions and the pandemic. in these key areas, reflecting Corporate Responsibility Report, Vaccines) consortium, led by progress we made in 2019 as well the world continues to face National Institutes of Health. And We’re also addressing these as the first half of 2020. a health crisis of proportions we are collaborating with the Bill & disparities through our social unprecedented in our lifetimes. Melinda Gates Foundation as well justice efforts, partnering to close One of our proudest achievements With the COVID-19 pandemic as other global stakeholders, on the opportunity gap to diverse is our work to combat the latest persisting in communities across issues of access and the equitable talent at all stages of their careers. Ebola outbreak in the Democratic the globe, never has there been deployment of pandemic vaccines. We continue to advance economic Republic of the Congo (DRC). Since a moment when our mission — to inclusion through our 35-yearJuly 2018, over 300,000 patients save and improve lives — appears We have also prioritized the long effort to support smalland have been vaccinated to-date with as clear and compelling. health, safety and wellbeing of our minority-owned business and investigational doses of Ebola Zaire employees. Recognizing both their support our workforce through a Vaccine (V920) that we donated For more than 125 years, our passion to make a difference and broad range of existing diversity to the World Health Organization unwavering commitment to the demand for frontline health and inclusion resources, including (WHO) in support of outbreak inventing new medicines and care professionals, we introduced those aimed at eliminating response efforts. In November vaccines in the fight against a new global program in March unconscious bias, discrimination 2019, ERVEBO (Ebola Zaire infectious diseases means that we 2020 to enable our medically and exclusion. Vaccine, Live) was prequalified by have the capability, capacity and trained employees to volunteer WHO, and in December 2019 it expertise to help develop effective time to aid their communities while Our stand against systemic racism was approved by the FDA. While responses to the pandemic. maintaining their base pay. We are and for health equity and economic manufacturing efforts continue, so grateful to our employees who inclusion along with our ability to we are committed to continuing We are advancing two heeded the call to serve — they respond with confidence to crises to supply investigational doses SARS-CoV-2/COVID-19 exemplify our commitment to like this pandemic are underpinned as needed to support ongoing vaccines — one in partnership patients and to our mission to save by our core commitment to outbreak response efforts in the with IAVI and another through our and improve lives. operating responsibly. What we do DRC and neighboring countries. acquisition of Themis Bioscience. matters as much as how we work, These efforts help ensure that In addition, we are collaborating In addition, we have contributed which is why acting responsibly a vaccine will continue to be with Ridgeback Bio to develop a or committed more than $30 is embraced within our four key available in the fight against this novel antiviral candidate. million to global, national and areas of corporate responsibility: deadly virus. local COVID-19 relief efforts to Access to Health, Employees, We are also proud to be a part of help strengthen health systems Environmental Sustainability, and Our response to the Ebola the global collaborations, joining and address health disparities, Ethics & Values. outbreak is part of our long track research efforts with the Institute including among Black and record of making our vaccines MSD ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 4 and medicines accessible and frameworks, reflects our support affordable, work that is guided for the 10 universally accepted by our Access to Health Guiding principles of the UN Global Principles. First introduced in Compact, and recognizes the 2010, the Principles ensure we important role we play in helping fulfill our commitment to access as to address the UN Sustainable a core company value. Recognizing Development Goals (SDGs). Our changing global access needs, we primary focus as it relates to these conducted a strategic reevaluation global goals is SDG 3, Good Health of our principles this past year. and Wellbeing, which aligns with We’re pleased to come forward our core business and mission. with refreshed principles and Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) While 2020 has been, and will that measure and report on our continue to be, challenging in progress and performance in a unparalleled ways, the ingenuity, more meaningful way. flexibility and perseverance of our more than 70,000 employees gives We have also recently increased me hope. Throughout our history, the diversity of our Board of we have been committed to a Directors, now comprising clear and compelling mission to 46 percent women, up from save and improve lives. 25 percent at the end of 2019. Our Board has long believed in the We have every intention to business value of having diverse continue on this path. perspectives and is committed to having the right mix of skills and Sincerely, expertise to address our current and future needs. These, and many other examples of our progress this past year, Kenneth C. Frazier are detailed in this report which Chairman and Chief Executive Officer uses widely recognized reporting MSD ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 5 Our purpose Operating responsibly as a business is at the very heart of our ability to deliver sustainable impact — driving long-term value for our company and society. For more than a century, we have Our approach to corporate been inventing medicines and responsibility is about the vaccines for many of the world’s health, economic, social and most challenging diseases, environmental impact we have and we have built a company on individuals, communities and with the talent, tenacity and ecosystems around the world. strength to take on some of the biggest threats to human and We hold ourselves accountable to animal health. our many stakeholders, including patients, employees, customers We continue to focus our research and shareholders, all of whom on conditions that represent some help to define our corporate of today’s most significant health responsibility priorities. challenges — cancer, diabetes, HIV, HPV, hepatitis C, cardio-metabolic disease, antibiotic-resistant infection, Alzheimer’s disease and others — and we are on the front lines in the fight against global pandemics, such as COVID-19 and Ebola. MSD ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 6 Our focus Reflecting 01 our commitment to managing environmental, 02 social and governance Access to health(ESG) issues, we continue to focus ourEnvironmental Sustainability approach to corporate responsibility in four primary areas We aspire to improve access to A healthy planet is essential to human that are of greatest relevance to our business and society. health by discovering, developing and health and the sustainability of providing innovative products and our business. services that save and improve lives. Access to Health Environmental Sustainability We aspire to improve access to A healthy planet is essential to 03 04 health by discovering, developing and human health and the sustainability Employees providing innovative products and Ethics of & Values our business. services We recognize thatand that save ability tolives. our improve excel Through our unwavering commitment depends on the integrity, knowledge, to transparency, we earn the trust imagination, skill, diversity and and confidence of our stakeholders. teamwork of our employees. Employees Ethics & Values We recognize that our ability to excel Through our unwavering commitment depends on the integrity, knowledge, to transparency, we earn the trust imagination, skill, diversity and and confidence of our stakeholders. teamwork of our employees. MSD ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 7 GRI/SASB Disclosures MSD ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 8 General Disclosures Organizational Profile GRI 102-1 Organization name (Core) GRI 102-2 Primary brands, products, and services (Core) GRI 102-3 Headquarters location (Core) GRI 102-4 Location of operations (Core) GRI 102-5 Ownership and legal form (Core) GRI 102-6 Markets served (Core) In the United States and Canada, we are known as Merck & Co., Inc., Kenilworth, NJ, USA. Elsewhere we are known as MSD. We are a global health care company that delivers organizations, pharmacy benefit managers and other innovative health solutions through our prescription institutions. Human health vaccine products consist medicines, vaccines, biologic therapies and animal of preventive pediatric, adolescent and adult vaccines, health products. The company’s operations are primarily administered at physician offices. The principally managed on a products basis and company sells these human health vaccines primarily include four operating segments, which are the to physicians, wholesalers, physician distributors and Pharmaceutical, Animal Health, Healthcare Services government entities. and Alliances segments. The Animal Health segment discovers, develops, The Pharmaceutical segment includes human health manufactures and markets a wide range of veterinary pharmaceutical and vaccine products. Human health pharmaceutical and vaccine products, as well as health pharmaceutical products consist of therapeutic and management solutions and services, for the prevention, preventive agents, generally sold by prescription, treatment and control of disease in all major livestock for the treatment of human disorders. The company and companion animal species. The company also offers sells these human health pharmaceutical products an extensive suite of digitally connected identification, primarily to drug wholesalers and retailers, traceability and monitoring products. The company hospitals, government agencies and managed sells its products to veterinarians, distributors and health care providers such as health maintenance animal producers. MSD ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 9 The Healthcare Services segment provides services and solutions that focus on engagement, health analytics and clinical services to improve the value of care delivered to patients. The company has recently sold certain businesses in the Healthcare Services segment and is in the process of divesting the remaining businesses. While the company continues to look for investment opportunities in this area of health care, the approach to these investments has shifted toward venture capital investments in third parties as opposed to wholly owned businesses. The Alliances segment primarily includes activity from the company’s relationship with AstraZeneca LP related to sales of Nexium and Prilosec, which concluded in 2018. Principal research facilities outside the United States In February 2020, we announced our intention to are located in Switzerland and China. Our manufacturing spin-off products from our women’s health, trusted operations are headquartered in Whitehouse Station, legacy brands and biosimilars businesses into a new, New Jersey. We also have production facilities for independent, publicly traded company (Organon) human health products at nine locations in the United through a distribution of Organon’s publicly traded States and Puerto Rico. Outside the United States, stock to company shareholders. through subsidiaries, we own or have an interest in manufacturing plants or other properties in Japan, Our U.S. commercial operations are headquartered Singapore, South Africa, and other countries in in Upper Gwynedd, Pennsylvania. The company’s Western Europe, Central and South America, and Asia. U.S. pharmaceutical business is conducted through divisional headquarters located in Upper Gwynedd, The principal market for trading of our Common Pennsylvania and Kenilworth, New Jersey. Our vaccines Stock is the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under business is conducted through divisional headquarters the symbol MRK. As of January 31, 2020, there were located in Upper Gwynedd, Pennsylvania. The Animal approximately 109,500 shareholders of record of the Health headquarters is located in Madison, New Jersey. company’s common stock. Principal U.S. research facilities are located in Rahway and Kenilworth, New Jersey; West Point, Pennsylvania; For more information, please see our 2019 Form 10-K Palo Alto, California; Boston, Massachusetts; South on our corporate website. San Francisco, California; and Elkhorn, Nebraska (Animal Health). MSD ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 10 Employees by region GRI 102-7 Scale of the organization (Core) GRI 102-8 Information on employees and other workers (Core) SASB 000.A Patients treated (#) As of December 31, 2019, the company had approximately 71,000 employees worldwide, with Europe (Western) and Canada approximately 26,000 employed in the United States, 29.8% including Puerto Rico. Approximately 30 percent of worldwide employees of the company are represented Japan by various collective bargaining groups. U.S. Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa 5.0% 35.1% For more information on our global impact, please visit 4.5% our Diversity & Inclusion and Social Investments pages Asia-Pacific on MSDresponsibility.com. Latin America 18.3% 7.4% Workforce 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Number of employees as of December 31, 2019 68,000 68,000 69,000 69,000 71,000 (approximate) People reached through major programs and partnerships 188 293 311 357 422 (estimate in millions)1 1 Represents investments by our Office of Social Business Innovation, including our Office of Corporate Responsibility, MSD for Mothers and our company’s Foundation. MSD ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 11 The Global Sourcing & Procurement and Supplier Our company’s Processes Operations and Strategy GRI 102-9 Supply chain (Core) Management function is responsible for maintaining the (PO&S) Sustainable Sourcing Team is responsible for SASB 260a.1 Methods and technologies used to standards by which suppliers are identified, qualified managing our Environmental Sustainable Sourcing maintain traceability of products and managed. Supplier selection and management program. throughout the supply chain follow a robust sourcing management process, in which environmental sustainability, economic inclusion Utilizing a standardized survey template generated and supplier diversity principles are integrated and maintained by the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Our company manufactures, packages and distributes Initiative (PSCI), we collect information including but products to more than 140 markets around the world. throughout each stage. Throughout the supplier life cycle, our company establishes expectations, assesses not limited to: greenhouse gas, energy, water, supplier Our facilities, along with our external contractors, sustainability programs and goals. suppliers and partners, make up an integrated, risk, supports supplier development and manages interdependent global manufacturing network that performance. is committed to delivering compliant, reliable supply to customers and patients on time, all the time, and Goals Progress Indicator every time. By 2018, we will collect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and GHG and water data collected Achieved Our business goal is to achieve world-class supply in water use data from at least 90 percent of our strategic suppliers from 96% of high-impact delivery, services and quality. We source from suppliers with the highest environmental impact. strategic suppliers globally in the areas of capital equipment and services, direct materials and services, energy, professional services, site and commercial services, IT, marketing By 2020, we will engage with those suppliers and request them to On track On track and research supplies and services. identify GHG emission and water use reduction opportunities. We continue to support the Pharmaceutical Industry By 2025, at least 90 percent of our strategic suppliers with the On track On track Principles for Responsible Supply Chain Management highest environmental impacts will set their own GHG emission (the Principles). The Principles outline industry and water use reduction targets. expectations for external manufacturers and licensees with regard to labor, health, safety, environment, ethics and management systems. The external manufacturers with which we contract are expected to understand and align with the Principles. Furthermore, we are a signatory to the 10 Principles of the United Nations Global Compact. MSD ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 12 Our analysis shows that a large portion of our water use and GHG emissions are generated upstream of our own operations in various tiers of our supply chain. We believe We conduct We seek We expect We realize that in order to make a truly meaningful in developing business with to have a positive companies in our reduction in our overall environmental impact, we must mutually beneficial integrity; we comply impact on the lives business partner engage with our suppliers to drive positive change. relationships with all applicable of our employees, network to do the We have a focus on collaborating with our suppliers to with our business laws, rules and their families and the same. accelerate and enhance environmental initiatives. partners, founded regulations of the communities in which on trust and countries in which we we operate along with Programs and initiatives respect. operate. our suppliers in support We have also initiated a new program designed to of our customers. evaluate our suppliers’ environmental sustainability programs. The GREEN Supplier program requests that selected suppliers provide environmental metrics, environmental certificates and assurance that they can Our Business Partner Code of Conduct, along with our Our supplier assessments include: meet our GREEN Supplier requirements. Suppliers that company’s Supplier Performance Expectations, are are able to complete these three items in the associated communicated to existing and potential third-party • Labor and human rights database are certified as GREEN. suppliers and are included in requests for information, • Anti-bribery and anticorruption proposals and quotes as well as in our purchase• Privacy and data protection Our company’s Economic Inclusion Leadership Council order terms and conditions. We select suppliers that (EILC) is comprised of leaders across the Global Supplier share our commitment to our values and principles, • Environmental, health and safety issues Management and Global Workforce & Enterprise as defined in our Business Partner Code of Conduct • Quality Services who are passionate about making our company and Supplier Expectations Letter. In addition, we • Responsible sourcing of minerals the very best it can be. The role of the EILC members is participate in the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain • Animal welfare to serve as peer-coaches and role models, each having Initiative’s Pharmaceutical Industry Principles and are made significant strides in managing supplier diversity a signatory to the 10 Principles of the United Nations • Information technology to yield business results across their teams and the Global Compact. • Intellectual property enterprise. • Financial solvency We have a defined risk-management process, and our supply base is measured against the process criteria. • Cyber resiliency Supplier and third-party risk management Using a risk-based approach, supplier assessments Supplier and third-party risk management is an Where assessments and audits identify deficiencies and audits are conducted based on multiple factors enterprise-wide effort supported by Global Sourcing or opportunities for improvement, we monitor (e.g., risk profile, engagement and activity type and & Procurement, Supplier Management, the Office of suppliers to ensure that our concerns are addressed geography). The assessments and audits evaluate General Counsel, Ethics & Compliance, Global Quality, in a responsible and compliant manner. As part of a supplier’s ability to meet both industry and Corporate Audit and Assurance, and Environmental our oversight and monitoring, we have established our own standards for quality, safety and ethical Health & Safety. Representatives from each function mechanisms to report, track and monitor supplier plans business practices. Results are reviewed with senior meet regularly to discuss, assess and manage issues to address nonconformance and help drive continued management across the company. on a risk-driven basis. improvement. MSD ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 13 Protecting the privacy of personal information Our SAQ requires suppliers to answer a series of Based on the screening results and activities Some of our suppliers and service providers, such as labor and human rights questions covering a range of undertaken by the supplier, certain external contract research organizations, market research subjects, including freely chosen employment, child manufacturers are subject to a more detailed agencies, information technology systems developers labor, employment practices, employee disclosures, fair onsite assessment conducted by a multidisciplinary and other service providers, process personal treatment, wages, benefits and working hours. team, which may include our company’s Quality, information in connection with their performance of Environmental, Health & Safety, Global Technical Each supplier’s responses are used to judge whether Operations and Global Sourcing & Procurement services for our company. We require these suppliers that supplier has programs and/or procedures in place representatives. and service providers to provide appropriate privacy to address potential risks for labor and human rights protection for personal information that they handle related deficiencies. The external manufacturers we contract with are in accordance with our privacy policies and applicable periodically reassessed using a risk-based approach; privacy laws, regulations and guidelines. Since implementing the Labor and Human Rights higher-risk external manufacturers are subject to program in 2015, we have conducted 234 onsite audits more frequent onsite assessments. We expect that Protecting against cyberattacks and assuring in countries identified as high risk for potential human observations made during the audit process will business continuity rights violations. We track audit-related corrective and be remediated by our external manufacturers, and preventative actions to completion. we monitor and track corrective actions through We recognize that cybersecurity events at third parties pose an increased risk to our business continuity. In completion. No incidents of child labor and/or young workers 2019, our company built a cyber resiliency supplier exposed to hazardous work were reported. For more information on our supply chain, please risk management program, including a Center of visit our Manufacturing & Supply, Quality & Safety Excellence for Governance, assessments of key Additionally, we maintain a “Speak Up” tool Standards, Vaccines, Oncology, Women’s Health, suppliers, and collaborative workshops, to review (MSDethics.com) for any employee, supplier or and Sourcing & Supplier Relations pages on risks and remediation actions. The program fosters business partner to report concerns, including MSDresponsibility.com. mutually beneficial partnerships with our top suppliers. those related to labor and human rights issues. We continue to enhance the program to improve operational excellence and continuous monitoring GRI 102-10 Organizational changes during capabilities. Managing external manufacturers of our the reporting period(Core) products The company maintains strict quality standards — While no significant organizational changes occurred Supplier assessment for labor practices and no matter where in the world our products are in 2019, in February 2020, we announced our intention human rights manufactured. Once we have decided to engage to spin-off products from our women’s health, trusted We have a formal program to evaluate the risks for with an external manufacturer, that manufacturer is legacy brands and biosimilars businesses into an labor and human rights in our supply chain. Prior required to comply with our business requirements independent, publicly traded company. The transaction to contracting, all new direct suppliers (as well as which are set forth in our contract with that supplier, is expected to be completed in the first half of 2021. certain new indirect and research suppliers in specific regardless of geography. geographies) are required to complete and return GRI 102-11 Precautionary principle (Core) a Supplier Self-Assessment Questionnaire (SAQ) Prospective external manufacturers of active for Ethics & Compliance. Pre-existing external pharmaceutical ingredients and finished products manufacturing suppliers and contract manufacturing are screened for environmental, health and safety We take a precautionary approach when evaluating organizations also complete SAQs. (EHS) compliance, in addition to quality and supply and potential human exposures and environmental technical competence requirements. The EHS screening impacts resulting from our manufacturing processes. includes a survey covering such topics as regulatory Conservative assumptions are made when data are compliance, fatalities and major incidents. limited, and safety factors are added to address uncertainty and variability in our assessments. MSD ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 14 This type of approach is particularly relevant to Mandate endorsers have a responsibility to make Clinical research our work in toxicology, industrial hygiene and water-resource management a priority and to work In accordance with our public policy position statement, environmental protection. with governments, UN agencies, nongovernmental all investigational studies in human subjects are organizations, local communities and other interested conducted in a manner consistent with laws, regulations By using more efficient and innovative processing parties to address global water challenges. We are and guidelines for the protection of human subjects, methods and technologies, we are reducing the amount working to identify partnerships that will help us including those issued by the International Council for of energy, water and raw materials we use to make our advance our water stewardship priorities in the areas Harmonisation Good Clinical Practice (ICH GCP). products, thereby minimizing the amount of waste we in which we operate. These projects also support the generate and lowering our production costs. goals of SDG 15, which strives to “protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems.” Animal health We go to great lengths to ensure that our products We encourage proactive vaccination of animals to are designed, made and used in a safe, effective prevent disease and support the responsible use of and environmentally sound manner. We deliver on Human rights antibiotics to treat and improve the health of animals. this commitment by maintaining a highly trained Our company believes in the dignity of every human As a global animal health company, we support the and capable scientific staff and by actively pursuing being and recognizes the international human rights Antibiotic Commitment established by the animal manufacturing process improvements that minimize principles embodied in the United Nations Global health industry. environmental impacts. We have set environmental Compact and as defined in the United Nations Universal sustainability goals to demonstrate this commitment Declaration of Human Rights and its subsequent with concrete targets and timelines. To ensure that changes, the International Covenant on Economic, Privacy our knowledge stays current with that of thought Social and Cultural Rights, the International Covenant We are a member of the International Pharmaceutical leaders and experts in the industry, we also collaborate on Civil and Political Rights, the Organization for Privacy Consortium (IPPC), an association of researchwith external resources and industry groups, such Economic Cooperation and Development Guidelines for based pharmaceutical companies formed in 2002 as the American Chemical Society and the European Multinational Enterprises and the core labor standards that has worldwide responsibility for the protection Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and set out by the International Labor Organization. of personal health information and other types of Associations. personal data. We have been actively involved in the Supply chain IPPC since 2006, in order to engage in a constructive For more information, please visit our Product dialogue with European data-protection authorities Stewardship section on MSDresponsibility.com. Our human rights practices are informed and guided and other regulators on privacy standards for by the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative’s (PSCI’s) biomedical research. Pharmaceutical Industry Principles for Responsible GRI 102-12 External initiatives (Core) Supply Chain Management which set the standard for For more information, please visit our Reporting ethics, labor, health, safety and the environment for Overview, Addressing Barriers to Health, Water, Global Though not an exhaustive list, below are examples of our industry. Diversity & Inclusion, Direct-to-Consumer Advertising, third-party principles and initiatives we have endorsed. Engaging with Health Care Professionals, Sales & Diversity Marketing Practices, Sourcing & Supplier Relations, Water Ensuring Ethical Business Practices, and Human Rights In 2009, we signed onto the United Nations Women’s We have endorsed the UN CEO Water Mandate, a public Empowerment Principles. These principles reflect pages on MSDresponsibility.com. commitment to adopt and implement a comprehensive seven areas of focus designed to promote gender approach to water management, and we have aligned equality in business. our water program with its principles. CEO Water MSD ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 15 GRI 102-13 Membership associations (Core) Through our top three trade associations (listed Strategy on left), we engaged on the following policy issues Our company is a member of numerous industry and in 2019: GRI 102-14 CEO letter (Core) trade groups. We work with these groups because they represent the pharmaceutical industry and business In the U.S., the top issues at the federal level for Please see the letter from our Chairman and CEO on community in debates led by governments and other which our company lobbied were: page 4. stakeholders, and because they help the industry reach consensus on policy issues. • Medicare Part B Our top three trade associations in 2019: • Medicare Part D Ethics & Integrity • International Reference Pricing • Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of • Medicaid Average Manufacturer Price (AMP) cap GRI 102-16 Values, principles, standards, America (PhRMA) and norms of behavior (Core) In the U.S., our company lobbied at the state level • U.S. Chamber of Commerce GRI 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns to address these key issues: • Biotechnology Industry Organization (BIO) about ethics • Market-based solutions for access to innovative SASB 510a.2 Code of ethics governing interactions When our trade associations actively lobby on our core pharmaceutical, vaccine, biologic and animal with health care professionals business issues, we seek to align their positions with health products our own. There are times, however, when we may not • Meaningful price transparency Our company’s Office of Ethics is responsible for share the views of our peers or associations — both on issues that are central to our business and on those • A strong business environment for U.S. ensuring that employees are aware of and trained on that, while important, are not directly material to operations in the states the Code of Conduct and company policies. our mission. With representatives on the boards and • Support for a strong immunization infrastructure The Office of Ethics serves as a channel for the receipt committees of industry groups and trade associations, and investigation of ethics and compliance-related we can voice questions or concerns we may have • Product stewardship/take-back of concerns. Employees are encouraged to raise their about policy or related activities. We may even recuse unused medicines concerns to their management, Human Resources, ourselves from related trade association or industry Compliance, Legal or the Office of Ethics. Throughout group activities when appropriate. In Europe, our advocacy focused on: 2018 and 2019, the Office of Ethics enhanced its global The Corporate Secretary sends an annual report to our • Addressing the European Commission’s review ethics program including the implementation of an company’s Board of Directors on trade association dues of incentives for biopharmaceutical products improved reporting tool operated by an independent greater than $25,000 that were spent in the previous third party, named Speak Up at MSDethics.com. Speak • Fostering frameworks for sound pricing and year on lobbying and political activity in the U.S. The Up at MSDethics.com (formerly theadviceline.com) is procurement regimes in and across diverse EU Governance Committee of the Board of Directors has available 24/7 and allows employees and suppliers to member state economies ongoing oversight of the company’s membership in raise concerns or ask questions confidentially (where trade associations and grassroots lobbying activities. • Supporting government vaccination, hepatitis permitted by law) in their preferred language via phone and diabetes programs or internet. For a list of industry and trade groups of which we are a • Advancing the dialogue for sustainable models member, and our trade association dues (those greater to fund future cancer care In alignment with our priority to protect and enhance than $25,000) that are used for political purposes, our company’s reputation through safe, ethical and • Improving standards for health technology please refer to our corporate website. compliant behaviors, the Office of Ethics added three assessment and health literacy Regional Ethics Officers to their team and established For more information, please visit our Public Policy • Ensuring science-based policies for biological a network of site-based volunteer Ethics Ambassadors page on MSDresponsibility.com. medicines outside of the United States. MSD ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 16 For more information on our approach to ethics, please All of our standing committees are governed by The Office of Corporate Responsibility visit our Code of Conduct and Office of Ethics pages on Board-approved charters, which are available on our The Office of Corporate Responsibility is responsible MSDresponsibility.com. corporate website. Information on our company’s board for raising the visibility of corporate responsibility committees can be found in our company’s 2020 Proxy issues and activities across the company and fosters Statement (pages 15, 20–21). connections across business units and functional areas Governance Six independent directors constitute our company’s to integrate our corporate responsibility principles into business policies, strategies and practices, including Governance Committee. Chaired by Leslie A. Brun, the the enterprise risk management (ERM) process, and GRI 102-18 Governance structure of the company’s lead independent director, the committee brings the voice of external stakeholders into decisionorganization (Core) is responsible for advising the company’s Board of making processes. Directors and management on company policies and GRI 102-19 Delegation of responsibility practices that pertain to the company’s responsibilities The Office of Corporate Responsibility also coordinates GRI 102-20 High-level accountability for as a global corporate citizen, its special obligations as the development, implementation and communication sustainability topics a health care company whose products and services of our global approach and, with strategic guidance GRI 102-21 Access to the board affect health and quality of life around the world, and from the Public Policy and Responsibility Council its commitment to the highest standards of ethics and (PPRC), Executive Committee and the Board GRI 102-22 Composition of the board and its integrity in all of its dealings. committees Governance Committee, is responsible for publishing the annual corporate responsibility report. GRI 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body The Governance Committee has responsibility for overseeing the company’s corporate responsibility and public policy issues. Additional information on the Contacting the Board Kenneth C. Frazier, our company’s chairman of the Governance Committee’s responsibilities can be found The Board of Directors welcomes input from Board and chief executive officer, is the only company in our company’s 2020 Proxy Statement (page 21) or shareholders and other interested parties, and has executive serving on the Board. in its committee charter available on the Corporate established a process to receive these communications. The primary mission of our Board is to represent and Governance page on MSDresponsibility.com. Shareholders and interested parties may communicate protect the long-term interests of our company’s directly with the Board, the independent Lead Director, In addition to the Governance Committee, other the non-management or independent Directors as a shareholders. The Board meets, at minimum, six times Board committees oversee issues indirectly related to group, or other members of the Board by writing to the per year to provide strategic direction and to review our corporate responsibility, such as audit and compliance, following address: progress on a wide variety of measures. executive compensation and research. In overseeing the affairs of the company, including Board of Directors our governance, the Board has established four Merck & Co., Inc. committees, each of which is composed solely of 2000 Galloping Hill Road, K1-4157 independent directors. Kenilworth, NJ 07033 U.S.A. The four committees are: For more information on our approach to governance, please visit the Corporate Governance page on • Audit MSDresponsibility.com. • Compensation and Benefits • Governance • Research MSD ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 17 value, all of which were annualized to reflect a full year Health care professionals GRI 102-24 Board nomination and of service. The total annual compensation for our CEO We are committed to providing appropriate and selection processes was $27,648,475. A reasonable estimation of the ratio balanced information to physicians and other health GRI 102-25 Board conflicts of interest of our CEO’s compensation to our median compensation care providers about our medicines, vaccines and including the change in pension value is 289 to 1; ongoing research. For more information, please visit GRI 102-26 Board and executive roles excluding change in pension value the ratio is 246 to 1. the Engaging With Health Care Professionals page on MSDresponsibility.com. For more information on our Board of Directors, Under the SEC rules, companies may identify the please visit our 2020 Proxy Statement (pages 15–17), median total annual compensation using a wide variety as well as the Corporate Governance page on of methods including reasonable assumptions and Payers MSDresponsibility.com. estimations. It is therefore difficult to compare our We work with payers worldwide to inform their ratio to the ratio of other companies. understanding of the relationship between the prices of GRI 102-29 Board identification of ESG impacts, our products and the true value they deliver to patients For more information, please visit our 2020 Proxy and health care systems. risks, and opportunities Statement (pages 46, 57–60). GRI 102-30 Board ESG review of risk management process Governments, multilateral organizations and regulators GRI 102-32 Report review Stakeholder Engagement We work with policy makers, legislators, multilateral GRI 102-33 Board communication organizations, and governments worldwide to ensure GRI 102-40 Stakeholder engagement (Core) that policy and regulatory environments globally, For information on our board’s involvement with our GRI 102-41 Union representation (Core) nationally, and locally foster patient access to ESG strategy and reporting, as well as how to contact medicines and vaccines, and that they are conducive them, please see GRI 102-19 and GRI 102-20 on GRI 102-42 Stakeholder identification (Core) to ethical business practices, science and innovation. page 17. You may also visit our Corporate Governance GRI 102-43 Approach to stakeholder To learn more, please visit the Public Policy page on page on MSDresponsibility.com. engagement (Core) MSDresponsibility.com. GRI 102-35 Remuneration policies for the board We engage with a diverse group of stakeholders to Shareholders and senior executives more fully understand their needs and expectations, We strive to create shareholder value by identifying GRI 102-36 Process for determining and to gain insights that can inform our efforts to opportunities to meet customer needs and by remuneration improve access to health care and foster progress managing our business responsibly to achieve superior toward solutions that benefit society and support financial results over the long term. To learn more, GRI 102-37 Remuneration shareholder our business. resolutions please visit the Stakeholder Engagement page on MSDresponsibility.com. Patients and caregivers Please see our 2020 Proxy Statement (pages 28, 38–41). We embrace the opportunity to engage with individual Local communities patients, patient advocacy organizations, and We work toward developing culturally appropriate GRI 102-38 CEO/employee pay ratio caregivers to better understand their health care mechanisms to engage and build relationships with journeys, expected outcomes and decision-making our local community stakeholders. To learn more, The median total annual compensation as calculated considerations. For more information on our work with under the Summary Compensation Table requirements please visit the Supporting Our Communities page on patient groups, please visit our Patient Engagement MSDresponsibility.com. was $95,621 comprised of base salary, annual incentive, page on MSDresponsibility.com. savings plan company match and change in pension MSD ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 18 Environmental stakeholders Employee survey 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 We work to reduce the environmental effects of our operations and products and to promote sustainable environmental practices within the company, among Response rate to Voice Survey NA 85% NA 86% NA our partners, and throughout our supply chain. To learn more, please visit the Environmental Sustainability Engagement Index1 (favorable response rate) NA 82% NA 83% NA Overview page on MSDresponsibility.com. Culture Index2 (favorable response rate) NA 72% NA 74% NA Employees NA: Not Administered; the Voice Survey is conducted on a biennial basis. We strive to foster a positive and inclusive working environment for our employees by providing 1 The Engagement Index is a composite that averages scores measured from three aspects: “Engaged,” “Enabled” and “Energized.” resources to improve their health and that of their 2 The Culture Index is a composite that averages scores measured from three aspects: “Customer Focus,” “Reputation and Trust” and “Innovation.” families, opportunities to further their professional development, and ways to get more involved in Union membership1 the communities where they live. To learn more, please visit the Engaging Our Employees page on MSDresponsibility.com. As part of our mission to maintain a satisfying and productive work environment, we routinely survey all employees to learn about their perspectives on 32% the business and on how we are responding to the 29% 29% 30% 30% needs of our global workforce. The Voice Survey, our company’s all-employee opinion survey, is our flagship employee feedback mechanism, and conducted on a biannual basis. 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 1Percentage of employees worldwide represented by an independent trade union or covered by a collective bargaining agreement (approximate) MSD ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 19 Suppliers and business partners 2019 U.S. Pricing Transparency Report year for the past five years. For example, in 2019, the We have a long history of making our medicines and average annual list price across our portfolio increased We strive to engage a diverse supplier base and vaccines accessible and affordable through responsible by 4.3 percent — the lowest increase since 2010 — as to encourage responsible approaches on the part pricing practices and industry‐leading patient access compared with a 5.5 percent increase in 2018. In 2019, of suppliers regarding labor, employment, human programs. In 2017 we began disclosing information on the company’s gross US sales were reduced by 43.7 rights, health and safety, ethics, diversity, and our Corporate Responsibility website about the price of percent as a result of rebates, discounts and returns. protection of the environment. To learn more, please visit the Sourcing & Supplier Relations page on our medicines in the United States. This is our fourth For more information, please visit our Transparency MSDresponsibility.com. consecutive report. It shows an average annual net price Disclosures, Materiality and Affordability pages on increase of 1.8 percent in 2019. MSDresponsibility.com. Trade and industry associations The report also shows that our annual average list price We engage with stakeholders through membership increases across our portfolio have gone down each in numerous organizations. Within these groups, we aim to inform relevant debates in ways that are constructive and that ultimately foster improved U.S. product portfolio1 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 patient access to medicines and vaccines globally. To learn more, please visit the Public Policy page on MSDresponsibility.com. Change vs. prior year2 SASB 240b.2 Percentage change in: (1) average list List price change (WAC)3 9.8% 9.6% 6.6% 5.5% 4.3% price and (2) average net price across U.S. product portfolio compared to Net price 4,5 5.5% 5.5% (1.9%) 2.99% 1.8% previous year SASB 240b.3 Percentage change in: 1) list price and Average discount6 38.2% 40.9% 45.1% 44.3% 43.7% 2) net price of product with largest increase compared to previous year Note: The amount of rebates, discounts and returns is estimated by the company and methodologies used may differ from methodologies used by other companies. This data is not audited and should be read in conjunction with the company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. As part of our materiality assessment, we queried 1 U.S. Product Portfolio includes human health pharmaceutical and vaccine products marketed by the company, excluding partnered products. stakeholders on the topics that they felt were the most The product sales utilized in the analysis represent ~97% of the total US Product Portfolio in 2010 and approached 99.2% of coverage in 2019. important for our company to be addressing going 2 Annual percent change vs. prior year was calculated at a product level and weighted across the company’s US Product Portfolio. forward. A list of these topics can be found in this report under GRI 102-47 on page 21. 3 Represents the year‐over‐year change in the average list price or wholesale acquisition cost (WAC). 4 Represents the year‐over‐year change in average net price, which is WAC less rebates, discounts and returns. 5 In 2017, the average annual net price across our portfolio declined by 1.9 percent, reflecting specific in‐year dynamics, including the impact of loss of patent protection for three major medicines. 6 Weighted average annual discount is calculated by dividing annual rebates, discounts and returns by annual gross sales. MSD ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 20 Reporting Practice We have engaged with our Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) team to integrate our CR having significant financial, operational or reputational impact on the company and illustrates where our Materiality process with the ERM approach with the company can have a significant impact on society and GRI 102-45 Entities included in financial goal to further integrate corporate responsibility the environment. statements (Core) into the overall business strategy. All of the topics on the matrix below are within All of our company’s global operations, including those The materiality matrix shown below represents the the boundaries of our responsibility. For more of subsidiaries, are in scope unless stated otherwise. environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues that information, please visit the Materiality page on It includes activities at all facilities, owned and leased, internal and external stakeholders have identified as MSDresponsibility.com. over which we have operational control, unless otherwise noted. Our prioritized ESG issues Our Prioritized ESG Issues The basis for reporting on other matters specific to the operations of our business — including joint ventures, MEDIUM HIGH VERY HIGH subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations and other entities that can affect comparability from • Labor relations • Clinical trials • Access to health period to period — can be found in our 2019 Form • Data privacy and information • Ethics and compliance 10-K, which is filed with the United States Securities security • Intellectual property VERY HIGH and Exchange Commission and is also available in the • Occupational health and safety • Product quality and safety “Financial Reports” section of our corporate website. • Research and development • Responsible sales and marketing There have been no significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary or measurement methods applied in this report. Data Importance to stakeholders regarding employees who are part of underrepresented ethnic groups are provided for the U.S. only. • Climate change • Antimicrobial stewardship • Diverse and inclusive workplace • Governance • Disease awareness and • Patient and caregiver GRI 102-46 Defining report content and topic • Product stewardship education engagement boundaries (Core) • Water use and management • Human rights • Responsible pricing HIGH • Supply chain responsibility GRI 102-47 Material aspects included (Core) • Transparency and reporting • Waste management In 2018, in response to external expectations for increased levels of transparency in our reporting, we leveraged a third-party’s business-intelligence tool that uses big data and artificial intelligence to conduct • Biodiversity and land • Digital innovation • Employee wellbeing real-time materiality assessments. The materiality stewardship • Counterfeit drugs assessment process provided us an opportunity to • Bioethics • Employment practices MEDIUM listen and engage our many stakeholders, to improve • Community support and • Talent recruitment, retention as an organization, and provided insight into future development and development trends, potential business risks and opportunities that • Energy efficiency influence our ability to create value. Importance to business success MSD ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 21 GRI 102-48 Restatements (Core) Any restatements of information are included in the footnotes beneath the specific performance data tables. GRI 102-49 Reporting changes (Core) There were not significant changes from previous reporting periods. However, we updated our materiality analysis this past year, which is outlined in GRI 102-47 on page 21. GRI 102-50 Reporting period (Core) GRI 102-51 Date of most recent report (Core) GRI 102-52 Reporting cycle (Core) GRI 102-53 Report contact (Core) We report on our corporate responsibility initiatives and progress annually. These disclosures cover the prior calendar year, from January 1 to December 31, 2019. To ensure that readers have the most up-toWhile we did not obtain external verification, we did date information, some of the narrative in the report GRI 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance speak with numerous external stakeholders, representing is about decisions and initiatives that took place in the with the GRI Standards (Core) a variety of constituencies, about the company’s first half of 2020. Our last report was published in 2019. GRI 102-55 GRI content index (Core) planned approach to reporting, our corporate We welcome your feedback on our Corporate responsibility materiality assessment process and the Responsibility Report, as well as any other broad material areas upon which we planned to report. Our company’s online corporate responsibility report comments or questions you may have. You may The company reflects these consultations, where was developed in alignment with the GRI Standards at contact us at the address below, or email us at feasible and appropriate, on our website, and will the Core level. An index for all of our GRI disclosures, corporate_responsibility@msd.com. use the insights gained through these and continuing as well as those for the Sustainability Accounting discussions with stakeholders to inform future reporting. Standards Board (SASB), can be found on page 86. Office of Corporate Responsibility 2000 Galloping Hill Road To view WSP’s limited assurance letter for our GRI 102-56 External assurance (Core) environmental data, please visit our Climate Change & Kenilworth, N.J. 07033 USA. 908-740-4000 Energy Use page on MSDresponsibility.com. WSP conducted an independent third-party review of our 2019 greenhouse gas and water inventories and provided limited assurance for the data that we submit to CDP and for inclusion the Corporate Responsibility Report. MSD ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 22 Economic Financial information 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Sales $39.5B $39.8B $40.1B $42.3B $46.8B Economic Performance Research and development expenses1 $6.8B $10.3B $10.3B $9.8B $9.9B GRI 201-1 Direct economic value generated Number of employees (approximate) 68,000 68,000 69,000 69,000 71,000 and distributed Number of stockholders of record 135,500 129,500 121,700 115,800 110,023 We believe that corporate responsibility is critical to our business success and can provide us with Annual cash dividend paid per share $1.81 $1.85 $1.89 $1.99 $2.26 new opportunities to create shared, or integrated, value — that is, addressing social issues through Global tax expense as reported on income $0.94B $0.72B $4.1B $2.5B $1.7B business solutions. At the most basic level of delivering statement integrated value, our principal economic contribution to society is made through the discovery, development, 1 Excludes restructuring and merger-related expenses. manufacturing and marketing of our products, which directly improve and maintain the health of individuals and communities around the world, helping them to For additional information about our business Impact investing is led by our Office of Social lead more productive lives. and economic performance, please see our Form Business Innovation with guidance from the Impact 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019, on our Investing Committee. Established in 2019, the Impact The effective income tax rates of 14.7 percent in corporate website. Investing Committee is a cross-functional team of 2019 and 28.8 percent in 2018 reflect the impacts of senior company leaders that reviews and approves acquisition and divestiture-related costs, restructuring Impact investing new investments in line with established policies and costs and the beneficial impact of foreign earnings, guidelines and monitors the financial and social returns One of our growing innovative approaches is impact of the impact portfolio. We are also members of the including product mix. investing, through which we are advancing sustainable Global Impact Investing Network (GIIN), through which global health solutions in line with our company’s overall we can contribute to and benefit from the growing body objectives. Through impact investing, we are able to of expertise in the impact investing ecosystem. deploy financial resources in ways that may generate not only improved access to health care for underserved For more information, please visit our Social populations, but also financial returns and commercial Investments page on MSDresponsibility.com. opportunities — all while growing a sustainable global health ecosystem and attracting additional capital and partners. MSD ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 23 GRI 201-2 Financial implications and other risks more than 12,000 metric tons of carbon dioxide from our facilities. For 2020, we have over 60 projects Indirect Economic Impacts and opportunities due to climate in progress that, when completed, will reduce (CR material topic: Responsible pricing) change carbon dioxide emissions from our facilities by over SDG 13 Climate action 36,000 metric tons. Management approach For more information, please see the Climate Change & We are working to bring our medicines and vaccines We believe that climate change could present risks to Energy Use page on MSDresponsibility.com, as well as to more people around the world in ways that are as its business. Some of the potential impacts of climate our response to the CDP Climate Change questionnaire. accessible and affordable as possible for the patients change to its business include increased operating costs who need them. due to additional regulatory requirements, physical GRI 201-3 Benefit plan coverage risks to the company’s facilities, water limitations and While each individual situation varies based on factual disruptions to its supply chain. These potential risks circumstances and market dynamics, generally, are integrated into the company’s business planning Worldwide, our company offers retirement benefits we consider: including investment in reducing energy, water use and that are competitive with those of our peers and greenhouse gas emissions. the general industry in each market we serve. In the • Value provided to patients U.S., for example, we offer a defined benefit pension • Value provided to health care systems We have made it a priority to reduce our demand for plan as well as a 401(k) plan with company matching energy and have established internal policies and contributions. • Unmet need practices focused on reducing energy use at all of • Access our sites and minimizing greenhouse gases (GHG) To assist in financial decision making, we offer all U.S. • R&D sustainability generation throughout the company. By taking these employees comprehensive financial education and guidance through Ernst & Young at no cost. U.S.-based • Competition steps, we are not only minimizing GHG emissions but also reducing our operating costs and mitigating the employees who are at least age 55, and those who have at least 10 years of service after age 401, are eligible for As part of our commitment to transparency, in 2017 business impacts expected to be associated with future we started disclosing information on our Corporate climate change requirements. subsidized medical benefits at retirement. Responsibility website about the price of medicines Outside the U.S., we have more than 80 pension plans across our portfolio in the U.S. through our U.S. Pricing We have an established Energy Capital Fund of up (including defined benefit, cash balance, and defined Transparency Report. to $12 million per year in order to transition to more energy-efficient technology and to better position the contribution plans) in over 40 countries. These plans often supplement government-sponsored social For more information, please see the Affordability page company to respond to energy demands in the future. on MSDresponsibility.com. The Energy Capital Fund supports the implementation security pension benefits to improve employees’ of projects with a simple four-year payback averaged financial security through added retirement income. over the entire portfolio. While benefits may vary by region and country, we offer GRI 203-1 Infrastructure investments and health, life and injury, disability and business travel services supported Since 2015, our sites have completed more than insurance, along with retirement income benefits. In SDG 3 Good health and wellbeing 70 projects through the Capital Fund. This has addition, in many countries, where legally permitted, saved over $6 million per year, averaging a payback including the U.S., we extend health care and various We support capacity building for health systems and of only three years and avoiding the production of insurance benefits to employees’ domestic partners care delivery where our support can make a meaningful 23,000 metric tons of carbon per year. and their partners’ eligible dependent children. difference. We provide this support in several ways, In 2019, we allocated approximately $6.4 million to For more information, please visit the Compensation including through philanthropic social investments, key energy projects. The completed projects will result & Benefits page on our website, or our 2019 Form 10-K initiatives, and impact investing. in $2 million in annual savings and a reduction of (pages 108–114). 1 For certain employees, service before 40 also counts. MSD ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 24 Philanthropic social investments Impact investing For more information, please visit the Social Our social investments through philanthropy address Impact investing is one of our core approaches to Investments, MSD for Mothers, Addressing Barriers to underlying barriers to access to health and help advance strengthening health systems. Through impact Health, and MECTIZAN Donation Program pages on health equity around the world. Our approach to investing, we are able to deploy financial resources MSDresponsibility.com. these investments is guided by several key principles: in ways that may generate not only improved access addressing critical global health needs where we to health care for underserved populations, but also can have a meaningful impact; promoting health financial returns and commercial opportunities — all equity by addressing health disparities in vulnerable, while growing a sustainable global health ecosystem underserved communities; collaborating with diverse and attracting additional capital and partners. partners to build healthier, stronger communities; and leveraging our range of resources (financial, product, and expertise) to achieve greater impact on population Addressing barriers to health 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 health outcomes. Health care workers trained through major programs and 19,000 32,000 74,000 67,000 68,000 In addition to our targeted philanthropy, we have made partnerships (estimate)1 substantial contributions to strengthening health systems through long-standing key initiatives that Annual investment in partnerships, programs and impact $21 $28 $40 $37 $63 address significant gaps and barriers to health care investments that support health care capacity-building and access. Two prominent examples are MSD for Mothers address underlying barriers to access to health (in millions)1 and the MECTIZAN® Donation Program. People reached through investment in partnerships, 188 293 311 357 422 Key initiatives programs and impact investment that support health care MSD for Mothers is our company’s $500 million global capacity-building and address underlying barriers to access initiative focused on strengthening health systems to health1 (estimate in millions) to sustain the delivery of high-quality maternity care services that benefit women and their communities. Percentage of investment in partnerships and programs to NR NR NR NR 10% With our partners, we are improving health systems strengthen health care capacity and address barriers to for women today and for the long term by advancing access, that is allocated to impact evaluation2 quality standards, helping make life-saving products available and generating evidence. Investment in patientand provider-education programs $80 $80 $90 $115 $102 The MECTIZAN Donation Program is the longest(in millions) running disease-specific drug donation program and public-private partnership of its kind and is widely NR: Not reported regarded as one of the most successful public-private 1 R  epresents investments by our Office of Social Business Innovation, including our Office of Corporate Responsibility, MSD for Mothers and our health collaborations in the world. In addition to company’s Foundation. providing direct access for communities in need of 2 Percentage calculated based on total investments in partnerships and programs to strengthen health care capacity and address barriers to access supported through our company’s Foundation. treatment, the program has made significant impacts on health systems in some of the hardest to reach communities. The development of CDTI (communitydirected treatment with ivermectin) programs has trained community volunteers to distribute medicines and the system now is also used to distribute other health interventions. MSD ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 25 In addition, we are helping to improve access to insurance programs often do not exist or are limited. GRI 203-2 Indirect economic impacts new medicines and vaccines, address deep-rooted As a result, patients in these countries frequently must SASB 240a.1 Access to health care for priority and multifaceted barriers to access, and, through pay the price of medicines out of pocket, a particularly diseases and in priority countries partnerships and public policy, advocate for health care daunting ask for families living near or below the capacity strengthening in ways that are aligned with poverty line. SASB 240a.2 Products on WHO’s List of our business mission and core capabilities. Prequalified Medicinal Products Therefore, we develop and support various sustainable SDG 3 Good health and wellbeing Our enterprise-wide approach to access is guided by our strategies to improve access in lowand middle-income Access to Health Guiding Principles and is responsive countries, including directing differential pricing to internationally recognized standards and priorities. to patient sub-segments, either directly through While the primary responsibility for managing a health Recognizing the significant access barriers that exist national or local programs or indirectly through thirdsystem that ensures the health of its citizens resides within sub-Saharan African countries in particular, we party health care funding sources that demonstrate with government, pharmaceutical companies have a are also committed to a specific set of principles to reasonable and secure product distribution to intended substantial role to play in working with governments guide our strategy in the region. patient segments and subject to applicable legal to ensure the health of their citizens. As we pursue our requirements. core mission of inventing, developing and delivering Strategies and actions to enable access are embedded medicines and vaccines, we have an ethical duty to across our company. Our Access to Health Guiding support governments in their efforts to protect the Principles span the areas of research and development, right to health by “doing no harm.” manufacturing, marketing and commercialization, and philanthropic investments. We do this in several ways, including: In lowand middle-income countries, in particular, we • Monitoring and reporting on the safety of recognize access to and funding for health care can be our products limited. While major public health programs in these • Providing health care workers and consumers with countries that focus on health priorities such as HIV/ important information on the benefits and side AIDS, malaria, tuberculosis and routine immunization effects of our products are heavily subsidized by the government through • Safeguarding the health, safety and privacy of international organizations and private funding, health patients involved in our clinical trials MSD ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 26 Affordability 2019 Number of countries where dedicated affordability solutions have been initiated* 40 People reached globally through product donation and patient assistance programs and partnerships1 404M (estimate)* Number of patents filed in low-income countries, as defined by The World Bank in its country and 0 lending groups classifications (annual)* * New key performance indicators (KPI) reported in 2019 to support refreshed Access to Health Guiding Principles. 1 Estimate includes product donations through our company’s Office of Corporate Responsibility and patient assistance programs. Grants and contributions 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Grants and contributions $1.8B $2.2B $2.7B $2.8B $3.1B (total cash, in-kind and product) Cash grants and contributions $133M $117M $94M $84M $82M Product donations through U.S. Patient Assistance $567M $798M $1.1B $1.2B $1.5B Programs Product donations for ex-U.S. programs and U.S. $1.1B $1.3B $1.5B $1.4B $1.5B disaster relief 1 1 Includes our Medical Outreach Program (including U.S. disaster relief), the African Comprehensive HIV/AIDS Partnerships (2015-2016 only), the MECTIZAN® Donation Program, and MSD division and subsidiary donations. 2 Includes valuation of volunteer time for only those employees who participated in the MSD Fellowship for Global Health program and our company’s Pro Bono Legal and other skills-based volunteer programs. MSD ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 27 Women’s health Women’s health products IMPLANON NXT® EXLUTON® MARVELON 28® We are committed to making our contraceptive products available to women around the world. We take a comprehensive approach to access that includes highProduct is WHO prequalified Yes Yes Yes quality manufacturing and supply chain management, extensive registration and WHO prequalification for FP2020 countries where product is registered1, 2 43 26 23 a variety of our family-planning products, responsible commercialization that promotes training and capacityFP2020 countries in which we supplied product1 32 6 6 building, policy advocacy and community investment. In developing countries that have high rates of maternal Women reached in FP2020 countries1, 3 5,246,000 4,921,000 1,816,000 mortality and low rates of contraceptive prevalence, we have created a sustainable public-private partnership 1 Family-planning products intended for underserved segments of the world’s poorest countries — Family Planning 2020 countries 2 There are additional unregulated markets where our products may be available that are not represented by these numbers. model, with first-quality products made available at 3 Number represents potential number of women who could be reached based on number of products provided. access pricing to promote access to contraceptive health programs. These activities are focused primarily on sub-Saharan Africa and countries in Asia and Latin IMPLANON NXT in FP2020 Markets1, 2 2019 America with high unmet need. Demographic impacts The following metrics are for our family-planning products intended for underserved segments of the world’s poorest countries (defined as Family Planning Unintended pregnancies averted 6M 2020 [FP2020] countries) that are supplied through the public sector and social-marketing organizations. Live births averted 3M For World Bank country classifications, please visit the Abortions averted 2.2M World Bank website. Though the numbers of product supplied are Health impacts substantial, the impact of these supplies are even more significant. As an example, the potential impact Maternal deaths averted 14,000 of the volumes of IMPLANON NXT supplied to FP2020 countries in 2019 are reflected by the Child deaths averted 111,000 following table (data reflects estimates, based on the MSI Impact 2 v5 tool). Unsafe abortions averted 1.7M 1 The figures above are estimates, based on the full-service lifespan (2.7 years) impacts. These estimates are based on 2019 supplies (5,053,090 units), using the Impact 2 v5 tool (2016) provided by Marie Stopes International (MSI). 2 Family-planning products intended for underserved segments of the world’s poorest countries — Family Planning 2020 countries MSD ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 28 Product registration Below is a list of products that have been prequalified In addition to having our medicines and vaccines by WHO as of April 15, 2020. approved by stringent regulatory authorities, when relevant to enhancing access in lowand middle-income Product International Nonproprietary Name (INN) Date of prequalification countries, we also work to have certain medicines and vaccines prequalified through the World Health Family planning Organization (WHO) prequalification process. MARVELON 28® Ethinylestradiol + Desogestrel October 2010 WHO prequalification can facilitate product procurement by international procurement agencies. EXLUTON® Lynestrenol June 2010 WHO’s prequalification program covers medicines for HIV, tuberculosis (TB), malaria, neglected tropical IMPLANON NXT® Etonogestrel May 2013 diseases, influenza, reproductive health and diarrhea, in addition to vaccines. In the absence of reliable Vaccines national medicine authorities that can certify health care products meet required quality, safety and MMR-II® Measles, Mumps, Rubella Virus Vaccine Live December 2008 efficacy standards, stringent regulatory authority and WHO prequalification can serve as a basis for quality ROTATEQ® Rotavirus Vaccine, Live, Oral, Pentavalent October 2008 assurance for procurement by international agencies and national programs in lower-income countries. GARDASIL® Human Papillomavirus Quadrivalent (Types 6, 11, 16, 18) Vaccine, May 2009 We have made efforts to address the unique needs Recombinant (including a VVM) of low-income countries where the infrastructure and personnel to deliver immunization services can GARDASIL® Human Papillomavirus Quadrivalent (Types 6, 11, 16, 18) Vaccine, October 2014 be severely limited. A specific emphasis has been Recombinant (two-dose regimen to support its programmatic on making improvements to products in a way feasibility in developing countries) that make them compatible to the Programmatic Suitability Criteria for vaccines candidates for WHO GARDASIL® Human Papillomavirus Quadrivalent (Types 6, 11, 16, 18) Vaccine, May 2016 Prequalification (PSPQ). These features include vaccine Recombinant (compatibility for use in a controlled temperature vial monitors (VVMs), the acceptability of a two-dose chain to facilitate its administration in high-temperature, lowregimen for HPV vaccines and use in controlledcold-chain infrastructure areas of developing countries) temperature-chain conditions. GARDASIL®9 Human Papillomavirus Quadrivalent (Types 6, 11, 16, 18) Vaccine, February 2018 In order to make our products available to the people Recombinant (including a two-dose-regimen variation) who need them throughout the world, we registered 97 products and devices in 2019. The majority of these VARIVAX® Varicella Virus Vaccine Live (first varicella vaccine to receive February 2018 products were registered in lowand middle-income WHO prequalification) countries in the Asia-Pacific, Central and Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa, and Americas regions. ERVEBO® Ebola Zaire Vaccine, Live November 2019 In November 2019, ERVEBO, our Live Ebola Zaire HIV/AIDS treatments Vaccine, was prequalified by the WHO. ERVEBO’s prequalification was the fastest vaccine prequalification STOCRIN® Efavirenz (600mg tablet, Oral Solution 30mg) May 2006 process ever conducted by WHO and a critical step Efavirenz (50mg tablet, 200mg tablet) May 2008 in providing access to our vaccine to individuals in countries most at risk of Ebola outbreaks. MSD ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 29 Product registration 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 New product and device registrations (annual) 1,2,3 156 143 143 124 97 Products submitted that have achieved WHO 11 11 13 13 13 prequalification (cumulative) 4 Number of patent applications filed in low-income NR NR NR NR 0 countries5 NR: Not reported 1 Data include new products and new indications. 2 For information on new registrations by region, visit our Clinical Research section. 3 Data for all years have been updated based on a tracking system upgrade that corrected miscounts in prior years. 4 CRIXIVAN® (indinavir sulfate) was removed from our product list in 2019 and is no longer included in the total number of products that have achieved WHO. 5 Countries classified as low-income countries in the 2019 World Bank Country and Lending Group classifications. Medicine Assistance Tool Patient assistance programs summary 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 As a demonstration of our commitment to helping low-income, uninsured patients gain access to our medicines and adult vaccines, we also participate in Patients utilizing our U.S. Patient Assistance Programs1 293,000 306,000 244,000 233,000 239,000 PhRMA’s Medicine Assistance Tool (MAT), formerly known as the Partnership for Prescription Assistance 30-day prescriptions filled 1.6M 1.7M 2.1M 2.1M 2.2M (PPA). MAT is a search engine designed to help patients, caregivers and health care providers learn 1 Totals represent 2015–2019 volumes of our U.S. Patient Assistance Program. more about access resources available through the various biopharmaceutical industry programs. MAT helps eligible patients get free or nearly free GRI 205: Anticorruption We have a well-established global ethics and compliance program that is consistent with the International brand name medicines through a single website that (CR material topic: Ethics and compliance) Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers & provides information for and access to more than Associations (IFPMA) Code of Practice requirements, 500 public and private patient assistance programs, as well as with other applicable regional or country including approximately 200 programs offered by Management approach industry codes of conduct, including those issued by biopharmaceutical companies. To date, this tool has As part of our long-standing commitment to ethics the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of helped millions of Americans get free or reduced-cost and good corporate citizenship, we adopt policies and America (PhRMA) and the European Federation of prescription medicines. procedures that facilitate compliance with the laws and Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA). regulations that govern the way we market and sell our For more information, please visit our Women’s medicines, vaccines and other products. Health, Product Registration, U.S. Patient Assistance Programs, Vaccines, HIV/AIDS and Product Pricing pages on MSDresponsibility.com. MSD ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 30 Our company’s Board of Directors and senior Office of Ethics Code of Conduct and policies. Our company maintains management, including the Chief Ethics and Our company’s Office of Ethics was established over and communicates regularly to employees about Compliance Officer and members of the Corporate 20 years ago to protect and promote the company’s the multiple channels (i.e., management, Human Compliance Committee, provide the foundational values and standards on a global basis by developing Resources, Compliance, Legal, Speak Up tool at elements of leadership, accountability and structure and overseeing initiatives designed to deter illegal, MSDethics.com) that are available. Employees are to oversee the company’s global ethics and unethical and improper behavior related to the encouraged, prepared and empowered to raise compliance program. company’s business. The Office of Ethics is responsible concerns. for ensuring that employees are aware of and trained on The Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer reports We are committed to maintaining a process for the Code of Conduct and company policies. directly to our company’s CEO and provides regular escalation and investigation of potential complianceupdates to the Audit Committee of the Board of Throughout 2018 and 2019, in alignment with our related concerns. The process is designed to ensure Directors on key indicators of ethical culture. This priority to protect and enhance our company’s that we promptly investigate all reports of behavior reporting structure supports open communications reputation through safe, ethical and compliant that violate our company’s policies, values or standards with senior leadership regarding important behaviors, the Office of Ethics added three Regional and take appropriate remedial action in response to developments that relate to ethics and compliance. Ethics Officers to its team and established a network such concerns. of site-based volunteer Ethics Ambassadors outside of Our company’s robust anti-bribery/anticorruption When we substantiate allegations of ethical the United States. program and corporate prevention of bribery and misconduct, we take appropriate disciplinary actions corruption policy give our employees the awareness Additionally, the Office of Ethics implemented an to ensure that those who were responsible are held and knowledge to comply with applicable laws and improved reporting tool operated by an independent accountable. regulations, and to understand that the company will third party. The tool, named Speak Up (formerly not tolerate any act of impropriety. Our activities must Disciplinary actions can include dismissal from the theadviceline.com), is available at MSDethics.com, comply with company policies as well as applicable laws, company, issuance of final written warning letters or can be accessed 24/7, and allows employees to raise including the laws of the U.S. and other countries in financial penalties. In addition, we take appropriate concerns or ask questions confidentially (where which we do business. steps to address any needed improvements in permitted by law) in their preferred language via organizational and process controls. phone or internet. Our program prohibits the offer, promise or giving of any payment or benefit at any time to an individual Retaliation against employees who report such or entity for the purpose of improperly influencing GRI 205-2 Communications and training on concerns is a violation of corporate policy and will not be decisions or actions with respect to our business. anticorruption tolerated. This policy applies to direct engagements (e.g., those conducted by our company) as well as to indirect The Office of Ethics and the Office of Global We also maintain a policy that will give our company engagements (e.g., those managed through a thirdInvestigations are responsible for oversight of the the discretion to recoup incentive payments made to party intermediary or partner). global processes for managing investigations into employees in certain instances. This policy will apply potential ethics and compliance concerns to ensure when a senior leader engages in misconduct or fails We conduct anti-bribery/anticorruption training consistent and timely resolution of potential concerns to reasonably supervise an employee who engages in across the company. Supplemental training is also and implementation of remediation actions. misconduct that results in a material policy violation provided for employees who engage with non-U.S. relating to the research, development, manufacturing, government officials. It is our company policy to maintain a work environment sales or marketing of company products where where all employees are expected to report concerns the policy violation causes significant financial or that are potentially inconsistent with the company’s reputational harm to the company. MSD ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 31 Annual ethics and policy certification Ethics and conflicts of interest 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 An important component of our corporate ethics and compliance program is our annual ethics and policy certification. The annual review process requires Employees trained on the Code of Conduct 99% 100% 100% 99% 99% selected company employees to certify adherence to training series corporate policies on preventing bribery and corruption, antitrust-law compliance, and conflict of interest and Employees who responded to the disclosure 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% insider trading. These employees are also expected to statement on the Conflicts of Interest form regulate their outside activities to avoid any conflicts of interest, and to certify, in writing, whether actual or potential conflicts of interest exist. For more information, please visit the Code of U.S. Medical Forums Conduct, Compliance, and Engaging With Health Care We deliver balanced medical and scientific information Where potential conflicts are identified, the Office Professionals pages on MSDresponsibility.com. of Ethics will work with management to take actions to health care professionals within the U.S. through to mitigate the potential conflict. In addition, all our company’s Medical Forums, which are conducted U.S.-based employees must certify compliance with Continuing Medical Education (CME) and by external speakers. Speakers are selected on the our corporate policy on the effects of exclusions, Continuing Education (CE) programs basis of their expertise in the relevant subject matter. debarments, suspensions and health care-related Our CME/CE Grant Program supports independent By attending one of our Medical Forums, health care criminal convictions, reporting and screening. educational programs whose purpose is to maintain, professionals participate in interactive learning on develop or enhance the knowledge, skills and/or therapeutic and health care industry topics. The goal Ethics and compliance training is an important part of professional performance that health care professionals of these interactions is to help attendees achieve creating a strong culture, and our program is reflective rely on to provide services for patients, the public or improved medical results for their patients. of the Code of Conduct and corporate policies tailored the profession. We are committed to ensuring that our to meet the needs of different groups of employees With our strict standards for conducting these CME/CE programs are educational and not promotional. within the organization. Medical Forums, we comply with the PhRMA Code Through them, we seek to increase physicians’ on Interactions with Health Care Professionals as knowledge about the latest scientific data and health Training on our Code of Conduct is designed as an well as with U.S. Food and Drug Administration care topics, thereby improving patient care. annual training series that is assigned to all employees (FDA) regulations, which assure that any product worldwide. All employees are required to complete the The environment in which we sponsor or support presentation is appropriately balanced with information assigned ethics and compliance courses. The series educational programs worldwide is complex, governed regarding both the product’s potential benefits and its is focused on our core values: Patients First, Ethics by a multitude of laws, regulations and medical or risks, and is consistent with approved product labeling. & Integrity, Respect for People, and Innovation & industry association guidelines. We are committed to Scientific Excellence. honoring them in the countries in which we operate. The 2019 series consisted of three modules including CME programs that we support or sponsor are Code of Conduct, Anti-Bribery and Anticorruption, and governed by an internal policy that is aligned with Social Media. the appropriate standards and regulations to which the programs are held including, among other things, Ethics and compliance content is also integrated into independence and financial disclosure. business and leadership development courses for managers and senior leaders on an ongoing basis. Ethics and integrity are key leadership competencies that are assessed as part of annual performance reviews and play an integral role in our decisions about employee advancement within the company. MSD ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 32 GRI 206: In some countries, where permitted by law, we may directly inform patients and other consumers about • Our employees are prohibited from offering health care professionals items of personal benefit, such as Anti-Competitive Behavior diseases and available treatments that they may wish tickets to sporting events, support for office social to discuss with their doctors. We believe direct-toevents or gift certificates for stores or golf outings. (CR material topic: Responsible sales and marketing) consumer advertising contributes to greater awareness Where permitted, we may occasionally provide health about conditions and diseases, which can benefit care professionals with approved educational items Management approach public health by increasing the number of patients that are not of substantial monetary value and that appropriately diagnosed and treated. are intended primarily for educational purposes. Such We adhere to strict ethical sales and marketing materials may include medical textbooks, medical practices in all our businesses, whether journals and anatomical models. pharmaceuticals, vaccines or animal health. Fostering ethical practices We believe that our marketing, sales and advertising • Our employees and others speaking on behalf of One of the ways we provide product information is activities make an important contribution to medicine the company may give presentations specifically by maintaining informative and ethical professional by informing our customers of treatment options based designed to provide the type of information that relationships with health care providers. on the most recent scientific information and findings practicing health care professionals have indicated from rigorous clinical studies. is needed and most useful in the treatment of their Our interactions with providers, other customers and patients, in accordance with U.S. Food and Drug consumers are governed by laws and regulations, and Our sales and marketing practices are governed by Administration (FDA) regulations and the regulations by our long-standing global Code of Conduct, Our Values external laws and regulations and industry codes of of other countries in which the presentations or & Standards. We enforce these external and internal conduct, and by our own global Code of Conduct, discussions are taking place standards through our ethics and compliance program. our corporate policies and procedures, and our ethics • A company representative may offer occasional and compliance program. modest meals to health care professionals in We recognize that both our reputation for connection with an informational presentation; integrity and the trust that our stakeholders Our ethics and compliance program seeks to address however, such meals must be in accordance with local place in us are dependent on our ethical practices. and prevent inappropriate practices, and we evaluate codes and regulations Consequently, we want to make certain that the our policies and practices as appropriate. Our practices ways in which we market and sell our products to our are monitored, and compliance is enforced to ensure For more information, please visit the Sales & customers — health care professionals, health insurers that our interactions with customers and consumers Marketing Practices page on MSDresponsibility.com. and governments — include accurate, balanced and help inform their decisions accurately and in a balanced useful information so that prescribers can make the manner. We believe that compliance with all policies GRI 206-1 Anti-competitive behavior best decisions for their patients. governing scientific, business and promotion-related activities, in letter and spirit, is a corporate and Our high ethical sales and marketing standards require As a condition of employment, all of our sales and individual responsibility of the highest order. Through that scientific information is the predominant factor marketing employees are required to be certified our ethical behavior, we strive to ensure that scientific in prescribing decisions, reinforcing our reputation for periodically on sales and marketing practices. information predominates in prescribing decisions. providing high-quality products and for contributing to improvements in public health. In the U.S., for example, employees who do not Our Guiding Principles for Ethical Business Practices satisfactorily meet these training requirements may Involving the Medical and Scientific Community include Our professional sales representatives and other not conduct specific activities on their own and must the following: employees inform our customers about our medicines repeat the training until they meet the requirements. and vaccines and their appropriate use. To respond • We provide current, accurate and balanced to increasing requests for on-demand information, All new employees receive training and testing and information about our products; we share sound in certain countries we offer resources and product must be certified on relevant policies and our company’s scientific and educational information; and we information to health care providers on company ethical operating standards. And although many of support medical research and education websites and other digital platforms. MSD ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 33 our employees who market and sell our medicines and In addition to mandatory training on our Code of conduct such as the IFPMA, the European Federation vaccines have advanced scientific or medical degrees Conduct, employees receive training on other levels of of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA) and backgrounds, all of our sales representatives must business practice and compliance, according to their and PhRMA codes set the standards that govern the complete general sales and product training. Training roles and responsibilities. We evaluate and update the industry’s sales and marketing practices and ensure is specific to the country where an employee is based content for all marketing and sales training periodically that companies have adequate policies and procedures and covers the scope of the employee’s responsibilities to ensure that it remains relevant and current. in place to comply with the codes. in ensuring compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Among PhRMA’s Code on the Interactions with Industry codes of conduct Healthcare Professionals (the Code) key components Sales representatives are trained on anti-bribery Our sales representatives must provide truthful, is an annual requirement for company CEOs and Chief and anticorruption laws such as the U.S. Foreign non-misleading information in their interactions Compliance Officers to certify personally that they Corrupt Practices Act and the UK Bribery Act. Sales with the medical and scientific community. Our have processes in place that foster compliance with the representatives in the U.S. are also required to compliance program is consistent with applicable laws Code. The Code also encourages companies to obtain understand, among other things, their responsibilities and regulations, and is aligned with the International third-party verification of their compliance policies and under the Anti-Kickback Statute, the U.S. Prescription Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers & procedures. We complete PhRMA Code certification Drug Marketing Act, and all applicable FDA promotional Associations (IFPMA) Code of Pharmaceutical every year in compliance with the Code. regulations. Marketing Practices, as well as with regional and country industry codes, such as the Pharmaceutical Other requirements of the Code have previously After this initial training, we require periodic training Research and Manufacturers of America (PhRMA) been incorporated into our already strong ethical aimed at recertifying employees on relevant policies Code and the Compliance Program Guidance for business practices. For example, our company follows and practices in accordance with local and functional Pharmaceutical Manufacturers, published by the Office the standards for commercial support of continuing requirements. of the Inspector General, U.S. Department of Health medical education established by the Accreditation and Human Services. Council for Continuing Medical Education, and our We stress that if our employees are unsure about ethics and compliance program requires that company the appropriateness of the conduct that they ask The pharmaceutical industry as a whole recognized representatives be periodically assessed to make for help. There are several places employees can that more needed to be done to address concerns sure they comply with relevant company policies and turn for assistance. The first option is to talk with raised by public officials and stakeholders in the health standards of conduct. their manager. If they do not feel comfortable care community. Self-regulating industry codes of with that course of action, the other resources they may contact are: Sales and marketing 2015 2016 2017 2019 2019 • Divisional Compliance Departments • Office of Ethics Number of warning letters or untitled letters 0 0 0 0 0 • Privacy Office from OPDP1 or APLB2 in the U.S. • Office of General Counsel 1O PDP: Since September 2011, the Division of Drug Marketing, Advertising and Communication (DDMAC) is now the Office of Prescription Drug • Human Resources Department Promotion (OPDP). • MSDethics.com 2 APLB: Advertising and Promotional Labeling Branch (APLB) of the FDA Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research. MSD ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 34 Direct-to-consumer (DTC) advertising We adhere to updated 2019 PhRMA guidelines that all physicians and other prescribers about a new product We believe that direct-to-consumer (DTC) advertising DTC television advertising that identifies a medicine for an appropriate period of time before starting can be an important and helpful way to inform patients by name should include direction as to where patients product-specific DTC broadcast advertising in the U.S. about diseases that may be relevant to them and about can find information about the cost of the medicine, such as a company-developed website, including the list These principles and our practices are reflected in the therapeutic options they may want to discuss with their price and average, estimated, or typical patient out-ofPhRMA Guiding Principles on Direct-to-Consumer physicians. pocket costs, or other context about the potential Advertisements about Prescription Medicines. Our company has a long-standing policy of voluntarily cost of the medicine. In addition, we include information on our U.S. Patient Assistance Program in all new For more information, please visit the Sales & submitting new U.S.-based DTC advertising campaigns U.S.-based DTC print and television advertisements for Marketing Practices and Direct-to-Consumer to the FDA for its review and comment before running eligible products. Advertising pages on MSDresponsibility.com. them. Under our DTC policies and practices, the information provided in our DTC advertising must: We inform and educate health care professionals about • Contain appropriate product benefit and risk our products before we advertise them to consumers. information We implement comprehensive programs to educate • Be appropriately balanced, consistent with FDA regulations, and use appropriate “taste and tone” • Be approved by our company’s Promotion Review Team, a governing body consisting of a team of reviewers (including the job owner, an attorney, a physician, a representative from the Office of Promotion and Advertising Review, and a product scientific specialist) who ensure that promotional material is clinically and scientifically accurate, compliant with applicable laws and regulations, and compliant with company policy We try to help consumers achieve better health outcomes by delivering accurate, relevant and understandable information on disease prevention, identification and potential treatment. To remain true to this goal, we adhere to the letter and spirit of U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) regulations and guidelines governing DTC promotion, meet or exceed all Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America (PhRMA) guidelines on DTC advertising, and follow a comprehensive set of internal policies and practices when engaging in DTC advertising within the U.S. MSD ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 35 Environmental Goal Progress Indicator Materials and packaging GRI 301: Materials 100 percent of the packaging for our new human health products will be reviewed for environmental impact and improvement. 100% of products launched in 2019 Achieved The materials we use for our finished products serve a range of important purposes; the foremost purpose is to protect the purity, efficacy and physical integrity Packaging For cleaning our manufacturing equipment, we use We have adopted “Design for Environment” guidelines water-based methods where they are as effective as of the product. Packaging also provides the customer that help our engineers design new product packages solvents. At each of our manufacturing sites, we have with information and convenience, the pharmacist or that are better for the environment by minimizing engineers who are responsible for identifying and provider with accurate dispensing information at the package sizes and using more environmentally friendly driving process-improvement projects. When it is not point of purchase, and our business with marketing materials, where possible. practical to reuse regenerated solvents in our own value. For some products, packaging also serves safety production processes, we either work with suppliers functions such as child resistance and tampering We have set a target to review all of our new human who recover the spent solvents for resale to other evidence. health packaging designs prior to launch to understand industries, or safely burn them as a source of energy. In addition to these critical functions that packaging and minimize environmental impacts as much as Any used solvents that leave our site as hazardous must perform, there is the consideration of the possible, while still providing adequate protection of waste are managed at offsite facilities that are on our environmental impact of the materials we use. After it our products. list of approved waste management sites. has served its critical function(s), packaging becomes our customer’s waste, and therefore we must take this To help us evaluate the differences in environmental Chemical management into account in our designs. impacts between packaging options, we use a simplified A comprehensive and effective chemical management life-cycle assessment (LCA) tool that provides program is critical to the safety and protection of our We continue to monitor global trends around material information on the environmental impacts generated employees, the communities in which we operate and use such as the New Plastics Economy, and around how by the materials used in our packaging. The tool helps the environment. we might incorporate “circular economy” concepts into us to make informed decisions as to which materials are the critical functions of packaging for pharmaceuticals. better for the environment. We have put procedures, systems and processes in It is unclear how these trends will ultimately impact place to manage the approval, procurement, inventory, our mission to deliver medicines, however, these are Solvent use receipt, transfer, storage, use and disposal of chemicals important signals of a changing external approach to at all of our sites. We provide our employees and others Solvents play a key role in the manufacturing of our the use and recovery of specific materials like fiberwith information about the identities and potential products, as well as in equipment cleaning. Because based products, plastics such as PVC, metals and hazards of the chemicals in our operations and final of their significance to our business and the lifeothers. products through proper labeling of chemicals and the cycle impact they represent, we focus on designing our processes to minimize or avoid their use where creation of safety data sheets. Governance practical. Where we do use solvents, we maximize efficiency, and control them in our emissions, For more information, please visit the Materials Packaging and design is managed by the Global effluents and waste. & Packaging, Waste Management, Product Pharmaceutical Commercialization area of the company Stewardship, Pharmaceuticals in the Environment and and with oversight from the Environmental Health and We have an active Green & Sustainable Science Nanotechnology pages on MSDresponsibility.com. Safety Council. program to design our new processes using fewer solvents and other hazardous materials, and to reuse and recycle more of the solvents we do use. MSD ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 36 GRI 302: Energy In addition, we will continue to optimize systems, consolidate excess facility space when possible, shift Facilities We continuously strive to make our facilities energyAs a global biopharmaceutical company, we recognize power supplies to combined heat and power systems efficient. Our Energy CoE has created an “energy the important role we play in identifying, adapting and and utilize renewable energy sources. road map” to help our facilities reduce energy demand responding to the public health risks associated with and associated GHG emissions. The energy road Our company has launched initiatives around the climate change, such as threats to clean air and water, map’s foundation includes large-scale metering and world to improve energy use, reduce GHG emissions insufficient food supplies and the spread of disease. We monitoring to assess and identify opportunities from our operations and understand our supply chainbelieve our long-standing support of stronger health for continuous improvement. As facility energy related impacts. systems in underserved areas is even more important management programs mature, energy savings are given the evidence that certain disease patterns are Our Energy Center of Excellence (CoE) identifies, shares sought by improving the reliability of the equipment, associated with changing climate conditions. and standardizes best practices, and prioritizes the by the efficient operation of utility systems and by funding of energy projects to reduce energy use across building efficiencies into systems design. Our Energy Management Standard requires responsible the company. Our manufacturing facilities, warehouses, and efficient energy management and associated All our new facilities are required to comply with our laboratories, major offices and vehicle fleet are the greenhouse gas (GHG) emission reductions. Energy Design Guide and Energy Conservation Planner. primary targets of our energy-demand-reduction If we purchase a facility, it is evaluated for energy Energy demand reduction and efficiency will always programs, as they represent the majority of our energy efficiency and assessed against our energy scorecard as be part of our energy management strategy and will consumption. part of its integration into our company. positively impact our efforts to reduce our global We have an established Energy Capital Fund of up footprint. All new laboratories, offices and major renovations to $12 million per year in order to transition to more are built following cost-effective and energy-efficient Utilization of renewable energy is a growing energy-efficient technology and to better position the practices and are designed to meet Leadership in expectation of industry. The advance in renewables company to respond to energy demands in the future. Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) Silver technology, incentives through legislation and The Energy Capital Fund supports the implementation certification at a minimum or the comparable comparison with conventional technology and fuel of projects with a simple four-year payback averaged country standard. prices have grown the industry and created a robust over the entire portfolio. renewable energy market. • Our China Head Office is certified as LEED Gold • Since 2015, our sites have completed more than 70 projects through the Capital Fund. This has • Our new South San Francisco, CA office was certified Programs and initiatives saved over $6 million per year, averaging a payback LEED Gold in 2020 and is pursuing WELL Building We have made it a priority to reduce our demand for of only three years and avoiding the production of Standard (WELL) certification energy and have established internal policies and 23,000 metric tons of carbon per year. • An operations support facility at our facility in practices focused on reducing energy use at all our • In 2019, we allocated approximately $6.4 million to Durham, North Carolina is certified as LEED Silver sites, and minimizing GHG generation throughout energy projects. The completed projects will result • Our lab in Carlow, Ireland received both LEED Gold the company. By taking these steps, we are not only in $2 million in annual savings and a reduction of more and Excellence in Energy Efficiency Design (EXEED) minimizing GHG emissions, but also reducing our than 12,000 metric tons of carbon dioxide from certification in 2019 operating costs and mitigating the business impacts our facilities. • Development labs in both New Jersey and expected to be associated with future climate change • For 2020, we have over 60 projects in progress, that Pennsylvania are pursuing LEED Silver certification requirements. when completed will reduce carbon dioxide emissions Energy-efficiency and demand-reduction projects from our facilities by over 36,000 metric tons will continue to contribute to lowering our energy consumption and reducing our direct GHG emissions. MSD ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 37 We require our facilities to have a plan to manage their • A rollout of Energy Utility Analytics Technology Renewable energy energy use. for multiple sites that will enable continuous Our company has set bold renewable energy targets. commissioning, energy efficiency improvements and We have committed to sourcing 100 percent of our • Four sites in Ireland, three sites in Germany, one reliability of assets purchased electricity from renewable energy sources site in Spain and one site in the UK maintained • We developed an energy management strategy that by 2040, with an interim goal of 50 percent by their certification of ISO50001:2018 for energy seeks to achieve energy savings through continuous 2025.1 Photovoltaic arrays, wind turbines and other management to comply with the EU Energy improvement, reliability, operations and design renewable-energy installations avoid emissions, help Efficiency Directive audit requirements; and a fourth • A rail-travel option is included in our online businessreduce energy-demand peaks and postpone or preclude German site transitioned successfully to the ISO travel booking tool to make it easier to travel by adding new power plants. certification train when appropriate. Train travel has a smaller • The EU Energy Efficiency Directive (EED) Phase We continually analyze our sites to look for carbon footprint than traveling by either airplane or Two compliance assessment was completed for all opportunities for new onsite installations, powerpersonal vehicle. entities in the EU Region and all qualifying sites are purchase contracts, vendor-supplied renewable energy undertaking energy audits to ensure compliance We worked with our three largest long-range freight through the electrical grid and VPPA projects. • Our Energy CoE has provided tools for facility carriers and even though the amount of material managers to identify opportunities to reduce energy shipped by weight increased in 2019 vs. 2018, our Several sites have incorporated renewable energy use and eliminate waste. These tools include facilitytransportation-related GHG emissions decreased by installations over the past several years. In 2019, sites wide, three-day Energy Treasure Hunts, half-day shifting away from air freight to ocean and overland in Italy, Germany and South Africa installed new solar utility-system assessments (Energy Kaizens), and ground freight whenever practical. arrays or expanded their on-site solar capacity. In online Energy Treasure Hunts, which allow for bestSeptember 2019, one of our manufacturing sites in practice sharing. In 2019, our company awarded an “Energy Project of Virginia signed an agreement to utilize renewables for the Quarter” and showcased each project throughout 100 percent of their purchased electricity. • All our employees have access to a training curriculum our company in our quarterly “Eco Smart” newsletter. that allows them to learn more about energy In January 2018, our company signed a VPPA with These projects were also featured in our internal management and energy systems. Through this Invenergy Wind Development LLC that adds sustainability communication sites. The winning program, employees can earn an Energy Manager 60 megawatts (MW) of renewable energy to the projects included: Certification. Site energy managers from more than Electric Reliability Council of Texas (ERCOT) market 70 of our facilities are expected to complete the basic • Overdelivered on energy reduction commitments at a and provides us with the associated renewable energy energy efficiency training curriculum. site in the Netherlands, through a series of initiatives credits. This new wind asset, Santa Rita East, will such as addressing lighting, better management reduce our company’s greenhouse gas emissions by Work practices and recognition and utilization of more efficient air handlers and more than 100,000 metric tons per year over the life Our company takes advantage of technological insulation upgrades of the 12-year agreement. This agreement will help us advances to save energy, time and money while also reach approximately 50 percent of our 2025 goal and • Acknowledgement of the start-up of our first large reducing emissions. The strategies we employ include: 25 percent of our 2040 goal. The Santa Rita East wind scale Virtual Power Purchase Agreement (VPPA) farm came on-line in July 2019. facility in Texas • Site energy use is tracked monthly by our Energy • The startup of a new quality lab and certification as CoE through a centralized system. A global energy LEED Gold and EXEED at a site in Ireland 1 We have defined “purchased electricity” as electricity sourced from scorecard is issued monthly, and sites receive a external suppliers as well as renewable electricity that was generated letter grade based on an internal assessment of their • Started the “Green by Choice” program at a site in the and utilized onsite where we retained the renewable attributes or energy intensity and performance. Our companywide Netherlands to create a hands-on culture in areas of where we have obtained renewable attributes through contract. average score has consistently been a top-level energy, water and waste reductions grade of “A-.” MSD ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 38 Vehicle fleet GRI 302-1 Energy consumption within the Approximately nine percent of our total Scope 1 and 2 organization (Scopes 1 + 2) GHG emissions are associated with our vehicle fleet. We calculate our fleet’s GHG emissions based on GRI 302-4 Energy reductions estimated fuel economy and actual total miles driven. • In an ongoing effort to improve fuel efficiency, we have converted our U.S. sales fleet from cars Total energy use 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 with six-cylinder engines to cars with four-cylinder engines, replaced eight-cylinder-engine trucks Total energy use (GJ) 21,303,600 20,936,400 19,370,300 19,258,500 18,577,900 with six-cylinder-engine trucks, and introduced an all-wheel-drive (AWD) sedan option to replace Note: GHG figures have been changed from our 2018/2019 report, due to a collection methodology update since our last report. AWD sport utility vehicles. This has resulted in fuel efficiency improvements from an average of 22 miles per gallon (mpg) in 2008 to an average of 27 mpg Scope 1 and location-based Scope 2 in 2019. energy use (% of total)1 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 • 40 percent of the U.S. fleet are now partial zero emission vehicles (PZEV) Natural gas (Scope 1) 60% 61% 59% 62% 62% • Our European fleet continued to convert to the use of more fuel-efficient vehicles and we conducted a Fleet fuel (Scope 1) 11% 12% 12% 10% 9% plug-in hybrid pilot in the UK • Over 50 percent of the vehicles being utilized in Japan Fuel oil (Scope 1) 2% 2% 2% 2% 2% are hybrids and we are looking to expand their use in other Asia/Pacific markets where the infrastructure Bio-Fuel (Scope 1) 0.3% 0.4% 0.6% 0.6% 0.6% is supported to “charge” the vehicles • In 2019 in Mexico, we have implemented threeRenewable energy generated and 0.01% 0.04% 0.04% 0.05% 0.05% cylinder vehicles until hybrids become more available. used onsite (Scope 1)2 Our fleet in Mexico consists of 17 percent threecylinder vehicles and five percent hybrids. Spent solvents (Scope 1) 0.1% 0.1% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% Coal (Scope 1) 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% Purchased electricity (Scope 2)3, 4 24% 23% 23% 23% 24% Purchased steam (Scope 2) 3% 2% 3% 3% 3% 1 May not add to 100 percent due to rounding. 2 Includes solar, wind and other renewables generated onsite where renewable energy credits or guarantees of origin have been retained or retired. 3 Reported using Scope 2 location-based value in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. 4 Includes solar, wind and other renewables generated onsite where renewable energy credits (RECs) have been sold. MSD ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 39 In March 2020, the U.S. EPA again recognized our Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 company with our 13th consecutive Sustained energy use (% of total)1 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Excellence Award. This is also the 15th consecutive year in which we have been recognized by ENERGY STAR for Natural gas (Scope 1) 60% 61% 59% 62% 62% excellence in energy management. In 2019, our company continued to successfully use Fleet fuel (Scope 1) 11% 12% 12% 10% 9% ENERGY STAR benchmarking tools such as the ENERGY STAR Portfolio Manager to obtain the ENERGY STAR Renewable energy generated and 0.01% 0.3% 1.1% 3.1% 6.1% Certified Building label for four buildings including: used onsite or purchased (Scope 1)2 • A data center in New Jersey that obtained a perfect Fuel oil (Scope 1) 2% 2% 2% 2% 2% score of 100 • A research office in Pennsylvania for the Bio-Fuel (Scope 1) 0.3% 0.4% 0.6% 0.6% 0.6% 9th consecutive year • Two office buildings in Pennsylvania for the Spent solvents (Scope 1) 0.1% 0.1% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 2nd consecutive year Our Puerto Rico facility was awarded the ENERGY Coal (Scope 1) 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% STAR Pharma Energy Performance Indicator (EPI) for superior energy efficiency and environmental Purchased electricity (Scope 2)3, 4 24% 23% 22% 20% 18% performance among U.S. pharmaceutical manufacturing plants for the 11th consecutive year. Purchased steam (Scope 2) 3% 2% 3% 3% 3% For more information, please see GRI 305-5 on 1 May not add to 100 percent due to rounding. page 47, the Climate Change & Energy Use page on 2 Includes solar, wind and other renewables generated onsite where renewable energy credits or guarantees of origin have been retained or retired. MSDresponsibility.com, and our CDP Climate Change 3 Reported using Scope 2 location-based value in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. Questionnaire. 4 Includes solar, wind and other renewables generated onsite where renewable energy credits (RECs) have been sold. MSD ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 40 GRI 303: Water Goals Progress Indicator As we strive to meet the health needs of our patients, we are increasingly operating in regions of the world Internal operations where access to clean water and proper sanitation is under great pressure. Even in established markets, our By 2020, we will develop water conservation plans for sites in On track On Track business faces water-related risks. “high water risk” locations. Our global water strategy aims to achieve sustainable By 2025, we will maintain global water use at or below 3.6 million m3 below 2015 levels On Track water management within our operations and 2015 levels. (15% reduction) our supply chain, which supports UN Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) 6, “Clean Water and Sanitation.” To achieve these strategic objectives, we Supply Chain are focusing on the following commitments: We will collect greenhouse gas emissions and water use data GHG and water data collected Achieved • Ensuring that our wastewater discharges comply from at least 90 percent of our strategic suppliers with the from 96% of high-impact with local and national standards, as well as internal highest environmental impact. strategic suppliers company requirements • Understanding and controlling our operational By 2020, we will engage with those suppliers and request On track On Track water footprint them to identify GHG emission and water use reduction • Managing water risk at our facilities and in our opportunities. supply chain • Reporting publicly on our water use and goals By 2025, at least 90 percent of our strategic suppliers with the On track On Track highest environmental impacts will set their own GHG We have established water goals to help us manage emission and water use reduction targets. water-related risks in our operations and supply chain: MSD ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 41 GRI 303-1 Water as a shared resource Water use and risk by region (million m3) Extremely High High Med to High Low to Med Low N/A % of Total Total North America 0.00 2.55 2.97 9.88 0.43 0.05 78% 15.87 Europe, Middle East and Africa 0.14 0.88 0.13 0.24 1.32 0.23 14% 2.93 Asia Pacific 0.02 0.05 0.12 0.00 0.78 0.24 6% 1.20 Latin America 0.05 0.11 0.00 0.00 0.08 0.08 2% 0.32 Total1 0.21 3.59 3.21 10.12 2.61 0.59 – 20.32 1 All values above are rounded. As a result, the total values shown are not equal to the sum of the individual source totals. Water use and risk by region (%) Extremely High High Med to High Low to Med Low N/A North America 0% 16% 19% 62% 3% 0% Europe, Middle East and Africa 5% 30% 4% 8% 45% 8% Asia Pacific 1% 4% 10% 0% 65% 20% Latin America 15% 34% 0% 0% 26% 25% Total1 1% 18% 16% 50% 13% 3% 1 May not add to 100 percent due to rounding. MSD ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 42 In 2019, we used 20.3 million cubic meters of water Water use in areas of high to extremely high Purchased globally, versus 23.9 million cubic meters in 2015, water risk by region (million m3) Groundwater Surface Water Water Total representing a 15 percent reduction in water use. North America 0.45 0.00 2.11 2.55 Approximately 64 percent of the total water we used in 2019 was supplied from nearby surface water and groundwater resources, with the balance Europe, Middle East, and Africa 0.23 0.13 0.66 1.02 sourced from municipal water supplies. Many of our facilities employ water reuse and recovery strategies, Asia Pacific 0.00 0.00 0.07 0.07 including recirculation of water in cooling towers and condensate recovery. Latin America 0.04 0.00 0.12 0.15 We use the World Resources Institute’s (WRI’s) Aqueduct water-risk-assessment tool to measure and Total 0.71 0.13 2.95 3.80 map our water risks. Sites are categorized using the “Baseline Water Stress” indicator, which is the ratio of total annual water withdrawals to total available annual renewable supply, and accounts for up-stream consumptive use. Higher stress values indicate more Water use by source (million m3)1 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 competition among water users. A new version of the Aqueduct tool (version 3.0) was launched in Groundwater 12.2 10.4 10.2 10.5 10.4 August 2019. The following upgrades to the tool have resulted in changes to the baseline water stress rating Surface water 3.9 3.2 2.7 2.4 2.7 and scoring: Purchased water 7.7 7.1 6.6 7.7 7.3 • Inclusion of both surface and groundwater in the model Total2 23.9 20.6 19.6 20.5 20.3 • Modifications to the scoring scale • Changes to the indicators 1 I n accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, prior-year data have been adjusted to add or remove facilities that have been acquired and sold. • Hydrological model underpinning the indicators Adjustments also reflect changes in methodology to ensure consistency from year to year. 2 All values above are rounded to one decimal place. As a result, the total values shown are not equal to the sum of the individual source totals. • Hydrological sub-basins In 2019, we operated five manufacturing and/or research facilities in areas with “extremely high” Baseline Water Stress, according to the WRI’s Aqueduct 3.0 tool. The reduction from 11 in 2018 is directly related to the changes in the tool identified above. We are also assessing water risk status of sites brought into the network through recent acquisitions. MSD ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 43 The facilities that use the most water in our network Our production facilities have, or will be provided are U.S.-based. Of these, two are in areas of “high” with, API-treatment technology where needed, so GRI 303-3 Water withdrawal Baseline Water Stress. that our wastewater discharges meet both regulatory requirements and these internal standards. Our sites employ a variety of technologies and We assess high-water-use facilities that are techniques aimed at reducing our water footprint experiencing water interruptions or are located in We also provide EQC information to suppliers that and improving operational performance. Closed-loop areas of “extremely high” and “high” Baseline Water manufacture pharmaceutical compounds for us and cooling systems, which reduce freshwater use, are Stress according to the WRI Aqueduct tool, and develop have initiated detailed assessments of our suppliers to employed at more than half of our facilities worldwide. water management plans as needed. We work with a better understand and address potential impacts. Reverse osmosis (RO) “reject water” is reused for thirdparty water use expert to evaluate opportunities non-potable and non-process applications such as for water use reductions at these sites, resulting in In addition, as a member of the Antimicrobial cooling-tower feed water and fire water. In all, 1.1 million sitespecific water management plans. We are also Resistance (AMR) Industry Alliance and signatory to cubic meters of water was recovered, reused or working to identify “hot spots” of water use within our the Industry Roadmap for Progress on Combating recycled at our facilities in 2019, which is equivalent to supply chain so that we can engage with our suppliers AMR, we are working to deliver on our commitments five percent of our total water use. on the issue of water risk. to reduce the environmental impacts from antibiotic residues in wastewater. We have reviewed the Our water-use-reduction initiatives include: operations of our third-party suppliers to assess their GRI 303-2 Water discharge-related impacts wastewater treatment controls and have recommended • Consideration of water use in process design improvements where needed, which we will follow • Cooling-system optimization Our facilities are required to implement an internal through to completion. EQC program that evaluates potential human health • Prompt repairs and maintenance of steamand environmental impacts of active pharmaceutical Wastewater from our facilities is managed and distribution systems and traps ingredients (APIs) in waterbodies where we treated to meet regulatory standards and minimize • Recovery and reuse of steam condensate and discharge wastewater. These standards are based environmental impacts prior to discharge. On-site “reject water” on criteria established in accordance with stringent wastewater treatment facilities are operated at many • Process-water purification system optimization product regulatory filing review process (as per our of our production and research facilities. Where on-site Pharmaceutical in the Environment Public Policy • Avoiding the use of water in mechanical seals, such as treatment is not provided, wastewater is discharged statement). Each facility uses the internal EQC those in pumps to local municipal wastewater treatment facilities standards to: that have the technology and capacity to treat our For more information, please visit the Water page on wastewater. MSDresponsibility.com. • Assess the potential risk from its operations using science-based and industry-accepted risk For more information, please visit the Water assessment methods For information on the specific water sources affected and Sourcing & Supplier Relations pages on in areas experiencing high and extremely-high water • Minimize environmental impacts from wastewater MSDresponsibility.com, or review our response to risk, please see our CDP Water Security response. discharges in the local watershed the CDP Water Security questionnaire. • Establish procedures for managing, treating, or controlling APIs in wastewater prior to discharge where needed MSD ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 44 GRI 305: Emissions Scientific data support that climate change is occurring, and we are taking action to reduce the economic and public health risks associated with a changing climate. GHG emissions in 2019 We report our GHG emissions as required by regulations in certain countries and annually through CDP (formerly Carbon Disclosure Project). In 2019, Scope 1 755,340 MT CO2e the CDP graded our disclosure as a “B” or a rating Scope 2 316,630 MT CO2e of “management”, indicating that we are “taking coordinated action on climate issues.” “This is higher Scope 3 6,965,600 MT CO2e than the North America regional average of C, and same as the Biotech & pharma sector average of B.” We have committed to reducing our Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 absolute GHG emissions by 40 percent between 2015 and 2025. This goal is designed to meet the science-based criteria to limit Note: Scope 2 is the market-based value in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. the global temperature increase to below 2°C. The World Resource Institute’s Greenhouse Gas Protocol defines Scope 1 GHG emissions as emissions from owned or controlled sources such as onsite fuel combustion and fleet vehicles. Scope 2 emissions are those from indirect sources such as purchased electricity. Scope 3 includes indirect emissions in a company’s value chain. MSD ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 45 We have adopted a set of environmental sustainability goals to help position our company to succeed in an Goals Progress Indicator increasingly resource-constrained world. GHG emissions These were developed to address the rising expectations of our customers, investors, By 2025, we will reduce global Scope 1 and market-based 26.5% reduction On Track external stakeholders and employees regarding Scope 2 GHG emissions by at least 40 percent from 2015 the environmental impact of our operations and levels. supply chain. We have made progress toward our environmental Renewable energy sustainability goals and remain on track to achieve them. We continue to find ways to decrease energy By 2025, at least 50 percent of our purchased electricity will 25.4% of our purchased On Track demand and have increased the amount of renewable come from renewable sources. By 2040, 100 percent of our electricity comes from energy we purchase. Our procurement team has purchased electricity will come from renewable sources.1 renewables started to engage our strategic suppliers in our efforts to reduce the environmental footprint outside of our 1 We have defined “purchased electricity” as electricity sourced from external suppliers as well as renewable electricity that was generated and operations. utilized onsite where we retained the renewable attributes or where we have obtained renewable attributes through contract. Goals Progress Indicator Since 2018, we have been collecting GHG emissions and water use GHG and water data collected Achieved data from at least 90 percent of our strategic suppliers with the from 96% of high-impact highest environmental impact. strategic suppliers By 2020, we will engage with those suppliers and request them to On track On Track identify GHG emission and water use reduction opportunities. By 2025, at least 90 percent of our strategic suppliers with the In progress On Track highest environmental impacts will set their own GHG emission and water use reduction targets. Note: Scope 2 is the market-based value in accordance with the WRI Greenhouse Gas Protocol. MSD ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 46 Governance GRI 305-1 Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) Our climate strategy is overseen globally by our Environmental Sustainability Center of Excellence GRI 305-2 Indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2) (CoE) in partnership with our Energy CoE and Energy GRI 305-3 Other indirect GHG emissions Procurement CoE. The CoEs review and report data, (Scope 3) monitor progress, and provide assistance as needed, to support sites’ work towards these goals and review GRI 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions possible above-site renewable energy projects. Each site is responsible for the management of their Total GHGs (MT CO2e)1 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 energy use. In many cases, our company partners with our third-party Integrated Facility Management (IFM) Scope 1 and location-based 1,416,900 1,365,000 1,258,900 1,225,600 1,168,900 providers to manage energy use and work toward the Scope 2 GHGs corporate goals. Scope 1 and market-based 1,459,000 1,401,700 1,274,500 1,191,100 1,072,000 For information regarding our environmental Scope 2 GHGs management and governance, please see our EHS Scope 3 GHGs 5,586,300 7,975,100 6,586,100 6,239,800 6,965,600 Management & Compliance on MSDresponsibility.com. 1 In accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, prior-year data have been adjusted to add or remove facilities that have been acquired or sold. Adjustments also reflect changes in methodology to ensure consistency from year to year. MSD ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 47 Scope 3 GHGs details (MT CO2e) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Purchased goods and services1 3,864,900 6,204,000 4,997,600 4,595,600 5,155,100 Capital goods1 112,700 224,000 192,900 229,200 339,900 GHG emissions from fuel and energy-related activities not included in Scopes 1 & 2 2, 3 276,200 304,500 262,100 243,400 240,700 Upstream transportation and distribution1 222,200 255,500 267,100 274,100 271,200 Waste generated in operations (excluding recycled & composted waste) 4, 5 20,600 16,800 16,000 18,200 19,500 GHG emissions related to employee business travel6, 7 283,300 265,400 218,200 301,100 340,400 Employee commuting 302,400 301,500 262,200 264,400 272,000 Downstream transportation and distribution8 211,000 118,000 121,900 120,800 133,200 GHG emissions from use of sold products9 255,000 248,400 205,800 148,100 142,100 End-of-life treatment of sold products10 38,000 37,000 42,200 44,900 51,500 Total11 5,586,300 7,975,100 6,586,100 6,239,800 6,965,600 Note: Limited Data Assurance was granted for emissions calculated from primary travel vendor data and employee reimbursable travel mileage data. The total reported here includes non-primary travel vendor data emissions which were based on our 2019 third-party spend data and an Economic Input-Output Model performed by Climate Earth, Inc. NA: Not available. 1 Based on third-party spend data and an economic input-output model performed by Climate Earth, Inc. 2 Emission factors from Argonne National Laboratory’s GREET Model (https://greet.es.anl.gov/) were used in conjunction with primary fuel and energy-use data. 3 Data as reported historically, not baseline adjusted. 4 Primary-waste data were used with the U.S. EPA’s WARM Model (https://www.epa.gov/warm). 5 I ncluding recycled and composted waste in these calculations, would result in negative emissions in), 2015 (-40,200 MT CO₂e), 2016 (-60,200 MT CO₂e), 2017 (-41,200 MT CO₂e), 2018 (-43,700 MT CO₂e) and 2019 (-62,400). 6 B ased on primary travel vendor data, employee-reimbursable mileage and UK Defra factors (https://www.gov.uk/government/collections/government-conversion-factors-for-company-reporting#conversionfactors-2015). 7 Emissions are based on primary vendor data where available and economic input-output modelling performed by Climate Earth, Inc., using spend data. 8 Emissions were calculated using our “Upstream transportation and distribution” spend data as a worst-case estimate entered into the WRI Quantis tool. We assumed that all “downstream” material would first have been stored, transported and handled “upstream.” 9 A ssumes that all HFC-containing devices shipped for sale were consumed. The amount and identity of HFC in each product is calculated and multiplied by the appropriate global warming potential (GWP) to determine the CO₂e released as a result of product use. 10 Calculated assuming that all primary, secondary and tertiary packaging purchased was disposed of by our customers. Packaging material data was used with the U.S. EPA’s WARM Model. 11 May not add up to total due to rounding. MSD ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 48 Reduction of GHG emissions Production and research emissions GRI 305-6 Ozone-depleting substances (ODS) From 2018 to 2019, we reduced our year-over-year Many of our pharmaceutical manufacturing processes, Scope 1 and Scope 2 market-based GHG emissions GRI 305-7 NOx, SOx and other emissions cleaning/disinfection operations and research by 10 percent due to our continued focus on laboratories require the use of solvents. Evaporation energy efficiency and an increased utilization of We are committed to controlling air emissions from of solvents into the air is the primary source of volatile renewable energy. our facilities to reduce local, regional and global organic compound (VOC) emissions. In an effort to environmental impacts. reduce VOC emissions, reduction in solvent usage We have analyzed and reported our Scope 3 impacts has been incorporated as an element of our Green & using primary operating data, accepted emission Air emissions are generated by our manufacturing and Sustainable Science program. factors, and an economic input-output model based research operations, as well as by burning fuel in on-site on our third-party spend. In 2019, our Scope 3 GHG equipment and fleet vehicles. Our Air Management Key elements of the program include designing efficient emissions remained roughly the same as in 2018. Standard requires our facilities to quantify and control processes that use fewer and less-hazardous organic air emissions to comply with applicable regulations and solvents and using water-based methods for cleaning Our analysis shows that our Scope 3 GHG emissions emission standards. our process equipment where they are as effective impacts are nearly three times greater than our as solvent-based methods. To reduce emissions from combined Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions. We are Any increase in production can negatively impact our processes where organic solvents are used, we use working to reduce those impacts through activities emissions trends. Though there are efforts to minimize pollution-control technologies such as conservation such as reducing waste in our operations, reducing solvent use in production, solvents are needed for vents, carbon filters, thermal oxidizers, condensers fuel use and looking for opportunities to shift from air cleaning and disinfecting purposes. As the company and scrubbers. shipping to ocean transport when practical. We are transforms from manufacturing of pharmaceuticals also starting to engage with our strategic suppliers to to biopharmaceuticals, mandatory cleaning and Fossil fuel combustion emissions identify ways to reduce GHG emissions in our supply disinfection protocols associated with biologics and chain. These actions not only reduce our environmental vaccines are increasing solvent based emissions. Air emissions are also generated by burning fuel in our impact but benefit the business by reducing costs. boilers and power-generation turbines (for heat and The Montreal Protocol mandates phase-out of energy), and by other combustion processes, such For more information on our initiatives, policies and refrigerants that are ozone depleting substances (ODS) as thermal oxidizers (for treating air emissions) and accomplishments, please see the Climate Change & per schedules approved for individual countries. Our incinerators (for destroying waste). Our fleet vehicles Energy Use page on MSDresponsibility.com. facilities ensure compliance with applicable regulatory and aircraft also burn fuel and generate air emissions. requirements that have been established in accordance These combustion processes result in emissions of with each country’s commitments. carbon dioxide (CO₂), nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx) and volatile organic compounds (VOCs). Our company’s Air Center of Excellence (CoE) provides We strive to make our facilities more energy-efficient assistance as needed to our facilities to obtain through our energy-management programs and to appropriate environmental permits, and to quantify improve the fuel efficiency of our fleet vehicles. By and control air emissions to comply with applicable making these improvements, we also reduce emissions regulations and emission standards. of CO2, NOx, SOx and VOCs from our operations. MSD ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 49 Our NOx emissions significantly decreased from Air pollutant emissions by type (MT)1 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2018 to 2019 due to the discontinuation of the use of emergency generators at our Puerto Rico facility that Nitrogen oxides (NOx) 494 455 481 495 384 were required during an extended power outage caused by Hurricane Maria. Energy-conservation programs also Sulfur oxides (SOx) 48 37 37 30 27 helped reduce emissions. VOC emissions increased from 2018 to 2019 due to Volatile organic compounds (VOCs) 455 440 380 405 418 increases in production and because of continuous data collection improvements with the adoption of more Ozone-depleting substances (ODS) 0.1 0.7 0.1 0.3 0.6 accurate emission-tracking methods. Note: Previously reported data have been restated per our methodology, which includes adding facilities that have been acquired and removing The decrease in SOx emissions from 2018 to 2019 can facilities that have been sold as operating sites. be attributed to the use of fuel with a lower sulfur 1 Data are estimated using conservative assumptions and factors, not measured or weighed. content and our energy-conservation programs. Emissions of ozone-depleting substances are the result of non-routine releases from temperature-control and fire-suppression systems and can vary from year to year. For more information, please see our Air Emissions and EHS Management & Compliance pages on MSDresponsibility.com. MSD ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 50 GRI 306: Effluents & Waste For information regarding our environmental management and governance, please see The proper management of waste from our facilities is our EHS Management & Compliance page on important for the communities where we operate and MSDresponsibility.com. is the focus of our environmental permits and other regulatory requirements. Goals Progress Indicator Our waste management standard requires our facilities to comply with applicable generation, management and By 2025, no more than 20 percent of our global operational waste 26% to landfills and incinerators On Track disposal regulations and standards. will be sent to landfills and incinerators (without energy recovery). (without energy recovery) To minimize our environmental footprint, and align By 2025, we will maintain global water use at or below 2015 levels. 46% of sites On Track with the U.N. Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), we look for opportunities to avoid the use of hazardous materials, to reuse or recycle materials, and to prevent the generation of waste. When prevention, reuse Waste minimization begins with the upfront evaluation Non-hazardous waste: This includes all other and recycling are not practical, we apply controls and of our product designs and manufacturing processes. operational waste. The amount of construction project treatment technologies to prevent human health Through our Green and Sustainable Science program, related waste can vary significantly from year to year impacts and minimize environmental impacts. we design processes that use safer chemicals, consume based on the number and size of projects. Therefore, less energy, use less water and other resources our definition of operational waste does not include The amount of waste we generate reflects the and generate less waste. Our process development construction or demolition waste from projects. efficiency of our manufacturing processes. Our facilities biologists, chemists and engineers have the expertise track and report the amount of operational waste they to create more sustainable ways to make our products. Over the past year, a number of countries in Asia generate and how it is managed. have passed legislation restricting the acceptance of To ensure our waste is managed in an environmentally solid waste from other countries. Historically, a large We continuously strive to reduce the amount of responsible manner, we use only approved waste percentage of recyclable waste collected in the United operational waste we generate and to maximize the use disposal facilities. Approved facilities demonstrate States has been shipped to Asia for recycling, so this of environmentally beneficial disposal methods such as that they have the systems, technologies and practices change had and continues to have the potential to recycling, composting and waste-to-energy. to manage our waste streams responsibly and in affect the percentage of our non-hazardous waste compliance with all applicable requirements. We sent for recycling. However, this change did not Governance routinely audit these facilities to verify the acceptability negatively impact our recycling rates in the past year. of their systems and practices. The percentage of our non-hazardous waste sent for Waste management is overseen globally by the Waste recycling increased from 38 percent to 40 percent from and Dangerous Goods Center of Excellence (CoE). This Waste types are defined differently in various parts 2018 to 2019. CoE reviews waste data to monitor sites’ progress, and of the world. For this report, we have divided our provides assistance as needed to support the sites’ operational waste into two categories: work towards these goals. Hazardous waste: Heavily regulated or high-risk Each site is responsible for the management of its waste streams that need to be neutralized, treated waste. In many cases, we partner with our third-party or destroyed to address a particular hazard such Integrated Facility Management (IFM) partners to as toxicity, flammability, corrosivity, radioactivity, manage site waste and work toward the corporate pharmaceutically active or infectious. waste goals. MSD ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 51 GRI 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method SASB 250a.4 Amount of product accepted for takeback, reuse, or disposal Global operational waste 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Incinerated (without energy recovery) 13% 20% 19% 24% 19% Landfilled 15% 10% 10% 9% 7% Total 28% 30% 29% 33% 26% Hazardous waste (MT) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Incinerated (without energy recovery) 7,928 13,186 13,462 17,639 14,035 Energy recovery 11,089 9,871 9,538 10,300 13,655 Recycled 5,944 6,135 7,979 6,827 8,034 Other 2,299 2,425 2,423 2,221 1,865 Reused 1,428 2,132 1,505 695 1,147 Landfilled 1,652 1,492 745 731 938 Composted 5 5 0 0 0 Total 30,345 35,246 35,652 38,413 39,674 MSD ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 52 In 2019, we managed approximately 75,500 metric Non-hazardous waste (MT) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 tons of waste from our operations, a two percent increase from 2018. Of this, 39,674 metric tons were Recycled 15,811 14,636 15,188 12,975 14,188 hazardous waste. Of the hazardous waste we generated in 2019, Energy recovery 9,706 10,342 8,576 9,273 10,030 58 percent was beneficially reused in some way (reused, recycled, composted or sent for energy recovery), up Composted 3,018 3,771 4,668 4,798 4,843 from 46 percent in 2018. Approximately 20 percent of our hazardous waste was sent offsite for recycling Landfilled 8,459 5,826 6,633 5,684 4,603 and was either returned to us for reuse or sold to other industries. Another 34 percent was burned to Other 304 445 212 209 1,025 generate power, up from 27 percent in 2018. Regarding the hazardous waste that could not be recycled or beneficially reused, 36 percent of the total hazardous Reused 970 972 1,071 2,204 660 waste generated was incinerated without energy recovery, down from 46 percent in 2018. Approximately Incinerated (without energy recovery) 1,243 1,361 426 374 477 two percent was sent to hazardous-waste landfills. Total 39,511 37,353 36,774 35,517 35,826 We beneficially reused 83 percent of the 35,826 metric tons of non-hazardous waste we generated in 2019. We are evaluating and refining the programs in place at our manufacturing, research and office sites to reduce Hazardous and non-hazardous waste (MT) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 waste generation and increase recycling. Recycled, energy recovery, reused or composted 47,971 47,864 48,525 47,072 52,557 An evaluation of the method we had been using to calculate the number of our sites that were zero Landfilled and incinerated (without energy recovery) 19,282 21,865 21,265 24,428 20,053 waste to landfill determined that our definition was not aligned with the majority Zero Waste to Landfill certification programs, which make allowances for Incinerated (without energy recovery) 9,171 14,547 13,887 18,013 14,512 small amounts of waste that have no legal alternative to landfill disposal. To be consistent with these Landfilled 10,111 7,318 7,378 6,415 5,541 certification programs, we revised our definition of zero waste to landfill in 2019 from no shipments of waste Other 2,603 2,870 2,635 2,430 2,890 to landfill to less than one percent of waste, by weight, going to landfill. As a result of this alignment of our Total 69,856 72,599 72,426 73,930 75,500 definition of zero waste to landfill, 46 percent of our facilities sent zero operational waste to landfill in 2019, up from 38 percent in 2018. MSD ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 53 We continue to work to identify alternate methods We also adhere to the following key operating • Governance committees, from the executiveof waste management that will reduce the amount of principles: level EHS Council through site-based compliance waste sent to incinerators (without energy recovery) committees, review business unit performance and and landfills. • Maintain a safe and healthy working environment for progress against objectives throughout the year. all employees, contractors and guests EHS audits are also performed throughout the For more information, please visit the Waste • Foster a culture of EHS excellence that is built year. (CHECK) Management page on MSDresponsibility.com. on science, integrity, accountability, personal • Corrective actions and continuous-improvement responsibility, collaboration and active employee initiatives are established to resolve EHS concerns GRI 306-3 Significant spills participation that have surfaced during periodic assessments, • Seek to continuously improve our EHS systems, audits and routine surveillance of the regulatory A “significant environmental event” is defined as an processes and standards landscape. We track our corrective actions centrally environmental release that results in environmental to ensure proper oversight. (ACT) • Minimize our impact on the environment by harm to humans, aquatic organisms or wildlife, or any identifying and implementing approaches to reduce environmental release that requires reporting to the We have robust programs and initiatives to address the resources we use during the design, development U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. global challenges and opportunities related to and manufacture of our products achievement of our short and long-term environmental We experienced no significant environmental events • Understand the potential hazards associated with our management and compliance objectives. in 2019. products and take action to minimize any potential risks or adverse impacts Training • Promote EHS excellence in our supply chain by Training is critical to building worldwide employee GRI 307: entering into business relationships with partners that share our commitment to responsible EHS competencies that will improve compliance, reduce risks and drive continuous performance improvement. Environmental Compliance stewardship We have a global standard that defines the EHS training Protecting our people, our communities and the The Global Safety and Environment (GSE) department expectations for employees in three categories: environment is fundamentally important to the way our is responsible for the global EHS Management System company operates. which is based on the “Plan, Do, Check, Act” model. • Manager training covers specific management This enables us to assess and continually improve our responsibilities with regard to safety and Our company strives every day to conduct business practices over time. The model is implemented globally environmental compliance and promoting a “safety in a safe and environmentally responsible manner. through a set of interwoven business processes that first” culture We are committed to providing a safe and healthy span the corporation: • EHS professional training is designed to expand workplace for our employees and to reducing the • Our planning process includes developing goals, technical expertise and improve our EHS capabilities environmental impact of our operations around the objectives and metrics based on a review of our around the world world. Our core values are focused around promoting the health and safety of our employees and respect company’s performance, EHS programs, applicable • Employee training covers the specific information for the environment. For more information, please regulations and external factors that may impact our our employees need to perform their jobs in a safe visit the EHS Management & Compliance page on business (PLAN) and environmentally compliant manner, focusing MSDresponsibility.com. • Activities are performed by using standards, on hazards they encounter on the job and the guidelines and tools that are integrated into corresponding control measures In addition to complying with all applicable country, the EHS Management System and include regional, state, provincial and local safety and specific expectations for sites and operating environmental laws, we strive for Environmental, organizations (DO) Health and Safety (EHS) performance that is among the best in the pharmaceutical industry. MSD ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 54 Site EHS professionals complete an assessment of An EHS Standards Committee has been chartered by • Tracking EHS performance of sites, divisions and the activities performed at their sites and ensure that the Council to provide stewardship over the standards the company as a whole, and communicating relevant topics are included in their site training plans. and enable business engagement in the development performance versus targets They develop employee training curricula to comply of new or revised standards. Each area of the business with internal and regulatory training requirements is responsible for executing against the standards, Our site-based safety and environmental professionals specific to their country. These training programs contributing to the development of programs, around the world support the EHS needs of their are reviewed periodically to ensure that they remain supporting internal audits and communicating business areas, which include manufacturing, research current. Our EHS training program materials are significant EHS events. Divisional EHS compliance operations, sales and administrative activities by: available in both instructor-led and e-learning formats. committees have also been established to manage, We also conduct periodic web-based seminars to inform execute and resolve EHS issues as they arise. • Ensuring that line management fully understands EHS professionals of changes in regulations, standards EHS requirements, including applicable regulations, and company practices. The vice president (VP) of GSE is responsible for permit requirements and company EHS Standards communicating to the company’s Board of Directors, • Establishing, assessing and improving programs Executive Committee and the EHS Council regarding EHS governance • Providing regulatory and technical support to progress on goals, objectives and metrics, as well employees and the operating areas Our commitment to the environment and employee as other material issues. In addition, the VP of GSE health and safety begins with the company’s Executive partners with business leaders to establish longand • Routinely assessing performance against our Committee, which has established the corporate EHS short-term goals and performance metrics to drive EHS company standards, regulatory requirements and Council. excellence. performance targets • Acting as the primary liaison with local regulators The EHS Council is composed of senior-level executives Safety and environmental performance targets are and inspectors representing all business units, and is responsible included in divisional management objectives. • Investigating incidents and near-miss events to for overall EHS governance, as well as for leading and identify root causes and developing corrective and driving enterprise-wide excellence in EHS management Learn more about corporate governance at preventive actions to prevent recurrence and performance. In 2019 the EHS Council formally met our company. four times, with additional off-cycle communications as needed. Our corporate EHS organization is responsible for: Internal auditing We have a detailed and rigorous EHS audit program. The Council’s responsibilities include: • Developing corporate policies, procedures, guidelines, standards, tools and programs to set Our global corporate EHS audit program is one way • Establishing EHS strategy, policy and business risk expectations and to support EHS compliance in which we identify and resolve compliance and mitigation controls • Providing technical and regulatory support to siteperformance issues within the company. • Ensuring cross-divisional engagement in the design based EHS staff and operating organizations and implementation of EHS business processes • Managing and implementing an internal audit • Our audit leaders are full-time professional EHS • Sponsoring and implementing a sustainability strategy program charged with understanding the current auditors with extensive experience in auditing a state of compliance and identifying potential issues broad range of EHS programs applicable to the • Monitoring the EHS performance of the company and company. The individual audit teams consist of EHS establish continuous improvement targets • Tracking and communicating internal and external professionals with extensive site and subject-matter • Enhancing visibility and transparency of EHS risks, trends that should be addressed expertise. In many cases, particularly outside of processes and issues • Anticipating, tracking and commenting on new the United States, our internal auditors work with regulations affecting our business and, where independent consultants who have regulatory appropriate, developing plans to address them expertise in the laws of the host country. MSD ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 55 • All audit findings are addressed through the In addition to our corporate EHS audit program, developed science-based remediation plans and development of corrective and preventive action our sites regularly perform self-inspections, and implemented cleanup projects to protect the health plans (CAPA), which are reviewed, approved by annually complete self-assessments of selected and safety of our neighbors, communities, employees the audit leader and regional EHS leader, and regulatory requirements and company standards, and the environment, and comply with all applicable tracked to completion. This process includes senior with all programs being evaluated at least once every requirements. management oversight. three years. Over time, we have acquired properties and • Findings from our audit program are communicated manufacturing facilities that may not have been to appropriate parts of the organization so that Certification subject to the same EHS management standards that learnings may be shared, and actions can be taken Our company is certified in the Responsible Care® we have in place today. We are also investigating and • Audit performance and key program metrics are Management System Technical Specification remediating those properties where necessary. reviewed as part of our governance process RC101.04.2013. The RCMS® recertification occurred on December 4, 2019. We spent $19.5 million in 2019 for remediating and We use multiple factors to determine the audit environmental liabilities, including those at formerly frequency for our facilities, including facility size, Additionally, our corporate EHS management system owned and operated sites. Our company has an operational complexity, compliance status and is generally aligned with the requirements of the environmental liability reserve of approximately performance history. Our most complex operations are International Standards Organization (ISO), but we $62.5 million to fund the continued remediation audited every year, and all manufacturing and research do not pursue certification under the Environmental of these sites into the future. In addition, we are operations are audited at least every two years. Less (ISO 14001) or Safety (ISO 45001) frameworks at the a potentially responsible party at 15 multi-party complex facilities, such as sales and business offices global level. Some of our facilities have individually Superfund sites in the U.S. are audited less frequently. In 2019, we performed achieved ISO 14001 certification to meet customer 55 corporate EHS audits of our facilities, covering requirements. 76 percent of our manufacturing and research locations and involving 693 auditor days of onsite Remediation review activities. Environmental management practices have evolved An internal Quality Assurance Review of the EHS significantly over the past 30 years. Auditing program was conducted in 2018/2019 by Corporate Audit and Assurance Services. As a result With research and manufacturing operations dating of this internal review, the EHS auditing program back more than 100 years, some of our facilities was rated “Effective,” with controls and practices operated at a time when there were few regulations and deemed to be in line with company requirements and little understanding of good environmental practices. expectations. These results were consistent with the Because our company has responsibility for remediation third-party review of our program in 2017. of these sites, we have launched investigations, MSD ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 56 GRI 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental Notices of violations (NOVs) and citations 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 laws and regulations Environmental 16 12 5 6 9 Our centralized EHS information system allows us to collect, manage, learn from and share our safety and Safety 2 2 3 1 4 environmental performance data more efficiently. We collect and analyze data in both leading and lagging metrics to look for potential trends and Fines 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 identify opportunities that can help drive performance improvement. We continuously explore new ways to Environmental fines paid $92,270 $33,906 $0 $0 $17,690 learn from and report on our performance. Number of environmental fines 6 2 0 0 3 Notices of violations, fines and settlements We report all forms of EHS compliance notices Safety fines paid $0 $0 $0 $0 $0 using the term Notices of Violation (NOVs), which includes citations, letters of warning and notices of Number of safety fines 0 0 0 0 0 noncompliance from environmental and safety-focused regulatory agencies. Safety and environmental performance targets In 2019, we had 163 EHS-related regulatory agency are included in divisional management objectives. inspections of our facilities around the world. We In addition, all employees are eligible for special received four safety-related and nine environmentalrecognition for innovative ideas and projects related to related NOVs and paid $17,690 in fines in 2019. improving EHS aspects of our operations. Significant environmental events For more information on our initiatives, policies and accomplishments, please visit the EHS Management A “significant environmental event” is defined as an & Compliance page on MSDresponsibility.com, or our environmental release that results in environmental 2019 Form 10-K (page 105). harm to humans, aquatic organisms or wildlife, or any environmental release that requires reporting to the U.S. EPA or equivalent entities globally. We experienced no significant environmental events in 2019. MSD ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 57 GRI 308: Supplier Global sustainable sourcing We partner with PSCI and the Pharmaceutical Environmental Assessment Environmental Group (PEG) to benchmark, engage and share environmental sustainability best practices GRI 308-1 New suppliers screened using with peers and suppliers. We lead the Supplier environmental criteria Environmental/Sustainability Engagement teams within both of these organizations. The company maintains strict quality standards — no Our main focus to date has been to generate and update matter where in the world our products are the PSCI Environmental Sustainability Survey template manufactured. Once we have decided to engage for members to utilize in conjunction with their survey with an external manufacturer, that manufacturer is efforts. We are now collectively developing supplier required to comply with our business requirements engagement tools and resources. which are set forth in our contract with that supplier, regardless of geography. This initiative ensures a consistent message and approach with our suppliers across the industry. Prospective external manufacturers of active Working together with PSCI, we provide these tools pharmaceutical ingredients and finished products and resources on PSCI LINK platform and webinars. are screened for environmental, health and safety (EHS) compliance, in addition to quality and supply and technical competence requirements. The EHS screening External manufacturing EHS assessments 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 includes a survey covering such topics as regulatory compliance, fatalities and major incidents. Prospective external manufacturers 50 34 37 65 43 Based on the screening results and activities undertaken by the supplier, certain external Current external manufacturers 69 85 53 61 48 manufacturers are subject to a more detailed onsite assessment conducted by a multidisciplinary Total 119 119 90 126 91 team, which may include our company’s Quality, Environmental, Health & Safety, Global Technical Operations and Global Sourcing & Procurement representatives. PSCI Environmental Survey response rate (includes GHG and water usage) 2017 2018 2019 The external manufacturers we contract with are periodically reassessed using a risk-based approach; Response rate 87% 96% 96% higher-risk external manufacturers are subject to more frequent onsite assessments. We expect that For more information, please visit the Sourcing & observations made during the audit process will Supplier Relations page on MSDresponsibility.com. be remediated by our external manufacturers, and we monitor and track corrective actions through completion. MSD ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 58 Social GRI 401: Employment Management approach We recognize that our ability to excel depends on the integrity, knowledge, imagination, skill, diversity and teamwork of our employees. A positive, inclusive and high-performing work environment is essential for employees to feel welcomed and valued, and to fully achieve their business objectives. Harnessing the knowledge and insights of a globally diverse workforce requires leadership, a corporate culture of respect and full engagement, and a thoughtful and strategic approach to workplace inclusion and employee development and wellbeing — physical, emotional, social and financial. We value global diversity and inclusion at every level of the organization and strive for inclusiveness in every aspect of work. We are: • Committed to fostering development and rewarding talent • Dedicated to diversity and inclusion at every level of the organization • Adept at recognizing unique skill sets and nurturing employees’ talents MSD ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 59 Throughout 2019, we invested in programs to drive positive cultural and talent changes at our company. For more information on our initiatives, policies Five pillars of our culture are critical for the advancement and success of our strategy: and accomplishments, please visit the Employees Overview, Employee Wellbeing, Compliance, Engaging Our Employees, Global Diversity & Inclusion, Human Culture pillar Description Rights, and Learning & Development pages on MSDresponsibility.com. Innovation We meet the needs of our patients and customers through continuously inventing and pursuing new ideas and the most promising science. Purpose-driven We are dedicated to the highest level of innovation and scientific excellence. Our research is guided by a commitment to improving health and the quality of life. We strive to identify and meet the most critical needs of patients and customers through continuous innovation. Patient-focused We aspire to improve the health and wellness of people and animals worldwide, and to expand access to our medicines and vaccines. Diverse and inclusive Drive a globally diverse and more inclusive workforce for our employees by creating an environment of belonging, engagement, equity, and empowerment to support our mission of developing innovative medicines and vaccines to save and improve lives. Ethical and high integrity We are committed to the highest standards of ethics and integrity. We are responsible to our customers, to our competitors, to distributors and suppliers, to shareholders, and to the communities we serve worldwide. In discharging our responsibilities, we do not take professional or ethical shortcuts. In order to assess the pillars of our culture, we use a three-pronged approach that provides insight into our deeply held beliefs and values, and how those are manifested through our allocation of resources and the actions we take as an organization: Beliefs and values Includes our mission, our goals and shared understanding of behaviors and expectations across the organization Purposeful investments How the company and employees choose to invest our resources that exemplify our beliefs and values Decisions and actions Underlying assumptions that affect how we make decisions and the behaviors we demonstrate in the company MSD ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 60 GRI 401-1 New employee hires and turnover SASB 330a.1 Talent recruitment and retention efforts for R&D personnel SASB 330a.2 Voluntary and involuntary turnover rate for: executives and senior managers, midlevel managers, professionals and all others Turnover (global) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Overall turnover rate1 14.8% 11.1% 10.7% 11.8% 9.9% Voluntary turnover rate 7.4% 6.3% 6.5% 6.8% 6.9% 1 Includes all types of turnover of regular employees. Turnover by region (2019) Asia Pacific Latin America EEMEA Japan EUCAN U.S. Overall turnover rate1 21.3% 14.7% 13.2% 3.5% 6.4% 6.5% Voluntary turnover rate 16.0% 4.5% 8.8% 1.9% 4.3% 5.5% 1 Includes all types of turnover, including restructuring. Turnover distribution by gender and region (2019) Female Male Overall 48% 52% Asia Pacific 48% 52% EEMEA (Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa) 52% 48% Latin America 42% 58% EUCAN (Europe and Canada) 49% 51% Japan 33% 67% U.S. 49% 51% MSD ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 61 The talent of our scientists, combined with scientific Employee hires by region 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 and technological advances that enable the rapid invention of expanding classes of therapeutics and Asia Pacific higher resolution translational medicine studies, are transforming the way we conduct research. Number of hires 2,104 1,732 1,909 3,071 2,727 We have strategically located discovery centers in regions with active biomedical research communities Hire rate1 17.7% 14.8% 16.1% 24.4% 20.8% including South San Francisco, California, Boston and Cambridge, Massachusetts and London, UK. These EEMEA (Eastern Europe, Middle East And Africa) centers allow us to recruit talented local scientists and facilitate collaboration with local academic institutions Number of hires 384 382 378 505 605 and companies. These discovery sites complement and connect with our strong research and development capabilities and expertise based at our New Jersey and Hire rate1 12.8% 13.5% 13.7% 16.7% 18.8% Pennsylvania sites. Latin America Number of hires 509 380 1,246 714 558 Hire rate1 9.8% 8.0% 23.8% 13.1% 10.5% Eucan (Europe And Canada) Number of hires 1,427 1,636 1,865 2,495 2,624 Hire rate1 7.8% 8.9% 9.8% 12.3% 12.3% Japan Number of hires 101 196 109 153 121 Hire rate1 2.7% 5.0% 2.8% 4.3% 3.4% U.S. Number of hires 1,909 1,937 2,173 3,019 2,654 Hire rate1 8.3% 8.3% 9.1% 12.4% 10.5% 1 Percentage of new hires in the total onboard head count; regular employees only. MSD ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 62 Other programs to support wellbeing (U.S.) GRI 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time GRI 401-3 Parental leave Our company offers many programs to help employees make it easier for employees to balance their various responsibilities. The following is a We provide employees up to six weeks of paid parental In the U.S., we offer a defined benefit pension plan non-exhaustive sampling: time off for the birth, adoption or foster placement of as well as a 401(k) plan with company matching a child. Paid parental time off is available to both birth contributions. U.S.-based employees who are at least • Transportation services and non-birth parents. age 55, and those who have at least ten years of service • Backup dependent care In addition to parental leave, employees receive after age 40, are eligible for subsidized medical benefits at retirement. • Child-care support separate, unpaid, job-protected leave to care for a • K–12 educational guidance newborn child, adopted child or child placed in foster Outside the U.S., we have more than 80 pension plans care within six months (182 days) following the child’s • Special-needs counseling (including defined benefit, cash balance, and defined birth, adoption or foster-care placement. contribution plans) in over 40 countries. These plans • Adoption assistance often supplement government-sponsored social For U.S.-based employees who are subject to a security pension benefits to improve employees’ collective bargaining agreement, work-life benefits financial security through added retirement income. may be offered in accordance with the agreement. Also in the U.S.: For employees based outside the U.S., the work-life benefits offered differ by location and may be subject • Financial planning through Ernst & Young (EY), a to a collective bargaining agreement or local legal valuable benefit that can help employees when trying requirements. to decide which benefit options are right for their families, from a financial perspective Global flexible work arrangements • Educational assistance, which provides financial We believe flexible work arrangements offer a different support for higher education and access to student way of working and have the potential to enhance loan consolidation and refinancing options employees’ commitment to the company, foster • Banking through our company’s credit union, which teamwork, increase productivity and support work-life offers competitive interest rates on savings accounts effectiveness. The company has had a global flexible and lending work arrangement policy since 2008. In developing our global flexible work arrangement policy, we’ve challenged traditional assumptions about where and how work can and must be done. Flexibility reflects our belief that job effectiveness is determined by employee performance and results, not by the number of hours one is seen in the office. What is produced or accomplished is more important than when or where the work is done. For more information, please visit the Employee Wellbeing and Compensation & Benefits pages on MSDresponsibility.com. MSD ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 63 GRI 403: In addition to complying with all applicable country, regional, state, provincial and local safety and The Council’s responsibilities include: Occupational Health & Safety environmental laws, we strive for Environmental, • Establishing EHS strategy, policy and business risk mitigation controls Health and Safety (EHS) performance that is among the (CR material topic: Occupational health and safety) best in the pharmaceutical industry. • Ensuring cross-divisional engagement in the design and implementation of EHS business processes We also adhere to the following key operating Management approach • Sponsoring and implementing a sustainability strategy principles: As a global health care company, we strive to provide a • Monitoring the EHS performance of the company and safe and healthy workplace. • Maintain a safe and healthy working environment for establish continuous improvement targets all employees, contractors and guests • Enhancing visibility and transparency of EHS risks, We seek to eliminate work-related injuries, illnesses • Foster a culture of EHS excellence that is built processes and issues and unplanned events from our operations through on science, integrity, accountability, personal comprehensive safety programs that are part of our An EHS Standards Committee has been chartered by responsibility, collaboration and active employee environmental, health and safety (EHS) management the Council to provide stewardship over the standards participation system. and enable business engagement in the development • Seek to continuously improve our EHS systems, of new or revised standards. Each area of the business Each year we set targets for leading and lagging safety processes and standards is responsible for executing against the standards, metrics, including safety observations, near-miss • Minimize our impact on the environment by contributing to the development of programs, reporting, peer safety audits, recordable injury identifying and implementing approaches to reduce supporting internal audits and communicating rates and days away, reassignment or transferred the resources we use during the design, development significant EHS events. Divisional EHS compliance (DART) rate. and manufacture of our products committees have also been established to manage, Everyone who works at our sites (i.e., all employees • Understand the potential hazards associated with our execute and resolve EHS issues as they arise. and non-employees) must follow the standards and products and take action to minimize any potential risks or adverse impacts The vice president (VP) of GSE is responsible for requirements of our EHS management system. communicating to the company’s Board of Directors, Compliance with these requirements is measured • Promote EHS excellence in our supply chain by Executive Committee and the EHS Council regarding through the site audit processes for employees entering into business relationships with partners progress on goals, objectives and metrics, as well and non-employees, and through peer reviews for that share our commitment to responsible EHS as other material issues. In addition, the VP of GSE construction. stewardship partners with business leaders to establish longand Protecting our people, our communities and the short-term goals and performance metrics to drive EHS EHS governance excellence. environment is fundamentally important to the way our company operates. Our commitment to the environment and employee health and safety begins with the company’s Executive Safety and environmental performance targets are Our company strives every day to conduct business Committee, which has established the corporate included in divisional management objectives. in a safe and environmentally responsible manner. EHS Council. We are committed to providing a safe and healthy workplace for our employees and to reducing the The EHS Council is composed of senior-level executives environmental impact of our operations around the representing all business units, and is responsible world. Our core values are focused around promoting for overall EHS governance, as well as for leading and the health and safety of our employees and respect driving enterprise-wide excellence in EHS management for the environment. For more information, please and performance. In 2019 the EHS Council formally met visit the EHS Management & Compliance page on four times, with additional off-cycle communications MSDresponsibility.com. as needed. MSD ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 64 International standards Internal auditing Certification We are committed to providing a safe and healthy We have a detailed and rigorous EHS audit program. Our company is certified in the Responsible Care® workplace for our employees and contractors, and Management System Technical Specification to complying with all applicable safety laws and Our global corporate EHS audit program is one way RC101.04.2013. The RCMS® recertification occurred regulations. In addition, we aim for EHS performance in which we identify and resolve compliance and on December 4, 2019. that is among the best in the pharmaceutical industry. performance issues within the company. Additionally, our corporate EHS management system Our company has processes in place that are consistent • Our audit leaders are full-time professional EHS is generally aligned with the requirements of the with the International Labour Office (ILO) Code of auditors with extensive experience in auditing a International Standards Organization (ISO), but we Practice on Recording and Notification of Occupational broad range of EHS programs applicable to the do not pursue certification under the Environmental Accidents and Diseases (the Code) where governments company. The individual audit teams consist of EHS (ISO 14001) or Safety (ISO 45001) frameworks at the have adopted the Code. In countries that have not professionals with extensive site and subject-matter global level. Some of our facilities have individually adopted the Code, we report to governments as expertise. In many cases, particularly outside of achieved ISO 14001 certification to meet customer required by applicable law. the United States, our internal auditors work with requirements. independent consultants who have regulatory For consistency across the company, and to enable expertise in the laws of the host country. For more information on our initiatives, policies and us to compare our injury rates with those of other • All audit findings are addressed through the accomplishments, please visit the Employee Safety multinational companies, we use the U.S.-based OSHA development of corrective and preventive action and EHS Management & Compliance pages on record-keeping criteria for recording and tracking workplans (CAPA), which are reviewed, approved by MSDresponsibility.com. related injuries and illnesses. We require all injuries, the audit leader and regional EHS leader, and illnesses and incidents involving our employees to be tracked to completion. This process includes senior GRI 403-1 Occupational health and safety reported and investigated to determine their cause. management oversight. management system We also require that actions be taken to prevent • Findings from our audit program are communicated recurrence. The Global Safety and Environment (GSE) department to appropriate parts of the organization so that learnings may be shared, and actions can be taken. is responsible for the global EHS Management System We have reviewed the ISO 18001 Standard but have not which is based on the “Plan, Do, Check, Act” model. pursued certification at the corporate level because we • Audit performance and key program metrics are This enables us to assess and continually improve our believe that our current EHS management systems are reviewed as part of our governance process. practices over time. The model is implemented globally robust and will help us to drive continuous improvement We use multiple factors to determine the audit through a set of interwoven business processes that in our EHS programs and achieve our desired levels of frequency for our facilities, including facility size, span the corporation: EHS performance. operational complexity, compliance status and • Our planning process includes developing goals, performance history. Our most complex operations are objectives and metrics based on a review of our audited every year, and all manufacturing and research company’s performance, EHS programs, applicable operations are audited at least every two years. Less regulations and external factors that may impact complex facilities, such as sales and business offices our business (PLAN) are audited less frequently. In 2019, we performed 55 corporate EHS audits of our facilities, covering 76 • Activities are performed by using standards, percent of our manufacturing and research locations guidelines and tools that are integrated into and involving 693 auditor days of onsite review the EHS Management System and include activities. specific expectations for sites and operating organizations (DO) Our most complex operations are audited every year, and all manufacturing and research operations are audited at least every two years. MSD ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 65 • Governance committees, from the executive• Ergonomics Process safety level EHS Council through site-based compliance • Emergency preparedness and response Our process safety program identifies and controls committees, review business unit performance and risks associated with manufacturing our human and • Loss prevention progress against objectives throughout the year. animal health products. The program applies not EHS audits are also performed throughout the year. • Capital projects construction safety only to operations that are subject to process safety (CHECK) • Safety for non-company personnel regulations, but also to our pilot plants, manufacturing • Corrective actions and continuous-improvement operations and utility areas where process hazards may initiatives are established to resolve EHS concerns GRI 403-2 Hazard identification, risk exist. In addition, we have implemented a structured that have surfaced during periodic assessments, assessment, and incident chemical-reaction-hazard review program for our audits and routine surveillance of the regulatory investigation research laboratories. landscape. We track our corrective actions centrally to ensure proper oversight. (ACT) We work to minimize the frequency and severity of In the early stages of product development, we safety and environmental incidents by focusing on conduct chemical reaction and thermal testing of We seek to eliminate work-related injuries, illnesses proper facility design, process controls, operation and our intermediate materials and products to identify and unplanned events from our operations through maintenance procedures, protection systems and potential reactivity, fire and explosion hazards comprehensive safety programs that are part of our emergency response capabilities. and environmental risks. This testing continues EHS management system. We also work to minimize throughout each product’s life cycle to assure that we the frequency and severity of safety and environmental Our global safety program is designed to drive are aware of and can appropriately manage process incidents by focusing on proper facility design, process a proactive safety culture and reinforce the link risks. Global process safety professionals work with controls, operation and maintenance procedures, between our leadership behaviors and our safety and operations and engineering personnel to conduct protection systems and emergency-response environmental objectives. We believe that through process-hazard analyses and hazard and operability capabilities. visible management, leadership and employee studies to thoroughly evaluate our operations. These engagement, we can increase the awareness of hazards structured reviews take place during process design, Our global safety program is designed to drive a and help employees make the right choices when it initial start-up and throughout the life of the process to proactive safety culture and reinforce the link comes to safety, health and the environment — both ensure that our facility design, equipment, operating between our leadership behaviors and our safety and on and off the job. One example of leadership and controls and maintenance procedures are effective in environmental objectives. We believe that through employee engagement is our active site safety controlling process-related hazards. visible management, leadership and employee committees that drive program implementation engagement, we can increase the awareness of hazards and address safety issues collaboratively between and help employees make the right choices when it Non-routine hazardous work management and employees. comes to safety, health and the environment — both In recognition of industrial safety trends and our own on and off the job. Our injury and illness data are consolidated into a internal assessments, we have refined our global central system, enabling us to analyze trends and focus approach to managing safety during non-routine We address the following areas in our approach to our efforts to continually improve. We communicate maintenance and repair activities, as these work employee and contractor safety: significant incidents, near-miss events and workplace activities are a leading cause of serious and fatal conditions that could represent risks to our operations injuries across industries. We have developed global • Process safety safety standards to minimize the potential for serious and sites around the world. We also proactively • Non-routine hazardous work share corrective and preventive actions across our incidents when our employees are working at heights, • Industrial hygiene operating locations to allow all sites to learn from the entering confined spaces and working on or near improvements we make. machinery, piping and electrical systems. This global • Biological safety effort is focused on creating a rigorous, error-free and • Motor-vehicle safety safe approach to performing these non-routine highhazard work activities. MSD ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 66 Capital projects construction safety Safety for non-company personnel safety and promote employee health. The Global Health We have a strong construction safety program with We frequently work with integrated facility CoE improves worker safety and employee health by a focus on zero harm to people, property and the management (IFM) partners whose employees perform focusing on four vital areas: environment. Our Global Engineering Solutions (GES) work at our sites. These contractors are required • Governance group oversees hundreds of contractors and thousands to follow their organization’s safety procedures but of skilled craftworkers on our construction projects must ensure they are consistent with our company’s • Risk management worldwide. Safety is integrated into all stages of our EHS standards and procedures. Additionally, they are • Implementation and operation construction projects, beginning with the concept and required to identify and monitor compliance activities • Program management design phases and carried through to detailed design associated with their scope of services and meet and construction. safety-related performance objectives. Through the Global Health CoE, we protect employees, customers, vendors, partners, and neighboring Our construction safety program mandates pre-job Our IFM partners pre-qualify the contractors that they communities by identifying chemical, physical, and planning, hazard assessments and daily safety use at our sites, provide those contractors with safety biological hazards; assessing exposures; and properly audits. We also conduct monthly peer reviews by training, perform EHS inspections and monitor EHS controlling risks. By systematically maintaining rigorous bringing together in-house engineers, contractors, performance. attention to sustainable risk management principles EHS and other partners to conduct thorough project and controls, we can do a better job of protecting our safety evaluations and sharing of best practices. We Contractors are required to report and investigate all stakeholders worldwide, enabling the organization completed 97 peer safety reviews in 2019, covering incidents and near-miss events. They also work with to focus on discovering, developing, and providing 92 percent of our active projects. site-based EHS contacts to identify and implement innovative products and services that save and improve corrective and preventive actions, which are tracked to human and animal lives around the world. Within the last two years the construction industry completion. Our internal facility managers monitor IFM has seen a negative trend related to availability of partner compliance with all EHS requirements. To accomplish this, we challenge our stakeholders, contractor and craft resources. The impacts of this executive team, and ourselves to anticipate hazards, trend are management of resource availability issues, Contractors working at our sites that are not managed evaluate risks, and provide effective and sustainable varied levels of experience, and safety competencies. by our IFM partners are pre-qualified using the same solutions to control both. GES uses a hyper-care program adding additional process as our embedded contractors, including supervision and safety oversight to new contractors, verification of safety training. These contractors are assigned internal company liaisons who monitor safety GRI 403-5 Worker training on occupational high risk work scope contractors and less experienced and environmental compliance, perform observations health and safety contractor craft. of their work and verify that necessary corrective Additionally, GES uses a rigorous pre-qualification actions are taken. Training is critical to building worldwide employee program through ConstructSecure (external competencies that will improve compliance, reduce prequalification service/program) to evaluate, score GRI 403-3 Occupational health services risks and drive continuous performance improvement. and prequalify every contractor and subcontractor evaluating their safety program, past performance, We have a global standard that defines the EHS training incident rates, experience modifier rate (EMR), training Global Health Center of Excellence expectations for employees in three categories: verification of craft and review any regulatory citations We established the Global Health Center of Excellence • Manager training covers specific management prior to allowing them to bid on any projects. (CoE) in 2019 that includes our company’s Industrial responsibilities with regard to safety and Hygiene, Biosafety, and Ergonomics programs. By environmental compliance and promoting a “safetyintegrating these disciplines into a single organization, first” culture the company can more effectively manage worker • EHS professional training is designed to expand technical expertise and improve our EHS capabilities around the world MSD ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 67 • Employee training covers the specific information our employees need to perform their jobs in a safe and environmentally compliant manner, focusing on hazards they encounter on the job and the corresponding control measures Site EHS professionals complete an assessment of the activities performed at their sites and ensure that relevant topics are included in their site training plans. They develop employee training curricula to comply with internal and regulatory training requirements specific to their country. These training programs are reviewed periodically to ensure that they remain current. Our EHS training program materials are available in both instructor-led and e-learning formats. We also conduct periodic web-based seminars to inform EHS professionals of changes in regulations, standards and company practices. GRI 403-6 Promotion of worker health Industrial hygiene Our industrial hygiene program protects employee For example, when designing new processes and practice controls including those that may require health throughout all stages of research and facilities, we build safety into our designs organically, by selected types of PPE. manufacturing. Our professionals identify chemical, eliminating risks, substituting less hazardous processes physical, and biological hazards to assess exposures and or materials, and installing effective engineering and Biological safety control risks. Based on industry-leading best practices, operational controls. We also confirm the ongoing effectiveness of these controls after installation Our biological safety program professionals protect we accomplish this through a hierarchy of controls. our employees, customers, vendors, partners, and through a robust monitoring program. neighboring communities by systematically identifying, These are: When dealing with existing processes and facilities, assessing, and controlling biological risks associated 1. Prevention we use a similar approach. First, we seek to eliminate with the research, development, and manufacture of hazardous materials and processes. When impossible, our vaccines and therapeutic proteins. 2. Substitution we use less hazardous substitutes and then evaluate 3. Engineering potential engineering controls to mitigate the Our biological risk management team drives safety by 4. Administrative remaining risk. Where engineering controls are setting high performance expectations for governance, insufficient or not feasible, we establish effective work controls, strategy, planning, management, reporting, 5. Personal protective equipment (PPE) policies, processes, and corporate culture. MSD ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 68 GRI 403-9 Work-related injuries Global safety performance1 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Workplace safety Recordable Injury Rate (RIR) 0.48 0.35 0.33 0.30 0.30 RIR percentage change -17% -27% -6% -9% 0% Lost-Time Injury Rate (LTIR) 0.22 0.13 0.13 0.10 0.11 Fatalities2 1 0 0 2 0 Motor vehicle safety Collisions per million miles (CPMM)3 12.41 9.48 7.29 6.93 7.01 Cases by business area (#) Lost-time cases Recordable cases Facility Management 1 6 Global Human Health (GHH) 39 79 Global Support Functions (Legal, HR, IT, S&E, et al.) 3 5 Animal Health 5 15 Manufacturing (MMD) 35 110 Research (MRL) 8 25 Total 91 240 Note: Injury rates are subject to change over time, as new cases are added and case classifications change in accordance with our own requirements and applicable regulatory requirements. 1 LTIR/RIR: Calculated per OSHA methodology. 2 All fatalities were transportation-related, except for one high-risk work fatality in 2018. 3 CPMM: Reflects both personal and business use of company-owned or -leased vehicles. MSD ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 69 In 2019, we placed additional emphasis on proactively Capital projects construction safety1, 2 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 assessing existing processes and equipment that presented ergonomic risks. Formal plans drove risk RIR 0.87 0.53 0.59 0.73 0.42 assessments and an engineering control feasibility process was established to better mitigate risk factors DART3 0.38 0.26 0.32 0.28 0.15 following the hierarchy of control principles. Fatalities 0 0 0 0 0 We have worked steadily to drive down our workplace injury rates. Facility management contractor safety4 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 In 2019, our lost-time injury rate was 0.11, a ten percent increase from 2018. Our recordable injury rate was RIR NA NA NA 0.71 0.55 0.30, the same rate as the prior year. This is our third consecutive year in the first quartile when compared LTIR NA NA NA 0.47 0.42 against our pharmaceutical industry peers. There were no fatalities in 2019. Fatalities NA NA NA 0 0 Last year, 30 percent of our recordable injuries were NA: Not Available. related to slips, trips and falls, with “struck-by/ Note: Injury rates are subject to change over time, as new cases are added and case classifications change in accordance with our own caught-in” and ergonomic-related injuries accounting requirements and applicable regulatory requirements. for 28 and 13 percent of the total number of injuries, 1 LTIR/RIR: Calculated per OSHA methodology. respectively. We continue to focus our efforts on 2 Primarily reflects capital projects over $100,000 managed by our global engineering group. reducing these types of injuries. In addition to our focus ³ DART: days away, reassigned or transferred, calculated per OSHA 300 methodology. on the safe design of new facilities, we proactively ⁴ Injury rates for IFM partners; reporting initiated in 2018. address existing risks through the hierarchy of controls, focusing on eliminating high-risk tasks and improving engineering controls. MSD ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 70 Recordable injuries by Lost-time injuries by causal factors (2019)1 business area (2019)1 Slips-trips-falls 29.6% Global Human Health 43% Struck-caught 28.5% Manufacturing 38% Motor vehicle 19.6% Research 9% Ergonomic 13.3% Animal Health 5% Other 3.3% Global Support Functions 3% Chemical exposure 3.3% Facilities Management 1% Non-ergonomic 1.3% Physical/environmental exposure 1.3% Biological exposure 0.4% In 2019, 20 percent of our company’s recordable injuries In 2019, we logged 9.3 million construction hours In 2019, we had no high consequence work-related ill were related to motor vehicle collisions. While we globally and achieved zero injuries on 96 percent of our health, as we have had none of these over the past had a 1.1 percent increase in the number of collisions, capital construction projects. Our 2019 construction 12 years. In 2019, 90 percent of injuries in 2019 were normalized for miles traveled in 2019 versus the prior safety recordable injury rate (RIR) of 0.42 reflects a injuries suffered in low risk/routine tasks. The top year, it is still significantly lower than previous years. decrease over our 2018 rate of 0.73 and achieving a dart two injury categories included slips, trips and falls Our global vehicle safety program includes a standard rate of 0.15 almost half of last year’s 0.28, showing a from the same elevation, and hand and finger cuts duty of care by holding both employees and managers drop in the severity of contractor injuries. requiring stitches. accountable for achieving safe driving expectations. In 2019, we had a significant increase in the number Non-employee of construction hours and capital projects being Construction In 2019, our IFM partners had a total recordable injury implemented outside the U.S., where contractor In 2019, we received one safety excellence award and safety cultures and performance can be less rate (RIR) of 0.55 and a lost-time injury rate (LTIR) of one runner up award for two of our projects safety stringent. Even so, our injury rates continue to 0.42. Our major IFM providers’ injury rates continue to management program from the construction user improve and be significantly better than construction be significantly better than industry averages. round table (CURT). CURT is a global organization industry averages. that provides an international forum for the exchange For more information, please visit the Employee Safety of information and expertise to improve safety, page on MSDresponsibility.com. productivity and competitive advantage for the construction industry. 1 May not total 100% due to rounding. MSD ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 71 GRI 404: Training & Education For more information on our initiatives, policies and accomplishments, please visit the Learning & Whether it’s helping invent the next breakthrough Development page on MSDresponsibility.com. treatment or simply challenging and supporting one another for ongoing development, our culture is about GRI 404-1 Average hours of employee training applied curiosity. GRI 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance The Global Learning and Development organization programs drives business performance by preparing our workforce to find ways to help the company serve patients. The primary focus is boosting our employee’s Training and education 2016 2017 2018 2019 ability to accelerate growth, reimagining ways of working and improving operating model economics. This is accomplished by building the skills and Total course completions for all employees (in millions) 4.2 5.3 4.4 5.3 capabilities of our workforce to accelerate talent, improve performance and mitigate risk through Hours of training for all employees (in millions)1 2.1 2.6 2.2 2.7 relevant continuous learning experiences. This includes, but is not limited to, building leadership and Average course completions per employee 60 48 43 55 management skills, as well as providing technical and functional training to all employees. 1 Based on average of 30 minutes per course. The skill sets needed to continue supporting the company’s vision, mission and future are constantly evolving. Additionally, how our employees learn is continually changing. As a result, we continuously evaluate our organizational capability development needs aligned to our corporate strategy, as well as trends in employee development that are proven to drive business impact. This allows us to focus on fostering a culture of continuous learning that leads to higher levels of performance. We are evolving how we design learning experiences, leveraging the science of learning. We are focusing on what the experience is like for the learner, ensuring it places them at the center and addresses their needs. This includes evaluating and leveraging new technologies that allow employees to share best practices and learn from each other, in addition to providing opportunities for hands-on learning. MSD ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 72 Throughout the year, managers discuss with each of their employees his or her strengths and development opportunities to align on ways to grow capabilities and skills. Build the Best Teams & Talent This global program is intended to help the organization learn, grow and achieve. Based on neuroscience, it gives employees practical strategies and tools they can use to effectively share and receive more frequent feedback from diverse stakeholders and increase the quality of performance conversations. Management and leadership programs Management Foundations is a comprehensive program that focuses on building core, common and critical knowledge and skills for new managers. Using a variety of learning methods, new managers are trained on what they need to know and do to be effective in their role and to establish foundational management skills. In addition, we offer programs for experienced managers focused on areas like strategic planning, innovation and influencing others. Team and individual development Tools and resources have had on the organization, their team and their We have programs that provide skill trainings and tools Our current talent management system supports own development. This leads to annual performance that support building and maintenance of effective company-wide performance management, reviews of employees at all levels (except those subject teams, including Leading High Performing Teams, development, talent reviews and succession planning. to collective bargaining agreements) to guide company Virtual Teaming, Assessing Team Performance, It helps ensure that our workforce is aligned with decisions relating to development, compensation Teaming Fundamentals and Insights Discovery. company objectives and focused on their ongoing and rewards. In addition, individual developmental assessments may professional development. The system allows Employee performance is measured, in part, by be used to identify strengths and developmental areas managers and employees to keep track of business how well employees demonstrate our leadership as a way to prepare employees for higher-level positions and development priorities, performance ratings, behaviors. We seek to emphasize not just what an or changes in their current job. These assessments career aspirations, job experiences, skills, language employee achieves, but also how he or she achieves it. prioritize developing leaders that will create a positive proficiency, certifications and education. It is critical to our company that the annual incentive work environment and motivate other employees Managers and employees meet throughout the year to bonus is determined, in part, by demonstration of our to contribute to the company goals. Based on the discuss progress and accomplishments against their leadership behaviors. employees’ behavior, personality or skills, and feedback, priorities. Emphasis is placed on creating a culture these assessments are used to create an action plan of ongoing coaching and future-focused feedback. At and individual development goals. year-end, colleagues assess the impact employees MSD ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 73 Key talent focus For more information on our training and education We advance the learning and development of our global programs, please visit the Learning & Development key talent at all levels of the organization to support the page on MSDresponsibility.com. advancement of our talent pipeline and diversity and inclusion strategy. GRI 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance reviews The learning experiences include: • General Management Acceleration Program Performance reviews 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 • The Business Leadership Program • MSD Leadership Pathway Executives1 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% • The Women’s Leadership Program • Emerging Women’s Leadership Conference Middle management 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% • Women in Manufacturing Management Line supervisors 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% • Diverse Leader Program (U.S. only) • Enterprise Leadership Program Non-managers2 94% 94% 93% 94% 94% • Executive Acceleration Experience • Leadership Development Center 1 “Executives” refers to the first two levels below the chief executive officer. 2 All “non-managers” (previously “individual contributors”) including those who are subject to a collective bargaining agreement (unions). Our partners Through careful consideration, partnerships have been formed with global diverse thought leaders to support the Key Talent Portfolio. We work with these external partners to provide the highest quality and impactful learning experience. Examples of our partnerships include: • General Management Acceleration Program: ?What If! consulting, part of (Accenture) and Duke Corporate Education • Business Leadership Program: Duke Corporate Education • MSD Leadership Pathway: Saïd Business School and the University of Oxford • Women’s Leadership Program: Cornell University • Diverse Leader Program: Center for Creative Leadership • Executive Acceleration Experience: ?What If! consulting part of (Accenture) MSD ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 74 Our current talent management system supports company-wide performance management, GRI 405: enhanced commercialization strategies, drug discovery and development practices, corporate reputation and development, talent reviews and succession planning. Diversity & Equal Opportunity trust, and shareholder value. It helps ensure that our workforce is aligned with company objectives and focused on their ongoing (CR material topic: Diverse and inclusive workplace) Our company’s business objectives for diversity professional development. The system allows and inclusion are fully aligned to drive long-term, managers and employees to keep track of business sustainable business performance. Management approach and development priorities, performance ratings, career aspirations, job experiences, skills, language Technology provides unprecedented access In addition, our objectives are aligned with the Global proficiency, certifications and education. to information and enables many patients to Reporting Initiative (GRI) standards for diversity make better, informed health care decisions. and equal opportunity and with the United Nations Managers and employees meet throughout the year to Despite this, some patient groups — especially Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) of advancing discuss progress and accomplishments against their diverse populations — experience greater health gender equality, providing work and economic growth, priorities. Emphasis is placed on creating a culture of care disparities, lower health literacy and are reducing inequalities within and among countries and ongoing coaching and future-focused feedback. At disproportionately impacted by chronic illnesses. strengthening global partnerships. year-end, colleagues assess the impact employees have had on the organization, their team and their By cultivating a diverse and inclusive workforce that is Our GD&I strategic framework focuses on the following own development. This leads to annual performance gender-balanced and richly represented across race, priorities: reviews of employees at all levels (except those subject ethnicity, faith, disability, veteran and LGBT status, we promote the discovery of the broadest range of possible • Strengthen the foundational elements of diversity to collective bargaining agreements) to guide company decisions relating to development, compensation medical solutions to address the needs of all patients. • Ensure accountability to drive an inclusive culture and rewards. • Continue to leverage diversity and inclusion to ensure We empower our people to drive business performance business value Employee performance is measured, in part, by and we elevate the next generation of leaders — gender balanced and globally diverse — to solve complex • Transform the environment, culture and how well employees demonstrate our leadership business problems that support our patients’ needs. business landscape behaviors. We seek to emphasize not just what an employee achieves, but also how he or she achieves it. Through Global Diversity & Inclusion (GD&I) industryGovernance It is critical to our company that the annual incentive leading best practices, we surround our highly coveted bonus is determined, in part, by demonstration of our Our commitment to GD&I begins in the boardroom and employees with an inclusive environment enriched leadership behaviors. is reinforced by our Chairman and CEO. through psychological safety, empowerment, principles Throughout the year, managers discuss with each of of belonging and empathy. Employees feel valued and Our Board of Directors has a clearly stated Diversity their employees his or her strengths and development respected and know that they are critical to business Policy, which recognizes that maintaining a truly opportunities to align on ways to grow capabilities performance. diverse membership, including educational and and skills. professional background, gender, race, age, sexual By leveraging the strength of our diverse employee talent throughout the enterprise in a holistic manner, orientation, ethnic and national background and other For more information on our training and education differentiating personal characteristics promotes programs, please visit the Learning & Development we drive greater synergy and impact throughout the lifeline of each business unit. This produces a ripple inclusiveness, enhances the Board’s deliberations, page on MSDresponsibility.com. and contributes to the Board’s overall effectiveness effect with powerful outcomes, such as advances in diversity in clinical trials, strong customer relationships, to better represent the long-term interests of the company and its shareholders. MSD ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 75 Our company’s CEO publicly advocates for diversity and Employee Business Resource Group (EBRG) to $28 trillion in GDP. We remain committed to equity inclusion as a strategic business imperative through the Executive Leadership Council across gender, race and ethnicity as a strategy to following commitments: drive business results and advance our mission. We With ten EBRGs representing different constituencies continue to establish leadership programs to promote • Approving diversity metrics and reviewing progress and 19,000 members worldwide, the Council equality and publicly report on our progress to achieve against aspirational talent goals for women and strengthens and diversifies the global leadership gender equality. under-represented ethnic groups (UEGs) pipeline and provides culturally relevant insights that drive our success. • Driving accountability through meetings with the The International Labour Organization (ILO) company’s leaders to review key strategic initiatives Global Business and Disability Network (GBDN) centered on GD&I GD&I Business Consortium This Consortium, comprised of members from Business We are a member of the ILO Global Business and • Conferring with the company’s Vice President of Disability Network, a partnership of multinational Human Resources and Chief Diversity Officer on Strategy, Supplier Diversity, Clinical Trials and other key business functions, enhances our business performance companies, national employers’ organizations, business innovation opportunities and business solutions networks and advocacy groups working in collaboration through GD&I best practices — creating a competitive • Participating in company-wide events, town halls to promote the inclusion of persons with disabilities business advantage and driving shareholder value. and fireside chats that provide platforms for sharing in the workplace. We believe that disability-inclusive Our company’s Chief Finance Officer acts as the leadership perspectives and for energizing and companies provide a better workplace for all their Consortium’s executive sponsor. building engagement among employees around the employees. We strengthen our ability to maximize importance of diversity and inclusion the full potential of our workforce and we are better GD&I Line Advisory Council positioned to respond to diverse patient needs through Our GD&I Center of Excellence (CoE) oversees diversity Serving as an advisory role to the Vice President, this partnership. and inclusion across all business practices. We deploy GD&I CoE, the Council provides input and feedback five diversity ambassador teams to ensure integration on the GD&I strategy and key initiatives and into our business and people strategies. One Mind at Work — Mental Health offers perspectives on areas of progress, as well as opportunity, in relation to integrating GD&I into the Our company’s CEO signed the One Mind at Work These teams are as follows: company’s business and people strategies. Charter pledging to make mental health a priority by protecting, supporting and enhancing employee The Global Disability Inclusion Strategic Our company has made meaningful commitments wellbeing in the workplace. Council to diversity and inclusion and pledges support to the The Council recognizes and values the importance following organizations: CEO ACT!ON for Diversity and Inclusion® of a disability-confident workforce and understands Our company’s CEO signed a pledge outlining a specific how full inclusion of people with disabilities increases United Nations Women’s Empowerment set of actions to cultivate a trusting environment creativity and innovation for its employees, customers, Principles where employee ideas are welcomed, employees external partners and suppliers. In 2009, we signed onto the United Nations Women’s feel comfortable and safe, and all are empowered to Empowerment Principles. These principles reflect advance work in D&I. Because of this commitment, the The GD&I Extended Human Resources seven areas of focus designed to promote gender company has rolled out Unconscious Bias education equality in business. Research shows that at the current to all 70,000 employees worldwide and has participated Leadership Team rate of progress, it will take 202 years for women to in several closed-door sessions with other CEOs and This group of Human Resources professionals supports Chief Diversity Officers to engage in dialog to drive achieve economic parity. The full economic participation the global organization by ensuring the successful meaningful change. of women in the workforce will generate $12 trillion adoption and integration of diversity and inclusion capabilities into all practices, procedure and systems. A key outcome is to enable a diverse & inclusive culture — one that attracts, engages, develops, motivates and retains top talent globally. MSD ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 76 In addition, we establish clear, measurable goals with our leaders and throughout the business enterprise in the following areas. A commitment to fair and equitable pay is longstanding Pay equity across gender, race and ethnicity is a very important principle at our company and we continuously monitor and evaluate our pay practices and policies to ensure that we are paying equitably. We approach the issues of pay equity holistically through in-depth analysis of employee compensation as well as analysis of our pay practices. We also promote awareness and education of people managers to prevent unconscious bias in our pay practices. We chartered a Pay Equity Council which is chaired by our Chief Diversity and Inclusion Officer and our SVP of Global Compensation and Benefits and is comprised of leaders across GD&I, Compensation and Benefits, and Employment Legal. We will continue our focus on pay equity in the future. By doing so, we believe it furthers our goal of being the employer of choice for employees of diverse Fostering a culture of inclusion trials in relevant therapeutic areas. Learn more backgrounds, supports our efforts to attract and retain Leaders and managers are held accountable for about our commitment to diversity in clinical trials on the best talent and supports our efforts to reward maintaining an inclusive culture across the business MSDresponsibility.com. performance consistent with our Leadership Standards. enterprise. We acknowledge those who excel in demonstrating inclusive behavior through the Health literacy Women and under-represented ethnic group company’s INSPIRE Awards. Launched in 2019, INSPIRE Our company made significant improvements in (UEG) representation fosters a culture of recognition and engagement by reducing health care disparities and improving health empowering all employees to recognize others. By the literacy among patients, globally. Learn more about Leaders and managers have clear diversity and inclusion end of 2019, INSPIRE recorded 359,000 recognition our commitment to addressing health literacy on goals included as part of their annual performance moments across 85 countries. Learn more about how MSDresponsibility.com. reviews. In addition, we utilize specific, time-bound we engage with employees. action plans with targets to increase the representation For more information on our initiatives, policies and of women globally and UEGs in the U.S. leadership U.S. clinical operations accomplishments, please visit the Global Diversity & positions. We have diversity metrics and review Inclusion page on MSDresponsibility.com. progress against aspirational talent goals for women We have set goals to ensure appropriate diversity and UEGs at the most senior levels of the organization. representation of patients participating in clinical MSD ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 77 GRI 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and Gender and ethnicity 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 employees Women in the workforce 48% 48% 48% 49% 49% Women in the workforce in the U.S. NR NR NR NR 50% Employee base that is multi-cultural women (U.S.) NR NR NR NR 15% Women on the Board 21% 23% 23% 23% 25% Women in executive roles1 34% 31% 32% 32% 36% Women on the senior management team2 34% 36% 39% 41% 43% Women in management roles 3 38% 39% 40% 41% 43% Members of underrepresented ethnic groups on the Board 21% 23% 23% 23% 25% Members of underrepresented ethnic groups in executive 20% 23% 23% 21% 26% roles (U.S.) Members of underrepresented ethnic groups on the senior 18% 18% 17% 19% 21% management team (U.S.) Members of underrepresented ethnic groups in the 26% 26% 26% 27% 29% workforce (U.S.) Members of underrepresented ethnic groups in 23% 23% 23% 25% 27% management roles (U.S.) New hires that were female 50% 51% 49% 51% 50% New hires that were members of underrepresented ethnic 33% 37% 36% 36% 33% groups (U.S.) Note: Our company has publicly disclosed EEO-1 information since 1999. Our 2018 data is available at: https://s3.amazonaws.com/msd19-assets/ wp-content/uploads/2019/06/14162626/2018EEO-1Diversity-Brochure.pdf. NR: Not reported. 1 “Executive” is defined as the chief executive officer and two structural levels below. 2 “Senior management team” is defined as the fourth structural level below the CEO. 3 “Management role” is defined as all other managers with direct reports not reflected in notes 1 or 2. MSD ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 78 GRI 412: Environment and Ethical Business Practices. We make it available in 26 languages. Responsible sourcing Implementing procedures to ensure responsible Human Rights Assessment sourcing of minerals. As stated in our Conflict Minerals Training Policy found on our corporate website, we endeavor Management approach Training our company sourcing professionals on how to to avoid the purchase of minerals (e.g., tin, tantalum, mitigate human rights related risks in our supply chain, tungsten and gold) that directly or indirectly finance or We expect appropriate standards of conduct and including human trafficking and modern slavery risks, benefit armed groups or perpetrators of serious human respect for human rights, consistent with our own, as well as general awareness training on our company’s rights abuses. from our suppliers, contractors, vendors and external partners. We are committed to doing business with Business Partner Code of Conduct. We have a formal program to evaluate the risks for those that share our commitment to human rights and labor and human rights in our supply chain. Prior to the principles outlined in our Business Partner Code Due diligence to contracting, all new direct suppliers (as well as of Conduct. Conducting appropriate due diligence and determining certain new indirect and research suppliers in specific the risks — including those related to human rights, geographies) are required to complete and return Our practices are informed and guided by the prior to entering a business relationship with a a Supplier Self-Assessment Questionnaire (SAQ) Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative’s (PSCI’s) supplier — to determine that they can meet all our for Ethics & Compliance. Pre-existing external Pharmaceutical Industry Principles for Responsible company’s expectations. manufacturing suppliers and contract manufacturing Supply Chain Management, which set the standard for organizations also complete SAQs. ethics, labor, health, safety and the environment for our industry. Contracts Our SAQ requires suppliers to answer a series of Seeking commitment from suppliers to respect and labor and human rights questions covering a range of GRI 412-2 Employee training on human rights abide by the principles set forth in our company’s subjects, including freely chosen employment, child policies and procedures Business Partner Code of Conduct through our labor, employment practices, employee disclosures, fair contracts and agreements. Our standard contract treatment, wages, benefits and working hours. GRI 412-3 Investment agreements and templates contain an ethical business practice contracts that include human rights compliance clause. Each supplier’s responses are used to judge whether clauses or underwent screening that supplier has programs and/or procedures in place Auditing to address potential risks for labor and human rights Within our supply chain, we work to meet our related deficiencies. responsibility to respect human rights by: Performing Labor & Human Rights Audits and Environmental Health & Safety Audits at selected Since implementing the Labor and Human Rights supplier facilities to verify their compliance with our program in 2015, we have conducted 234 onsite audits Selection company’s expectations, and by working with them in countries identified as high risk for potential human Selecting suppliers that are socially responsible and to address identified compliance gaps in a responsible rights violations. We track audit-related corrective and who share our company’s commitment to ethics and manner. In 2019, we performed over 30 Labor & Human preventative actions to completion. integrity. We strive to obtain the goods and services Rights Audits. we need to further our mission in a way that is lawful, No incidents of child labor and/or young workers efficient and fair. exposed to hazardous work were reported. Managing and monitoring Managing and monitoring suppliers to ensure that they Expectations Additionally, we maintain a “Speak Up” tool continue to meet our company’s expectations. We (MSDethics.com) for any employee, supplier or Setting and communicating our expectations of hold them accountable for meeting their contractual suppliers. We use our Business Partner Code of business partner to report concerns, including those obligations and take appropriate action to address related to labor and human rights issues. Conduct to communicate our expectations for Human those that do not. Termination clauses are included Rights, Labor & Employment, Health, Safety & in contracts. For more information, please visit the Human Rights and Sourcing & Supplier Relations pages on MSDresponsibility.com. MSD ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 79 GRI 414: GRI 416: We provide appropriate and ongoing training on CGMPs for our employees, so they are prepared to perform Supplier Social Assessment Customer Health & Safety their duties effectively. Our system not only ensures that all applicable employees are trained, but also (CR material topic: Product quality and safety) monitors the effectiveness of the training provided. GRI 414-1 New suppliers screened using social criteria Our company’s medicines and vaccines are widely Management approach tested before they are approved for marketing. This Please see GRI 412-2 and GRI 412-3 on pages 79 and 82. Our quality strategy is focused on ensuring that we testing is governed by a comprehensive regulatory maintain a reliable, compliant supply of products to our scheme and by our research policies. We assess the customers and that we have an engaged and capable safety of our products in rigorous nonclinical and clinical workforce ready to deliver and sustain success. GRI 415: Public Policy trials prior to seeking regulatory approval. Following approval of our drugs, vaccines or devices, the company We operate in a highly complex and ever-changing continues to monitor their safety profiles. GRI 415-1 Political contributions regulatory landscape driven by many different factors, including novel scientific discoveries, technological Our company’s chief medical officer holds overall We are committed to participating constructively and advancements, natural disasters, global pandemics and responsibility for the benefits and risks of our pipeline responsibly in the political process, and to providing cybersecurity events. However, we strive to ensure the and marketed products, provides medical oversight for clarifying analysis and information regarding the issues overall quality and continuous supply of products by all clinical programs, supervises the development and that affect our business and patient care. aiming for two simple objectives: zero market actions implementation of medical policies (including those and zero unsatisfactory inspection outcomes. related to data transparency and the sharing of clinical In 2019, we contributed a total of $734,250 to support data), and has responsibility for the design, execution the campaigns of 339 candidates for state-level offices Patient safety is at the forefront of what we do. We are and implementation of pre-registration expanded in 21 states plus the District of Columbia. We also using and exploring new technological advancements access (“compassionate use”) programs. supported state legislative leadership committees of such as integrated IT tools, artificial intelligence (AI) both parties, industry-affiliated PACs, and national and streamlined digital platforms to further enhance Our company’s Global Clinical Safety and organizations representing elected state officials how we manufacture high-quality products. Pharmacovigilance (GCS&PV) function manages a that meet periodically to discuss policy issues. Our global system for the collection, review and reporting We apply and adhere to a strict set of quality standards, of Adverse Experience (AE) reports received by representatives involved in state-government-affairs and we have policies and procedures in place to our company worldwide, and for the continuous activities made the recommendations for specific identify, measure, control and sustain product-quality assessment of product safety. Our company’s chief contributions based on the budget and priorities excellence. safety officer holds overall responsibility for the safety approved by the Contributions Committee. of our products. Our Global Quality Compliance organization is Outside legal counsel conducted a thorough review of responsible for establishing the standards that ensure To learn more, please visit the Product & Patient all proposed contributions to ensure that they were that all of our company’s products are manufactured, Safety and Quality & Safety Standards pages on permitted under state law. Final approval was provided tested, released and distributed in full compliance with MSDresponsibility.com. by the Corporate Secretary. regulatory requirements. The only other country we provide corporate We continuously strive to improve these standards contributions to candidates or political parties is in order to enhance procedures and ensure ongoing Australia. These contributions are subject to the same compliance with Current Good Manufacturing policies and governance procedures discussed above. Practices (CGMPs). For more information, please visit the Public Policy page on MSDresponsibility.com. MSD ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 80 GRI 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance Quality and product safety 2015 2016 2017 2017 2019 concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services Number of product recalls in the United States1 3 1 0 2 1 SASB 210a.1 Management process for ensuring quality and patient safety during Percentage of sold units recalled during a given year 0.07% 0.01% 0.01% 0.14% 0.01% clinical trials globally (recall rate globally)1 SASB 210a.2 FDA Sponsor Inspections related to clinical trial management and 1 Definition of Recall Classifications: http://www.fda.gov/ForConsumers/ConsumerUpdates/ucm049070.htm#RecallClassifications. pharmacovigilance that resulted in: (1) Voluntary Action Indicated (VAI) GCP/PV inspections 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 and (2) Official Action Indicated (OAI) SASB 250a.1 Products listed in the FDA’s GCP/PV inspections by regulatory agencies of the 0 – 0 0 0 MedWatch Safety Alerts for Human company or clinical trial investigators that led to significant Medical Products database fines, penalties, warning letters or product seizures1 SASB 250a.2 Fatalities associated with products 1 Complete response letter received for Sugammadex (MK-8616) in 2013; complete response letter received for Januvia (sitagliptin; MK-0431) in 2016. as reported in the FDA Adverse Event Reporting System Please visit the U.S. Food & Drug Administration’s We comply with all applicable laws and regulations SASB 250a.3 Recalls issued, and total units (FDA) MedWatch website for more information associated with the registration of clinical trials in recalled on product safety alerts. You may visit the FDA’s publicly accessible registries and subsequent posting Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) website for of the results from these trials. We have put into place SASB 260a.1 Methods and technologies used to up-to-date information on fatalities associated with the processes necessary for compliance with the Food maintain traceability of products product use. and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007 throughout the supply chain and the European Clinical Trial Directive 2001/20/EC, SASB 260a.2 Process for alerting customers Our company has long been committed to sharing the including those related to clinical trial registration and and business partners of potential results of our clinical trials, regardless of their outcome, posting results. or known risks associated with in a timely manner. If a clinical trial of a marketed counterfeit products product is terminated early for safety reasons, we will For those who analyze, report or publish the results promptly disclose medically important information of clinical trials, a clinical trial registry also provides Our industrial hygiene risk assessments require to regulatory authorities and the public, update information on trials in progress and the ability to track evaluation of the effectiveness of control measures. the status on clinical trials.gov within 30 days, and such trials over the course of development. CompanyRisk-based exposure monitoring is also conducted submit a manuscript to a journal (or post a summary sponsored and -conducted clinical trials involving to verify the effectiveness of installed engineering online) within 12 months after the last patient’s last patients assigned treatment with investigational and controls, and improvements are made as needed. visit occurs. If the trial was terminated for efficacy marketed products are registered at trial initiation We use conservative safety factors to set low de reasons, the results will be disclosed within 12 months on www.clinicaltrials.gov, www.clinicaltrialsregister.eu minimis levels for environmental releases until we have after the last patient’s last visit occurs. Summaries of and www.encepp.eu. sufficient data to fully understand their impacts on terminated trials will provide information about patient aquatic organisms. Levels are reviewed and updated as disposition, safety and adverse experiences, as well as new data become available. an explanation as to why the trial was terminated early. MSD ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 81 In accordance with our public policy position statement, all investigational studies in human subjects are Counterfeit products GRI 417: Marketing & Labeling Our efforts in the area of advocacy, engagement conducted in a manner consistent with laws, regulations and awareness involve raising public and stakeholder and guidelines for the protection of human subjects, GRI 417-1 Requirements for product and awareness of the risks posed by counterfeits, and service information and labeling including those issued by the International Council advocate for increased enforcement to shape relevant for Harmonisation Good Clinical Practice (ICH GCP). regulatory requirements. In 2019, we continued our GRI 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance However, individual country regulations and guidelines commitment to increasing our focus in this area and concerning product and service should remain the primary determinant of specific have strategically enhanced our ability to make a information and labeling requirements for the conduct of medical research. long-term impact on patient safety through various education campaigns. The label in our product packaging contains information We have a commitment, where appropriate, to on possible side effects and, if appropriate, how to the study of diverse patient populations, including We are committed to cooperating with relevant avoid some potential health problems. We include minorities, women and children, in our clinical trials in government agencies, other pharmaceutical contact details on our corporate website for patients, all regions of the world. As a result, we strive to obtain manufacturers, wholesalers, distributors, health caregivers and health professionals to report adverse information among diverse populations, ensuring a professionals, consumer groups and key related experiences in the United States. Outside the United thorough evaluation of the safety and efficacy of our organizations in fighting the problem of counterfeit States, adverse events are reported in accordance with medicines and vaccines. These efforts allow us to seek pharmaceutical products and in educating the public any additional local country laws and practices. regulatory approvals throughout the world and thereby about the risks of counterfeit products and how to offer our medicines globally to patients who need them. protect against them. Depending on label changes and their context, we may determine, in consultation with regulatory authorities, Clinical trial site monitoring, design, conduct This effort includes a multipronged approach to that more extensive communications are appropriate. and oversight communicating the threat that counterfeit medicines In those situations, we work with regulatory authorities pose and to mitigating this threat as effectively as to communicate to health care professionals in a timely In addition to complying with our company’s global possible, while recognizing that it cannot be entirely manner so that they can inform patients through standards, the conduct of our clinical trials adheres eliminated. appropriate mechanisms. Communications to health to the International Council for Harmonisation Good Clinical Practice standards and to the principles that care professionals may include “Dear Health Care Collaboration and information-sharing in order to raise Provider” letters and media statements. have their origin in the Declaration of Helsinki. public and stakeholder awareness of the issue and risks are a crucial focus of our product integrity program. When appropriate, an internal standing DataProduct label reviews Through active partnerships with other pharmaceutical Monitoring Committee (DMC) of our research companies, and with organizations focused on security, The ongoing oversight and monitoring of our product laboratories’ senior managers reviews unblinded data patient safety and public health, we provide effective labels are a major focus of our safety efforts. Our label from ongoing trials in a pre-specified, scientifically advocacy on high-priority anti-counterfeiting policy review teams monitor information on our products and acceptable manner. The goals of the DMC are to protect initiatives. work with our product RMS teams to develop or update the safety of trial participants and assess whether the product labeling. We regularly communicate relevant risk/benefit profile is favorable. For more information, please visit the Product information to regulatory authorities worldwide. & Patient Safety, Quality & Safety Standards, The DMC’s recommendations are communicated Product Integrity, and Sales & Marketing pages on internally to relevant scientists and can be distributed MSDresponsibility.com. externally to clinical investigators, review boards or regulatory agencies, as appropriate. MSD ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 82 Health literacy Sales and marketing 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 There are many examples of health literacy in action across our company’s product lifecycle, including our early clinical trials, informed consent, diversity in Number of warning letters or untitled letters from 0 0 0 0 0 trials, patient labeling, instructions for use, packaging OPDP1 or APLB2 in the U.S. and patient education. Beginning in 2019, new clinical trials included teach-back and cultural competence 1 OPDP: Since September 2011, the Division of Drug Marketing, Advertising and Communication (DDMAC) is now the Office of Prescription Drug Promotion (OPDP). as part of their investigator training. Early in 2020, our commercial organization launched a process to 2 APLB: Advertising and Promotional Labeling Branch (APLB) of the FDA Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research. integrate health literacy reviews more consistently across all therapeutic areas. For more information, please see the Product & Patient Safety, Health Literacy, and Sales & Marketing GRI 418: Customer Privacy In 2019, the FDA approved our sixth health literate Practices pages on MSDresponsibility.com. (CR material topic: Data privacy and information security) patient label which was developed with iterative patient input. There are two more health literate labels GRI 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance Management approach currently in development, including one vaccine label. concerning marketing communications Information about our company, products and people is U.S. Medical Forums one of our most valuable assets. We are committed to SASB 270a.1 Monetary losses as a result of legal ethical use, management and protection of information. We deliver balanced medical and scientific information proceedings associated with false to health care professionals within the U.S. through marketing claims Our commitment applies not only to our company’s our company’s Medical Forums, which are conducted information, but also to the information entrusted by external speakers. Speakers are selected on the SASB 270a.2 Code of ethics governing promotion of off-label use of products to us by others. Our tools, processes and procedures basis of their expertise in the relevant subject matter. ensure that we appropriately use and safeguard By attending one of our Medical Forums, health care information throughout its life cycle to ensure integrity professionals participate in interactive learning on We believe that our marketing, sales and advertising of information and to prevent unauthorized access therapeutic and health care industry topics. The goal activities make an important contribution to medicine and disclosure. We have developed and continue to of these interactions is to help attendees achieve by informing our customers of treatment options improve upon a comprehensive, global, state of the improved medical results for their patients. based on the most recent scientific information and art information security and cyber resiliency program findings from rigorous clinical studies. Our sales and to enable our company to fulfill its mission: inventing With our strict standards for conducting these marketing practices are governed by external laws and for life. Medical Forums, we comply with the PhRMA Code regulations and industry codes of conduct, and by our on Interactions with Health Care Professionals as own global Code of Conduct, our corporate policies and There is increased pressure for companies to adopt well as with U.S. Food and Drug Administration procedures, and our ethics and compliance program. the EU general data protection regulation compliance (FDA) regulations, which assure that any product (GDPR) as the basis for their own privacy laws and presentation is appropriately balanced with information For more information, please see our answers to GRI regulations. Our company is well positioned in that we regarding both the product’s potential benefits and its 417-1 and GRI 417-2 on page 82 as well as visit the have based our global program on the GDPR. risks, and is consistent with approved product labeling. Product & Patient Safety, Health Literacy and Sales & Marketing Practices pages on MSDresponsibility.com. MSD ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 83 In addition, there is increased regulatory scrutiny and anonymization, coding and prior review to other interest in companies that seek to collect and monetize activities and processes involving data about people. personal information without full transparency and permission from data subjects. Regulators will continue Privacy values to tighten up requirements in these areas and levy large fines. Again, we are well positioned for these changes We have established a set of privacy values to guide all due to the deployment of a comprehensive closedof our privacy, data stewardship and data protection loop privacy program and our active engagement with decisions. These core tenets serve as the foundational regulators around the world. ethical framework for our comprehensive global privacy program and our compliance with the continually The global privacy office reports into the company’s evolving legal and regulatory standards for privacy and Chief Ethics & Compliance Officer who reports directly data protection. to our CEO. Oversight of the privacy program is conducted within the privacy and data protection board For more information, please visit the Privacy, (PDPB). This is a cross functional board that connects Cybersecurity and Clinical Research pages on to the corporate compliance committee. The PDPB MSDresponsibility.com. meets quarterly. Global privacy program Our global privacy values Over the past 19 years, we have developed and continually improved a comprehensive global privacy program that promotes organizational accountability Respect Trust Prevent Comply for privacy, data governance and data protection We recognize that We know that trust harm We have learned that across our business and with our collaborative partners privacy concerns is vital to our success, We understand that laws and regulations and suppliers. often relate to the so we strive to build misuse of information cannot always essence of who we and preserve the trust about people can keep pace with the We were the first company in the world to obtain are, how we view the of our customers, create both tangible rapid change in regulatory approval in the European Union (EU) for world and how we employees, patients and intangible harm technologies, data Binding Corporate Rules (BCRs) based in part on our define ourselves, so and other stakeholders for individuals, so flows, and associated existing Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) we strive to respect in how we respect we seek to prevent shifts in privacy risks Cross-Border Privacy Rules (CBPRs) certified program. the perspectives and privacy and protect physical, financial, and expectations, so interests of individuals information about reputational and other we strive to comply This achievement demonstrates that organizations can and communities people. types of privacy harm with both the spirit rely on common internal standards and processes to and to be fair and to individuals. and the letter of govern international data transfers across both the EU transparent in how privacy and data and APEC regions to simplify their ability to address the we use and share protection laws growing regulatory challenges in this area. information about and regulations in a them. manner that drives Our holistic approach to privacy has its origins in consistency and biomedical research ethics and the protection of operating efficiency participants in the research studies that we sponsor for our global business and conduct. We have adapted human subject research operations. ethics standards for risk-benefit analysis, transparency, MSD ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 84 GRI 418-1 Substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data Global privacy program 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Number of countries in which we conduct privacy 137 137 137 137 137 compliance verification and risk assessment Number of concerns regarding privacy practices, 143 227 123 315 29 breaches of privacy and losses of personal data that were substantiated1 Number of privacy breaches requiring notification by 0 1 0 2 2 Merck & Co., Inc., Kenilworth, N.J., U.S.A., to individuals or government authorities 1 Privacy concerns include all concerns about our privacy practices escalated to our company’s Privacy Office. Concerns are evaluated to determine if they are a potential privacy incident or not. Those that are a potential privacy incident are investigated against our own privacy policies. In 2015, because of the scope of lost or stolen devices known to be encrypted, we ceased inclusion of lost or stolen MSD devices in our incident metrics. Reporting in 2017 was impacted by the Not-Petya cyber-incident. Increase in substantiated concerns in 2018 due to changes in reporting practices stemming from new requirements in the EU (GDPR). In 2019, because of a change in our incident reporting methodology, we removed non-privacy quality issues, and this is the reason for the decrease between 2018 and 2019. MSD ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 85 GRI Index The GRI Standards represent global best practices for reporting publicly on a range of economic, environmental and social impacts. The table below summarizes where these disclosures can be found throughout this report. General Disclosures GRI 102: Organizational Profile 102-1 Organization name Page 9 102-2 Primary brands, products, and services Page 9 102-3 Headquarters location Page 9 102-4 Location of operations Page 9 102-5 Ownership and legal form Page 9 102-6 Markets served Page 9 102-7 Scale of the organization Page 11 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Page 11 102-9 Supply chain Page 12 102-10 Organizational changes during the reporting period Page 14 102-11 Precautionary principle Page 14 102-12 External initiatives Page 15 102-13 Membership associations Page 16 MSD ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 86 GRI 102: Strategy 102-14 CEO letter Page 16 GRI 102: Ethics and Integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior Page 16 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Page 16 GRI 102: Governance 102-18 Governance structure of the organization Page 17 102-19 Delegation of responsibility for sustainability topics Page 17 102-20 High-level accountability for sustainability topics Page 17 102-21 Access to the board Page 17 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees Page 17 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body Page 17 102-24 Board nomination and selection process Page 18 102-25 Board conflicts of interest Page 18 102-26 Board and executive roles Page 18 102-29 Board identification of ESG impacts, risks, and opportunities Page 18 102-30 Board ESG review of risk management process Page 18 102-33 Board communication Page 18 102-35 Remuneration policies for the board and senior executives Page 18 102-36 Process for determining remuneration Page 18 102-37 Remuneration shareholder resolutions Page 18 MSD ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 87 102-38 CEO/employee pay ratio Page 18 GRI 102: Stakeholder Engagement 102-40 Stakeholder engagement Page 18 102-41 Union representation Page 18 102-42 Stakeholder identification Page 18 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Page 18 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Not reported GRI 102: Reporting Practice 102-45 Entities included in financial statements Page 21 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries Page 21 102-47 Material aspects included Page 21 102-48 Restatements Page 22 102-49 Reporting changes Page 22 102-50 Reporting period Page 22 102-51 Date of most recent report Page 22 102-52 Reporting cycle Page 22 102-53 Report contact Page 22 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards Page 22 102-55 GRI content index Page 22 102-56 External assurance Page 22 MSD ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 88 Economic GRI 201: Economic Performance 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Page 23 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change Page 24 201-3 Benefit plan coverage Page 24 GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts Management Explanation of the material topic, its boundary, how the topic is managed, and mechanisms for evaluating the Page 24 approach effectiveness of the company’s strategy 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported Page 24 203-2 Indirect economic impacts Page 26 GRI 205: Anticorruption Management Explanation of the material topic, its boundary, how the topic is managed, and mechanisms for evaluating the Page 30 approach effectiveness of the company’s strategy. 205-2 Communications and training on anticorruption Page 31 GRI 206: Anti-Competitive Behavior Management Explanation of the material topic, its boundary, how the topic is managed, and mechanisms for evaluating the Page 33 approach effectiveness of the company’s strategy 206-1 Anti-competitive behavior Page 33 Environmental GRI 302: Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization (Scopes 1 + 2) Page 39 MSD ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 89 302-4 Energy reductions Page 39 GRI 303: Water 303-1 Water as a shared resource Page 42 303-2 Water discharge-related impacts Page 44 303-3 Water withdrawal Page 44 GRI 305: Emissions 305-1 Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) Page 47 305-2 Indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2) Page 47 305-3 Other indirect GHG emissions (Scope 3) Page 47 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Page 47 305-6 Ozone-depleting substances (ODS) Page 49 305-7 NOx, SOx and other emissions Page 49 GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Page 52 306-3 Significant spills Page 54 GRI 307: Environmental Compliance Management Explanation of the material topic, its boundary, how the topic is managed, and mechanisms for evaluating the Page 54 approach effectiveness of the company’s strategy 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Page 57 GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 308-1 New suppliers screened using environmental criteria Page 58 MSD ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 90 Social GRI 401: Employment Management Explanation of the material topic, its boundary, how the topic is managed, and mechanisms for evaluating the Page 59 approach effectiveness of the company’s strategy 401-1 New employee hires and turnover Page 61 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees Page 63 401-3 Parental leave Page 63 GRI 403: Occupational Health & Safety Management Explanation of the material topic, its boundary, how the topic is managed, and mechanisms for evaluating the Page 64 approach effectiveness of the company’s strategy. 403-1 Occupational health and safety management system Page 65 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation Page 66 403-3 Occupational health services Page 67 403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety Page 67 403-6 Promotion of worker health Page 68 403-9 Work-related injuries Page 69 GRI 404: Training and Education 404-1 Average hours of employee training Page 72 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs Page 72 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance reviews Page 74 MSD ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 91 GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity Management Explanation of the material topic, its boundary, how the topic is managed, and mechanisms for evaluating the Page 75 approach effectiveness of the company’s strategy. 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Page 78 GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment Management Explanation of the material topic, its boundary, how the topic is managed, and mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness Page 79 approach of the company’s strategy. 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies and procedures Page 79 412-3 Investment agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or underwent screening Page 79 GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 414-1 New suppliers screened using social criteria Page 80 GRI 415: Public Policy 415-1 Political contributions Page 80 GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety Management Explanation of the material topic, its boundary, how the topic is managed, and mechanisms for evaluating the Page 80 approach effectiveness of the company’s strategy. 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services Page 81 GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling 417-1 Requirements for product and service information and labeling Page 82 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service information and labeling Page 82 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing communications Page 83 MSD ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 92 GRI 418: Customer Privacy Management Explanation of the material topic, its boundary, how the topic is managed, and mechanisms for evaluating the Page 83 approach effectiveness of the company’s strategy 418-1 Substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data Page 85 MSD ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 93 SASB Index The Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) is dedicated to improving the effectiveness and comparability of corporate disclosure on environmental, social and governance (ESG) factors. The table below are the SASB Standards for the Health Care sector, and Biotechnology & Pharmaceuticals industry, with page numbers where that information can be found throughout this report. Safety of Clinical Trial Participants 210a.1 Management process for ensuring quality and patient safety during clinical trials globally Page 81 210a.2 FDA Sponsor Inspections related to clinical trial management and pharmacovigilance that resulted in: (1) Voluntary Action Page 81 Indicated (VAI) and (2) Official Action Indicated (OAI) 210a.3 Monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with clinical trials in developing countries Not reported Access to Medicines 240a.1 Access to health care for priority diseases and in priority countries Page 26 240a.2 Products on WHO’s List of Prequalified Medicinal Products Page 26 Affordability & Pricing 240b.1 Settlements of Abbreviated New Drug Application (ANDA) litigation that involved payments and/or provisions to delay Not reported bringing an authorized generic product to market 240b.2 Percentage change in: average list price and average net price across U.S. product portfolio compared to previous year Page 20 240b.3 Percentage change in: list price and net price of product with largest increase compared to previous year Page 20 Drug Safety 250a.1 Products listed in the FDA’s MedWatch Safety Alerts for Human Medical Products database Please visit the FAERS MedWatch page for more information. 250a.2 Fatalities associated with products as reported in the FDA Adverse Event Reporting System Please visit the FAERS MedWatch page for more information. 250a.3 Recalls issued, and total units recalled Page 81 MSD ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 94 250a.4 Amount of product accepted for takeback, reuse, or disposal Not reported 250a.5 FDA enforcement actions taken in response to violations of current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP) Not reported Counterfeit Drugs 260a.1 Methods and technologies used to maintain traceability of products throughout the supply chain Page 81 260a.2 Process for alerting customers and business partners of potential or known risks associated with counterfeit products Page 81 260a.3 Actions that led to raids, seizure, arrests, and/or filing of criminal charges related to counterfeit products Not reported Ethical Marketing 270a.1 Monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with false marketing claims Page 83 270a.2 Code of ethics governing promotion of off-label use of products Page 83 Employee Recruitment, Development, and Retention 330a.1 Talent recruitment and retention efforts for R&D personnel Page 61 330a.2 Voluntary and involuntary turnover rate for: executives/senior managers, mid-level managers, professionals, and all others Page 61 Supply Chain Management 430a.1 Facilities and Tier I suppliers participating in the Rx-360 International Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Consortium audit Not reported program, or equivalent Business Ethics 510a.1 Monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with corruption and bribery Not reported 510a.2 Code of ethics governing interactions with health care professionals Page 16 Activity Metrics 000.A Patients treated (#) Page 11 000.B Number of drugs (1) in portfolio and (2) in R&D (Phases 1-3) Pipeline MSD ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 Introduction General Disclosures Economic Environmental Social Indices 95 Forward-looking This website of Merck & Co., Inc., Kenilworth, N.J., USA The company undertakes no obligation to publicly (the “company”) includes “forward-looking statements” update any forward-looking statement, whether as a within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the result of new information, future events or otherwise. Statement U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Additional factors that could cause results to differ These statements are based upon the current beliefs materially from those described in the forward-looking and expectations of the company’s management and statements can be found in the company’s 2019 Annual are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. There Report on Form 10-K and the company’s other filings can be no guarantees with respect to pipeline products with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) that the products will receive the necessary regulatory available at the SEC’s Internet site (www.sec.gov). approvals or that they will prove to be commercially successful. If underlying assumptions prove inaccurate No Duty to Update or risks or uncertainties materialize, actual results may The information contained in this website was current differ materially from those set forth in the forwardas of the date presented. The company assumes no looking statements. duty to update the information to reflect subsequent developments. Consequently, the company will not Risks and uncertainties include but are not limited update the information contained in the website and to, general industry conditions and competition; investors should not rely upon the information as general economic factors, including interest rate and current or accurate after the presentation date. currency exchange rate fluctuations; the impact of the recent global outbreak of novel coronavirus disease (COVID-19); the impact of pharmaceutical industry regulation and health care legislation in the United The Office of Corporate Responsibility States and internationally; global trends toward 2000 Galloping Hill Road (K1-3181) health care cost containment; technological advances, Kenilworth, N.J., U.S.A. new products and patents attained by competitors; challenges inherent in new product development, including obtaining regulatory approval; the company’s Copyright © 2020 Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., ability to accurately predict future market conditions; a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc., Kenilworth, N.J., manufacturing difficulties or delays; financial instability U.S.A. All rights reserved. of international economies and sovereign risk; Merck & Co., Inc., Kenilworth, N.J., U.S.A., is known dependence on the effectiveness of the company’s as MSD outside the United States and Canada. Design by addison.com patents and other protections for innovative products; and the exposure to litigation, including patent litigation, and/or regulatory actions. MSD ESG Progress Report 2019/2020 96
