UN Global Compact Communication on Progress CoP report 2020 Mater CoP 2020 LAYOUT Amanda Walther ILLUSTRATIONS All The Way To Paris PHOTOGRAPHY Anders Bøggild Mater (All Rights Reserved) Head Office and Showroom Glentevej 47 DK-2400 Copenhagen NV +45 7026 4488 materdesign.com 2 Mater CoP 2020 Content Statement on Continued Support 4 United Nations 17 Sustainable Development Goals 7 SDG 7: Affordable and Clean Energy 9 SDG 8: Decent Work and Economic Growth 11 SDG 9: Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure 13 SDG 12: Responsible Consumption and Production 15 SDG 13: Climate Action 17 SDG 14: Life Below Water 19 SDG 15: Life on Land 23 SDG 17: Partnerships for the Goals 25 3 Mater CoP 2020 Statement on continued support I am pleased to confirm that equally important to our comGlobal Compact its principles Mater reaffirms its support pany, but we do believe all of into our business strategy, culof the Ten Principles of the the Sustainable Development ture and daily operations. We United Nations Global ComGoals encompasses extremely also commit to share this inpact in the areas of Human important issues that need to formation with our stakeholRights, Labour, Environment be dealt with. It is important ders using our primary chanand Anti-Corruption. Further for us as a company that our nels of communication. we have chosen to incorporasustainable strategy and busite elements of the Sustainable ness conduct is aligned and we Development Goals (SDG’s) acknowledge that focusing on in our Communication on the areas where we can make Progress report. To make sure a difference is how we best that our report is relevant, contribute to the global tasks and we can make a difference, that the SDG’s put forward. we have chosen to identify the In this annual CommunicaHenrik Marstrand most important SDG’s to Mation on Progress, we describe CEO & Founder of Mater ter and our stakeholders. We our actions to continually imdo not identify all the SDG’s prove the integration of the and their underlying goals as SDG’s and the United Nations 4 Mater CoP 2020 What does Mater mean? Mater means Mother in Latin. choices made during design The name is the daily remindprocesses often have environer of our small contribution mental consequences. Howevto preventing the challenges er, as a manufacturer, we have Mother Earth faces. the opportunity to rethink Design influences how we as dubious practices and create humans live our lives; it ethical and sustainable design shapes values, culture and that minimises adverse social society. Unfortunately, we are and environmental impacts. increasingly aware that the 5 Mater CoP 2020 “Through aligning our CSR strategy and our production to the UN Global Goals we are now contributing to 8 key Sustainable Development Goals.” Henrik Marstrand Founder and CEO 6 Mater CoP 2020 United Nations 17 Sustainable Development Goals At Mater we wish to make an iming Decent Work and Economic pact in the designand business Growth (SDG 8) while preservindustry, by aligning our coming Life on Land (SDG 15). As mitments within our production part of our new groundbreaking and our CSR strategy with the production methods, we strive to UN Global Goals for sustainable honour a sustainable Industry, development — a framework Innovation and Infrastructure agreed by 193 nations organized (SDG 9). We have embedded in 17 Sustainable Development Responsible Consumption and Goals (SDGs) to end poverty, Production (SDG 12) in every protect the planet and ensure level of our manufacturing and prosperity for all, as part of a new we have also directly contributed sustainable development agenda. to preserving Life Below Water (SDG 14) with the recent design Through aligning our CSR stratby Nanna Ditzel and ARDE in reegy and our production to the cycled fishnets collected from the UN Sustainable Development oceans across the world. To take Goals, we are now contributing urgent Climate Action (SDG 13) to eight key sustainable develophas been at heart from the very ment goals. As a manufacturer of beginning and we keep pushing both furniture and lighting we the boundaries for sustainability have committed to support the and aesthetics by exploring new goal of Affordable and Clean Enproduction partners to join our ergy by only manufacturing LED mission with Partnerships for the lighting (SDG 7) and supportGoals (SDG 17). 7 Mater CoP 2020 8 Mater CoP 2020 Affordable and Clean Energy All ligthing in the Mater Coland can last up to twenty years. lection are made of materials It is Maters policy to conduct that have sustainable elements business in compliance with – from recycled aluminium to both national and international certified wood. laws. Together with our core values Common for all our collecwe comply with internationally tions is that the light sources recognized standards. We have a are the newest LED technolozero tolerance towards corrupgy which is the most sustaintion and are committed to work able source of lighting we have proactively to prevent bribes and today. The LED we use saves eliminate facilitation payments. up to 85 percent energy compared to old energy sources 9 Mater CoP 2020 10 Mater CoP 2020 Decent Work and Economic Growth Mater supports the Human Right them about the importance of in all its forms and recognizes its safety and health. Further it is importance in an increasingly important to Mater that those globalized work environment. who work on our designs are paid a fair wage. This is particuWe acknowledge the potential larly important to ensure when risks for not focusing on these we work with smaller suppliers. important rights, both for the company, suppliers and employThrough our Code of Conduct we ees. We wish to provide all humake sure that we work towards mans the rights and freedoms better standards and more secure they deserve to enjoy. We have working environments and we developed a strategy where peobelieve that this is the best way ple and the planet are in the cento obtain results and help reach ter of all our actions. With our set targets or SDG eight. suppliers we always try to engage in dialogue and we try to teach 11 Mater CoP 2020 12 Mater CoP 2020 Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure Today all our products are SDG nine we wish to increase characterized by some sort of the access of small-scale indussustainability. We work with trial manufactures. Hence many new fast-growing wood sources of our products are made from and grasses. This applies to some small suppliers with local craftsof our designs with upcycled manship. mango wood, wicker made of cane – a strong grass species However, there are pros and cons which we use braided in daybeds of this ideology since we have and a new chair series. to accept that their production facilities do not have the capacity All of our products produced or resources to become certified in the EU and made of wooden to the extent we might wish. In materials are certified accordthe end it is more important to ing to FSC, and all products can Mater to have transparency. be traced back to their origin. With every important supplier Furthermore the FSC scheme we make time to see the producensures that whatever wood is tion sites, talk to our partners used will be replanted. Not all around the world and make sure is and can be certified materials that materials are being proand it is more important that we cessed and sourced properly. work towards close supplier relationships. In connection with 13 Mater CoP 2020 14 Mater CoP 2020 Responsible Consumption and Production As an example, Mater created the and combine the waste into a Mask stool the result of a new material with the intensity and groundbreaking and innovative durability fit for furniture deproduction method allowing sign. Mater to use the biproducts from Carlsberg’s’ beer production – With the Mask stool, we demonthe spent grain – and turn it into strate a waste-to-value technique useful and unique interior deand solution for reusing comsign solutions. In collaboration panies’ resources more efficient, with Technological Institute we caring for Mother Earth and the have developed a new technolnext generations. The method ogy to process biproducts, e.g. behind the Mask stool enables spent grain from beer produccompanies to create their next tion along with other fiber-based interior solution based on their waste materials. own waste streams; Carlsberg saves large disposal costs but After months of research and more importantly, they save tons tests, we managed to process the on co2 emissions when upcycling fiber-based waste into a compostheir own waste into interior ite suitable for press moulding solutions for own use. 15 Mater CoP 2020 16 Mater CoP 2020 Climate Action Mater has pledged to take urgent ing the types of waste streams climate action and tackle climate possible for transformation into change. We contribute to this valuable design solutions and in mission by minimizing carbon order to find new ways of miniemissions using circular and upmizing use of virgin material. cycled materials in our furniture design. We launched the Mater Ocean Chair in 2019 and it uses some Mater has partnered with large 960g of ocean plastic waste. Danish corporations in order While 1 kilo of recycled plastics to remedy the companies waste raw material saves some 1.7 kilos streams and create valuable and of CO2, one single Ocean Chair functional interior solutions saves 1.6 kilos CO2 emissions savwith a new groundbreaking ings compared to virgin equivtechniques. Mater continually alents — demonstrating a CO2 develop new production methemissions saving up to 82%. ods with the purpose of increas17 Mater CoP 2020 18 Mater CoP 2020 Life Below Water We contribute to support Life from the maritime industry Below Water with our collecand our first collection is called tions of chairs and tables made “Ocean” which combines innoof ocean plastic waste. vative solutions to prevent pollution of the world’s oceans with Our latest design is called Nova one of the 20th century’s most Sea, and contains 96 % discardrenowned designers, Nanna Dited, polluting fishnets created in zel. “Ocean” is a reissue and origicollaboration with the Danish nally designed in 1955 realised in cleantech company, Plastix and timber veneer. Letbæk Plast. Plastix strives to contribute to the sustainable We are proud that these products development of society through contribute to further closing the manufacturing of sustainable material loops, reducing landfillsolutions, provision of innovaing, marine pollution and loss of tive and quality products. valuable resources. Today the designs in ocean plastic waste comPlastix deliver the high quality plies to SDG fourteen, twelve recycled raw materials that we and seventeen. use in our designs. The materials are collected from input streams 19 Mater CoP 2020 20 Mater CoP 2020 “All our products must be designed to address one or more of the sustainable development goals. If this is not possible we will not produce it. ” Henrik Marstrand Founder and CEO 21 Mater CoP 2020 22 Mater CoP 2020 Life on Land Another example is the Nova waste in veneer production. The Chair. Nova means ‘new’ and 3D veneer allows for the design refers to the innovative and to shape the wooden chair in a sustainable technique of molding comfortable, light and organic 3D veneer. The chair is made of shape. recycled excess pieces of beech The design also complies to goal veneer, sliced and glued together number 12, 14 and 17 under the in a delicate and patented proUN Global Goals for Sustainable cess thus creating a textural Development and organic looking surface. The result ensures a beautiful exploitation of raw materials and minimises the amount of 23 Mater CoP 2020 24 Mater CoP 2020 Partnerships for the Goals All our suppliers undergo an to find partners that share our initial screening where we make goals and thinking and who an assessment in regards of desire to create long lasting, relevant CSR-elements. When we beautiful designs that are have established that the basics sustainable in materials and are in place in regards of Labour ideas. This mindset is also in acand Human Rights (working cordance to SDG seventeen. conditions, safety, working hours, child labour etc.) we establish a Mater has partnered with local basis for remodeling their curand innovative production facilrent setups, so that we see progities as Letbek Plast, Plastix and ress in regards of sustainability Danish Technological Institute, year after year. and produce furniture design from discarded fishnets and fiOur mindset and business ber-based waste materials collectmodel are structured around ed and processed locally. long-term perspectives focused on trust-based partnerships. This accounts for both suppliers and our design partners. We strive 25 Mater CoP 2020 Considering the planet, its resources and its people. materdesign.com 26
