CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Report 2019 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Content 4 STRATEGY & MANAGEMENT 98 EMPLOYEES 5 Company profile 99 Good leadership 8 CR strategy 102 Career at Merck 10 Sustainable Development Goals 105 Fairness and dialogue 16 Stakeholder dialogue 107 Diversity 19 Materiality analysis 111 Work-life balance 113 Health and safety 25 BUSINESS ETHICS 26 Corporate Governance 117 ENVIRONMENT 26 Governance 118 Environmental stewardship 27 Compliance 121 Climate action 32 Responsible marketing 124 Waste and recycling 34 Interactions with health systems 126 Water management 36 Suppliers 129 Plant and process safety 36 Supply chain standards 39 Mica supply chain 41 Human rights 131 COMMUNITY 43 Bioethics 132 Community involvement 48 Clinical studies 134 Global Health 53 Animal welfare 136 Broad Minds 57 PRODUCTS 139 FACTS & FIGURES 58 Innovation and digitalization 140 Report profile 63 Sustainable products 143 Indicators 63 Sustainable product design 143 Economics 67 Packaging and recycling 144 Business ethics 69 Health for all 147 Employees 69 Global strategy 160 Environment 72 Focus programs 167 Community 76 Open innovation sharing 169 Goals 78 Pharmaceutical supply chain 180 Recognition and rankings 81 Prices of medicines 184 Non-financial report 83 Health awareness 189 GRI content index 86 Product safety and quality 189 General disclosures 86 Chemical product safety 194 Economic Standards 89 Patient safety 197 Environmental Standards 93 Product-related crime 201 Social Standards 96 Transport and warehouse safety 208 Global Compact CoP 213 Assurance reports 213 Assurance report CR 215 Assurance report NFR 1 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Letter from the CEO Dear Readers, What drives you? We all have goals and values that inform fair and respectful treatment of one other and is an effective our actions this holds true for people and companies alike. tool against discrimination in the workplace. At Merck, the force that drives us is our purpose: We are In 2019, we also signed the “Women's Empowerment curious minds dedicated to human progress. Principles”, an initiative of UN Women and the UN Global For us, acting responsibly means respecting the Compact to support women. interests of our employees, customers, investors, and Diversity makes us stronger, which is why we have society. That is why we support the United Nations Global decided to promote it. For example, we launched training Compact and its principles, which cover human rights, labor courses designed to help participants identify their own standards, environmental protection, and anti-corruption. unconscious biases. We want to give all brilliant ideas equal For example, in 2019 we adopted the Group-wide Social consideration, regardless of whether they are from and Labor Standards Policy”, which addresses the guidelines colleagues in Darmstadt or Shanghai. of the International Labour Organization (ILO), emphasizes 2 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Collaboration is the foundation for a good future. We want Last but not least, we at Merck want to make a positive our business activities to create shared value that is both contribution, both above and beyond our daily business. measurable and makes a recognizable contribution to As a science and technology company, we are ideally posisociety. Therefore, as a company we support the United tioned to do so. In 2019, we presented the first edition of Nations Sustainable Development Goals, which include, for our Future Insight Prize for visionary research. Two Amerexample, “Good Health and Well-being” and “Quality Educaican scientists received a total of one million euros for their tion”. work in the fight against infectious diseases. The recent I firmly believe that this is a day and age in which we outbreak of the novel coronavirus has once again undercan find answers to many societal challenges, not least due scored the importance of pandemic prevention. to the rapid development of data processing, among other Together with the World Health Organization, we are things. At the same time, new research approaches also also fighting the insidious worm disease schistosomiasis, raise new questions – including ethical issues. For example, which claims around 200,000 lives every year. We have to find responsible ways to deal with difficult topics, we have already donated a total of more than one billion praziquantel been relying on the Merck Bioethics Advisory Panel for a tablets for the treatment of this disease. In addition, we decade now. are working on a new pediatric formulation of the active In 2019, this international expert committee focused ingredient for very young children and seeking new ways particularly on digital ethics. If we develop new business to diagnose and treat the disease. Our long-term goal is to models based on artificial intelligence and Big Data, we need eliminate schistosomiasis. And we are pressing ahead with clear guidelines, for example in handling patient data. As malaria prevention and the war against counterfeit media result of these discussions, we have established a Digital cines. Apart from our efforts to help patients, we are also Ethics Board to address ethical issues related to data use advocating for the people taking care of them. As part of our and algorithms. worldwide “Embracing Carers” initiative, we want to raise This example also shows that we want to maximize the awareness for the often overlooked needs of people helping benefits of our work – and minimize the risks. The same family members requiring nursing care. applies with regard to environmental impact. In the next For me personally, it is highly motivating to be part of two years, for example, we will reduce by one-fifth the a team that makes all this and much more possible. I hope amount of polystyrene packaging used for products from you find this report both inspiring and informative. our Life Science business sector and increase the proportion of recyclable materials. We are currently working intensively to embed the various aspects of sustainability in the strategies of our business sectors. This includes a new climate target that we will set in 2020. Sincerely, Stefan Oschmann Chairman of the Executive Board and CEO 3 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Strategy & Management Strategy & Management Within this chapter: 5 Company profile 8 CR strategy 10 Sustainable Development Goals 16 Stakeholder dialogue 19 Materiality analysis 4 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Strategy & Management Company profile  Part of the non-financial report We are Merck, a vibrant science and technology company. Science is at the heart of everything we do. It drives the discoveries we make and the technologies we create. We make a positive difference in the lives of millions of people every day. In Healthcare, we discover unique ways to treat some of the most challenging diseases such as multiple sclerosis (MS) and cancer. Our Life Science experts develop tools and solutions, which are aimed at enabling scientists achieve breakthroughs even faster. And in Performance Materials, we develop science that sits inside technologies and changes the way we access and display information. Everything we do is fueled by our belief in science and techand as EMD Performance Materials in the high-tech maternology as a force for good. A belief that has driven our ials business. work since 1668, and will continue to inspire us to find more Apart from our three business sectors, our reporting joyful and sustainable ways to live. We are curious minds presents the five regions: Europe, North America, Asiadedicated to human progress. Pacific (APAC), Latin America as well as Middle East and Africa (MEA). As of December 31, 2019, we had We are Merck 57,071 employees worldwide, which compares with 51,749 We hold the global rights to the Merck name and brand. The on December 31, 2017. only exceptions are Canada and the United States. In these In 2019, our 222 subsidiaries with employees in 66 countries, we operate as EMD Serono in the biopharmaceutcountries generated sales of € 16.2 billion. Our 103 producical business, as MilliporeSigma in the life science business, tion sites are located across 21 countries. Employees and sales by region – 2019 5 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Strategy & Management Group structure ative solutions especially for the electronics industry — for Merck comprises three business sectors: Healthcare, Life microchips and displays — and for surfaces of every kind. Science, and Performance Materials. Our Healthcare busiThe business sector consists of three business units: Seminess sector – the biggest among our three business sectors conductor Solutions, Display Solutions, and Surface Solu– comprises the two businesses Biopharma and Allergotions. Comparing Performance Materials with a smartphone, pharma. Display Solutions represents the user interface, SemiconOur Biopharma business discovers, develops, manufacductor Solutions the intelligence, and Surface Solutions the tures and markets innovative pharmaceutical and biological aesthetics. prescription drugs to treat cancer, multiple sclerosis (MS), We are well on track in the execution of our five-year infertility, growth disorders, and certain cardiovascular and Bright Future transformation program announced in 2018, metabolic diseases. Biopharma is the larger of our Healthwith which we are adapting to new market realities and care businesses and operates in four franchises: Oncology, customer requirements. Neurology & Immunology, Fertility and General Medicine & With the completion of the acquisition of Intermolecular Endocrinology. Our R&D pipeline positions us with a clear on September 20, 2019, and Versum Materials on focus on becoming a global specialty innovator in oncology, October 7, 2019, we reached two major milestones on our immuno-oncology, and immunology including MS. Our journey to transform Performance Materials into a strong allergy business Allergopharma is a leading company in solutions provider and leading player in the electronic the field of allergy immunotherapy (AIT) in Europe. For materials market. Intermolecular has application-specific high-precision, effective allergy therapy, we offer comprematerials expertise and platforms for accelerated learning hensive diagnosis solutions as a basis for individual treatand experimentation with a powerful analytical infrastrucment concepts. Our AIT products concentrate on causal ture, all of which perfectly complement our portfolio. treatment of type 1 allergies such as allergic rhinitis (for Together, we are well-positioned to deliver next-generation example, hay fever) and allergic asthma to meet patients’ digital devices for a smarter, safer, and more connected needs. world. Versum Materials is a leading global provider of In Life Science, with our Research Solutions, Process innovative, high-purity process chemicals, gases, and Solutions, and Applied Solutions business units, we are a equipment for semiconductor manufacturing. The merger leading, worldwide supplier of tools, high-grade chemicals, should transform Merck into a leading provider of electronic and equipment for academic labs, biotech, and biopharmaterials for the semiconductor and display industries. The maceutical manufacturers, as well as the industrial sector. Intermolecular and Versum Materials businesses are being Research Solutions provides our academic customers with integrated into the Semiconductor Solutions business unit. the chemicals and tools needed to make scientific discovery With the acquisition of Versum Materials and Intereasier and faster. Process Solutions provides drug manumolecular, Semiconductor Solutions is now the largest busifacturers with process development expertise and technoness unit within Performance Materials. It consists of two logies, such as continuous bioprocessing. Applied Solutions dedicated units: Semiconductor Materials and Delivery offers both testing kits and services to ensure that our food Systems & Services. Our Semiconductor Materials unit is safe to eat and water is clean to drink. Our portfolio supplies products for every major step in the wafer manucomprises more than 300,000 products, ranging from lab facturing process, including doping, lithography, patterning, water systems to genome-editing tools, antibodies, and deposition, planarization, etching, and cleaning. Specialty cell lines, as well as end-to-end bioprocessing systems to cleaners and conductive pastes for semiconductor packsupport the manufacturing needs of both emerging biotech aging round off the portfolio. The Delivery Systems & ® Services (DS&S) business enables the safe and responsible and large pharma companies. For example, our ZooMAb recombinant antibodies bring the next generation of polyhandling of gases and liquid chemicals for electronic manuclonal and monoclonal antibody technology and production facturers. It focuses on the development and deployment to the industry, specifically engineered for greater of safe and reliable delivery equipment. This allows our specificity, higher consistency, and maximum stability. materials to be handled with the highest quality and safety ® standards for our customers. Our Display Solutions business Another example is our BioReliance End-to-End Solutions, a service offering for process development and manufacunit comprises the liquid crystals, OLED (organic light-emitturing for emerging biotech companies. Additionally, our ting diodes), photoresists, and liquid crystal windows busiLife Science business sector has built the expertise to nesses. In the Surface Solutions business unit, we provide further develop BrightLab™, our digital ecosystem for our customers with solutions that help them to create innovcomplete lab management. ative surfaces of all kinds. Our materials enable more beauOur Performance Materials business sector comprises tiful, more resistant, and more effective products. the specialty chemicals business of Merck. We offer innov6 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Strategy & Management Net sales by business sector – 2019 Governance ments of the Biosimilars business (2017) and Consumer Based in Darmstadt, Germany, our company operates in the Health business (2018), so that we can increase our efforts legal form of a corporation with general partners (Kommanon our Oncology, Immuno-oncology and Immunology franditgesellschaft auf Aktien – KGaA). The general partner E. chises. Within Life Science, we have significantly transMerck KG holds around 70% of the total capital of Merck formed to become a diversified industry leader through the KGaA (equity interest); the shareholders hold the acquisition of Millipore (2010) and Sigma-Aldrich (2015). remainder, which is divided into shares (share capital). During the last years, Performance Materials has continued ® to deliver profitable growth and a significant cash contriOur shares have been included in the DAX 30, the bluechip index of the Deutsche Börse, since 2007. In bution, and we evolved this business further into attractive September 2008, our company was added to the science and technology areas such as semiconductor materFTSE4Good Index, a sustainability index that assesses the ials (Semiconductor Solutions) through the acquisition of social, ecological and ethical conduct of companies. AZ Electronic Materials (2014) as well as Intermolecular and Versum Materials (both in 2019), which also helped Group strategy us further diversify our product portfolio that was strongly Throughout the past years, Merck has grown significantly driven by liquid crystals. Our Group Strategy considers through a series of strategic moves that have enabled us certain foundational elements such as, first and foremost, to develop into the vibrant science and technology company a risk diversification strategy that ensures that we are not we are today. We have systematically and continuously over-exposed to any single customer, industry or strengthened and focused our portfolio of innovative science geography. We want to be a forward-thinking company and technology throughout our business sectors. In Healthgenerating longterm sustainable value. We focus our care we divested our Generics business (2007) to focus efforts and activities on innovative areas to add maximum on highly specialized products and acquired Serono (2007) value to the future of science and technology. to expand our pipeline and strengthen our business. This You can find more information on our strategy in our focused approach has continued until today with the divestAnnual Report 2019. 7 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Strategy & Management CR strategy  Part of the non-financial report Major global trends are fundamentally transforming societies and people’s lives while also raising the bar for responsible corporate citizenship. We are tackling the major issues facing society today, including the growing global population, increasing life expectancy, resource scarcity, and climate impact mitigation. In developing and commercializing new technologies, our ambition is to generate added value for both our company and society as a whole. Our approach: Creating shared value sitates safe manufacturing techniques, high environmental As a leading science and technology company, we know that standards and strict quality management. Furthermore, we our business operations impact our environment and the aim to strengthen our company by recruiting, developing people around us, which is why we have made responsand motivating talented employees. We want to serve as an ible conduct a pillar of our company culture. This approach example for ethical conduct and actively contribute to the is also the foundation of our sustained business success. communities we live in. Through innovative top-quality products from our HealthIn order to stay abreast of new global trends and care, Life Science and Performance Materials business challenges, we engage in dialogues and initiatives, share sectors, we help solve global challenges while also lessons learned and best practices with other organizations bolstering financial performance. in our industry and assess media and news coverage. This Our Group strategy is geared to profitable growth and allows us to minimize risks while also leveraging new busithus business success, which means respecting the interests ness opportunities. of employees, customers, investors and the community In 2019, we moved forward with the realignment of our while also doing our best to mitigate ethical, economic and CR strategy, which had started in 2018. We are increassocial risks. Our corporate responsibility (CR) strategy is ingly pursuing a shared value approach and are working derived from our Group strategy and focuses our resources to make the value we create for the company and for society on those areas where we can have the greatest impact. measurable. All our CR activities can be summed up as “good corporate Our CR strategy builds on our ambition to be a responscitizenship”, which most importantly means listening and ible corporate citizen, ensuring our social license to operate taking action. and maintaining our competitive edge. We believe that We take on responsibility for our products, the envirresearch and technology hold the key to solving global chalonment and our neighbors and aspire to develop products lenges and see our role in helping to shape society. In and services that can help solve the major challenges aligning our activities with the areas where we can have the of our time. With safety and ethics mattering just as much greatest impact, we have defined three strategic spheres to us as business success, we work to minimize the envirof activity as the center of our CR strategy – Global Health, onmental impacts of our production activities, which necesSustainable Solutions and Broad Minds. CR strategy 8 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Strategy & Management Global Health Corporate responsibility embedded in We develop and manufacture medicines and smart devices governance that offer patients a broad array of healthcare solutions. Our CR strategy is approved by our Executive Board, which Health awareness plays a key role in our approach to meets regularly to make decisions regarding our CR goals improving access to these healthcare solutions. For this and reporting. Also tasked with overseeing corporate reason, we regularly conduct disease awareness campaigns responsibility, our Group Corporate Affairs function reports worldwide, drawing on a wealth of expertise from our busito the Chairman of the Executive Board. We additionally nesses. Additionally, we collaborate with a range of partners have a CR Committee in place to steer the implementation to reach out to people in lowand middle-income countries. of our CR strategy and submit recommendations regarding For example, we are engaged in the fight against schistoCR goals to the Executive Board. While our Executive Board somiasis, a parasitic infection. Through our Global Health Chairman bears overall responsibility for this body, it is led Institute, we are developing diagnostics, therapies and by the head of our Group Corporate Responsibility unit and preventive solutions to address malaria as well as schistoconsists of representatives from our business sectors as well somiasis and other neglected tropical diseases. You can find as from relevant Group functions such as EQ, HR, Complimore information under “Health for all”. ance, and Procurement. Our CR Committee also reviews our CR strategy to Sustainable Solutions ensure that it covers the issues material to our company. In We are constantly working to improve the sustainability doing so, we draw on regular input from our stakeholders as footprint of our products to include their use phase as well as the results of materiality analyses. This committee well. These efforts also help our customers achieve their also defines measures to enact our CR strategy and own sustainability goals. To this end, we have established assesses the success of these efforts. In addition, it ensures systematic approaches for product development such as that the initiatives of our business sectors, Group functions Design for Sustainability. A program of our Life Science and subsidiaries align with our Group-wide CR strategy. business sector, this initiative allows us to assess the The measures adopted by the CR Committee are implesustainability of products under development through techmented by our subject matter experts and by interdiscipniques such as life cycle analyses. You can find more informlinary project teams. ation under “Sustainable product design”. In 2019, the CR Committee met twice, focusing its attention on human rights, environmental and social standBroad Minds ards across the supply chain, animal welfare, bioethics, and As a science and technology company, we endeavor to the evolution of our CR strategy and its implementation. excite people about science, inspire curiosity and help their creativity take flight. Our goal is to bolster the reputation Understanding and improving the impacts of our of our company in the science community, especially in operations those areas where we have particular expertise. We not We do our best to mitigate the ethical, financial and legal only support educational programs for schools, but also risks of our business activities, thereby advocating for and back pioneering research at institutes of higher learning. ensuring our social license to operate. To this end, we have Because music and literature inspire people, we also support comprehensive structures and systems in place to ensure a number of cultural initiatives worldwide. Creativity and compliance with legal requirements, along with ethical, curiosity are the bedrock of science, culture and art and also social and ecological standards, all of which are explained in underpin our holistic approach. You can find more informadetail in the individual sections of this report. tion under “Broad Minds”. 9 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Strategy & Management Sustainable Development Goals The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are aimed at all countries and organizations across the globe. We are also helping to achieve these objectives, doing so in nearly every field in which we operate. Our approach But we not only help tackle global challenges within the The international community has defined 169 targets for the areas of “Global Health”, “Sustainable Solutions” and “Broad 17 SDGs in order to facilitate specific actions necessary to Minds”. Our contributions towards achieving the SDGs have achieving the SDGs. As a member of global society, we see positive effects beyond the strategic spheres of activity ourselves obligated to support the implementation of the established in our Corporate Responsibility strategy. Our SDGs. 2019 CR Report illustrates the SDGs and targets we specifically support through our management practices and What we are doing projects. Our CR efforts particularly focus on good health and wellbeing (SDG 3), quality education (SDG 4) and affordable and clean energy (SDG 7) (see diagram below). 10 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Strategy & Management SDG 3: Good health and well-being SDG 4: Quality education Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education all at all ages. and promote lifelong learning opportunities for Across the globe, two billion people lack access to mediall. cines, with an estimated 400 million lacking access to We invest in high-quality education, which applies above all effective and affordable essential health services. Given this to the vocational and advanced training of our employees. reality, we are working to help rectify the situation through This is how we offer an attractive environment for develour Global Health Strategy. However, recognizing that we opment and remain competitive. In addition, we foster the cannot solve these challenges alone, we have joined forces education of young people so as to empower them to help with strong partners to work towards creating solutions. shape society. Target 3.3: By 2030, end the epidemics of AIDS, tuberTarget 4.1: By 2030, ensure that all girls and boys culosis, malaria and neglected tropical diseases and combat complete free, equitable and quality primary and secondary hepatitis, water-borne diseases and other communicable education leading to relevant and effective learning diseases. outcomes. Our approach to improving healthcare for underserved Community outreach in the mica supply chain populations Strategy for preventing and treating infectious diseases Target 4.3: By 2030, ensure equal access for all women Our fight against schistosomiasis and men to affordable and quality technical, vocational and Our fight against malaria tertiary education, including university. Alliances for better access to health Vocational training and dual education programs Access to Medicine Index ranking 2018 SPARK: igniting a passion for science in the next generaTarget 3.B: Support the research and development of tion vaccines and medicines for the communicable and nonContinuing education for teachers and school partnerships communicable diseases that primarily affect developing Junior labs at the Technical University Darmstadt countries, provide access to affordable essential medicines Target 4.4: By 2030, substantially increase the number of and vaccines, in accordance with the Doha Declaration on youth and adults who have relevant skills, including techthe TRIPS Agreement and Public Health, which affirms the nical and vocational skills, for employment, decent jobs and right of developing countries to use to the full the provisions entrepreneurship. in the Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights regarding flexibilities to protect public Employee learning and education health, and, in particular, provide access to medicines for Trainee programs and job orientation all. Vocational training and dual education programs Integrating refugees through training Our approach to sharing and protecting intellectual property SDG 5: Gender equality Collaboration on open innovation: WIPO Re:Search Provide a solid basis for access to healthcare Achieve gender equality and empower all Drugs for Neglected Diseases initiative women and girls. Research work on novel therapies, diagnostics, technoloGender equality is essential to creating a diverse workforce gies and prevention to combat communicable diseases and an inclusive company culture, which is why we do Cnsortium for the development of a pediatric praziquantel not tolerate discrimination. In addition, we promote and formulation advance women in lowand middle-income countries through a variety of initiatives. Target 5.1: End all forms of discrimination against all women and girls everywhere. Our commitment: Group-wide Social and Labor Standards Policy Our commitment: Industry-wide initiatives and regulations Taking action against discrimination 11 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Strategy & Management Target 5.5: Ensure women’s full and effective participation SDG 8: Decent work and economic growth and equal opportunities for leadership at all levels of decision-making in political, economic and public life. Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive Our approach to diversity and equal opportunity employment and decent work for all. Women in leadership roles: Requirements and targets In our Human Rights Charter, we acknowledge our responsPromoting women leaders and talent ibility to uphold and protect human rights and are constantly Rooting out unconscious bias working to integrate human rights due diligence into our Networks to bolster diversity processes. Our dedication to appropriate and fair labor Healthy Women, Healthy Economies initiative standards is a fundamental component of this responsibility. We expect our suppliers and service providers to comply SDG 6: Clean water and sanitation with social standards that are primarily derived from the core labor standards of the International Labour OrganizEnsure availability and sustainable management ation (ILO) and the United Nations Global Compact. We of water and sanitation for all. also maximize resource efficiency in our water and waste Sustainable water management is a key component of our management practices and product development activities, environmental stewardship. In withdrawing or discharging in a bid to promote sustainable economic growth. water, we aim to impact the aquatic ecosystems near our Target 8.4: Improve progressively, through 2030, sites as little as possible and to lower our water consumpglobal resource efficiency in consumption and production tion, especially in water-stressed areas. Furthermore, we and endeavor to decouple economic growth from environare committed to ensuring that people have access to clean, mental degradation, in accordance with the 10-year framesafe drinking water. work of programs on sustainable consumption and Target 6.1: By 2030, achieve universal and equitable production, with developed countries taking the lead. access to safe and affordable drinking water for all. Our approach to waste and recycling Clean water for Chinese schools Systematic waste reduction Schistosomiasis health education project Advancing the circular economy Curbing water use Target 6.3: By 2030, improve water quality by reducing Our sustainable packaging strategy pollution, eliminating dumping and minimizing release of hazardous chemicals and materials, halving the proportion Target 8.5: By 2030, achieve full and productive employof untreated wastewater and substantially increasing recycment and decent work for all women and men, including for ling and safe reuse globally. young people and persons with disabilities and equal pay for work of equal value. Assessing our water management practices Avoiding antibiotic residues in wastewater Performance-based pay Target 6.4: By 2030, substantially increase water-use effiTarget 8.7: Take immediate and effective measures to ciency across all sectors and ensure sustainable withdrawals eradicate forced labor, end modern slavery and human trafand supply of freshwater to address water scarcity and ficking and secure the prohibition and elimination of the substantially reduce the number of people suffering from worst forms of child labor, including recruitment and use of water scarcity. child soldiers, and by 2025 end child labor in all its forms. Curbing water use UK Modern Slavery Statement Our approach to human rights due diligence SDG 7: Affordable and clean energy Our commitment: Guiding principles, Human Rights Charter and laws Ensure access to affordable, reliable, Our approach to making our supply chains more sustainsustainable and modern energy for all. able Efficient energy management is absolutely essential to Our approach to responsibility in the mica supply chain mitigating our climate impact, which is why we invest in renewable energies and endeavor to develop technologies Target 8.8: Protect labor rights and promote safe and that are more energy-efficient. secure working environments for all workers, including Target 7.2: By 2030, increase substantially the share of migrant workers, in particular women migrants, and those renewable energy in the global energy mix. in precarious employment. Buying renewable energy Our approach to human rights due diligence Our commitment: Guiding principles, Human Rights Target 7.3: By 2030, double the global rate of improveCharter and laws ment in energy efficiency. Development of energy efficient building solutions 12 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Strategy & Management SDG 9: Industry, innovation and SDG 11: Sustainable cities and communities infrastructure Make cities and human settlements inclusive, Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive safe, resilient and sustainable. and sustainable industrialization and foster We take on social responsibility. Focusing especially on innovation. those areas where we can best leverage our expertise, we We are always on the lookout for pioneering developments primarily support health, education and cultural projects. and trends. We develop products and technologies that Furthermore, we provide disaster relief and assist people enrich people’s lives. New technologies and the advance in need in the countries where we operate, especially of digitalization in particular enable us to create innovative communities in the immediate vicinity of our sites. products, services and business models. Target 11.6: By 2030, reduce the adverse per capita Target 9.4: By 2030, upgrade infrastructure and environmental impact of cities, including by paying special retrofit industries to make them sustainable, with increased attention to air quality and municipal and other waste resource-use efficiency and greater adoption of clean and management. environmentally sound technologies and industrial processes, with all countries taking action in accordance Environmental certification according to ISO 14001:2015 with their respective capabilities. Reducing the environmental impacts of waste Our approach to environmental stewardship SDG 12: Responsible consumption and Material investments in environmental impact mitigation production Climate impact mitigation Ensure sustainable consumption and production SDG 10: Reduced inequalities patterns. Respect for the environment is the bedrock of our approach Reduce inequality within and among countries. to sustainability. We see it as our duty to not only conserve We leverage our expertise from our Healthcare business resources in developing and manufacturing our own sector to improve access to health worldwide, particularly products, but also to help our customers make their for people in lowand middle-income countries. Moreover, products more sustainable and more efficient. we believe that a diverse workforce makes us more innovTarget 12.4: By 2020, achieve the environmentally ative and successful. sound management of chemicals and all wastes throughout Target 10.2: By 2030, empower and promote the their life cycle, in accordance with agreed international social, economic and political inclusion of all, irrespective frameworks, and significantly reduce their release to air, of age, sex, disability, race, ethnicity, origin, religion or water and soil in order to minimize their adverse impacts on economic or other status. human health and the environment. Our approach to diversity and equal opportunity Our approach to sustainable product design Green chemistry assessment tool Target 10.A: Implement the principle of special and differOur approach to safe chemical products ential treatment for developing countries, in particular least Safety analysis during product development developed countries, in accordance with World Trade OrganEnvironmentally friendly solvents ization agreements. Our approach to plant and process safety Our approach to safe transport and storage Shared data platform for medicine donations CURAFA™ Points of Care Target 12.5: By 2030, substantially reduce waste generaLow-price second brands tion through prevention, reduction, recycling and reuse. Generics Our approach to waste and recycling Systematic waste reduction Reducing the environmental impacts of waste Advancing the circular economy Target 12.6: Encourage companies, especially large and transnational companies, to adopt sustainable practices and to integrate sustainability information into their reporting cycle. Our CR strategy Annual reporting cycle 13 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Strategy & Management SDG 13: Climate action SDG 15: Life on land Take urgent action to combat climate change Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of and its impacts. terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably manage Climate change is one of the major challenges of the 21st forests, combat desertification and halt and century. Our company is no exception when it comes to reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity generating greenhouse gases. We are continuously working loss. to reduce these emissions to mitigate our impact on the Unsealed surfaces represent an important habitat for plants climate. In addition, we encourage our employees to do and animals and we think it essential to seal as little surface their part to preserve the climate. area as possible. Furthermore, we comply with the stipulaTarget 13.2: Integrate climate change measures into tions of the Nagoya Protocol and German law that govern national policies, strategies and planning. natural resource access and benefit sharing. Thus, we ensure that countries providing genetic resources and Development of a new climate target expertise also benefit from their use. Climate impact mitigation Target 15.6: Promote fair and equitable sharing of the benefits arising from the utilization of genetic resources and Target 13.3: Improve education, awareness-raising and promote appropriate access to such resources, as internahuman and institutional capacity on climate change mitigationally agreed. tion, adaptation, impact reduction and early warning. Responsible use of natural resources Employees and climate action SDG 16: Peace, justice and strong institutions SDG 14: Life below water Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas sustainable development, provide access to and marine resources for sustainable justice for all and build effective, accountable development. and inclusive institutions at all levels. Our wastewater may contain traces of substances such First and foremost, responsible entrepreneurship means as heavy metals or active pharmaceutical ingredients. For complying with laws, regulations and ethics standards. For us, sustainable water management means not negatively us, this is key to maintaining our reputation as an attractive impacting the aquatic ecosystems from which we obtain employer and reliable business partner. We also expect fair freshwater, or into which we discharge treated wastewater. and responsible conduct from our employees, suppliers and Target 14.1: By 2025, prevent and significantly reduce customers. marine pollution of all kinds, in particular from land-based Target 16.2: End abuse, exploitation, trafficking and all activities, including marine debris and nutrient pollution forms of violence against and torture of children Wastewater continuously monitored UK Modern Slavery Statement Avoiding antibiotic residues in wastewater Our approach to human rights due diligence Alternatives to microplastics in cosmetics Our commitment: Guiding principles, Human Rights Charter and laws Our commitment: Group-wide Social and Labor Standards Policy 14 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Strategy & Management Target 16.5: Substantially reduce corruption and bribery in Target 17.6: Enhance North-South, South-South and all their forms. triangular regional and international cooperation on and access to science, technology and innovation and enhance Our approach to compliance knowledge sharing on mutually agreed terms, including Our approach to responsible governance through improved coordination among existing mechanisms, in particular at the United Nations level, and through Target 16.B: Promote and enforce non-discriminatory laws a global technology facilitation mechanism. and policies for sustainable development. Our approach to stakeholder dialogues Our commitment: Group-wide Social and Labor Standards Stakeholder dialogues on health for all Policy Industry initiatives and regulations for diversity and Target 17.9: Enhance international support for implegender equality menting effective and targeted capacity-building in developing countries to support national plans to implement all SDG 17: Partnerships for the goals the sustainable development goals, including through North-South, South-South and triangular cooperation. Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the global partnership for sustainable Collaboration with WHO development. Education partnership with the NALA Foundation To reach our goals and drive sustainable development Consortium for the development of a pediatric praziwithin our company and beyond, we need strong partners. quantel formulation We therefore collaborate with a wide array of organizations, Partnership to develop new lead programs for antimalfederations, associations, and networks to tackle the chalarials lenges of today and tomorrow. 15 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Strategy & Management Stakeholder dialogue Our business activities converge with the interests of many people, which is why engaging with our various stakeholders is particularly important to us. Through this dialogue, we communicate our decisions and actions transparently so as to ensure our social license to operate. We aim to unite divergent interests as far as possible as well as build and sustain trust. Dialogue at various levels groups through a variety of channels, such as stakeholder Our key stakeholders include our employees, customers surveys, issue-specific dialogues, roundtable discussions, and business partners, patients, the Merck family as the and information forums. We also engage stakeholders majority owner of our company, shareholdersand our through our advocacy work and industry coalitions. suppliers. We maintain continuous contact with these Our stakeholders 16 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Strategy & Management Stakeholder surveys Advocacy groups and industry coalitions We regularly conduct surveys among our employees and We actively participate in the political process and advocate customers. We want to know which issues they consider to our views by engaging policy makers in a direct dialogue be of importance to our company today and tomorrow, and and by working with industry coalitions. Below are several how they rate our performance in addressing the individual examples of major national and international industry assoareas. We also seek to understand their expectations of us ciations of which we are members and where we hold posias a responsible company. tions: In 2019, we conducted a Group-wide employee survey in 22 languages. Around 47,000 employees took German Chemical Industry Association e. V. (VCI) part, resulting in a response rate of 88%. We also conducted European Chemical Industry Council (Cefic) a survey among our Life Science customers to understand German Association of Research-based Pharmaceutical which of our material topics are most important to them. Manufacturers e. V. (vfa) International Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Roundtables and informational forums & Associations (IFPMA) At our major sites, we conduct roundtable discussions and Examples of positions held by members of our Executive informational forums for local residents. Since 1994, we Board include: have been holding an annual public planning forum in DarmStefan Oschmann, Executive Board Chairman and stadt (Germany) to discuss the development of our site CEO: with members of the city council, local authorities and the community. In 2019, the forum focused on our investments European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and at the site, such as the new Performance Materials Research Associations (EFPIA), President (until 30 June 2019) Center or the new daycare center, which will both be German Chemical Industry Association e. V. (VCI), completed in 2020. Member of the Executive Committee National Academy of Science and Engineering (acatech), Issue-specific dialogues Member of the Executive Committee Our business operations in Healthcare, Life Science and Performance Materials intersect the interests of various Udit Batra, Executive Board member and CEO Life societal groups, with whom we engage via questionnaires, Science: workshops and seminars, as well as at major conferences. Greater Boston Chamber of Commerce, Member of the Our departments organize these exchanges at the local, Board national and international level, depending on the topic and Massachusetts High Technology Council (MHTC), degree of importance. Beyond this, we are also involved in Chairman industry networks and participate in symposia. In 2019, we Massachusetts Biotechnology Council, Member of the took part in numerous dialogues on material topics with our Board stakeholders. These include: University of Delaware, Department of Chemical EnginBioethics: In May 2019, we hosted a “Dialogue on Ethics eering, Member of the Advisory Council of Genome Editing” for policymakers. 45 political stakePrinceton University, Department of Chemical Enginholders engaged in an open debate on the topic. eering, Member of the Advisory Council Human rights: We participate in the Business & Human Kai Beckmann, Executive Board member and CEO Rights Peer Learning Group of the German Global Performance Materials: Compact Network. Within this group, we share lessons learned as well as successes in implementing human German Federation of Chemical Employers’ Associations rights due diligence. Moreover, in 2019, we included (BAVC), President external stakeholders such as trade unions, industry Fraunhofer Institute for Computer Graphics Research associations and representatives of potentially impacted (IGD), Chairman of the Advisory Board groups in our work to update our Human Rights Charter. Confederation of German Employers’ Associations (BDA), Health for all: In 2019, we participated in numerous Vice President events with global reach or relevance in order to participate in and advance global health discussions. Belén Garijo, Executive Board member and CEO Healthcare: Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America (PhRMA), Board member Marcus Kuhnert, Executive Board member and Chief Financial Officer: German Chemical Industry Association e. V. (VCI), Vice Chairman of the Hessian Chapter 17 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Strategy & Management Involvement in initiatives contributions are to be handled. Pursuant to the policy, we We collaborate with an array of civic organizations, such will not transfer any value to political parties or related politas the Goethe-Institut and the World Environment Center ical organizations, initiatives serving the goals of a political (WEC). In addition, for many years we worked successfully party or candidates of any public office. Furthermore, we with The Joint Conference Church and Development (GKKE) will not transfer value to support, defeat or influence the in Germany and will continue the dialogue and collaboration election of a representative in a public office or candidate with a number of other church representatives and organizfor public office. Generally speaking, political action commitations. Furthermore, we are also involved in initiatives and tees (PACs) exist in the United States through which our projects that share our interpretation of responsible entreemployees can donate money to support political candidates preneurial conduct. This is why we support, for instance, the and organizations. Such donations are not made by or on Code of Responsible Conduct for Business and are members behalf of the company. These indirect and voluntary dona® tions are reported to the U.S. Federal Election Commission of the Chemie³ and Responsible Care initiatives. and publicly disclosed. Political donations In 2019, our Executive Board approved the new Sponsorships & Memberships Policy, which stipulates how political 18 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Strategy & Management Materiality analysis  Part of the non-financial report Which topics are key to our long-term, environmentally and socially responsible business success? What expectations do our stakeholders have of us? In which areas do we help create a more sustainable future? To answer these questions, in 2019 we updated the materiality analysis we conducted in 2018, thereby meeting the applicable reporting requirements of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the German CSR Directive Implementation Act. Material issues updated and validated Expectations that non-governmental organizations We regularly conduct a comprehensive materiality assess(NGOs) have of the chemical and pharmaceutical indusment to help us define key topics for our Corporate tries Responsibility (CR) management and for our report content. Relevance of various CR topics to our economic environWe conducted our last comprehensive analysis in 2018, ment. which reflected the requirements and expectations that our Likewise, we analyzed how our industries, value chain and stakeholders place on us. In the process, we reviewed: sites impact sustainable development. For our 2019 CR Relevant regulations Report, we updated the existing analysis by including the Goals and positions of our competitors media as a further external stakeholder group. We Requirements imposed by investor ratings additionally conducted a media analysis and integrated the results into our previous approach. Materiality process 19 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Strategy & Management Results of the update Topics for the non-financial report The 35 topics identified as being of significance to our CR The German CSR Directive Implementation Act obliges us strategy and reporting did not change relative to the 2018 to review the “double materiality” of topics according to analysis. As a result of having incorporated a structured section 289c (3) of the German Commercial Code. The prinmedia analysis into the materiality process, the results ciple of double materiality requires companies to disclose changed minimally, but this impacted neither the reporting non-financial information when the following two criteria framework nor the contents. are met. Firstly, the information is necessary to understand Since our stakeholders additionally expect information the company’s business performance, business results and and transparency regarding less significant issues, we also financial situation. And secondly, the information makes it report on these, albeit in less detail. possible to understand how the company’s business activities affect non-financial aspects. In 2019, we again reviewed the double materiality of the topics identified. Those that fall within the scope of this definition are marked in the materiality matrix and linked to the respective chapters in this report. Material topics 20 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Strategy & Management Material issues in our value chain The following table shows where our material issues fall within the value chain: upstream in our supply chain, in the course of activities within our own business sectors, or downstream with our customers and patients. Moreover, we listed the issues to show the breakdown of materiality by stakeholder groups. Product safety and quality Chemical product safety Material for: Customers, Merck family, shareholders, government agencies, NGOs, commercial and business partners associates Patient safety Material for: Merck family, shareholders, government agencies, NGOs, health systems, patients Product-related crime Material for: Customers, Merck family, shareholders, federations and policy makers, government agencies, NGOs, commercial and business partners, health systems, patients Transport and warehouse safety Material for: Customers, government agencies, suppliers, commercial and business partners, communities Ethical conduct Bioethics Material for: Customers, federations and policy makers, government agencies, NGOs, media, scientists Clinical studies Material for: Merck family, shareholders, federations and policy makers, government agencies, NGOs, media, suppliers, scientists, patients Animal welfare Material for: Government agencies, NGOs, media, suppliers, scientists 21 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Strategy & Management Good business practice Compliance Material for: Employees, Merck family, shareholders, government agencies, NGOs, suppliers, commercial and business partners, health systems, competitors Responsible marketing Material for: Customers, federations and policy makers, media, commercial and business partners, health systems, patients Community involvement Material for: Merck family, employees, NGOs, media, communities Interactions with health systems Material for: Federations and policy makers, government agencies, NGOs, health systems, patients Governance Material for: Employees, employee representatives, Merck family, shareholders, government agencies, suppliers, commercial and business partners, customers Data protection Material for: Employees, employee representatives, suppliers, commercial and business partners, customers, patients Health for all Access to health Material for: NGOs, media, commercial and business partners, health systems, patients Prices of medicines Material for: Merck family, shareholders, NGOs, media, commercial and business partners, health systems, patients Health awareness Material for: NGOs, media, commercial and business partners, health systems, patients, communities, competitors 22 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Strategy & Management Supply chain standards Supply chain standards Material for: Customers, Merck family, shareholders, federations and policy makers, NGOs, media, suppliers, competitors Human rights Human rights Material for: Customers, federations and policy makers, NGOs, media, suppliers, communities, employees Sustainable products Sustainable product design Material for: Customers, scientists Attractive employer Diversity Material for: Employees, employee representatives, Merck family, media Recruiting and retaining employees Material for: Employees, employee representatives, Merck family, shareholders, competitors Employee development Material for: Employees, employee representatives Good leadership Material for: Employees, employee representatives Employee engagement Material for: Employees, employee representatives Health and safety Material for: Employees, employee representatives, government agencies Work 4.0 Material for: Employees, employee representatives 23 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Strategy & Management Technology Innovation and R&D Material for: Customers, Merck family, shareholders, Scientists, health systems, patients Digitalization Material for: Scientists, commercial and business partners, customers, patients Resource efficiency Waste and recycling Material for: Government agencies, NGOs, communities, customers Water management Material for: Government agencies, NGOs, communities Environmental protection Energy efficiency and renewable energy Material for: Federations and policy makers, NGOs, customers Greenhouse gas emissions Material for: Customers, federations and policy makers, government agencies, NGOs, media, suppliers Plant and process safety Material for: Employees, shareholders, Merck family, government agencies, media Biodiversity Material for: Federations and policy makers, government agencies, NGOs Emissions Material for: Federations and policy makers, government agencies, NGOs 24 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Business ethics Business ethics Within this chapter: 26 Corporate Governance 26 Governance 27 Compliance 32 Responsible marketing 34 Interactions with health systems 36 Suppliers 36 Supply chain standards 39 Mica supply chain 41 Human rights 43 Bioethics 48 Clinical studies 53 Animal welfare 25 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Business ethics Corporate Governance Governance  Part of the non-financial report For more than 350 years, responsibility has been an integral part of our corporate identity. It is one of our six company values, alongside courage, achievement, respect, integrity, and transparency. These core values guide us in our daily work, defining how we interact with our customers and business partners. We endeavor to give our best for patients and customers– and find solutions for the world of tomorrow. Our approach to responsible governance recognized quality management standard ISO 9001, good The requirements we place on responsible governance are working practices (GxP) in the pharmaceutical industry, and derived from our company values and the regulations, ISO 14001 for environmental management. Our company external initiatives and international guidelines to which we regularly undergoes ISO 14001 and ISO 9001 certification, are committed. We have integrated these requirements in which is conducted by an independent auditing firm. We both our Corporate Responsibility strategy (CR strategy) hold group certificates for both standards. and our Group-wide guidelines. These guidelines comprise We support the following responsible governance initiatcharters and principles valid for the entire company, as ives: well as specific standards and procedures for individual busiWe have been a member of the United Nations Global ness sectors and sites. Compact since 2005 and are committed to complying with Some examples: Our Human Rights Charter aligns with its principles. Our annual progress report illustrates how the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. we live our responsibility in our day-to-day actions. Our Group-wide Social and Labor Standards Policy reflects As a signatory to the chemical industry’s Responsible the labor standards of the International Labour Organisation ® Care Global Charter, we voluntarily go above and (ILO). Our EHS-Policy (Corporate Environment, Health and beyond what is required by law and have adopted Safety) forms the basis for implementing the chemical ® mandatory standards for product responsibility, environindustry’s Responsible Care Global Charter within our mental impact mitigation, health, and safety. company. Our Regulatory Affairs Governance Policy for As a member of the Together for Sustainability (TfS) chemical products sets out the processes and management network, we are dedicated to improving the supply chain structures for product safety. with respect to environmental, compliance and social standards. How we live responsible governance 3 We are also a member of Initiative Chemie , a collaborBased on the requirements set forth in charters, principles ation between the German Chemical Industry Association and policies, our internal standards give specific guidance (VCI), the German Employers’ Federation of the Chemfor operational processes. These standards are constantly ical Industry (BAVC), and the German Mining, Chemical updated by the relevant departments and are available and Energy Industrial Union (IG BCE). The partners of on our intranet. Our managers implement these standards this globally unique alliance seek to make sustainability a in their respective areas of responsibility and ensure that core part of the chemical industry’s guiding principles and they are adhered to. In addition, we educate and train our to jointly drive the sector’s position within the German employees on all guidelines that apply to them. economy as a key contributor to sustainable developWe employ management systems to steer processes ment. as well as define goals, actions and responsibilities. These systems are based on standards such as the internationally 26 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Business ethics Compliance  Part of the non-financial report First and foremost, responsible entrepreneurship means acting in accordance with the law, a practice commonly known as compliance. All our activities must adhere to laws, regulations and international ethical standards around the world. Compliance violations would not only result in possible legal prosecution but could also seriously compromise our reputation as an employer and as a business partner. Our approach to compliance Our Group Compliance Officer reports to the Executive Compliance is one of our primary considerations worldwide. Board every six months on the status of our compliance As an international company with operations in lowand activities, possible risks and serious compliance violations. middle-income countries, we have very stringent requireIn turn, the Executive Board updates our supervisory bodies ments for effective compliance management. In our view, at least twice a year on key compliance issues. As part of however, compliance means much more than simply regular reporting processes, we annually compile a compreadhering to regulatory provisions. We aspire to always act hensive compliance and data privacy report for the in accordance with the principles set forth in our company Executive Board detailing the status of our compliance values and believe that profitable business operations program, updates that have been made, compliance and should go hand-in-hand with the highest ethical standards. data privacy cases and training figures. Additionally, we prepare an update at the mid-year mark to highlight current How we ensure compliance developments and the status of relevant projects and initiOur Group Compliance function manages the core topics atives. of anti-corruption, healthcare compliance, antitrust, antiOur Group Compliance Officer oversees approximately money laundering, third-party due diligence, data privacy, 85 Compliance Officers around the world, who implement transparency reporting, and dawn raid preparedness. To our compliance program within their respective areas of cover these core compliance topics, we have Group-wide responsibility. These Compliance Officers receive guidance policies, procedures and processes in place that ensure from our Group Compliance Programs and Support team, a our business activities align with the relevant laws, regulacentralized body that drives the design and update of our tions and international ethical standards. Other compliance compliance program across all business sectors and Group related issues, including respective internal regulations and functions and is responsible for initiating necessary measguidelines (such as Pharmacovigilance, Export and Import ures. Controls, and Environment, Health, Safety, Security, Our global Transparency Operations team is responsible Quality, are managed by the responsible functions. for incorporating current and upcoming transparency Supported by our Group Compliance function, our Group reporting requirements in the health sector – such as Compliance Officer is responsible for our compliance those of the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Indusprogram, which consists of the following elements: tries and Associations (EFPIA) and the United States Physician Payments Sunshine Act. Risk Assessment Various Compliance Ambassador programs exist in all Policies & Procedures our regions to take the different needs and cultures Compliance Committee throughout our Group into account. In general, the main Training & Awareness objective of the Compliance Ambassador programs is to Programs & Tools spread the culture of compliance across the local organizaMonitoring & Reporting tions. The ambassadors act as the primary points of contact Case Management for their own teams in compliance aspects. They are not Continuous Improvement compliance representatives and do not replace the work of Whistleblowing hotline (our SpeakUp Line for anonymous the Compliance Officers. The Compliance Ambassadors aim and non-anonymous reporting of potential breaches of to influence the behavior of their colleagues on a daily and rules and regulations). permanent -basis, using different compliance-related activities specifically designed for their teams. From the CompliOur compliance program is regularly updated to reflect new ance Offices across the world we encourage and support the requirements, such as those resulting from amendments to development of these programs as they are an excellent legislation, relevant industry codes or changes within our way to increase accountability and ownership of business company. ethics across our businesses and functions. 27 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Business ethics Clear chain of command for reporting violations Our commitment: guidelines and standards Reports of potential compliance violations that we receive Our compliance program builds on our company values via our SpeakUp Line are reviewed by the Compliance and integrates these into our compliance framework, which Investigations and Case Management team and appropriate contains Group-wide guidelines for entrepreneurial conduct investigative steps are initiated. Exposed cases with a that are mandatory for all our employees: certain risk profile are additionally presented to the Compliance Case Committee, which consists of senior representThe Merck Code of Conduct guides our people in atives from Compliance, Corporate Security, Data Privacy, conducting business ethically – in accordance with our Human Resources, Internal Auditing and Legal. The values and the law. It is available to all employees worldcommittee’s duties include assessing and classifying ethical wide in 22 languages, both electronically and as a print issues, investigating their background and addressing these brochure. issues through appropriate measures. If, during the investOur Human Rights Charter supplements our Code of igation, a root cause is identified that could lead to further Conduct with globally recognized principles regarding compliance violations, it is continuously monitored and human rights. preventive or corrective actions are taken. An associated Our Anti-Corruption Policy stipulates that all business sub-committee advises on disciplinary action, if necessary. activities must be conducted in accordance with legally applicable anti-corruption standards. All forms of bribery Conflicts of interest – whether giving or receiving – are strictly prohibited. Our Pharma Code for prescription medicines as well as We take all potential conflicts of interest seriously. underlying policies and additional guideline documents set Employees must strictly avoid situations where their profesout key principles for interactions with our partners in the sional judgment may come into conflict with their personal health industry. interests. Also, they must disclose every potential conflict Our Group-wide Antitrust and Competition Law Policy of interest to their manager and document the disclosure. sets forth that all business activities across the Group are Such issues are usually resolved directly between the to be conducted in compliance with applicable competition employee and his or her manager, but can also be routed to regulations at all times. We acknowledge the importance Human Resources or other relevant functions. Furthermore, of fair competition and expect the same of contract organwe have implemented a specific governance process that izations acting on our behalf. includes the Executive Board and ensures that shareholders Our Compliance Reporting and Investigation Policy and related parties are regularly provided with information includes the basic steps for an internal compliance investon potential conflicts. igation. Its purpose is to ensure an appropriate, timely Beyond this, our processes for handling conflicts of and thorough response to compliance-related reports of interest are detailed in our Annual Report. potential misconduct relating to any kind of internal or external regulations or policies. Data Privacy integrated into Group Compliance Our global Money Laundering Prevention Policy Our Data Privacy unit is part of our Group Compliance defines and describes the internal global processes and organization. As required by law, this unit acts independassurance measures in place to protect our company ently and submits frequent data privacy updates in addifrom being misused by third parties for money laundering tion to compiling a regular comprehensive data privacy purposes. report as a part of the compliance report. Besides a central Group Data Privacy Officer, we also have local Data Privacy We use an online confirmation process to send GroupOfficers at various sites around the world. wide policies to relevant managers and employees, including Group Legal and Compliance colleagues. RecipiIntegration of Versum Materials and ents confirm receipt of the policies and commit to adherence Intermolecular and appropriate implementation at the relevant sites. Both Versum Materials and Intermolecular have robust compliance programs in place. We will be implementing our compliance program and the corresponding processes stepby-step until December 2020. 28 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Business ethics Rules for the provision of healthcare items Compliance audits Our company occasionally provides healthcare professionals As part of operational audits, our Group Internal Auditing with items of medical utility or informational and educafunction regularly reviews relevant matters at our sites to tional materials. We require the provision of such items determine the effectiveness of the respective complito be for legitimate and lawful purposes, in accordance with ance guidelines, processes and structures in place. The our Code of Conduct as well as applicable policies, laws unit also checks for violations of our Code of Conduct and and codes. The rules on such provisions are laid out in our Anti-Corruption Policy and reviews the workplace our Healthcare Items Policy, which was updated in 2019 to requirements set out in our Human Rights Charter. include EMD Serono, Allergopharma and the Merck FoundaOur audit planning aims to provide comprehensive tion within its scope. risk assurance through the best possible audit coverage. Our annual audit planning process is risk-based and includes Requirements we place on our business partners factors such as sales, employee headcount, systematic To be effective, compliance management must not be stakeholder feedback and the Corruption Perceptions Index restricted to the boundaries of our own company. While our (CPI) published by the non-governmental organization supplier management processes focus on vendor compliTransparency International. If an internal audit produces ance with our standards, our global Business Partner recommendations, Group Internal Auditing performs a Risk Management process governs interactions with sales systematic follow-up and monitors the implementation of partners, such as sales agents, distributors, dealers and the prescribed corrective actions. In 2019, we assessed 50 wholesalers. We expect all our business partners worldwide operations for corruption-related risks. to comply with our compliance principles. We only collabAs of 2020, Versum Materials will be part of the annual orate with partners who pledge to comply with all applicable audit plan of Group Internal Auditing. In January, a “post laws, reject all forms of bribery and adhere to environday 1 audit” was performed. Further audits, such as of mental, health and safety guidelines. Furthermore, we Versum Materials Korea or Delivery Systems and Services, contractually require our business partners to demonstrate are also part of the 2020 Internal Audit Plan as approved a commitment to internationally recognized human rights by our Executive Board. and labor standards as well as to our own compliance requirements. We also monitor adherence to these standCompliance training ards for existing business relationships with a certain riskWe provide regular compliance classroom and online level via our established global Business Partner Risk training courses on our Code of Conduct, anti-corruption, Management process – typically every three years or ad hoc anti-trust, data privacy and healthcare compliance standwhen new risks are identified. ards. We require employees to take these courses based on their risk indication. Some courses also apply to indeRequirements of our business partners pendent contractors and supervised workers, such as We employ a global approach for responding to Code of temporary staff. Conduct acknowledgment requests from our business partIn June 2019, we completed the full global roll-out of our ners. The framework guiding this practice is laid out in our business sector-specific Code of Conduct e-learning internal Merck Corporate Responsibility Letter, which was program by publishing it in 20 new languages in addition to reviewed and updated in 2019. German and English, which were already launched in 2018. The training complements our Code of Conduct brochure Harmonizing data privacy Group-wide “What guides us,” by providing practical guidance on how to Our Policy for Data Protection and Personal Data Privacy act ethically in the workplace. In 2019, 50,461 employees defines our standards for processing, saving, using and and contractors had been trained as part of the program, transmitting data. This approach allows us to achieve a which we conduct regularly for all new employees and high level of protection for the data belonging to our contractors. employees, contract partners, customers and suppliers as We regularly update our training plan and adapt it to well as patients and participants in clinical studies. Our new developments to continuously educate our employees Group-wide understanding of data privacy is based on on existing and new compliance requirements, guidelines European legislation, which also entails the EU General Data and projects. One example is the e-learning course on our Protection Regulation (EU GDPR). We also consider local Anti-Corruption Policy, which is available in 15 languages. data privacy requirements, as not all requirements at all In total, 35,425 employees and contractors have completed sites are covered by EU standards. this training since the introduction of the program, which is also being updated for the 2020 training cycle. In response to the European General Data Protection Regulation (EU GDPR), we redesigned our regular Data Privacy e-learning course, rolling it out in 17 languages in late 2018. In the meantime, a total of 47,650 employees and contractors have completed this course. Additionally, Compliance Officers complement the execution of our Group-wide training plan by conducting mandatory local and business-specific e-learning courses. 29 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Business ethics SpeakUp Line for potential compliance Once the process is completed, the collected data will violations be further analyzed and specific risk and control reports will We encourage all Group employees to report potential be generated. Based on the results, follow-up activities will compliance violations to their superiors, Legal, HR or other be initiated to further enhance our Compliance Management relevant departments. Worldwide, they can also use our System. central whistleblowing SpeakUp Line free of charge and anonymously to report violations in their local language Management of business partners by telephone or via a web-based application. Based on We apply a risk-based approach to selecting business partrecommendations from the Compliance Investigation Team ners for sales activities. The greater we estimate the risk or the Compliance Case Committee, disciplinary actions may to be regarding a certain country, region or type of service, also be taken against employees who have committed a the more in-depth we examine the company before entering compliance violation, where necessary. These actions may into a business relationship. For these risk assessments, we range from a simple warning to dismissal, depending on use the Corruption Perceptions Index (CPI) maintained the severity of the violation. In May 2019, the SpeakUp by Transparency International and assess potential partLine was also made available to external stakeholders. The ners based on other parameters such as the nature of the relevant information can be found in the Compliance and intended business and sales volume. We also explore backEthics section of our website, where we consolidate key ground information from various databases and information compliance information such as our values, Code of reported by the business partners themselves, for instance, Conduct, and information on transparency and data privacy on their own compliance programs. for external audiences. If we encounter compliance violations, we decide To continuously strengthen employees’ awareness of whether to reject the potential business partner, terminate the SpeakUp Line, we rolled out a global SpeakUp Line the existing relationship or impose conditions to mitigate communication campaign in May 2019, using digital and identified risks. However, our partners are generally willing internal print channels. to adapt their structures and processes in line with our strict Both the number of reports of suspected compliance compliance requirements. Since launching this process in violations and the number of actual compliance cases was 2013, we have assessed more than 3,700 business partstable compared with the previous year. In 2019, we ners. In 2019, we used this process to assess more than received 75 compliance-related reports via the SpeakUp 300 business partners. Line and other channels that led to investigations. In 2019, there were 30 confirmed cases of violations of the Ensuring data privacy and information Code of Conduct or other internal and external rules. security We operate a data privacy management system as part Risk analysis: Compliance Risk Reporting and of our Group Compliance function. This system is harmonSelf-Monitoring ized across the whole Group. Furthermore, it is necessary In 2019, the Compliance Programs and Support team to protect our information systems, their contents and our launched a redesigned compliance risk management communication channels against criminal activities of any process. We adapted the process for risk evaluation and kind, like e-crime and cyberattacks, including unauthorized added a new self-monitoring component. The risk manageaccess, information leakage and misuse of data or systems. ment process for compliance-related topics consists of two Our Group Security and IT Security units implement organmajor core elements: Compliance Risk Reporting and Selfizational, process-related and technical information security Monitoring. countermeasures based on recognized international standards. We harmonized our electronic and physical Compliance Risk Reporting: security measures (e.g. access control) to bolster our Compliance Risk Reporting is the process where compliance ability to handle sensitive data such as trade secrets. Aside risks are evaluated. The Compliance Officer of the from active security monitoring, our Group Internal Auditing respective legal entity or department evaluates designated verifies that we are implementing and complying with our risks based on the business sector. The risk evaluation data privacy policy and data security programs. is conducted by determining a monetary impact and the Our data privacy management system applies the PDCA extent to which the risk is likely to occur. In line with the principle (plan, do, check, act) to ensure that data privacy best practice for risk evaluation, the Compliance Officers policies and tools (plan), data privacy training (do), inspecassess the inherent risk followed by the residual risk. tions and assessments (check) and incident and issue management processes (act) are all in place. Self-Monitoring: To support local Data Privacy Officers at our sites, we The new Self-Monitoring component allows us to monitor have introduced standardized data privacy consulting the effectiveness of our compliance program within services that can be requested by data controllers and a business. The respective Managing Director of the legal processors as needed. We also implemented a central IT entity or business head of a department in scope is provided tool to provide a single source for data privacy processes with specific risk-mitigating statements that must be like answering data privacy questions, registering data attested to on an agreement scale. processing activities and reporting potential data privacy incidents. We had zero sanctioned complaints or incidents 30 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Business ethics concerning breaches of customer privacy leaks, thefts or Committee leads the decision-making process for devellosses of customer data in 2019. In one case, a minor oping measures in the countries, while local advisory groups personal data breach was reported to the supervisory oversee implementation at country level. Our company has authority which was not sanctioned. chaired the advisory group of Ghana since 2018. Our local compliance organizations also collaborate with these groups EFPIA Transparency Initiative and offer training to small and medium-sized Members of the Transparency Initiative of the European companies. Beyond these efforts, we continuously assist Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations the Alliance for Integrity through business-to-business (EFPIA) are required to publish all contributions to medical workshops and training courses and by sharing best pracprofessionals and organizations in the health sector, along tices on how to develop and implement effective corruption with the names and addresses of individual recipients. prevention systems. Beyond this initiative, several countries have introduced legislation to further increase transparency in the pharEngaging stakeholders maceutical industry. We comply with these requirements In 2019, we engaged stakeholders in dialogue primarily and additional standards governing interactions with health through our memberships in various associations. Among systems and include them in our transparency reporting. other organizations, we are members of the German Chemical Industry Association e. V. (VCI), the German Institute Alliance for Integrity for Compliance (DICO), the European Federation of PharWe are a member of the Alliance for Integrity Steering maceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA), the German Committee. Established by the German Society for InterAssociation of Voluntary Self-Regulation for the Pharmanational Cooperation (GIZ), the German Global Compact ceutical Industry (FSA), the International Federation of Network (DGCN) and the Federation of German Industries Pharmaceutical Manufacturers and Associations (IFPMA), (BDI), this initiative aims to achieve a corruption-free busithe Alliance for Integrity, the German Association for Supply ness world in lowand middle-income countries. Its activChain Management, Procurement and Logistics e. V. (BME), ities focus on Latin American countries, Ghana and Asian and the International Association of Privacy Professionals countries, in particular India and Indonesia. The Steering (IAPP). 31 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Business ethics Responsible marketing  Part of the non-financial report We mainly focus our pharmaceutical business on prescription medicines. The well-being of patients is always our primary consideration when marketing such products. This is why pharmaceutical marketing is regulated by both statutory requirements worldwide as well as a variety of internal guidelines that shape our business conduct. Our approach to responsible marketing Serono), to Allergopharma and to the Merck Foundation. We strictly adhere to all regulations concerning pharmaThis will help enable them to effectively adhere to our ceutical marketing. In most markets, manufacturers are compliance principles and guidance around the world while only permitted to advertise prescription drugs to medical maintaining the necessary flexibility to implement specific professionals such as physicians and pharmacists. These local policies or procedures that additionally comply with advertisements must always disclose the active ingredients, local regulations. adverse effects and contraindications of the drug. Our Through our Principles of Review and Approval of internal guidelines governing marketing and advertising are Promotional Materials and Other External Communications, part of our Group-wide compliance program, which requires we help ensure that all promotional materials conform to us to always conduct business in compliance with the law our rigorous standards. All employees involved in creating and in line with the highest ethical standards. This promotional materials have received training on updates is complemented by our internal guidelines and various made to the principles and the associated standard voluntary commitments that, in many cases, exceed the processes. applicable statutory regulations. We regularly review all our In addition to local laws and our own standards, we internal guidelines and revise them as required in response comply with the codes of conduct of various industry organto any new developments. izations, such as the Code of Practice published by the International Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers & How we conduct ethical marketing Associations (IFPMA). This code was revised in May 2018 Our Group Compliance unit is responsible for setting up and became effective on January 1, 2019. Similarly, the internal overarching compliance policies to help ensure that European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Assoour business activities adhere to the statutory regulations ciations (EFPIA) updated its Code of Practice in 2019. We applicable to our sales and marketing activities. This unit simultaneously revised our internal Items Provided to is supported by other functions that provide topic-specific Healthcare Professionals policy to harmonize our internal expertise, offer detailed guidance and report on the guidance with IFPMA Code of Practice requirements. We are processes in their units that are relevant to compliance. For also a member of the German Association of Voluntary Selfinstance, our Global Regulatory Affairs unit has established Regulation for the Pharmaceutical Industry (FSA), which a dedicated policy and corresponding process document on has defined its own code of conduct regarding collaboration the review and approval of our promotional materials. The between physicians and the pharmaceutical industry. necessary training and communications are carried out by the units responsible for each of the respective policies. Reviewing marketing material Group-wide At the operational level, the relevant business and all Our aim is to review all promotional material end-to-end employees involved in our sales and marketing activities to ensure that it meets our standards as well as local must adhere to our internal policies and procedures. Our regulations, which is why we apply a harmonized GroupGroup Internal Auditing unit regularly conducts risk-based wide review and approval system. Approximately 2,200 reviews of these activities. Healthcare employees use a centralized platform that allows Details on how we help ensure compliance with statutory us to streamline the review and approval process while also regulations worldwide can be found under Compliance. providing a better overview of global marketing data. This also helps us identify opportunities for improvement. Our commitment: Code of Conduct and industry-wide regulations Addressing violations of standards and Our Group-wide Pharma Code for Conducting Pharmaceutregulations ical Business and Pharmaceutical Operations defines the We have a number of channels for reporting wrongful relevant standards for our ethical marketing practices. It marketing practices to the industry associations in which also governs our interactions with physicians, medical instiwe are members. For instance, when members of the FSA tutions and patient advocacy groups. or third parties suspect a violation of the FSA Code, they Between 2017 and 2019, we revised our Biopharma can file complaints directly with the respective Arbitration compliance policies to ensure we provide the required upBoard. In 2019, no significant complaints of this kind were to-date compliance guidance to the business. We also sustained against our company worldwide. extended the scope of this policy to our Healthcare business In May 2019 we made our SpeakUp Line for anonymin the United States (operating under the name of EMD ously reporting potential compliance violations available to 32 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Business ethics external stakeholders. If our marketing or advertising rules and we only pursue DTC campaigns in these areas. In these of conduct are breached, we have a committee in place to countries, we use DTC advertising to help increase people’s take immediate countermeasures. In 2019, we had no signiawareness of certain diseases and the therapies that are ficant cases of non-compliance regarding regulations and available, thus empowering patients to make informed voluntary codes. decisions about their own treatment. Regular employee training Marketing chemicals Employees who are responsible for our pharmaceutical We approach the marketing of our chemical products with advertising receive regular training on current guidelines. the deepest sense of responsibility. For instance, we only This particularly applies to individuals working in sales, supply our chemicals to commercial customers with proven marketing and drug registration. Such seminars are either expertise and provide them with detailed information on conducted locally in a classroom setting or as e-learning the safe handling and use of our products. We have an courses. extensive safety and security network in place to prevent We ask new company employees to participate in the misuse of dual-use products. This network features onboarding training on the topic of Review and Approval standardized export control guidelines for these products, of Promotional Materials and Other External Communicawhich are monitored by our central Export Control and tions. Additionally, employees in charge of marketing and Customs Regulations unit as well as by trade and export the promotion of pharmaceutical products can also access control officers at our local subsidiaries. If we suspect or our respective compliance guidelines via our intranet. are informed of misuse, we terminate our business relationship with that customer. When necessary, we work with the Direct-to-consumer advertising only in responsible authorities to prevent illegal use. certain countries Direct-to-consumer (DTC) advertising for prescription drugs is permitted in some countries, such as the United States, 33 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Business ethics Interactions with health systems  Part of the non-financial report It is essential that research institutes, healthcare professionals, patient advocacy groups and other key players in health systems have access to up-to-date information on diseases and treatments. We help facilitate this access by sponsoring independent initiatives and medical capacity advancement programs. We also support outstanding research projects, for example through our Global Grants for Innovation. Transparency is our top priority in everything we do. Our approach to interacting with health In 2019, we updated our Items Provided to Healthcare systems Professionals policy, which guides our employees in We support health systems by providing information to providing these key stakeholders with items such as medical professional medical associations, patient advocacy groups, or educational materials. We want to help ensure that this is university clinics, and other hospitals, following specific done for legitimate and lawful purposes in accordance with approval requirements and procedures and in accordance our Code of Conduct as well as with applicable policies, laws with applicable laws and codes. In countries that have statand codes. utory or industry obligations regarding the disclosure of transfers of value to health systems, we comply with these Transparent reporting obligations. In 2019, we continued to publish all financial and non-financial contributions that we made to European medical profesHow we ensure transparency and compliance sionals and organizations in the health industry. As required at an organizational level by the EFPIA Disclosure Code, this information includes the For all interactions with healthcare stakeholders, Group names of individual recipients and their addresses as well as Compliance establishes internal policies and related review the purpose and amount of the transfer. Before publishing, processes to ensure adherence to statutory requirements we secured all necessary informed consent forms as and transparency obligations. Group Compliance also required by the applicable data privacy regulations. provides the necessary training for all applicable employees In addition to disclosing monetary transfers of value and handles the respective communications. The Global on an individual level, we continue to publish overall Transparency Operations team serves as a center of excelspending on our research and development activities as lence, providing support for transparency reporting and required. our end-to-end management process for interactions with We also adhere to all statutory transparency requirehealthcare professionals, healthcare organizations, patients, ments worldwide, such as the Transparency Code of the caregivers, and patient advocacy groups. German Association of Voluntary Self-Regulation for the Our Group Internal Auditing function monitors the local Pharmaceutical Industry (FSA). Specific national laws and implementation of these initiatives. Before entering into a requirements are implemented by our local units. We collaboration with a third party that is not a healthcare consistently adhere to the applicable data privacy legislation stakeholder, we also apply a selection process based on a and endeavor to ensure the full compliance of our partners. policy and standard operating procedure. This is part of our Relevant employees participate in mandatory e-learning Business Partner Risk Management compliance program, courses and classroom seminars to stay up-to-date on our which is conducted by Group Compliance. More details can policies and guidelines and important changes to transfer of be found under Compliance. value reporting requirements. Our commitment: Group-wide guidelines and Collaborating with patient advocacy groups industry standards Patient advocacy groups support patients, family members Our Policy on Interactions with Patients, Patient Opinion and caregivers, providing them with information on disease Leaders and Patient Organizations provides a compremanagement. We also made it our goal to improve patient hensive framework for our interactions with these key quality of life, which is why we support the vitally important stakeholders. Our guideline entitled Good Practice and work of these organizations. We ensure transparency on Process Guidance: Engagement with Patients, Patient our voluntary unsolicited donations by publishing the details Opinion Leaders and Patient Organizations provides addiof contributions to European patient organizations on our tional guidance for our interactions with these stakewebsite. The report is updated annually and includes all holders. It reflects our longstanding commitment to amounts, recipients and the purpose of each transfer of prioritizing patient well-being. Through this policy, the value, thus fulfilling our obligation as a member of EFPIA. supplementary guideline and specific local policies, we provide a robust guidance structure to support our employees in being compliant during their interactions with patients, patient opinion leaders and patient organizations. 34 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Business ethics Transparently promoting medical research channeled through an approval process that falls under our and education R&D and Compliance functions. This process ensures that all We sponsor research and medical education around the funds available for medical education programs are granted world so that we can contribute to medical advances that according to established internal guidelines and criteria, will benefit patients. Through our Global Grants for Innovwhile also complying with all applicable laws and industry ation, in 2019 we selected two new winners for Grants codes. of Growth Innovation (GGI) and three new winners for In 2019, we continued our partnership with the Internathe Grants of Multiple Sclerosis Innovation (GMSI). A total tional Pharmaceutical Alliance for Continuing Medical Educaof 104 research proposals have been selected to receive tion (iPACME). This group of 20 professionals from 17 research grants through the Global Grants for Innovation different companies from around the world engages in program since 2009. continuous discussions on improving and harmonizing Through our Global Medical Education and External Relaquality standards for continuing medical education. We tions department, we organize non-promotional Medical also contributed to updating the EFPIA Code of Practice Education Programs, either directly or by providing grants to issued by the EFPIA Medical Education Working Group. Third Party Medical Education Providers to fund independent We continue to support research and education in and medical education programs. This enables the development for lowand middle-income countries through a series of and delivery of advanced medical training aimed at programs, with a focus on schistosomiasis and malaria. increasing the scientific knowledge and competence of scientists, physicians, nurses, pharmacists and other Healthcare-specific Code of Conduct training healthcare professionals in order to enhance medical pracIn 2019, we worked on a Code of Conduct-related training tice and improve patient outcomes. As with our other curriculum on dealing with dilemmas in healthcare-specific partnerships, we take an entirely ethical, transparent and situations. We piloted the project in China, where 21 leaders responsible approach aimed at providing fair, balanced and participated in a very comprehensive training course. The objective content that is designed to allow the expression of aim was to improve their awareness and understanding diverse theories and recognized opinions. of Code of Conduct-related dilemmas in healthcare-specific All direct and indirect financial support aligns with the situations, for example when overhearing a conversation principles of the EFPIA Code of Practice. According to our that may or may not constitute attempted bribery. This internal Medical Education Funding Policy and our Programs training will be rolled out in other countries in 2020. Policy, all requests for medical education funding are 35 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Business ethics Suppliers Supply chain standards Our company procures many raw and packaging materials, technical products, components and services from across the world. We aim to promote supply chain stability while providing our customers with high-quality products and services. We expect our suppliers to share our ethical, social and compliance standards, as set out in our Responsible Sourcing Principles and to apply these within their own supply chains as well. Our approach to making our supply chains In 2019, we consolidated the Risk Management more sustainable approach described above and our sustainability activities One of the goals of our supplier management is compliinto a single supply security program in order to gain a more ance with fundamental environmental and social holistic view of our supply chain. In this way, we aim to standards, alongside high-quality, reliable delivery and further strengthen corporate responsibility (CR) within our competitive prices. To achieve this, we have introduced standard procurement process. relevant strategies, processes and guidelines that we are continuously improving to prevent violations of supply chain How we implement corporate responsibility standards. Our supply chains are diverse and differ in their standards in the supply chain characteristics. While some supply chains are automated, Group Procurement is responsible for integrating corporate others, especially in the service sector, are labor-intensive. responsibility (CR) requirements into the relevant stages of Our risk-based supplier selection and management our sourcing and supplier management processes. It is a approach takes this diversity into account, which helps our global organization with direct accountability and resources sourcing employees to identify required mitigation actions in procurement-relevant local subsidiaries. Our Center of with relevant suppliers and work on improvements. Excellence for Supplier Security coordinates the relevant The approach for our strategic suppliers, which measures, such as updating our guidelines where necesaccount for approximately 43% of our total spend, includes sary, examining processes and coordinating our participathe identification, monitoring and assessment of supply tion in external initiatives. Sourcing employees responsible security risks with four main elements: for selecting and contracting suppliers are aware and regularly updated on our guidelines and CR requirements Supplier Risk Assessments: to capture the overarching through internal communications and training. risks at supplier legal entity level, including multiple risk Also in 2019, our training activities (such as our Procuredomains. In 2019, we enhanced the data scoping and ment Training Academy) for Group Procurement employees quality, adding NGOs and new financial information included sessions on sustainability. providers to our pool of data sources. Alert system: to notify our Procurement unit when any Integration of Versum Materials and of our suppliers faces a potential disruption. Intermolecular Material Risk Assessments: to capture the risks of The acquisition of Versum Materials and Intermolecular relevant materials that make up our most significant resulted in a change to our supplier portfolio. The procurefinished products. ment processes described in this report do not yet fully Risk Response Tracker: to create and monitor risk apply to Versum Materials and Intermolecular. We are mitigation activities. They will be applied after testing in currently reviewing their existing processes and will align 2020. them as needed. Until the integration is complete, Versum Materials will We calculate risk factors for suppliers and raw materials by continue to apply its existing policies and processes. Versum multiplying risk probability and risk impact. We consider 29 Materials issues a conflict mineral report pursuant to Rule risk titles such as Economic freedom, Social unrest, Unfair 13p-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and has business practices, and Poor labor practices. a conflict minerals policy and the respective due diligence Additionally, for suppliers that are above a certain spend processes in place. threshold, we have expanded our risk assessment methodoWe are currently in the middle of developing a companylogy by integrating further factors such as country, industry wide due diligence process for Responsible Minerals and supplier risks as well as the impact on our business. Sourcing according to OECD guidance, which will incorWe have also included criteria to identify supplier relaporate and further develop measures already implemented tionships impacted by key sustainability risks such as in our business sectors. In the second half of 2019, we mineral sourcing or animal welfare. established a working group with representatives from business sectors and Group functions that also includes a 36 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Business ethics representative from Versum Materials. At the end of 2019, the labor, social and environmental standards defined elements of a conflict minerals management system were in our Responsible Sourcing Principles and to ensure that drafted and will be further defined in 2020. their subcontractors do likewise. All modifications to legal frameworks are incorporated Our commitment: Guidelines and standards and appropriate measures are initiated where necessary. We expect all our suppliers and service providers to comply In 2019, we reviewed our Supplier Management Procedure, with environmental and social standards, which are which came into effect at the end of 2019. We now take the primarily derived from the core labor standards of the Intersuppliers’ Corporate Responsibility programs into consideranational Labour Organization (ILO) and the UN Global tion when selecting key vendors and review their Corporate Compact. Responsibility progress as part of supplier performance Moreover, we support the Compliance Initiative of the evaluations. German Association for Supply Chain Management, Procurement and Logistics (BME) and have endorsed the BME Code Global procurement of Conduct. In particular, this code sets out rules for In total, the goods and services we purchased in 2019 combating corruption, antitrust violations and child labor, as from more than 55,000 suppliers in almost 150 countries well as for upholding human rights, protecting the environamounted to around € 7.5 billion, versus approximately ment and public health and promoting fair working condi€ 7.4 billion in 2018, representing an increase of 2%. Of tions. these (including R&D services), we purchased 23% from We seek to conduct our business activities in compliance suppliers based in North America, 53% from suppliers based with labor, social and environmental standards while also in Europe, 16% from suppliers based in the Asia-Pacific respecting human rights. Additionally, we abide by the region, 1% from suppliers based in the Middle East and standards set out in our Code of Conduct and our Human Africa, and 4% from suppliers based in Latin America. Rights Charter. We expect our suppliers to comply with 1,2 Purchase volume and suppliers per region – 2019 1) For data processing reasons, 3% of our purchase volume (1,434 suppliers) is currently not assigned to any purchase region. 2) The figures exclude Versum Materials and Intermolecular since the integration process is still underway. For more information, see report profile. 37 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Business ethics Ambassadors for more sustainable supply all restrictions stipulated by competition law. Strategically chains speaking, TfS activities focus heavily on achieving demonIn October 2019, the Together for Sustainability (TfS) initistrable improvements in supplier sustainability standards. ative published The Sustainable Procurement Pledge on the In 2019, TfS changed its KPI portfolio to measure member social network LinkedIn. This platform addresses all activities with a stronger focus on progress and improveprocurement professionals, academics and students who ment rather than the quantity of assessments and audits. want to become a sustainability ambassador and drive a We conducted several internal webinars and invited responsible procurement agenda through personal engagesuppliers to join a TfS training session in Shanghai (China). ment. As a member of TfS, many of our Procurement Through the TfS initiative, we have access to more than employees have already signed the pledge. 1,600 assessments from our suppliers. In 2020, we will intensify our analysis of assessment results and implement How we monitor our supply chain comprehensive mitigation activities. A number of different approaches are used to keep track of our suppliers and ensure compliance with our standards and Conducting our own audits values. These are generally based on the risk the suppliers We continuously conduct our own audits in select cases pose and combine the factors of country risk, industry risk based on business requirements. In 2019, none of these and impact on business. revealed indications of violations of the right of association, the right to collective bargaining, or cases of child labor, Under the Together for Sustainability (TfS) initiative forced labor or compulsory labor. launched by companies in the chemical industry, we encourage our suppliers to be assessed either on selfLocal suppliers reported information or via audits. We have been a We have no internal guidelines stipulating that preference member of TfS since 2014. be given to local vendors in allocating contracts and thereIn selected cases, we conduct our own CR audits on fore do not collect this type of data. We generally procure suppliers. our goods and services globally. In some cases, however, Regarding our mica supply chain, we engage with a global local vendors do have an advantage, as products bought consultancy to conduct audits and the Indian organization locally may be less expensive due to a reduction in addiIGEP to conduct inspections. tional transport costs. Country-specific regulations such as import duties and licenses also help us decide whether to In 2019, we decided to expand the scope of accepted CR source our goods locally or globally. In some countries local certifications and audits. We now also accept audits laws require contracts to be awarded to regional suppliers. conducted in line with the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative (PSCI) and in line with the Sedex Members Ethical Supplier diversity Trade Audit (SMETA). In the United States, we have a specific supplier diversity program in place that has grown significantly. Within the TfS supplier assessments and audits Small Business Program, the spend with small businesses Under TfS, suppliers are assessed either on information grew by 146% in 2019 versus 2018, with growth of 294% in obtained during audits, or on the basis of self-reported small women-owned companies. We focused our efforts on and publicly accessible information provided by EcoVadis, different internal awareness campaigns, supplier diversity an independent rating agency. EcoVadis assesses suppliers days, training seminars for our sourcing managers, and from 155 countries and 198 sectors across the four investment in tools to increase our small and diverse vendor categories of Environment, Labor and Human Rights, database. Ethics, and Sustainable Procurement. The results are shared among TfS member companies in compliance with 38 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Business ethics Mica supply chain Mica is an important raw material of our effect pigments, which are used in automotive and industrial coatings and plastics, as well as in the cosmetics and food industries. We procure the majority of our mica from India, specifically the north-eastern states of Jharkhand and Bihar. This region suffers from political instability and poverty, with widespread child labor. We’ve taken special measures to comply with our social and environmental standards. Our approach to responsibility in the mica regular audits of all mines and processing plants, investigsupply chain ating working conditions as well as environmental, health In procuring mica from northeast India, we are supporting and safety issues. The audit reports document any identhis region by safeguarding local employment and livelitified shortcomings in this respect and propose corrective hood. We only source the raw material from suppliers acting actions. Our employees in Kolkata (India) and Darmstadt in formal working environments and monitor compliance (Germany) then follow up to work on resolving any identiwith our standards, including our ban on child labor. fied issues. Our mica suppliers have been informed of our standards When shortcomings are not rectified, we take further and have confirmed that they adhere to the principles of actions up to freezing relations with the respective company our Human Rights Charter as well as the requirements of or even terminating the business relationship altogether. our Responsible Sourcing Principles. We do not tolerate child labor and contractually prohibit our suppliers from Unannounced inspections employing children. Hence, we are driving initiatives and Since 2013, the IGEP Foundation, a local non-government taking measures to improve the conditions of mica sourcing organization, has been arranging regular unannounced based on our high standards. We constantly review our visits to check the working standards along the supply monitoring processes and work on improving their effectivechain. During these visits, IGEP monitors occupational ness. safety as well as compliance on child labor. In 2019, these inspections focused on the upgrade of personal How we organize our mica supply chain protective equipment and training sessions on proper use. We have established direct business relationships with those suppliers who handle the mica supply chain in India. Our Tracking system for mica sources procurement unit is in direct contact with the suppliers to We use a tracking system to help ensure that the mica reiterate the importance we place on ethical, social and we purchase is derived from sources qualified by our environmental standards. Whenever non-compliance with company, and to monitor their productivity. Based on our standards is identified, we work with suppliers to ensure written records of the daily extraction quantities, we review the appropriate implementation of corrective measures. the volumes of mica reported and supplied to the processing companies. Our commitment: Compliance with guidelines and standards Community outreach in the mica supply chain As a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, we The states of Jharkhand and Bihar are among the most are actively involved in working to abolish child labor. Our impoverished regions in India. Together with IGEP, we are Human Rights Charter underscores this commitment. In our working to improve the living conditions of the families Responsible Sourcing Principles, we set out our expectations in the mica mining areas. The literacy rate and the number for our suppliers in terms of corporate responsibility and of children who attend school are far below the Indian human rights, including a ban on child labor. Our Responsnational average, according to a study conducted in 2016 ible Sourcing Principles also form an integral part of our and a report published in 2018 by the organization Terre supplier contracts. des Hommes and the Centre for Research on Multinational Corporations. Auditing our mica supply chain As part of our efforts, we are funding three schools in We have implemented a series of oversight mechanisms Jharkhand run by our partner IGEP, which are attended by through a system that monitors and audits compliance with nearly 500 children and adolescents. All schools go up to at our social and environmental standards. In addition to least sixth grade. In 2019, two schools introduced a seventh regular inspections by Merck employees and third parties grade. Tailoring and carpentry courses are also offered. At used for this purpose, we conduct comprehensive a fourth school run by one of our mica suppliers, we provide announced audits as well as frequent, unannounced check scholarships for 200 children. visits in the region. In addition to our education efforts, we are committed to improving local access to healthcare. To this end, we Regular audits have established a health center operated by IGEP to serve Environmental Resources Management (ERM), an internathe 20,000 residents in the region. Two medical profestional management consulting services company, conducts sionals work at the center and also provide regular health 39 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Business ethics services to schools. This center provides an important policies to help ensure sustainable mica mining while contribution to improving the medical care of the population eradicating the root causes of child labor. in the region. In 2019, the RMI participated in multiple local and global Stronger together: Joint action in the mica stakeholder meetings, such as the OECD Forum on supply chain Responsible Mineral Supply Chains in Paris (France). The We are a founding member of the Responsible Mica Initigoal of the event was to assess and facilitate progress on ative (RMI), which was established as a multi-stakeholder minerals sourcing globally with a special focus on conflict group. Our company held the presidency of the organization minerals. The RMI also attended the event marking the in 2019. The initiative aims to eradicate child labor and publication of the National Commission for Protection of unacceptable working conditions in the Indian mica supply Child Rights (NCPCR) study on education and child welfare chain by joining forces across industries. In 2019, we in the Indian mica mining regions of Bihar and Jharkhand. continued to actively support the RMI’s work on its three Also in 2019, RMI signed a Memorandum of Understanding main goals: (MoU) with the Responsible Minerals Initiative to help prevent child labor and improve working conditions in mica Responsible workplace standards: In 2019, RMI held industry supply chains globally. several training sessions on workplace standards for local businesses. New sources of mica Community empowerment: Building on the first Our processes undergo constant review and improvement. community empowerment program in 2018, which We are evaluating other sources for mica according to our reached 40 villages, in 2019 RMI launched a second quality, social and environmental standards both in India program covering a further 40 villages. The goal is to and in other regions. In 2019, a considerable amount of our address the root causes of child labor and to improve livemica was obtained from Brazil, where we have also establihoods within the local community. lished oversight mechanisms to monitor and audit adherAdvocacy: Through continuous advocacy work, the RMI ence to our CR standards. Furthermore, we manufacture is recognized as an important partner in drafting future effect pigments based on synthetic substrates as an alternative to pigments based on natural mica. 40 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Business ethics Human rights All nations are called upon to uphold and protect human rights and basic freedoms. As an international corporate group, we have a duty to respect human rights worldwide and to ensure that they are not compromised by our business activities. We are constantly working to integrate human rights due diligence into our processes in an effort to minimize the risk of human rights violations and to protect these rights within our sphere of influence. We will not tolerate any business activities or relationships leading to violations of human rights. Our approach to human rights due diligence and representatives of potentially impacted groups. We also We are committed to upholding and protecting human adopted a Group-wide Social and Labor Standards Policy, rights. To this end, we must first understand the potential which reflects the labor standards of the International human rights impact of our business activities and relaLabour Organization (ILO). Among other topics, the policy tionships, as well as identify the human rights due diligence covers forced labor, modern slavery, human trafficking, measures already in place at our sites. This knowledge helps child labor, freedom of association, and collective bargaining us adapt our Group-wide efforts to local circumstances and rights. In 2019 we also initiated the update of various to the respective risk profiles. In this way, we can develop aspects of our Group-wide Site Security Standard, including support programs, strategies and processes to overcome human rights. particular challenges. At the end of 2016, the German federal government Within the German Global Compact Network, we are adopted a national action plan for implementing the UN a member of the Business & Human Rights Peer Learning Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. We Group, a working group in which we engage with other welcome this plan and are steadily working to implement it companies to share lessons learned as well as successes in across our organization. implementing human rights due diligence. In the United Kingdom, the UK Modern Slavery Act requires us to report on the steps we are taking to counter How we promote respect for human rights forced labor and human trafficking. In 2019, we issued Ultimate responsibility for upholding human rights within our third UK Modern Slavery Statement, which has been our organization lies with our Executive Board, which endorsed by our Executive Board and is available on our obliges our managing directors of our subsidiaries to meet website. this responsibility. Our Group Corporate Responsibility unit is responsible Continually improving our management for coordinating all human rights due diligence processes processes and activities. Progress and measures are regularly In order to mitigate human rights risks and prevent their discussed at CR Committee meetings, while subject matter negative impacts, we are working to integrate human rights experts within our Group functions, business sectors and due diligence even more firmly into our operational local units are in charge of initiating the necessary actions. processes. With these risks in mind, we are focusing on Moreover, we established an interdisciplinary Human external manpower, product and service sourcing, and Rights Working Group in 2019. Its objective is to develop collaboration with contract partners. We are currently and conduct joint, cross-functional actions that will creating a Group-wide overview of the use of external enable us to meet our responsibility to respect human manpower, above all in high-risk countries such as China, rights. The group meets three to four times a year. Four Vietnam and the Philippines. Based on these findings, we meetings were held in 2019. intend to execute risk-based measures. Our Compliance Risk Reporting & Self-Monitoring Our commitment: Guiding principles, charters process also covers human rights topics. In 2019, we and laws broadened our risk assessment of human rights and modern Our Human Rights Charter aligns with the UN Guiding Prinslavery. Initial results will be available in 2020. ciples on Business and Human Rights. It underscores our In 2019, we also began reviewing human rights aspects commitment to respecting human rights while also defining within the scope of our Site Security Risk Assessments the relevant requirements for our company. The charter to determine whether site security has any connection to interlinks and complements all existing rules and regulahuman rights risks, initiating the appropriate actions as tions pertaining to human rights, including, for example, necessary. our Code of Conduct, our Group Environment, Health and In addition, in 2019 we opened our SpeakUp Line to Safety Policy, and our Charter on Access to Health in Develexternal stakeholders. Previously it was only accessible to oping Countries. In 2019, we updated our Human Rights employees. Grievances can now also be reported via our Charter, availing ourselves of expertise from external website. stakeholders such as trade unions, industry associations 41 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Business ethics Human rights and investment decisions launched an e-learning course targeted to all managing When projects exceed a certain cost threshold, our Investdirectors and senior leaders reporting to the Executive ment Committee must approve the expenditure. In its Board. The course requires them to implement both of these decision, the committee considers factors such as envirguidelines in their areas of responsibility. onment, health and safety. When it comes to investment As in the previous year, the EHS StartUp! onboarding projects, we are also bound by our Code of Conduct, which course 2019 offered in Darmstadt (Germany) for all new stipulates compliance with the principles of the UN Global EHS managers addressed the topics of human rights and Compact and therefore also with the core labor standards modern slavery. of the International Labour Organization (ILO), such as the Additionally, we ran training activities (such as Procureprohibition of child and forced labor. ment Training Academy) for new Procurement employees including sessions on sustainability and human rights in Creating awareness 2019 and conducted webinars for our Procurement staff. In 2019, we took further steps to raise awareness of certain Lastly, we invited Chinese suppliers to attend a TfS training human rights risks. session in Shanghai (China). While revising our Human Rights Charter and introduOur employees can find information about human rights cing our Social and Labor Standards Policy in 2019, we on our intranet. 42 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Business ethics Bioethics  Part of the non-financial report Bioethics guides us in how to use the rapidly advancing power of life science and technology responsibly and ethically to the ultimate benefit of society, humans and other living beings. However, factors such as diverse cultural backgrounds have led to heated debates on divisive bioethical topics and issues arising from the explosive progress in science. In light of this situation, we feel the need to clarify our own position on bioethical approaches. Our approach to ethical business conduct ation of our stance and are empowered to make decisions In our work we encounter various bioethical topics and about specific questions on individual projects. Formed in issues, including animal testing and clinical research, stem 2011, the Stem Cell Research Oversight Committee cell use, the use of genetically modified microorganisms, (SCROC) performs tasks such as verifying all internal and the potential impact of new genome editing techniques research proposals that employ human stem cells and such as CRISPR/Cas. We are strongly committed to ensuring compliance with our ethical guidelines and any conducting this research in an ethical manner. Patient legal requirements. This also includes collaboration with well-being and benefit is always our number one priority, external partners. both during treatment with our drugs and when our In 2019, we additionally established the Digital Ethics products are distributed to academic researchers and the Board (DEB) as a sub-committee of the MBAP. Its purpose is biopharmaceutical industry. We carefully evaluate our posito guide our new digital business models with a strong focus tion on controversial topics so that we can develop frameon health. One member of the DEB will join the MBAP as a works and make informed decisions that meet the highest digital expert. ethical standards. Our commitment: Identifying topics and How we assess bioethical topics and issues issues early on The Merck Bioethics Advisory Panel (MBAP), co-chaired by As a global company, it is crucial for us to promptly identify a senior executive biomedical expert from our company and and address new developments concerning bioethical topics the Head of our Global Health Institute, gives clear guidance and issues in order to define our own stance. Although on bioethical topics and issues, which steers our actions and we align all our business activities with international and entrepreneurial conduct. The MBAP consists of renowned national legislation, many bioethical discussions raise quesinternational experts in the fields of bioethics, theology, tions that far exceed the current scope of legislators, which science, and law from the United States along with counis why we also seek the advice of external experts. tries across Europe, Asia, and Africa. The panel’s composThe birth of the first babies from genome-edited ition reflects the fact that the evaluation and assessment embryos in China significantly disrupted the realm of of bioethics are strongly contingent on cultural and regional bioethics in 2019. This breach of law, ethics and academic factors. The bioethical assessment of topics must be viewed self-regulation led to marked global criticism. Subsequent holistically. The MBAP meets once yearly and also spontandiscussions emphasized the need for profound bioethical eously, if required, in response to emerging urgent bioethdebate and meaningful governance of genome-editing ical issues. We publish a summary of the discussions from research in the human germline. Statements and positions each meeting on our internal electronic collaboration platwere issued by the National Academy of Sciences, the Royal form. Our employees can ask MBAP members for advice and Society and the German Ethics Council. This furthermore are able to report concerns on ethical issues through chanled to the creation of the World Health Organization (WHO) nels such as our SpeakUp line or by reaching out to the expert advisory committee on Developing Global Standards bioethics office. for Governance and Oversight of Human Genome Editing. Our dedicated guidance panels for genome editing and Regulation in this research field is expected to emerge in the stem cell matters operate under the overarching MBAP. following years. These panels are responsible for the operational implement43 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Business ethics Merck Bioethics Advisory Panel (MBAP) ments have arisen from our ongoing and planned AML and discussions AI projects. From November 2018 to March 2019, we held internal workAs a result of these workshops and of new digital health shops on Artificial Intelligence (AI) ethics to create a business models that we are developing, the MBAP baseline on all Advanced Machine Learning (AML) and AI addressed the topic of digital ethics in 2019. Since these projects at our company and to identify potential (biobusiness models involve enabling access to and exchange )ethical issues resulting from these projects. In particular, of patient data, core guidance and foundational ethics must we produced eight guiding ethical aspects to evaluate be established in order to gain stakeholders’ trust, which is projects that might be ethically problematic. This improves critical for their success. Another major topic discussed by our ability to develop new technologies responsibly and the panel was our genome editing principle. address potential ethical issues arising from the usage of AI Other topics included new developments in the Stem early on. Currently, no ethical questions or problem stateCell Research Oversight Committee and the Global Health Institute. The Merck Bioethics Advisory Panel (MBAP) members 44 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Business ethics Digital Ethics Board the use of genome editing techniques in plant cultivation. As a result of the MBAP discussions on digital ethics in Statutes in different countries allow for a varying degree of 2019, we decided to create the Digital Ethics Board (DEB) to latitude in applying this technique. deal with all ethical questions resulting from our Digital Our Genome Editing Technology Principle provides a (Health) Businesses, especially from the intended joint mandatory ethical and operational framework for our venture Syntropy (with Palantir). The DEB is designed as a employees, setting clear operational boundaries for us both sub-board of the MBAP, and its chair will join the MBAP as a as a supplier of custom targeted nucleases and genetically digital expert. The DEB will consist of world-leading experts modified cell lines, and as a user of genome editing techin digital health business models as well as experts in ethics nologies for scientific research. This principle includes backand medicine. The first step will be to develop a Digital Code ground information on the topic and explains our stance on of Ethics to address questions and scenarios that may arise genome editing. from our new Digital Businesses. The DEB will play a pivotal Following the critical debate surrounding the announcerole in ensuring that we develop new technologies responsment that a Chinese researcher’s work had led to the birth ibly and address potential ethical issues arising from the of the first babies from genome-edited embryos, global usage of digital health technologies early on. We strive to be discussions emphasized the need for profound bioethical the “ethical digital health company”, adhering to the highest debate and meaningful governance of genome-editing ethical standards in crucial areas such as patient data handresearch in the human germline. The topic was presented in ling. detail by the Taiwanese member of the MBAP, and potential regulatory consequences were discussed by the panel, Biotechnology and genetic engineering including the implications for our company as a provider and We utilize genetically modified organisms (GMOs) in our user of this technology. Our Principle on Genome Editing, research and development work and have been manufacpublished in 2017, addresses the subject of human germline turing biotech products using GMOs since the 1980s. editing, taking a strict stance against it. Without this technology, the major medical advances of Bioethical views on germline editing (GE) have been past years would not have been possible. evolving for years in academic and societal discussions. Our most important research hubs for medical biotechOnce the safety profile of the use of GE on embryos has nology are Darmstadt (Germany), Boston (Massachusetts, been made fully accessible through clinical studies, and USA), Beijing (China), and Tokyo (Japan). Major biotech once the benefits significantly outweigh the risks, there may production sites are located in Martillac (France), Aubonne be cases where the use of GE on embryos could be ethically (Switzerland) and Corsier-sur-Vevey (Switzerland), which acceptable. Even the German Ethics Council took a similar is one of the largest biopharmaceutical production sites in position. One example of this cystic fibrosis, a monogenetic Europe. disease. Across our Group, we manufacture our biotech products Considering the progress in genome editing and evolving in accordance with the highest standards, and all our ethical views, such as the German Ethics Council’s biotech activities are subject to strict statutory regulations perspective, the MBAP agreed that we needed to update our worldwide. Compliance with these regulations is monitored Genome Editing Principle. Sections on background informby our biological safety officers. We continuously track ation, the wording on germline genome editing, and the regulatory changes that relate to biotech products and section on artificial gametes subsequently underwent minor adapt our processes accordingly, thus ensuring we adhere revisions. Our statement on human germline editing is as to all statutory requirements. follows: Using genome-editing techniques “Merck does not support the use of genome editing We are a leading supplier of technologies such as CRISPR/ in human embryos and clinical applications of Cas9, which can be used to target and modify specific germline interventions in humans in accordance with genes, a process known as genome editing. CRISPR/Cas9 the German Embryo Protection Act. Merck recogopens up new possibilities in genetic engineering research nizes that there may be value of responsibly that could bring about major advances in the treatment of conducted related research.” serious diseases or in “green genetic engineering”, which is 45 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Business ethics Stem cell research biospecimens for further medical research beyond the We currently neither participate in clinical programs that clinical study through an optional consent. Since 2017, we utilize human embryonic stem cells or cloned human cells have had standard operating procedures and a policy in for the treatment of diseases, nor do we pursue such place that define our principles and processes for human approaches ourselves. We do, however, use human biosample management during and after clinical studies. embryonic stem cells in our research and offer our Biological samples, including tissue and body fluids, are customers several select stem cell lines. Thus, our Stem Cell stored in biorepositories together with the corresponding Principle ensures compliance with our ethical approach. All encrypted patient and specimen data. projects are reviewed and approved by the SCROC before any stem cells are used for research purposes. We only use Clinical studies cell lines approved by the United States National Institute of We discover and develop innovative medicines that meet Health (NIH) and allowed under the German Embryo Protecpatient needs. In doing so, we adhere to all relevant stattion Act and the German Stem Cell Law. utory and regulatory requirements, as well as scientific In 2019, the SCROC started developing a new Informed and ethical standards. For clinical studies, these standards Consent Form for the use of induced pluripotent stem cells particularly include the Declaration of Helsinki, in which the (iPSCs). iPSCs are identical to embryonic cells and can World Medical Association formulated ethical principles for generate any type of cell in the human body. They are medical research involving human subjects, and the used in many research projects, but, in most cases, do Good Clinical Practice (GCP) of the International Council for not require specific approval by the SCROC. The SCROC Harmonisation (ICH). More details can be found under Clinalso decided to support the generation of organoids derived ical studies. from adult stem cells under the precondition that stem cells derived from fetal tissue should be avoided. Off-label use To date, we have not supported research aimed at We endeavor to drive scientific and medical progress, producing artificial gametes. Any support on our part would often doing so in close collaboration with medical profeshave to comply with the German Embryo Protection Act and sionals. We regularly receive inquiries about the off-label our Fertility Principle. use of our products, such as indications for which the drug The topic of producing artificial gametes will be revisited was not originally approved. While each medicine is authorby the SCROC in order to follow up on ongoing developized for specific indications, cases do arise in which a physments. ician wishes to prescribe a drug to treat a disease for which it is not approved. Such applications can benefit patients. Fertility research However, to use a drug in this way, solid evidence must We develop treatments for infertility and seek to improve exist showing that it can be effective and safe in the treatthe success rate of in vitro fertilization, so we are frequently ment of the specific disease. confronted with various related bioethical issues. Our Our principles for disseminating information regarding legislative point of reference for these issues is the German the off-label use of our products are set out in corresEmbryo Protection Act, and we are guided by our Fertility ponding policies that apply Group-wide. In 2018, we Principle, which was developed based on input from the included a statement regarding requests on off-label use MBAP. in the new compliance policy concerning interactions with patients. We only market our medicines within the scope Biosampling and biobanking of the drug’s marketing approval; we never share informaBiological samples obtained from patients within clinical tion on off-label use for commercial ends but provide such studies are indispensable to the development of new preciinformation to healthcare professionals for medical purposes sion treatments and advanced diagnostic methods. We only and only upon direct, unsolicited request. The informhandle these samples in a responsible and ethical manner, ation must be backed by scientific evidence and factually in compliance with all regulatory requirements and balanced. Our employees are not permitted to make any according to the consent given by patients for the use sort of treatment recommendations for individual patients. of their samples. This may include the permission to use 46 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Business ethics Parliamentary discussion on genome-editing discussion (representing academia, the European ParliaIn May 2019, we hosted a Dialogue on Ethics of Genome ment and Commission, and our company) on ethical implicEditing for German policymakers in the form of a parliaations of new technologies in the health sector, addressing mentary breakfast discussion. It was attended by 45 politethical questions on both digital health and genome editing ical stakeholders, including elected state officials, members technology. It was attended by 100 European political of the German federal parliament, and other high-profile stakeholders, including elected officials, Members of the German politicians. Participants engaged in an open debate European Parliament (including a vice president), represon the ethics of genome-editing one day after the publicaentatives from various governmental and non-governmental tion of the German Ethics Council’s new position paper on organizations, and representatives from the pharmaceutical germ cell genome-editing. and biotech industries, all of whom engaged in an open debate with the panelists. Panel discussion on ethical implications of At both events, the Merck Bioethics Advisory Panel’s new technologies in the health sector recent work had a significant impact on the respective In November 2019, in collaboration with the Brussels discussions, which in turn generated valuable input for the Representation of the State of Hesse, we hosted a panel continuation of the debate. 47 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Business ethics Clinical studies  Part of the non-financial report Our company develops medicines that help people with serious diseases. Before obtaining regulatory approval, we conduct clinical studies with patients and, if necessary, also with healthy volunteers to investigate the safety and efficacy of these products. These studies generally run for several years. Before they begin, extensive preclinical testing must be performed to demonstrate that the drug poses no unacceptable risks. This typically includes procedures such as animal studies. Our approach to safe and transparent clinical When performing clinical studies in low-and middlestudies income countries, where there is usually a lower level of We conduct high-caliber clinical research that always healthcare and limited healthcare infrastructure, furthercomplies with applicable laws and regulations. When more the following applies: performing clinical studies, we adhere to the highest ethical and scientific standards worldwide. We only do so in an environment in which the principles We only conduct clinical studies to investigate issues of Good Clinical Practice can be upheld. that are relevant to patients, healthcare professionals or We only investigate diseases and innovative medicines society, and only when the medicines being tested show that are relevant to the local population. significant therapeutic promise and have a positive We only conduct clinical studies in countries where we benefit-risk ratio. In addition, a sound, established expect that the drug being tested will be submitted for scientific methodology must be available to investigate marketing authorization and made available to patients these scientific or medical questions. We only enroll the after we have proven its efficacy and safety. number of participants required to answer each of the quesWe assure that no subject enrolling in a clinical study is tions. discriminated against on the basis of ethnic origin, gender Protecting the safety, wellbeing, dignity and rights of the or socio-economic status. patients and healthy volunteers participating in our clinical studies is of utmost importance to us. We do not intenHow we govern clinical studies tionally expose study subjects to undue risk or irreversible Pharmaceutical development and the related governance harm. Personal data privacy is also very important to process are the responsibility of our Head of Global us, and we maintain a strong focus on data protection and Research and Development, who co-chairs the Development confidentiality, in compliancewith statutory regulations. Decision Group (DDG) with the Global Head of Innovative Medicine Franchises. Decision-makers from all relevant Clinical studies in low-and middle-income functional areas sit on this biopharmaceutical committee, countries helping to ensure a cross-functional approach to the We conduct all our clinical studies in accordance with local governance of drug development. laws and regulations and we adhere to all relevant interUnder the umbrella of the DDG, two further committees national scientific and ethical standards, irrespective of the oversee our clinical studies. The Integrated Clinical Study region or country. We are intentionally expanding our mediCommittee (ICSC) is responsible for the studies performed cinal product development to more diverse markets in order by the company in pharmaceuticals that are under clinical to address pressing healthcare needs in low-and middledevelopment, while the Global Medical Decision Board income countries, and support the development of their (GMDB) is responsible for our own studies with approved healthcare systems. medicines, as well as for all studies performed by independent investigators and supported by us (so-called investigator-sponsored studies). Both bodies consist of medical-scientific experts and executives with longstanding experience in clinical research. The ICSC is also supported by our Therapeutic Area Review Boards, which conduct thorough scientific assessments of new study concepts. Our development and study teams present clinical study concepts to the appropriate committee. Each committee meets regularly to conduct a comprehensive review of the proposed concepts and ascertains that our studies are scientifically sound, have a legitimate scientific 48 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Business ethics purpose and are performed according to the latest standAssociations (IFPMA) the European Federation of Pharmaards and best practices. ceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA), the Japan Before administering a new drug to human subjects, Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association (JPMA), and there must be sufficient evidence that it offers a potential the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of therapeutic benefit, is sufficiently safe for use in humans America (PhRMA) and has a positive benefit-risk profile. We only take the The Principles for Responsible Clinical Trial Data Sharing, critical step of a first-in-human clinical trial after diligently published by EFPIA and PhRMA, and the IFPMA Principles conducting extensive preclinical testing. The decision for Responsible Clinical Trial Data Sharing resides with a separate committee, the Human Exposure Group chaired by our Global Chief Medical Officer. Regular supervision of clinical studies We continuously analyze potential risks for study Our clinical study procedures are regularly inspected by participants before and during the course of our clinical health authorities to ensure compliance with the applicable studies. Our Medical Safety and Ethics Board (MSEB) overlaws and guidelines. We also conduct our own quality sees the safety of subjects participating in our clinical assurance audits. These are planned by the Research studies and, as necessary, reviews the benefit-risk profiles and Development Quality function, based on a quality risk of investigational drugs. You can find further information on assessment approach to identify areas for internal and the MSEB under Patient safety. external auditing. In both cases, we respond immediately to Issues may be submitted to the relevant committees by any issues found by defining and implementing corrective product teams or other committees (as defined in relevant and preventive actions to improve our processes accordSOPs or committee charters). If individual employees wish ingly. to seek advice or report concerns on ethical questions, they can contact the chairperson or a permanent member of a Conducting clinical studies responsibly committee directly. Prior to enrolling subjects, every clinical trial must first be assessed and approved by a qualified independent Our commitment: International guidelines ethics committee. Furthermore, all regulatory authorizaand agreements tions required in the respective country must be obtained. Our Human Subjects Research and Development Policy In accordance with Good Clinical Practice guidelines provides the framework for conducting clinical studies and (ICH-GCP), all study participants must give their explicit helps ensure that we adhere to all applicable legal, ethical informed consent before enrolling in a clinical study. Partiand scientific standards. In addition to the relevant cipants are fully informed about all aspects of the clinical national laws and regulations, these standards also include: trial in a language that they understand. This includes the potential risks and benefits from participating in the study. The Good Clinical Practice (GCP) guidelines of the InterAll participants are given ample time and opportunity to national Council for Harmonisation of Technical Requireinquire about details before deciding whether to participate. ments for Pharmaceuticals for Human Use (ICH) All questions are answered by the clinical investigator or The Declaration of Helsinki, published by the World another qualified healthcare professional familiar with the Medical Association study. As far as possible, non-interventional (observational) The Belmont Report by the U.S. Office for Human studies are also assessed by an ethics committee. Research Protections Every study follows precisely defined procedures to Good Pharmacovigilance/Laboratory/Manufacturing/ ensure that it is conducted to the highest quality standDistribution Practices (GVP/GLP/GMP/GDP) ards in line with good working practices for the developThe International Ethical Guidelines for Health-related ment and manufacture of drugs (GxP), the ethical principles Research Involving Humans, published by the Council for of the Declaration of Helsinki and other international International Organizations of Medical Sciences (CIOMS) guidelines and regulations. In 2019, once again, there were The Joint Position on the Disclosure of Clinical Trial no significant issues which had any impact on patient rights, Information via Clinical Trial Registries and Databases patient safety or data integrity of a study raised by third and the Joint Position on the Publication of Clinical Trial parties or regulatory agencies. Results in the Scientific Literature, published by the International Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers & 49 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Business ethics We continuously collect and communicate safety data In our collaboration with CROs, we follow estabfor our investigational drugs and promptly provide clinlished processes of selection, approval, contracting and ical investigators with important new findings relevant to monitoring defined in comprehensive manuals. We expect the safety of the study participants. In this way, we help their services to comply with the highest quality level to ensure the safe use of our pharmaceuticals. Potential including roles and responsibilities as specified in detailed adverse effects and risks are taken into consideration in an quality agreements. Vendors are audited regularly based effort to evaluate the benefit-risk ratio of our products and upon a risk assessment approach. This is to ensure that manage any risk. Product information, including the Investthey comply with all applicable regulations, guidelines and igator’s Brochure and Information for study participants, is the requirements defined in the aforementioned manuals updated accordingly. More information is available under and agreements. The same applies to study centers (for Patient safety. example, hospitals) involved in our clinical studies. In 2019, these audits again reveal no indications of systematic or Conducting clinical trials in vulnerable significant non-compliance with the standards mentioned populations above. One individual critical observation was raised with The implementation of clinical studies in vulnerable popurespect to computerized systems. The root cause was idenlations, such as children or people with mental disabilities, tified and addressed with relevant corrective and preventive requires special attention and care in order to comply actions. with the highest ethical and scientific standards. The wellWe are a member of TransCelerate, a consortium of 20 being of the individual is our highest priority. For this pharmaceutical companies seeking to drive the efficient, reason, we only conduct studies with participants from effective and high-quality delivery of new medicines. vulnerable population groups if scientifically justified and if In this context, we are currently leading an initiative related there is no other way to achieve conclusive results. When to decentralized (virtual) clinical trials. performing such studies, especially when informing study participants and obtaining their consent, we comply strictly Close dialogue with patients and advocacy with all statutory regulations. groups Under our leadership and in collaboration with a consorWe want to ensure the voice and needs of patients and tium of partners, the Pediatric Praziquantel Program has their caregivers are adequately taken into consideration conducted clinical trials with vulnerable populations in lowwhen developing and conducting clinical studies. We, thereand middle-income countries. The program aims to develop, fore, established the Patient Advisory Boards (PAB) as one register and provide access to a pediatric formulation of of our crucial communication channels. Our PAB Charter praziquantel for treating schistosomiasis in children younger describes how to involve patient advocacy groups in our than six years of age. Due to the lack of clinical data as well clinical research process. During Advisory Board meetings, as a suitable pediatric formulation of praziquantel, this age patients, caregivers and representatives from patient group currently goes untreated. Following the successful advocacy groups are invited to share their experience and completion of Phase I bioavailability studies with healthy perspectives related to clinical trials. We use this opporadults in South Africa and the swill-and-spit taste study tunity to discuss multiple aspects of the drug development in children aged six to eleven in Tanzania, Phase II was process, including but not limited to, protocol design, concluded in November 2018 in Ivory Coast. The results educational materials, technology and innovative confirmed the validity of lozenges (orodispersible formulaapproaches to clinical trials. Our Global Clinical Operations tion) as dosage form to be pursued to registration. The (GCO) unit values and leverages such information in pivotal Phase III trial, which is being conducted in Kenya multiple ways, with a clear focus on prioritizing patient centand in Ivory Coast, started in September 2019. ricity in everything we do. In 2019, we made further strides The clinical program was designed in line with the towards delivering this ambition by executing the first PAB recommendations of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration in Asia. (FDA) and the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for pediFurthermore, we are involved with multiple organizaatric development. It was planned and is being implemented tions that focus on this relevant aspect of patient centriin close cooperation with regulatory authorities and a panel city in clinical studies. In the United States, we are an of international experts, including clinicians from endemic active member of the Clinical Trials Transformation Initicountries. Further details can be found under “Health for ative (CTTI), which focuses on quality and efficiency in all”. clinical trials. In Europe, we are involved in the European Patients’ Academy on Therapeutic Innovation (EUPATI), a Teaming up to get results public-private partnership within the Innovative Medicines To provide a broad, in-depth basis for the development Initiative (IMI). We extended our participation, which of new medicines, we frequently conduct clinical studies initially ran from 2012 to 2017, until the end of 2019. in collaboration with external partners in academia and EUPATI is a pan-European project led by the European industry, as well as with medical-scientific advisory boards, Patients’ Forum (EPF). It features partners from patient service providers and vendors. We expect all our partners advocacy groups, universities and not-for-profit organizato abide by the same set of high standards when conducting tions, along with a number of pharmaceutical companies. clinical research. This especially applies to contract research organizations (CROs) performing studies on our behalf. 50 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Business ethics Responsible data sharing mount an immune response against cancer cells. As part of We support professional circles in advancing medical and our strategic alliance with the U.S. pharmaceutical company ® scientific knowledge, thereby allowing for informed Pfizer, we are developing Bavencio (avelumab), an investhealthcare decisions for the benefit of patients. Upon igational anti-PD-L1 antibody that we initially discovered request, we provide qualified researchers with study protoand developed as a potential treatment for different tumors. cols, anonymized patient data, study data, and clinical study Under this collaboration, in 2015 we launched JAVELIN, our reports. We share data and information in a manner that is comprehensive international clinical study program in which consistent with the joint Principles for Responsible Clinical we investigate the potential therapeutic benefit of avelumab Trial Data Sharing of the EFPIA and PhRMA: in multiple tumor types. By the end of 2019, more than 12,200 patients had participated in this program. Safeguarding the privacy of patients By the end of 2019, avelumab had gained marketing Respecting the integrity of national regulatory systems authorization in 50 countries, including the EU member Maintaining incentives for investment in biomedical states, Japan and the United States, for the treatment research of patients with metastatic Merkel cell carcinoma (mMCC), a rare and aggressive form of skin cancer. In 2019, we did not receive any substantiated complaints Furthermore, avelumab was granted regulatory approval in from patients, participants or regulatory bodies concerning three countries for the treatment of patients with locally breaches of privacy in the context of our clinical studies. advanced or metastatic urothelial carcinoma (UC) following platinum-containing chemotherapy. UC is a malignant Disclosure of clinical studies and publication tumor of the urothelium lining the urinary tract. of results In addition, avelumab, in combination with axitinib, We are obliged to disclose findings from our clinical studies, gained FDA approval and European Commission authorwhich we do publicly in a complete, accurate, balanced, ization in 2019 for treating patients with advanced renal transparent and timely manner, as laid out in our Clinical cell carcinoma. Meanwhile, avelumab continues to be evalTrial Disclosure Policy. Our clinical study designs and results uated in several ongoing registrational Phase III studies are made public in the international ClinicalTrials.gov dataacross different tumor types, including lung and head and base run by the U.S. National Institutes of Health (NIH), neck cancers, as well as the first-line therapy of urothelial which can also be accessed via the World Health Organizacarcinoma. tion’s International Clinical Trials Registry Platform (ICTRP). In 2019, we entered into a global alliance with the Furthermore, in accordance with EU regulations, we publish company GlaxoSmithKline to co-develop and co-commerresults from our clinical studies in the EU Drug Regulating cialize Bintrafusp alfa, a bifunctional fusion protein for Authorities Clinical Trials (EudraCT) database, which is run immunotherapy. Currently in clinical development, including by the European Medicines Agency (EMA). If required by pivotal studies, it could be used to treat multiple difficult-tolocal laws and regulations, we publish study results on treat cancers. other publicly accessible platforms. In 2019, we provided participants of 11 studies with Lay Patient Summaries of Enabling early access to new medicines clinical study results, which explain the results in plain Not all patients have the opportunity to take part in a clinical language. Since November 2019, we have been providing study and so must wait for a new pharmaceutical product to clinical study report synopses and Lay Patient Summaries be approved. Through our Early Access Program, we can, on our clinical trials website. under specific circumstances, enable patients to gain early We publish results from our clinical studies in medical access to new, potentially life-saving medicines. The offer is journals in line with applicable laws and industry codes. In aimed at people with serious conditions who have already this way, we adhere in particular to the current version of received all available therapies without success. It allows the Good Publication Practice (GPP3) and follow the recomthem to be treated with medicines that have already been mendations of the International Committee of Medical clinically tested but have not yet been approved. FurtherJournal Editors (ICMJE). Our Medical Publications Policy more, we offer patients who participated in one of our clinensures compliance with all relevant standards and we use ical studies post-study access to the investigational product, defined standard procedures for scientific publications on provided that certain conditions are met. Here, too, we our products. meet stringent statutory, ethical and scientific standards. By performing a thorough assessment of all available data, Immuno-oncology: Major clinical research we ensure that the potential benefits outweigh the potenmilestones tial risks for patients. We published position papers on Early Immuno-oncology investigates the extent to which the Access and Post-Study Access on our website. body’s immune system can be activated or boosted to 51 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Business ethics Supporting independent human subject needs. Our principles, framework and standards for granting research support for ISS and for our collaboration with independent In addition to conducting our own clinical research programs investigators are specified in our ISS Principle and our and studies, we also support studies proposed by indecorresponding policy and standard operating procedure. pendent investigators, so-called investigator-sponsored studies (ISS). Our ISS Principles, published on our website Coming to terms with the past in 2018, define an ISS as “an unsolicited request for funding In the 1950s and 1960s, pharmaceutical companies in and/or supply of an investigational or marketed product Germany supplied their drugs to various institutions for clinby a third-party investigator/institution that initiates and ical trials conducted typically by university clinics or general conducts an independent scientific investigation as the practitioners, but in certain cases, also in children’s care regulatory sponsor”. By granting financial or material homes. Since 2015, we have been giving researchers access support for independent human subject research, we seek to the files in our historical archives at our global headquarto stimulate the advancement of clinical and medical knowters in Darmstadt (Germany) and supporting them in the ledge and patient care in our therapeutic areas of interest, comprehensive historical research of this topic. We mainand to support the safe and effective use of our products. tain full transparency. When their work is completed, We give priority to research that is innovative and has their findings can be used for the final assessment of this the potential to address specific unmet medical or scientific complex topic. 52 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Business ethics Animal welfare From both an ethical and scientific perspective, animal studies for medical purposes and chemical safety are indispensable and furthermore mandated by law. We comply with strict animal welfare standards that meet and frequently exceed applicable laws. Moreover, we oblige our suppliers, contract research organizations and other partners to meet our high expectations with respect to animal welfare. Our approach to animal welfare and experts regularly interact through our global laboratory Animal studies enable us to test both the safety of our medianimal science network, sharing best practices and lessons cinal and chemical products, and the efficacy of our pharmalearned. This supports the animal welfare units at our sites ceuticals. We conduct animal studies within our Healthcare as well as all projects and processes related to animal business sector as part of the official drug approval process, science and welfare. for chemical safety (REACH) and for biological quality Our Group Animal Welfare Council is made up of represcontrol. Animal welfare is also of importance to the Life entatives from all our business sectors and meets twice a Science business sector, where laboratory animals are kept, year. The council discusses relevant developments, advises for instance, for the generation of antibodies. Our subsidiary the Chief Animal Welfare Officer and makes decisions BioReliance conducts animal studies within the scope of regarding our Animal Welfare Strategy. contract research work for third parties. If employees identify an issue regarding animal welfare, Our Group-wide Policy on the Use, Care and Welfare of they can report it directly to the Chief Animal Welfare Laboratory Animals sets forth our commitment to consistOfficer or via our SpeakUp Line. ently uphold the highest ethical standards regarding the All our animal sites are subject to national regulations. housing, care and feeding of laboratory animals. When In order to assess the quality of animal husbandry practices conducting animal studies, we pursue well established and ensure compliance with our standards as well as all methods that ensure high-quality results. We strive to statutory requirements, we appoint animal welfare replace animal studies with alternative methods wherever officers and establish animal welfare councils across our possible and permissible by law. We, therefore, subscribe Group, even where not required by law. to the internationally recognized 3Rs for animal-based research: Work with committees and associations As part of our efforts to improve animal welfare, we are Reduction – using the minimum number of animals involved in several organizations such as the European required Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations Refinement – minimizing distress or discomfort before, (EFPIA), the German Association of Research-based Pharduring and after testing maceutical Companies (vfa) and Interpharma, a federation Replacement – replacing animal studies with non-animal of research-based pharmaceutical companies in Switzersystems land. As a member of Interpharma, we have joined a continuous dialogue with Swiss Animal Protection to identify With our internal 3Rs Award, we recognize best practice and common interests and find synergies regarding the 3Rs. further strengthen our commitment to apply and actively Our Chief Animal Welfare Officer is a member of various promote the 3Rs in our animal studies. committees and takes an active role in order to advocate We also promote the 3Rs outside our company. Under our position on animal welfare. Moreover, he represents the International Consortium for Innovation and Quality in EFPIA on the AAALAC International Board of Delegates. Pharmaceutical Development (IQ Consortium), for instance, In 2019, he was appointed Vice Chair Elect to the Board we joined forces with other pharmaceutical companies to of Directors of AAALAC International, entailing a four-year introduce the Global 3Rs Awards Program. In partnership commitment (2021 Vice Chair, 2022 Chair, and 2023 Immewith the Association for Assessment and Accreditation of diate Past Chair). He is also a member of the German Laboratory Animal Care International (AAALAC InternaFederal Animal Welfare Commission. Our animal welfare tional), the IQ Consortium recognizes innovative contriofficers are members of the National Committee pursuant to butions to the 3Rs of animal studies to advance ethical section 15 of the German Animal Welfare Act, the German science in academia and industry. professional veterinary commission for laboratory animals and the German federal professional veterinary commission How we ensure animal welfare for animal welfare, for example. Through our Corporate Animal Science and Welfare unit, we endeavor to create uniform high-quality animal welfare standards. To ensure adherence to these standards, we initiate animal welfare audits within both our company and our partners. Our animal science and welfare officers 53 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Business ethics Our commitment: Group-wide methodology animal studies are indispensable and legally mandated by and standards ICH guidelines or REACH, which place priority on the safety Through our Group-wide Policy on the Use, Care and of humans. Laws and regulations govern all aspects of Welfare of Laboratory Animals, we have expressed our animal testing, such as the housing conditions of laboratory commitment to global animal welfare principles and the animals, the conduct and approval of studies and the reliabhighest possible ethical standards in animal studies. The ility and expertise of all involved individuals. policy further sets out principles on the housing, care and feeding of laboratory animals. We strive to provide our Number of laboratory animals used for animals with the best quality of life possible and consistmedical study purposes ently seek ways to make improvements. This ethos applies In 2019, 180,372 animals were used at our company. This equally to the contracted animal study services we offer represents an increase of 8% compared to 2018. This is third parties such as contract research organizations, attributable mainly to the Life Science business sector, academia or partnerships and to those services we contract specifically the subsidiary BioReliance. This increase is from these third parties. In addition to our policy, our directly related to government-required safety testing of the Group-wide Animal Science and Welfare manual describes compounds of our customers, in particular the testing and the requirements for implementing, maintaining and determination of clinical toxicological safety profiles. improving animal welfare practices. Moreover, our standard The majority (96%) of the laboratory animals we use are entitled Housing and Husbandry Practices for Common rodents (mice or rats). In addition, around 10,240 animals Laboratory Animals also applies to our external partners. were used by contract research organizations (CROs) on our Our Vendor Qualification Standard describes our criteria for behalf and in collaboration with academia, which represents evaluating the quality of animal welfare practices in our a decrease of 5% compared to 2018. Regulatory agencies suppliers and partners. sometimes require the safety of investigational drugs to be investigated in non-rodent species. This allows researchers Legal requirements to identify potential adverse effects with the necessary Animal testing is only permitted if there are no recognized accuracy and include them in the risk assessment of a alternative methods available. In many fields, however, substance. Animal types 54 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Business ethics Auditing our research facilities In October 2019, one of our CROs in Germany We perform regular audits on our animal testing facilities to conducting animal studies was accused of having violated ensure adherence to our animal welfare standards. In 2019, our animal welfare and legal animal protection regulations. three internal audits (sites in Israel and Scotland) and one Following a comprehensive internal investigation, we authority visit in Darmstadt were conducted. Where necesdecided not to commission any further animal studies from sary, we initiated the relevant corrective measures. No critthis CRO. The last study activities ended in December 2019. ical shortcomings were identified during these audits. If this legally required study had been terminated earlier, We strive to adhere to the highest international animal it would have had to be repeated elsewhere with other welfare standards. All our Healthcare laboratory animal animals. To protect the animals and minimize any potenfacilities and one of our Life Science laboratory animal faciltially harmful impacts, our experts oversaw the completion ities in the United States were accredited to the standards of the study. Through our rigorous and diligent on-site of AAALAC International. supervision at the laboratory we could ensure full compliance with all applicable animal protection standards and Collaborating with partners and suppliers statutory regulations. We perform the majority (95%) of animal studies ourselves In consultation with the authorities, we work with recogand procure the animals required from specialized breeders. nized animal welfare organizations to find appropriate Sometimes, however, we also hire contract research organaccommodation for the remaining laboratory animals. You izations (CROs) to conduct animal studies on our behalf. can find more information in our NEWS section online (only Furthermore, we work with academic institutions. Whenever in German). collaborating with such organizations, we expect them to share our high standards, as set out in our Use, Care Comprehensive employee training and Welfare of Laboratory Animals Policy and in the Group We regularly train all employees who work with laboratory standard entitled Animal Welfare CRO, CMO and Supplier animals. This way we want to ensure that animal studies are Qualification. conducted according to the latest scientific standards and that animals receive the best care possible. We held training Regularly auditing our partners sessions in Darmstadt (Germany), and at several U.S. sites. We verify compliance with our animal welfare policy and The training covered topics such as roles and responsibilities standards through a risk-based qualification procedure of Institutional Animal Care and Use Committees (IACUCs) together with regular audits of our animal breeders and and clinical care of animals. The nature and scope of the contract research organizations. As part of our collaboration training courses are based on national, international and with Interpharma, we worked with other member local legislative requirements. companies to develop a cross-company audit concept. Our employees also regularly participate in external The results are shared among Interpharma member continuing education programs, such as accredited laborcompanies and treated confidentially. Based on the audit atory animal science courses offered by the Federation of results, it is up to the discretion of each company whether or European Laboratory Animal Science Associations (FELASA), not to collaborate with the respective suppliers. In 2019, the the American Association for Laboratory Animal Science association conducted three audits in Germany, France and (AALAS), the Society of Laboratory Animal Science, the the United Kingdom, respectively. We, ourselves, conducted Laboratory Animal Science Association (LASA) and the one audit at a CRO in Israel. Interessengemeinschaft Tierpfleger (Community of Animal Technicians). 55 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Business ethics How we implement the 3Rs national level. There is serious need for action here because We implement the 3Rs by way of various measures – both animal studies can only be truly reduced if a new methodwithin our own company and as part of industry associology is internationally accepted. Without this global recogations. In 2019, for example, we established the use of less nition, both, animal studies and alternative testing have to invasive imaging technologies (magnetic resonance imaging be conducted in parallel when developing pharmaceuticals and ultrasound) for longitudinal and individual investigaintended for worldwide distribution. tions in preclinical studies in rodents. To help improve this situation, we support the European We also put in place an innovative group housing Partnership for Alternative Approaches to Animal Testing concept for rabbits and rats at one of our sites. By keeping (EPAA). This collaboration between the European Commisanimals together in groups, they are generally healthier and sion, European trade associations and companies from less stressed. Wherever possible, we adopt out our animals various industry sectors seeks to pool knowledge and and employ a special re-homing program using recognized resources to accelerate the development of alternative animal welfare organizations that specialize in laboratory approaches to animal use in regulatory studies. Through animals. our membership in the German Association of ResearchFurther, our scientists continuously develop alternative based Pharmaceutical Companies (vfa), we also support the methods for animal studies and received numerous accolGerman set Foundation, which is dedicated to finding and ades for their efforts. developing new alternatives in animal experimenting and In 2019, we invited once again to apply for our Merck seeks to reduce and replace animal testing. To achieve 3Rs Award. The internal award honors employees who this objective, the foundation funds projects that conduct provide innovative ways of implementing the 3Rs principle research into alternative methods. Our Chief Animal Welfare for animal-based research. Officer is currently Vice Chair of the set Foundation Board of We actively support the development of alternative Trustees. testing methods and their official recognition at an inter56 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Products Products Within this chapter: 58 Innovation and digitalization 63 Sustainable products 63 Sustainable product design 67 Packaging and recycling 69 Health for all 69 Global strategy 72 Focus programs 76 Open innovation sharing 78 Pharmaceutical supply chain 81 Prices of medicines 83 Health awareness 86 Product safety and quality 86 Chemical product safety 89 Patient safety 93 Product-related crime 96 Transport and warehouse safety 57 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Products Innovation and digitalization  Part of the non-financial report We develop products and technologies that enrich people’s lives. To this end, we are constantly on the lookout for groundbreaking developments and trends. Research and development (R&D) and innovation are the cornerstones of our success. In 2019, we spent € 2.3 billion on R&D, corresponding to 14% of our net sales. New technologies, and the advance of digitalization in particular, enable us to create innovative technologies, products, services and pioneering business models. Digitalization also decreases the time-to-market for new ideas, which creates opportunities we intend to leverage. 1 Research and development costs by business sector – 2019 1) Not presented: Research and development costs of € 59 million allocated to Corporate and Other. Our approach to innovation our current portfolio and develop them from the initial idea Our Healthcare, Life Science and Performance Materials all the way to market launch. This can only succeed if our business sectors use established strategies to drive new business sectors work closely together and if we are open to product developments for the benefit of patients and our external momentum. Our end-to-end innovation process customers. The diversity of these business sectors provides seeks to achieve exactly that. In the process of integrating us with a breadth of technologies and depth of market Versum Materials and Intermolecular, which we acquired knowledge, giving us a competitive advantage in developing in 2019, we are reviewing the existing innovation process, new products. making adjustments as necessary. At the same time we aim to create new businesses We also create and foster innovation ecosystems in between and beyond our business sectors and the current order to bolster our overall innovative power in several scope of our activities. When deciding where to focus our areas. We incubate viable technology companies through activities, we analyze current megatrends to determine the our Accelerator programs in Europe and China. Furtherinnovation fields in which we see potential for new business. more, we partner with key universities on several developWe endeavor to identify innovation projects that transcend ment programs, focusing on the fields detailed below. 58 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Products INFO and respond promptly to make sure medicines reach their destination when needed. Production: We set up the infrastructure to capture data OUR THREE INNOVATION FIELDS TO throughout all stages of our production processes and DRIVE INNOVATION BETWEEN AND apply advanced data science methods to optimize our BEYOND manufacturing methodologies. To improve the efficiency Bio-sensing and interfaces and reliability of our production processes, we leverage Focusing on the interface between the biological in-silico methods, which means that we simulate molecule and digital world, the goal of this field is to properties or chemical reactions on a computer. utilize data analytics tools to enable faster and Digital product innovations: Digitalization enables us more accurate (remote) monitoring and medical to broaden our existing product portfolio to include offertreatments in numerous areas. ings such as new digital services. We also promote health Clean meat awareness and improve disease awareness and patient treatment through innovative e-health offerings such as This field concentrates on the biotechnology our Diabetes Online Risk Assessment (DORA). required to produce real meat grown in vitro. Interactions with customers: Thanks to modern data This is expected to enable the production of collection and analysis methods, we can make more effianimal protein that is healthier, more ethical cient use of customer-relevant data. This information and environmentally sustainable. allows us to adapt our products and services where necesLiquid biopsy technologies sary. This area focuses on non-invasive alternatives to traditional tissue-based diagnostics, such as You can find more information on research and development liquid biopsy, thereby reshaping methods of in our 2019 Annual Report. detecting and managing various diseases. How we drive innovation The organizational setup of our research and development (R&D) activities reflects the overall structure of our company. All three of our business sectors operate independent R&D units, which pursue their own individual innovation strategies. We drive promising projects as quickly as possible from the Our Group Strategy and Transformation function facilitbrainstorming and idea generation stage to an incubation ates innovation between our individual business sectors and and growth phase, where we provide project teams with beyond our current business scope. It oversees an enda suitable environment to develop their business models to-end process that ranges from setting the innovation and scale up their ideas. Projects are monitored in a lean direction through project ideation, incubation and growth to process in which they prove their commercial relevance at establishing long-term new businesses for our company. different gates. All activities are supported by experts Projects of this kind are developed through our Innovin business model design, business development, market ation Center at our global headquarters in Darmstadt research, and agile methodologies. The objective is for the (Germany), our China Innovation Hub and our Silicon Valley new products or services to make a measurable contribution Innovation Hub. to our business success once they have been launched. In addition to identifying innovation fields at a global level, we have also introduced a China Innovation Hub, Our approach to driving digital innovation which is mainly centered on AI-enabled health solutions. In A major focus of our innovation efforts is digitalization, this innovation field focused on China, we are exploring and we leverage related opportunities to boost our business new AI-based technologies, products and services that performance. We are therefore increasingly forming new could impact the medical or healthcare industry across the strategic partnerships with organizations offering value chain by, for example, increasing efficiency, saving different perspectives. We expect to see progress in: costs or improving customer experience. Many potential partners for innovation projects are Research and development: Digital technologies based in Silicon Valley (United States). Through our Silicon enable us to access and analyze large volumes of data Valley Innovation Hub in Menlo Park, California, we aim to rapidly, thereby accelerating our research and developuncover new technological opportunities and establish partment activities. This is particularly the case in our Healthnerships and projects within our three innovation fields. care business sector, where we are working to advance Our Innovation Committee (IC) oversees the implethe development of new drugs to provide patients with mentation of innovation projects both between and beyond faster access to effective medicines. our business sectors. It is tasked with reviewing the Supply chain management: Digital technologies help progress of ongoing efforts and with ensuring that the us to better manage our supply chain. Centrally collating decision-making process for selecting innovation projects is all data gives us access to crucial real-time data. This both transparent and consistent. The committee consists of enables us to predict supply bottlenecks around the world leaders from our Group functions and our three business 59 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Products sectors. For projects requiring larger-scale investments, the Igniting and nourishing internal ideas IC consults our Executive Board. We seek to maximize the innovative power within our company, giving our employees around the world the Leveraging data science capabilities opportunity to present their ideas via diverse channels. Our We employ a Global Data Science Team of around 30 data Innospire initiative encourages employees to submit ideas scientists to leverage the significant potential in advanced for new products, services and business models. Through a analytics and machine learning. For example, this team multi-stage process, we develop the best suggestions into works with external and internal data to provide insights to business plans. In 2019, employees submitted a total of 406 sales teams in Life Science, uses image recognition techproject ideas related to either our three innovation fields or niques to support the work of clinicians and researchers in our freestyle category. After assessing their viability, we will our Healthcare business sector, and assists in the research announce the most promising projects in May 2020. and innovation process in Performance Materials. The team Our Innovator Academy strives to unlock the innovis part of our Digital Organization, which focuses on ation potential of idea givers, internal project teams and providing significant business value by challenging convenmembers of think tanks and start-ups. It provides a wide tional scientific methods and implementing technology to range of development programs and methodologies, along create faster processes. with online and classroom training courses. We also offer webinars, introducing employees to Innovation Center Investing in promising ideas topics and content through practical examples. M Ventures is our strategic corporate venture capital arm. It invests in innovative technologies and transformational Project example: Mapping the technology and ideas with the potential to significantly impact our core busiknowledge landscapes of companies ness areas. With a € 300 million fund, M Ventures has a The R&D world in large global organizations is very complex focus on early-stage investing and start-up companies, and highly dispersed over many sites, countries and sectors. including the creation of spin-offs to leverage our science Finding the right expert or the capabilities needed to start or and technology base. M Ventures takes an active role in run projects can therefore become a cumbersome exercise. its portfolio companies and has a mandate to invest in the In addition, building the most efficient R&D strategy for an areas of Healthcare, Life Sciences, Performance Materials, enterprise requires a comprehensive overview of the availand New Businesses. able technology platform portfolio. We have created a digital solution to map the entire Our commitment: Protecting innovative ideas technology and knowledge landscape within our company – We are committed to ensuring the confidentiality of sensacross sites, sectors and countries. This makes the informitive information, particularly of intellectual property in ation created by every knowledge node across the organdigitalization projects, and to protecting our innovative ization instantly available to R&D managers, experts, ideas. Our Policy for Personal Data Protection and Personal technology scouts and strategists across the business. A Data Privacy defines the standards that govern how we next step is to commercialize this software, making it availprocess, save, use and transfer data. You can find more able to other companies. information on data protection under Compliance. Opportunities for university students Our Innovation Center: Growing ideas into In June 2019, we launched the Merck Innovation Summer business School, a three-month intrapreneurship program giving Located in Darmstadt (Germany), our Innovation Center students a unique opportunity to learn about intrapreneuroffers our employees and external partners an optimal ship, meaning innovation in a corporate environment. The environment to cultivate their ideas and scale them up students were to grow a seed idea into a pitchable innovto viable new businesses. We provide the infrastructure ation concept. They were tasked with exploring our innovneeded to advance cutting-edge projects, along with stateation fields and proposing ideas for potential new innovation of-the-art methods and tools. projects in the Innovation Center. Our expert jury selected The Innovation Center team holds regular events, worktwo promising ideas, and we offered the winning teams seed shops, seminars and webinars. Through these channels, funding to further shape their ideas into an initial business we introduce our employees to creative methods that help plan at our Innovation Center. generate innovative ideas. In 2019, our Innovation Center received several awards and accolades for its unique concept of driving innovation. 60 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Products Silicon Valley Innovation Hub: Looking for the Accelerating innovation food revolution In 2019, we extended our Merck Accelerator Satellite The Silicon Valley Innovation Hub has a strong focus on program, making it also available in the United Kingdom. our Clean Meat innovation field. Besides other initiatives, In Africa, it is now run through a public-private partnership we began sponsoring the Alternative Meats X-Lab at the with Make-IT in Africa, a tech entrepreneurship initiative University of California, Berkeley (USA) in 2019, to help initiated by the German Gesellschaft für Internationale entrepreneurs and researchers investigate the next generZusammenarbeit (GIZ) in Kenya, Nigeria, South Africa, and ation of foods. The sponsorship offers an opportunity to Tunisia. This enables us to connect with African entreengage with a prolific research community within the Clean preneurs and identify cutting-edge start-ups for our AccelMeat industry that is interested in ideation, problem-solving erator program. and driving the research agenda. Through this African satellite program, we aim to We also partnered with the Institute for the Future contribute to UN Sustainable Development Goal 3, (IFTF), a not-for-profit think tank based in Palo Alto (Cali“Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at fornia, USA). This relationship will give us access to recent all ages”, by identifying innovative African start-ups and research on the future of food and allow us to collaborate offering them partnership and support to help them scale with one of the most highly regarded and successful think up. We focus on areas close to our business and innovation tanks in the world on topics within our innovation fields. fields such as bio-sensing and interfaces and liquid biopsy technologies. China Innovation Hub: Strengthening our In June 2019, we opened the H. Spectrum & Merck innovation footprint Innovation Lab in Taiwan – an incubator that aims to Our China Innovation Hub has locations in Shanghai and support start-ups in generating patient-centric soluGuangdong, which were inaugurated in October and tions. We selected four start-ups to participate in the November 2019, respectively. Their role is to use a nationprogram, working under pre-defined innovation topics: wide innovation network to scout, incubate and invest in Liquid biopsy, Bio-sensing and interfaces, Patient journey, innovative opportunities in healthcare, life science, performand Right drug to right patient. The select start-ups gain ance materials, and related fields between and beyond our access to expertise and networks while we engage with existing businesses. new ideas that help drive innovation for technology-based In addition, we launched a China-specific program for healthcare solutions. the Merck Accelerator via the China Innovation Hub. Six start-ups completed their three-month acceleration journey, Rewarding inclusive innovation with half of them forging partnerships in business sector and For the second time, we hosted the European final of the innovation fields of our subsidiary in China. Inclusive Innovation Challenge in Darmstadt (Germany) in October 2019, acting as the exclusive European partner. Synergizing external ideas: Start-ups and The competition was initiated by the Massachusetts Insticross-industry collaboration tute of Technology (MIT) Initiative on the Digital Economy Numerous start-ups around the world are working on new and aims to accelerate technology-driven solutions that technologies and innovative business models. The Merck enable greater economic opportunities for mediumand Accelerator supports select enterprises in their developlow-income earners. Organizations and companies from ment through programs at our global headquarters and in around the world can take part with technological solutions China. This helps us gain insights into innovative startthat shape the future of work. The challenge awards over ups, which supports our efforts to identify emerging market US$ 1 million in prize money. We invited the expert judges trends early on. Our primary goal is to link these startinvolved in selecting the winners to take part in an advisory up companies with our innovation projects or our business board on the topic of digitalization and the future of work at sectors for future collaboration. In 2019, we accepted ten our company. start-ups into the Accelerator at our Darmstadt headquarters. Following the end of this three-month program, we initiated collaborations with 30% of the participating startups. We are in discussions with another 60% on potential partnerships. We accepted a total of 18 start-ups from more than 610 applications for the next Accelerator intake at both our global headquarters and in China. 61 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Products Fruitful strategic partnership Promoting visionary research th Through our strategic partnership with Palantir TechnoloIn 2018, on the occasion of our 350 anniversary, our gies, a company based in California (United States), we are company launched the Future Insight Prize to honor and able to use their data analysis capabilities to improve and promote groundbreaking scientific and technological innovaaccelerate the development, commercialization and delivery tions that stand to benefit humanity in the fields of health, of new medicines. The access to Palantir technology enabled nutrition and energy. We presented the award for the first us to create tools that help to improve patient retention, time in 2019 and offered a € 1 million research grant to increase the efficiency of sales representatives and aid in the winners: U.S.-based scientists Pardis Sabeti and James strategic targeting to deliver effectively on our product Crowe. Pardis Sabeti from the Broad Institute was recoglaunches. We can also integrate and analyze large amounts nized for identifying innovative genetic technologies used of data to improve our operational excellence. in the detection and therapy of infectious diseases. James Syntropy is a joint venture formed by our company Crowe from Vanderbilt University Medical Center received and Palantir Technologies. The partnership aims to give the prize for uncovering the mechanisms necessary for scientists and research centers access to a technology creating therapeutics and vaccines. Their research platform that integrates and centralizes various organizmay enable the development of a “pandemic protector” ations’ data. Advances in medical research over decades technology that would help protect people worldwide have created a wealth of knowledge about diseases and how from pandemic viral diseases. to treat them. This includes biomedical data. A substantial At the 2020 Curious Future Insight Conference, we will amount of this data is inaccessible to the scientists and cliniaward the next Future Insight Prize in the Multidrug Resistcians who need it to advance their research. Syntropy will ance category. create a network that drives discovery and improves human lives. 62 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Products Sustainable products Sustainable product design Respect for the environment is at the heart of sustainable conduct. We see it as our duty to not only conserve resources when developing our own products, but to also help our customers increase the sustainability of their products. Our Life Science business sector develops solutions to make research and biotech production simpler, faster and more efficient, while our Performance Materials business sector focuses on solutions for the electronics market, for example semiconductor or display materials. Our approach to sustainable product design product safety, including the necessary management strucOur individual business sectors take different approaches tures. to sustainable product design. In our Life Science business sector, we aim to reduce the impact of our products on Our processes for sustainable product design health and the environment. This applies to the entire life Within our Life Science business sector, a strategic platform cycle, from manufacture and use to disposal. At the same founded on a transparency-based, data-driven approach time, we seek to make our products more efficient and helps our experts to drive sustainability improvement during user-friendly. We ask ourselves right at the start of product the development of products and packaging. Our Design for development how to best reconcile these requirements. Sustainability (DfS) program, a comprehensive approach to Our Performance Materials business sector develops and increase the sustainability of our products, focuses on three produces numerous intelligent materials that help our areas: customers manufacture high-tech products. Many of these materials allow people to save energy in their everyday Our DfS: Development pillar focuses on embedding lives. The avoidance of hazardous materials is a principle sustainability at the beginning of the R&D process. that is embedded in the product development process. Our DfS: Consultancy pillar focuses on working with our customers to solve specific sustainability and/or green How we include sustainability in product chemistry challenges they face. design Our DfS: Reengineer pillar focuses on our established The Life Science business sector works across its three portfolio of products and on looking at how we can business units to drive product-related sustainability. This improve the environmental footprint of these products includes our Design for Sustainability (DfS) program for through application of the 12 Principles of Green Chemeco-friendlier life science products as well as DOZN™, a istry in our process. We then use our proprietary webweb-based tool for assessing greener alternatives. based tool DOZN™ to assess the improvements. We have Our Performance Materials business sector has its own now extended the tool to our customers to aid them in CR Committee. It comprises representatives from all assessing their own products and processes. Performance Materials business units and other relevant Within our Performance Materials business sector, our raw internal units. materials for the cosmetics industry meet the high standThe responsibilities described here also apply to product ards of the EU Cosmetics Regulation and are produced packaging and recycling. in line with Good Manufacturing Practices for Cosmetic Ingredients (EFfCI GMP). Integration of Versum Materials and Intermolecular Sustainable product design in the Life Science In October 2019, Merck acquired the two companies Versum business sector Materials and Intermolecular, broadening the Performance Through our DfS program, we have developed a compreMaterials product portfolio in the semiconductor solutions hensive approach to increasing the sustainability of Life field. Science products. The “DfS: Development” program In the course of the integration process, we evaluate provides our product developers with a range of tools that their activities and then include them in our reporting as of enable them to analyze the impact of a product regarding 2020. materials used, energy and emissions, waste, water, packaging, usability and innovation. We have developed sustainOur commitment: Chemicals and product ability criteria that can be used to rank a product’s policies performance in each of these areas. When developing a new In order to meet the product safety regulations relevant to product, our aim is to improve on as many of these criteria our company, our Regulatory Affairs Group Policy details scores as possible. Group-wide processes for managing and implementing 63 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Products To understand the potential environmental impacts forth in the CBD, and especially the third objective: the fair throughout the product life cycle, we conduct streamlined and equitable sharing of benefits arising from the utilization product life cycle analyses. The findings from these analyses of genetic resources and traditional knowledge, in accordinform our efforts to improve our products and are incorance with the Nagoya Protocol’s terms and conditions. A key porated into subsequent development stages. Experts from element is access and benefit sharing, which ensures that R&D, Product Management, Quality, Procurement and other countries providing genetic resources and knowledge also departments collaborate along every step of the process. By benefit from their use. The Nagoya Protocol plays a key role the end of 2019, 32% of such product development projects in our product development efforts and we apply the agreehad met three or more product sustainability criteria. ment’s requirements when using genetic resources originIn 2019, we successfully developed further our DfS ating in countries covered by the protocol. program in order to better account for environmental In 2019, we adopted a Group-wide standard entitled impacts during the product development process and to Access to Genetic Resources. Its objective is to define improve our communication of sustainability attributes requirements, roles and responsibilities in order to to our customers. We developed new elements of the ensure compliance with the Nagoya Protocol under applicprogram, including a scoring system and we initiated a pilot able legislation. We carried out comprehensive trainings on phase during which we test and optimize these elements the standard across relevant units. prior to global implementation. Where appropriate, we ensure that genetic resources We also continued to run a product development pilot and traditional knowledge are obtained with the prior project with the goal of encouraging our suppliers to partiinformed consent of the relevant Nagoya Protocol member cipate in the Together for Sustainability (TfS) industry initistate. Their use is governed by mutually agreed terms. If ative. Ten of our suppliers of consumables took part in the applicable, for example when introducing a new product on project. More than 85% of product manufacturing costs are the market, we disclose appropriate due diligence declaraattributable to them. tions and keep all associated records as required by relevant legislation. Green chemistry assessment tool Each business sector defines specific procedures to help Through our “DfS: Reengineer” initiative, our Life Science ensure that the requirements set out in the Group-wide researchers are developing innovative solutions in line with standard are met. the 12 Principles of Green Chemistry developed by chemists Paul T. Anastas and John C. Warner. These aim to make Tracking material use research as environmentally compatible as possible We primarily use chemical and pharmaceutical raw materand to minimize negative impacts on human health. ials for our manufacturing operations, in addition to operOur proprietary web-based tool DOZN™ enables us to ating supplies and packaging materials such as folding assess sustainable alternatives for various chemicals and to boxes, glass bottles and ampules. We utilized 434 kilotons provide transparency to our customers. DOZN™ provides a of material in 2019 (2018: 488 kilotons). We only record the framework for rating our products in the three stewardweight of the materials that are directly used in our pharship categories “Improved resource use”, “Increased energy maceuticals and chemicals. efficiency” and “Reduced human and environmental hazards.” The system calculates scores on each substance Wide range of solutions based on a range of data that includes the Globally HarmonOur Life Science portfolio comprises a broad array of ized System of Classification and Labelling of Chemicals products, with different properties that are taken into (GHS) as well as Material Safety Data Sheet information. To consideration when applying our DfS approach. The date, we have used this matrix to assess and improve more following examples illustrate the results. than 45 products. In 2019, we introduced a new customer-facing version Greener solvents of DOZN™ 2.0. It allows customers to compare products Our greener, bio-based solvents utilize non-food, renewand/or processes in a secure environment while utilizing the able resources, making them more environmentally power of our system. DOZN™ 2.0 brings new possibilities of friendly. Our solvent Cyrene™ is derived from waste cellusustainable product design to our customers to make more lose and is used as a more sustainable alternative to environmentally friendly choices in their development substances such as NMP and DMF, which are classified as processes. toxic to reproduction. Through Cyrene™ and other greener More than 830 greener alternatives to conventional solvents, we are helping our customers to make their products have been made available to date across our platproduction processes safer and more environmentally form of solutions. sustainable. Cyrene™ was named “Environmental Product of the Year” at the Environmental Leader Awards 2019. Responsible use of natural resources We expanded our greener solvent portfolio by launching We are committed to implementing the Nagoya Protocol, another solvent, Dimethyl Isosorbide, in 2019, with further an international supplementary agreement to the UN solvents to be launched until 2022. Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD), which has been transposed into EU law and was implemented in German law on July 1, 2016. We support the general principles set 64 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Products Eco-friendly lab water use Colloidal silica ® Our Milli-Q IQ 7000 lab water purification and monitoring Over the past decade, our semiconductor customers have system uses mercury-free UV oxidation lamps and has a transitioned to using more environmentally sustainable hibernation mode to save energy while still preserving materials in their chip manufacturing, while simultaneously system water quality. Compared to previous versions, we delivering advanced computer chips at lower costs. We have reduced the size of the system by 25% and the size of the responded to this challenge by developing next-generapurification cartridges it is equipped with by 33%. These tion products using a minimum of 30% less colloidal silica measures helped to cut down on the amount of plastic used, to save process costs for our customers, while also reducing on packaging and transportation as well as on waste levels. our freight, packaging and processing costs. We successfully launched a next-generation product that meets these Less plastic in cell culture creation technical and commercial targets. We can therefore reduce The amount of plastic waste generated by creating cell the need for ocean containers by approximately 180 units cultures is high, due to the need for single use, sterile annually. We also optimized the production process, reduproducts. We estimate that globally, between all providers cing process water consumption by over 14 million gallons of filters, approximately seven million units are used each (53 million liters) compared to our standard product. The year just for sterile filtration. This does not include flasks, availability of this product in concentrated form means that pipettes and other plastic used. This plastic is a biohazour customers can also save costs on waste treatment and ardous waste and cannot be easily recycled. reduce the number of plastic drums used. Under our Design for Sustainability approach, we As a result of the acquisition of Versum Materials, we created a greener version of our current Stericup sterile obtained a significantly sized CMP business, in which we aim filtration system, thereby reducing the amount of plastic to explore options for applying the approach outlined above. entering the laboratory and waste stream. The new Stericup E was designed so that customers NMP-free removers can connect the bottle containing the sample to be filtered The production process for semiconductor devices requires directly to the Stericup E filtration unit, avoiding the use of numerous cleaning steps to remove the organic material a plastic funnel. Depending on the product version, the new used to pattern the circuit design. These cleaning methods Stericup E design can reduce the amount of plastic used require complex solvent chemistries that selectively remove by up to 48%. This also reduces the amount and size of organic material without damaging the sensitive electronic plastic and corrugated packaging by up to 73%. The unit of components. However, the most effective solvents pose sale is then lighter and smaller, which leads to a reduction of a significant environmental hazard. NMP, a mainstream CO2 emissions during transportation. Storing the product at solvent common in wafer cleaning processes, is highly toxic our distribution centers and at customers’ sites requires less and, in 2020, will be classified as a restricted chemical space and reduces the volume and cost of waste disposal under the European Union’s REACH regulation. We are (including biohazardous waste) for our customers. This new continuously working on developing new cleaning design leads to a reduction of the global warming potential chemistries and already launched new products in 2019. of the product of up to 46% from design to end of life. As a result, not only more sustainable solvents, but also more efficient solvents are utilized by our customers. By Optimizing the ethylene oxide sterilization designing custom solvent systems for our customers’ process cleaning applications, hazardous chemistries can be avoided Some of our products are sterilized with ethylene oxide and the volume of material used is reduced, as is waste. (EO). In 2019, we successfully completed our three-year project to improve the efficiency and reduce the environSwitchable windows mental impacts of the EO sterilization process for products Windows that can be darkened in a matter of seconds are manufactured at our Life Science site in Molsheim (France). now a reality, thanks to our liquid crystal window (LCW) This encompassed 25 of our product families. A multidisciptechnology. These darkened windows regulate the heat linary team successfully developed and implemented the generated by direct sunlight. The LC material was commer® ® new process in line with the ISO 11135 standard on the cialized under our licrivision and eyrise brands. New sterilization of healthcare products. The new process allows estimates based on planned customer projects show that us to sterilize different products in the same cycle, resulting this technology can lower the energy consumed by building in an optimized truck fill rate for transportation from our site climate control systems and lighting by up to 10%, thereby to the sterilization partner. The number of trips has thus replacing conventional shading. been reduced by half, enabling us to reduce our emissions by 200 metric tons of CO2eq annually. Life cycle approach to benefit our customers At the manufacturing plants where our effect pigments are Current product examples from the produced, we focus on saving energy and reducing CO2 Performance Materials business sector emissions. This is especially relevant for customers who Our Performance Materials products help boost sustainabwant to reduce their upstream supply chain CO2 footprint. ility in a variety of ways: In 2019, we achieved a 11% overall CO2 reduction for plants producing pigments for our Surface Solutions portfolio compared with 2018. 65 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Products Shifting to more natural-based cosmetics Alternatives to microplastics in cosmetics Consumers are increasingly scrutinizing brands and Functional fillers play a crucial role when it comes to the companies for environmental and social aspects. look, feel and quality of cosmetics. For example, beauty Responding to this trend and the ever-growing popularity products containing effective functional fillers are easier to of natural cosmetics, we are working closely with our apply, wear well and help mask imperfections or skin discolcustomers in the cosmetics industry to find solutions for orations. more natural-based cosmetics. The resulting cosmetic Microplastics are often used in cosmetics and functional formulations comply with strict criteria and, by the end of fillers. However, they are highly resistant to environmental 2019, 73 of our cosmetic pigments and active ingredients biodegradation, fragment into ever smaller pieces and do had been certified to Ecocert’s COSMOS standard for organic not dissolve in water. Wastewater treatment plants are able and natural cosmetics. We have also obtained halal certito filter out only 90% of microplastics. ficates for over 50% of this product portfolio, including We offer effective and scientifically proven alternatives ® broad parts of the pigments portfolio, our Eusolex T and UVto microplastics. Our RonaFlair portfolio of functional fillers Titan product ranges. Our aim is to develop more naturaloffers environmentally friendly mineral ingredients that based raw materials for use in cosmetics in the future. deliver a variety of cosmetic properties. 66 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Products Packaging and recycling Packaging protects our products from external influences and helps to ensure that they reach the customer undamaged. Packaging must remain intact across the entire product life cycle. We are working to reduce the amount of material we use as well as to increasingly utilize eco-friendly materials. We also help our customers to take a more sustainable approach to disposing or recycling our products and packaging. Our sustainable packaging strategy least one of the three sustainable forestry standards or are We aim to deliver our products in packaging that is safe made of recycled material. and easy for customers to handle. We also try to make it as sustainable as possible. With more than 300,000 products Cellulose as an alternative to polystyrene foam in our Life Science portfolio – ranging from biochemicals In the past, we used expanded polystyrene (EPS) molded to lab chemicals and from filter materials and systems foam to secure glass reagent bottles and prevent them to instruments – we face a variety of challenges when it from breaking during transport. While EPS, also known as ® comes to packaging. We strive to improve the sustainabStyrofoam , is an excellent cushioning material, it is manuility of this packaging to help both us and our customers factured from non-renewable petrochemicals and difficult reduce its environmental impact. In 2019, we therefore offito recycle. By contrast, molded pulp components can be cially launched SMASH Packaging, a sustainable packaging easily recycled with other paper materials and compacted strategy for Life Science. The strategy is built on three together for storage and transport. We are replacing EPS pillars: optimizing resources, using more sustainable materwherever possible with molded components made of celluials and designing for a circular economy. We have set lose and recycled paper pulp. four goals that support these pillars. We use molded pulp inserts to pack a variety of liter bottle configurations in shipping boxes, thereby replacing Shrink: reduce amount of packaging around three million EPS parts per year. We are currently Secure: achieve zero deforestation conducting safety tests on new pulp designs for shipping Switch: improve plastic sustainability other bottles of various sizes. Overall, we used approximSave: maximize recycling ately 1,000 metric tons of molded pulp packaging material in 2019. We have also defined targets for the years up to 2022 relating to these goals. The targets address the developMore sustainable bulk packaging solution ment of new product packaging and the improvement of We seek eco-friendly alternatives to ship our products existing product and distribution packaging. safely, which is why we are partnering with a biotech New product packaging is where we can make the company to jointly develop a more sustainable bulk packbiggest impact. Our approach consists of implementing new ® aging design for the transport of our Millistak+ Pod standards and guidelines development teams can apply Disposable Depth Filters. A life cycle assessment showed to create more sustainable packaging. In the future, we that we achieved a 24% reduction of corrugated cardboard will assess the sustainability characteristics of new product used, which translates to a 17% decrease in greenhouse packaging based on our Design for Sustainability scorecard gas (GHG) emissions throughout the life cycle of the packthat is being redesigned. aging materials. This translated to a total of around 4 tons of corrugated cardboard that was saved in 2019. Moreover, Making packaging more sustainable our customers require 70% less time to process our A large proportion of our packaging consists of fiber derived products and their packaging. from wood. We work continuously to increase the amount of recycled material and the proportion of corrugated cardMore cardboard instead of plastic board boxes certified to the standards governing sustainSolvents are usually supplied in plastic bottles. We use able forestry, including the Sustainable Forestry Initiative ® Titripac because it offers a more eco-friendly alternative. (SFI), the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) and the The cardboard carton and plastic liner with an integrated Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification withdrawal tap have made the packaging more recyclable Schemes (PEFC). We want to reach our zero deforestation and reduced its weight by more than 50%. As a result, the goal by ensuring that none of our wood and fiber-based greenhouse gas emissions arising across the entire product packaging materials contribute to deforestation. In this life cycle are 61% lower compared to plastic bottles. Since connection, we conducted a survey in 2019 to better underthe withdrawal tap protects the product against contaminastand the practices of our suppliers and the characteristics tion, contents can be used to the very last drop. This helps of our packaging and to identify opportunities for improvereduce chemical waste. ment. We collected information from our strategic direct suppliers who represent 80% of our fiber-based packaging Reusing EPS boxes materials spending. Overall, by volume, 75% of corrugated packaging supplied by these companies is certified by at Many of our Life Science products need to be kept cool during shipping and are therefore packed in special EPS 67 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Products boxes. To mitigate waste, we offer our customers in the use it for our products that are shipped with dry ice at a United States the option of returning these boxes to us. temperature of 2°C to 8°C. We plan to progressively deploy If they are still fully functional, we reuse them. In 2019, these new coolers in our main distribution centers in North this amounted to more than 11,500 boxes that were reused America. at least once, representing around 4% of the shipments leaving the three distribution centers where this type of Reducing the amount of packing material used packaging is being used. in distribution Packing or padding material is used to safely store and Sustainable membrane packaging for cut disc transport products to our customers. We want to increase filters its sustainability characteristics as part of our SMASH In 2019, we launched a redesigned membrane box packPackaging initiative. In 2019, our distribution teams in aging. All customers who order cut disc filters now receive Germany and India conducted projects to optimize the use their order in the new packaging design. of packing materials for the shipment of our products. The new membrane box packaging is manufactured In our distribution center located in Darmstadt using 22% less plastic than the previous design. Moreover, (Germany), we reduced the grammage of kraft paper used 2 2 it replaces polystyrene with polypropylene that has a 43% as packing material from 100g/m to 80g/m . This initiative lower global warming potential in its production phase than allows us to save 14 tons of paper annually, while mainpolystyrene. Other environmental impact enhancements taining the same level of performance in protecting our include the elimination of foam inserts and local sourcing of products. materials, resulting in less transportation and fewer emisIn our Jigani (India) distribution center, we replaced sions. This new design also reduces GHG emissions by plastic air pillows with shredded corrugated cardboard for 200 metric tons per year across the entire product life cycle. packing. We also implemented a corrugated box shredder. A life cycle assessment conducted on this new packaging Thanks to this machine, we are able to reuse the inbound design features the following sustainability improvements corrugated packaging waste as shredded corrugate for over the previous design: packing, avoiding the additional purchase of packing material. 22% reduction in weight of product packaging 33% reduction in GHG emissions Our recycling program 27% reduction in non-renewable energy. In cooperation with a waste management company based in Massachusetts (USA), we employ a comprehensive recycling Introducing recyclable plant-based coolers program for our Life Science customers in the United States. In the past, we used insulated containers made of expanded Product waste from their research labs and biopharmaceutpolystyrene (EPS) for the shipment of our temperatureical manufacturing operations is collected, sanitized and controlled products. While EPS offers good insulation and recycled into plastic panels. This material can be used in cushioning properties, it is a petroleum-based material that many industries, such as construction, landscaping, transtakes hundreds of years to decompose. As the options portation and marine construction. The program includes for recycling EPS are limited, it is generally incinerated our Biopharma Recycling and Ech2o Collection recycling or landfilled. It can also cause environmental pollution, programs. notably when it enters the marine environment. We have We continue to expand this program throughout the set ourselves the target to reduce the use of EPS by United States and are exploring options in other regions 20% by 2022. This target is part of our SMASH Packaging such as Europe and Asia. The program now serves 12 major strategy. biopharma manufacturing customers. Since launching the In 2019, we investigated several technical solutions in program in 2015, we have recycled 4,167 metric tons of order to find an alternative cooler that would meet our waste generated from the use of our products, including standards for effective cold chain transportation with a 1,466 metric tons in 2019 alone. lower environmental footprint than an EPS cooler. In early 2020, we started implementing this new cooler at one of our distribution centers in the United States. We 68 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Products Health for all Global strategy Two billion people across the globe do not have adequate access to health. We are striving to make health solutions affordable, raise awareness of diseases and help people learn how to manage them. We work with committed partners to tackle this complex challenge by researching innovative solutions, developing new approaches and improving existing programs to help people at the point of care. Our approach to improving healthcare for Using focus programs to address our priority areas, we underserved populations want to be instrumental in the elimination of schistosomiasis Our aim is to create a healthier future for all: for individuals, while fighting malaria and other infectious diseases. communities and countries. We want to use innovation in Furthermore, we help build local capacity across the value science and technology to help improve the health of underchain and position our company as a leading and reliable served populations in lowand middle-income countries. To partner. achieve this, we leverage our expertise from all business Our global access to healthcare strategy rests on four sectors and collaborate closely with a wide range of partmajor pillars that guide our access activities: ners. We also participate in industry-wide initiatives to develop new approaches. Availability: We research, develop and refine health Our Global Health strategy is designed to overcome solutions that address unmet needs, tailoring them to access barriers for underserved populations and local environments. For example, we are committed to communities in lowand middle-income countries in an delivering on our R&D portfolio of projects by developing economically viable and sustainable manner, thereby and providing access to innovative health solutions that creating shared value. For us, this means developing busihelp tackle infectious diseases. ness models that increase the value and competitiveness Affordability: We seek to provide assistance to those of our company while solving unmet health needs and who are unable to pay for the health solutions they need, strengthening health systems. This leads to a win-win solufor example through our patient access programs. This tion for our company and society as a whole. also includes addressing challenges regarding pricing and We follow three core operating principles: intellectual property. Furthermore, we are working on innovative access paths for health solutions to fight NTDs. Developing innovative solutions: We take a leading For instance, we aim to ensure the future affordability of role in the elimination of schistosomiasis, and we create our new pediatric drug to treat schistosomiasis. new integrated drug, diagnostics, technology and vector Awareness: By empowering medical professionals, control solutions for schistosomiasis, malaria and other communities and patients to make informed decisions, we infectious diseases. help raise awareness for diseases and therapies through Engaging with cross-sector partners: We participate efforts such as our global awareness campaigns. in multi-stakeholder global health platforms to help Accessibility: We promote initiatives that control the achieve the UN Sustainable Development Goals. We cost of goods during product development and production define partnerships for research and development and allow for localized health solutions. We also strive to programs, utilize access alliances and create locally-based strengthen our supply chains to help ensure that mediopportunities, where possible. cines reach the people who need them quickly and safely, Creating business opportunities via a shared value as demonstrated by our NTDeliver project. approach: We help to sustainably improve the health of underserved populations by utilizing our portfolio from across all three of our business sectors. 69 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Products How we are improving access to healthcare to help control and ultimately eliminate the top ten most Our Global Health unit coordinates the implementation of prevalent infections. We are particularly engaged in the our strategy for global access to healthcare. Multiple teams fight against schistosomiasis. work on ways to investigate and reduce the barriers that prevent underserved populations from receiving adequate Partnering to build research capacity and healthcare. clinical skills This unit is also responsible for Group-wide initiatives, Following our integrated approach to fighting infectious programs and sponsorships relating to global health topics. diseases, we have continued implementing a series of Our experts collaborate closely with the Healthcare, Life research programs on malaria and schistosomiasis. These Science and Performance Materials business sectors to programs mainly took place in Africa and involved postleverage their strengths and competencies effectively. doctoral and PhD fellows and local scientists. We also Our Merck Global Health Institute develops and impledeveloped a training course for laboratory experts. ments a portfolio of projects for transformative treatments, By acting as a host organization for the European and diagnostics, technologies, and preventive measures against Developing Countries Clinical Trials Partnership (EDCTP) infectious diseases. The institute also seeks to provide Fellowship Scheme, we are helping to empower African research and development capabilities by engaging in research fellows and enhance their clinical trial practices activities to help strengthen health systems in lowand and management skills. middle-income countries. It operates as a social business enterprise to deliver innovations for the most vulnerable Engaging stakeholders members of society, namely women and children in lowPartnerships and dialogue are vital to improving access to and middle-income communities. healthcare, and we aim for stakeholder dialogues with a Our Access to Health unit investigates the factors that relevant and scalable, far-reaching impact. Our partners prevent underserved populations from receiving healthcare include multinational organizations, government agencies and coordinates with multiple partners to identify and and NGOs, as well as academic institutions, health industry develop solutions. associations, companies, and independent global health The Merck Schistosomiasis Elimination Program leads experts. our efforts to eliminate schistosomiasis in close collaboration with several external partners. Alliances for better access to health We are a member of the Business for Social Responsibility Our commitment: Providing a solid basis for (BSR) initiative and endorse the BSR Guiding Principles on access to healthcare Access to Healthcare, which provide a framework for us to To demonstrate our commitment to expanding access to refine and enhance our Global Health efforts. healthcare, we publish a dedicated Access to Health Charter Together with 21 other leading pharmaceutical on our website. We updated the charter substantially in companies, we host the global Access Accelerated initiative, 2019 to reflect our strategy and approach in response to which seeks to improve both the treatment and prevention the latest developments in global health and access. This of non-communicable diseases in lowand middle-income charter sets out guidelines on the following: countries. We also joined forces with advocacy groups such as the Swiss Malaria Group, which aims to positively influOur approach (updated in 2019) ence access paths. Pharmaceutical product donations (updated in 2019) The Merck Access Dialogue Series is a multi-stakeholder Fake medicines platform for sharing information and exchanging best R&D for infectious diseases (updated in 2019) practices on broadening access to healthcare. We harness Pharmaceutical product pricing the ideas shared through the series to inform and drive our Intellectual property rights (updated in 2019) access strategy, plan of action and engagements. In this way, we create transparent, insightful and critical dialogue Every two years, the Access to Medicine Foundation on how we and our partners can best use our respective publishes the Access to Medicine Index. It benchmarks 20 capacities, experience, expertise, and competencies to of the world’s largest research-based pharmaceutical sustainably address access barriers. In 2019, we hosted companies on activities and initiatives that experts consider an event on supply chains and delivery where we met most relevant for access to medicine, ranging from donawith internal and external experts to share information and tions made and patents registered to capacity building. We discuss our company’s engagement. use the ranking to inform and, in certain cases, guide our access to health strategy and approach. In 2018, we were Discussions at a global level ranked in fourth place, retaining our previous position. This was in recognition of our company’s integrated strategy We take part in many events with a global reach or relevon access to medicine, our efforts to address the needs ance in order to participate in and advance global health of unserved and underserved populations across the entire discussions. We engage with major stakeholders in a value chain and our commitment to creating shared value. dialogue on infectious diseases and deepen collaborations We continue to endorse the London Declaration on with the scientific community through publications and by Neglected Tropical Diseases, through which participating taking on leading roles at international scientific conferences companies, governments and private organizations promise and events. 70 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Products th In 2019, we participated in multiple events and initiat74 Session of the UN General Assembly in New York ives, some of which are listed below: (USA), September Merck Access Dialogue Series: Supply Chain & Delivery, Conference on Tropical Medicine and Global Health in September Munich (Germany), April COR-NTD on Female Genital Schistosomiasis in Liverpool World and Merck Malaria Day, April (UK), September nd 72 World Health Assembly in Geneva (Switzerland), th 11 European Congress on Tropical Medicine and Interincluding the side event “Leaving no one behind: from national Health in Liverpool (UK), September philanthropy to sustainable health solutions. How can Annual NTD NGO Network Meeting in Liverpool (UK), local manufacturing be part of an integrated approach September to tackling NTDs and advancing Universal Health WHO-WIPO-WTO Trilateral Symposium on “Cutting-Edge Coverage?”, May Health Technologies: Opportunities and Challenges”, th 7 International Conference on P.Vivax Research in Paris October (France), June Joint UNICEF, UNFPA and WHO meeting with manufacHigh-level meeting between CEO Healthcare (Merck Execturers and suppliers in Copenhagen (Denmark), utive Board member) and the Director-General of the December World Health Organization (WHO), July 71 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Products Focus programs Neglected tropical diseases occur almost exclusively in impoverished populations in lowand middle-income countries. Barely known in industrialized nations, they attract little public attention and research funding. One example is schistosomiasis. Our aim is to help take urgent action to prevent and control this neglected disease as well as more familiar infections such as malaria. Strategy for preventing and treating Working with partners: Collaborating with partner infectious diseases organizations through the Global Schistosomiasis Alliance Working hand in hand with our external partners, we seek (GSA), we are accelerating the progress towards schistoto improve the health of underserved populations in lowsomiasis control and elimination. and middle-income countries through our science and techImproving water, sanitation and hygiene: We nology innovation. Our strategy is to develop and provide support WASH projects to prevent transmission of the medicines, improve diagnosis, counter disease transmisdisease through the development of infrastructure. sion, increase disease control, expand access to healthcare, Education and behavior change: We invest in educaand strengthen local health systems. tion and behavior change projects and participate in Our priority areas are eliminating schistosomiasis, health education initiatives that raise awareness of the developing health solutions for malaria and infectious causes and dangers of schistosomiasis and teach people diseases, expanding access to healthcare by strengthening how to prevent it. health systems, and promoting capacity building along the value chain. Our fight against malaria According to World Health Organization (WHO) estimates, Our fight against schistosomiasis nearly half of the world’s population is at risk of contracting Schistosomiasis, a tropical worm disease also known as malaria. More than 200 million cases of malaria and over bilharzia, is one of the most prevalent parasitic infections 400,000 related deaths are recorded every year, with 70% in Africa, placing a significant burden on public health and in children under five years of age. Around 90 different the local economy. The disease affects almost 240 million countries are affected by the disease, with approximately people worldwide, with more than 90% of cases occurring 90% of deaths occurring in Africa. in sub-Saharan Africa. School-aged children are particularly There is an urgent need for new products to overcome vulnerable to infection. An estimated 200,000 people die the problem of increasing drug resistance and to achieve every year from the long-term effects of schistosomiasis, our goal of complete elimination. Through our One Merck such as liver and kidney infections, bladder cancer and for Malaria program, we are helping to deliver integrated anemia. and sustainable health solutions entailing treatments, Our ultimate aim in all our schistosomiasis-related work diagnostics and prevention methods to fight malaria in is to eliminate the disease. To help achieve this goal, we endemic countries. adopted an integrated schistosomiasis strategy in early 2019 that we are implementing in close collaboration with Schistosomiasis: Over one billion tablets multiple partners worldwide. The new approach focuses on donated five areas: As part of our longstanding partnership with WHO, we have renewed our commitment to make annual donations of Supplying medicine: We donate up to 250 million praziquantel tablets for distribution in 47 endemic African tablets of praziquantel per year to WHO. Nearly 50 years countries to treat school-aged children. In 2019, we after its invention, praziquantel still remains the standard donated approximately 233 million tablets for distribution of care for the effective treatment of schistosomiasis in 35 countries, 32 of which in Africa. Also, we maintained around the world. our commitment by ensuring that we have sufficient Researching new solutions: We are collaborating with production capacity to manufacture up to 250 million tablets research institutions and through public and private a year. The latest numbers from WHO show that in 2017, sector partnerships to develop a new formulation of prazi72% of all school-aged children in need of treatment in subquantel for children under the age of six and identify Saharan Africa were treated. diagnostics and vector control approaches. 72 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Products Countries that have received donations of praziquantel tablets Schistosomiasis health education project conferences and key meetings. The alliance is also helping Through our joint health education project with the NALA to promote and support an international action plan to Foundation, we are investing nearly € 300,000 over a threeprogress schistosomiasis control and ultimately eliminate year period. Since the end of 2017, we have reached the disease. The GSA continues with its efforts to raise 250,000 people in southwestern Ethiopia, almost half of awareness through coordinated campaigns. whom are school-aged children. The education programs will help promote long-term behavioral change in the drive Partners in schistosomiasis research to eliminate schistosomiasis and other neglected tropical Over time, we have developed a portfolio of R&D projects diseases. on schistosomiasis. These include a new pediatric formuIn 2019, we expanded the project to two further districts lation of praziquantel to treat children under the age of in Ethiopia and reached around 188,000 people, almost six, identifying new drugs to prevent and treat schistosomi40% of whom were school-aged children. To deepen our asis, developing innovative and highly sensitive schistosounderstanding of the knowledge, attitudes and practices of miasis diagnostic methods, and defining approaches for primary school children with respect to safe water, sanitvector control. ation and hygiene, we conducted a survey that revealed Praziquantel is an effective and well-tolerated drug, but that 58% of the children taking part had never heard of it does not work in all developmental stages of the parasite. parasites that can infect the intestines. This prompted us to We continue to collaborate on research activities with many create a series of educational training sessions. partners in developed and lowto middle-income countries. Thanks to our financial support, our on-the-ground partThis work aims to discover new, long-lasting compounds to ners were able to conduct training sessions in schools and treat juvenile forms of the parasite, thereby improving among local communities, with the majority of the schools efficacy and preventing reinfections. In 2019, we obtained setting up hand-washing stations. Clean water and latrines promising assets from Salvensis and the London School are now available in these stations throughout the school of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine to identify potential new year. Teachers also reported major improvements in candidates for preventing infection and curing patients students’ personal hygiene and general levels of cleanliness affected by schistosomiasis. in the participating schools. The need for more sensitive diagnostics is crucial in the fight against schistosomiasis. Since 2017, we have been Central platform in the battle against collaborating with the Australian Institute of Tropical Health schistosomiasis and Medicine at James Cook University in Townsville The Global Schistosomiasis Alliance (GSA) is a coordinated, (Queensland, Australia) and with the Baylor College of Medimulti-sectoral effort to combat the complex disease schistocine in Houston (Texas, USA) on researching new somiasis. In 2019, the GSA recruited additional international biomarkers in order to develop diagnostic tools for schistostakeholders as new members and contributed to WHO’s somiasis. The program achieved the preliminary identity of consultations ahead of the new NTD Roadmap expected to new schistosomiasis biomarkers for novel diagnostics. be passed by the World Health Assembly in 2020. The GSA As of early 2019, we also initiated our collaboration with took part in various projects aimed at driving local efforts the Foundation of Innovative New Diagnostics (FIND) and to combat schistosomiasis as well as organizing several the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation to develop a sensitive 73 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Products rapid diagnostic test (RDT) to improve mapping and case Innovative Technology (GHIT) Fund. The study represents detection for schistosomiasis. the last step of the clinical development program, which, Beyond these efforts, we continued to explore technoloshould it produce a positive outcome, will allow the clinical gies that control transmission factors through basic research data package needed for registration to be completed. We activities, for example the elimination of the infectivity of expect the product to be available to the first endemic snails through gene editing, or through access-to-water countries in Africa in 2022. Together with international key programs in Senegal. In 2019, we implemented initiatives stakeholders, we are working on designing an innovative to address female genital schistosomiasis (FGS), a major access path to ensure future affordability, availability and challenge to women’s health in Africa, and its impact on adoption of the new medicine. HIV/AIDS. In particular, we began supporting a trial to optimize therapeutic treatment for women suffering Malaria: Enabling the treatment of children from FGS in Madagascar and conducted advocacy initiatives As part of our One Merck for Malaria program, we are develthrough workshops and training sessions. oping a new innovative drug (M5717) for the treatment of malaria in children. In 2019, we assessed the safety of the Consortium for the development of a pediatric compound and gathered data to support clinical proof of praziquantel formulation principle by conducting a Phase I/Ib study in healthy volunIf left untreated at a preschool age, schistosomiasis can teers in Australia. The program is progressing towards the have long-term effects on children such as anemia, stunted next phase, where we will explore opportunities to develop growth and impaired learning. It can seriously affect their the compound in combination with another anti-malarial lives and potentially cause chronic diseases, including compound to potentially serve as a single-dose treatment to bladder cancer or genital schistosomiasis. We are working cure or prevent malaria. with the Pediatric Praziquantel Consortium, which includes both public and private sector representatives, to develop Developing new lead programs for and provide access to a pediatric formulation of praziquantel antimalarials to children under the age of six. In 2019, our strategic collaboration with the University of Following initial Phase I studies and a taste evaluation, Cape Town in South Africa and the Medicines for Malaria we completed the Phase II study in Ivory Coast in 2018. Venture continued its screening activities with the aim of It assessed the efficacy and safety of two different formuidentifying new therapeutic solutions for malaria and lations of orodispersible tablets (ODT) in schistosomiasisbuilding research capacity in and for Africa. Co-funded by infected children under the age of six. The results indicated the German Federal Ministry of Education and Research, that both formulations are well tolerated and helped us to this program continues to leverage our proprietary chemical identify the optimal formulation and dose to pursue until we library of nearly 100,000 compounds to identify new lead can register the drug. programs for the treatment of malaria. It targets liverIn 2018, two new partners joined the Pediatric Prazistage forms of the parasite and focuses on long-lasting quantel Consortium: the Kenya Medical Research Institute compounds to improve post-treatment prophylaxis. (KEMRI) and the Université Félix Houphouët-Boigny in Ivory Together with our partners, we have identified a promising Coast. Both play important roles in implementing the Phase chemical series to help declare potential lead candidates for III trial that started at the Homa Bay clinical center in Kenya drug discovery and development activities. in September 2019. This pivotal trial is designed to evaluate Through a collaboration with the Instituto de Biologia the efficacy and safety of the new child-friendly praziExperimental e Tecnologica (iBET) and the Instituto de quantel ODT formulation in children three months to six Medicina Molecular (IMM) in Portugal, we made progress in years of age who are infected with schistosomes. The trial is developing a new cell model of liver-stage malaria infection. being conducted in Kenya and Ivory Coast, and is co-funded This new cell model could serve as a screening tool for novel by the consortium, the European & Developing Countries anti-malaria drugs. The results have been published in peerClinical Trials Partnership (EDCTP) and the Global Health reviewed scientific journals. 74 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Products Preventing and controlling malaria worker capacity to detect malaria cases through microscopy ® transmission and continue our work to deploy IR3535 as a malaria To help prevent the spread of malaria, we are working preventive method for women and babies. Furthermore, we to improve access to insect repellent as a vector control will increase our knowledge of the prevalence of asymptomethod. Through internal and external collaborations, we matic patients suffering from malaria via an innovative pan® African network that maps the pathogenic parasite P.vivax. are working towards demonstrating the efficacy of IR3535 ® against malaria in Africa. IR3535 is used in insect repellents for complementary prevention of vector-borne Technologies to combat antimicrobial diseases such as dengue and Zika fever, Chikungunya and resistance Lyme disease. The repellent is safe for all age groups, We have implemented new collaborative programs to assess including children, pregnant women and nursing mothers. the degree of resistance of identified bacterial pathogens. We are partnering with the Infanta Malaria Prevention We have also focused our efforts on the development of Foundation to support the Ghana Health Service’s National new technological platforms to accelerate the assessment of Malaria Control Program by exploring potential infection types and test the validity of drugs. Since 2018, ® IR3535 -based solutions for malaria prevention in vulnerwe have been partnering with Boston University to test, able communities. In 2019, we helped to broaden the scope validate and optimize a new user-friendly technology to of this initiative through an integrated, country-level identify and quantify the active pharmaceutical ingredients approach, working with an established network of partners of medicines sold in hospitals, health centers and pharmain Ghana. Through these efforts, we aim to improve health cies. This helps us in detecting fake medicines. 75 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Products Open innovation sharing We consider it our duty and responsibility to share core technological advances to improve global access to healthcare. However, this level of transparency requires a solid, transparent and reliable legal framework that protects the intellectual property rights of pharmaceutical companies and enforces patents in order to provide the opportunity to balance the initial investment in research and development. Our approach to sharing and protecting Our Open Innovation Committee provides technical intellectual property expertise, strategic guidance and decision-making The approach that we and other pharmaceutical companies regarding our open innovation strategy, activities and take to our intellectual property impacts access to healthcollaborations. Co-chaired by the heads of our Access to care. We often refrain from filing or enforcing patents in Health subunit and the globally acting Patents Healthcare lowand middle-income countries. In markets where we do unit, the Open Innovation Committee is part of our Open register product patents, we are transparent and committed Innovation Initiative. to sharing data to the greatest possible extent and to improving public access to clinical study data. We report on Our commitment: Supporting transparent and the patent status of our products via a publicly accessible reliable frameworks database. Furthermore, we support voluntary licensing We support TRIPS, an international agreement administered agreements of all kinds, including non-exclusive voluntary by the World Trade Organization (WTO) that addresses licenses, legally binding non-assertion covenants and trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights, along clauses that aim to widen access to health. Moreover, we with TRIPS addenda such as the Special Declaration on the support the concept of patent pools, but believe that these TRIPS Agreement and Public Health (also known as the should be structured in such a way that they improve access 2001 DOHA Declaration). This extends the deadline for lowto medicines, prevent anti-competitive behavior and overand middle-income countries to apply TRIPS provisions to come geographic limitations. We consider joining patent pharmaceutical patents until 2033. pools when they are relevant to our portfolio and meet all our efficacy, quality and safety requirements. Initiative improves access to patent The responsible treatment of intellectual property does information not pose a barrier to health, but rather guarantees safety We are a founding member of the Patent Information Initiand high quality for patients worldwide. Nearly all mediative for Medicines (Pat-INFORMED), which was established cines that address the highest burden of disease in lowby 20 leading research-based biopharmaceutical and middle-income countries are not protected by patents. companies. Pat-INFORMED acts as a global gateway to Studies found that between 90% and 95% of the WHO medicine patent information, offering tools and resources Model List of Essential Medicines are off-patent. We provide that help determine the existence of patents relevant to 46 essential medicines and products, 27 of which are on the products sought by national and international drug procureWHO Model List of Essential Medicines and 29 of which are ment agencies. This transparency should make it easier for considered to be first-line treatments. drug procurement agencies to access a basic body of patent We provide access to patent information through our information needed for implementing disease manageAccess to Health initiatives and partnerships. In some cases, ment strategies and other activities that address public we even give access to parts of our chemical compound health needs. Pat-INFORMED features patent information libraries. This is true for open innovation research projects for small-molecule drugs within cardiovascular, diabetes, and collaborative research programs that develop novel hepatitis C, HIV, oncology and respiratory therapy areas R&D platforms in search of new active substances. and any products on the WHO Model List of Essential Medicines that are not within these therapy areas. The initiative How we organize access to and control of our is backed by the World Intellectual Property Organization intellectual property (WIPO) and the International Federation of Pharmaceutical The Merck Open Innovation initiative is a collaborative and Manufacturers and Associations (IFPMA). cross-functional effort led by our Access to Health and Pat-INFORMED currently houses information on over Patents Healthcare units. It aims to mitigate affordability 14,000 individual patents for 600 patent families and 169 issues by sharing our intellectual property, thus accelerINNs, unique names that are globally recognized and used ating early discovery in diseases with high unmet needs to identify pharmaceutical substances or active pharmawhere we do not have expertise. We hope to foster the ceutical ingredients of medicines that cover a wide range of discovery of new generations of health solutions that will conditions. tackle the needs of the most vulnerable populations, with a primary focus on neglected tropical diseases (NTDs). 76 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Products Open innovation collaboration through WIPO with the University of California San Diego (United States) Re:Search to find potential cures for onchocerciasis, leishmaniasis, We continue to take part in the WIPO Re:Search publicChagas disease and African sleeping sickness. private partnership, whose mission is to accelerate the discovery and development of medicines, vaccines and Drugs for Neglected Diseases initiative diagnostics. This initiative aims to create new solutions In partnership with the Drugs for Neglected Diseases initifor people affected by neglected tropical diseases, malaria ative (DNDi), we are involved in the Drug Discovery Booster and tuberculosis by making intellectual property and knowproject for neglected tropical diseases, pursuing an open ledge available to the global health research community. innovation approach through which the participating Our latest collaboration under the WIPO Re:Search platform companies can simultaneously search for new treatments is with the University of Yaoundé I in Cameroon (Africa) for leishmaniasis and Chagas disease. We are joined in to combat the infectious disease known as Buruli ulcer. this project by seven other companies: AbbVie, Astellas, Furthermore, we are working on extending our collaboration AstraZeneca, Celgene, Eisai, Shionogi, and Takeda). 77 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Products Pharmaceutical supply chain In many parts of the world, medicines are not always available where and when they are urgently needed. We want patients in lowand middle-income countries to have fast, safe and affordable access to our products and believe this can be accomplished through efficient supply chain management and by utilizing local manufacturing. Our approach to local supply chain solutions It comprises training courses, quality control monitoring and During product development and manufacturing, we favor technologies tailored to each site. The results of all audits approaches that enable us to control the cost of goods and conducted by health authorities are published Group-wide, allow for local manufacturing and supply chains that help allowing the respective units to share lessons learned and to to strengthen the local economy. We apply this model in benefit from the improvements made by others. our work with the Pediatric Praziquantel Consortium, for Through our Virtual Plant Teams, we support our instance. contract manufacturers in complying with quality standards. We partner with pharmaceutical companies and other We assign a production expert to our external partners in supply chain stakeholders to help strengthen supply chains Africa, Asia and Latin America to act as a virtual site leader in lowand middle-income countries and to guarantee the and to provide guidance. targeted supply of medicines. We manufacture some of our products directly in the regions where they are needed Leveraging technological possibilities for in order to build local capacity, increase service quality efficient market access and flexibility through reduced travel times and distances, Accurate business forecasts are the foundation of efficient and to achieve cost savings that can be passed on to the supply chain management. We use harmonized biopharconsumer. maceutical business planning processes across our Group, Our pharmaceutical supply chains are organized effiincluding a special software platform that enables us to ciently to ensure that our products reach the right place plan centrally for specific demands for medicines. The data in the right condition and quantity, at an affordable price generated by the software platform is provided to the and on time. Modern supply chain solutions that include regional affiliates so that they can add their market intelreal-time monitoring allow us to track our inventories and ligence. The received forecast is then used to manufacture current deliveries as well as to predict expected demand for and deliver medicines according to demand, which allows us medicines. to prevent local inventories from running out or expiring. We employ a software-based solution that provides How we organize our supply chains continuous access to our e-shop for our customers in Our Global Planning unit is responsible for our efficient northwestern Africa, enabling them to quickly and easily medicine supply chains and is part of Biopharma Supply order medicines approved by the respective regulatory Network Operations within our Healthcare business sector. authorities. The system makes demand more transparent Global Planning collaborates with our Global Health unit and while reducing lead times and miscommunication. Both markets supply chain representatives for efficient demand systems combined enable us to react more quickly to local management. It also consults experts from other business demands than ever before, even in lowand middle-income sectors as needed. markets. In 2019, we extended the integrated business planning Our commitment: High quality standards for process and platform to other functions within the Healthpharmaceutical production care business sector. In this way, we can further improve All our pharmaceutical production plants operate to the our understanding of market demand across all our funcsame high standard of quality worldwide. This ensures full tions, helping to ensure that supply is better balanced with compliance with Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) and demand. Good Distribution Practice (GDP) for us and our contract We also deployed our innovative global production planmanufacturers. ning tool to the manufacturing sites in Darmstadt Our Right First Time (RFT) concept aims to reduce the (Germany), Mollet (Spain) and Semoy (France). The tool number of temperature excursions that occur during transtakes the sites’ capacity constraints into account when portation worldwide. We also encourage shipping sites and generating production orders. As a result, we are better receiving units to work with freight forwarders and carriers able to match the distribution plan with feasible production to improve their processes. orders and can provide a much better visibility of the supply Our uniform quality assurance system helps to to markets. ensure that our quality standards are universally respected. 78 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Products Working with partners to achieve more Access Delivery Mentorship Our collaborations and partnerships are founded on the As part of our work to innovate and strengthen health Group-wide exchange of centrally stored information, which systems, we are working on a supply chain capacityallows us to organize shared supply chains in a more effibuilding and mentorship program in Tanzania, with the cient manner. aim of helping to build a strong and resilient private sector distribution network. We are doing this in collaboration with Shared data platform for medicine donations Business for Health Solutions (BHS) and Bahari, one of NTDeliver is our digital information tool for improving transTanzania’s largest medical and health supplies distributors. parency in medicine donation supply chains created through We have successfully launched and implemented the first public-private partnerships. Deliveries sent by companies pilot program, which brings together our supply chain running donation programs are clearly displayed – from experts and our partners’ procurement teams to better purchase orders made by the World Health Organization manage stocks of medicines, thus preventing facilities from (WHO) through to delivery to the first warehouse in the running out in times of need. destination country. The tool improves the coordination of our efforts and provides WHO, local experts and our Promoting local production company with a more transparent overview of the inIn India and Indonesia, we manufacture drugs for diabetes, country inventories. We added new features to the tool in cardiovascular conditions and diseases of the lower respir2019, such as an alarm that informs key stakeholders about atory tract. These capacity-building efforts support local upcoming expiry dates of medicines that may still be in their economies and allow us to supply medicines more rapidly inventory. and affordably to these and neighboring countries, such as In Kenya, where schistosomiasis poses a significant Sri Lanka and Myanmar. We also serve local markets in challenge to school-aged children, we are collaborating with China and Russia through local production, for example via approximately 12,000 teachers across the country to contract manufacturing organizations (CMOs). support a deworming program designed to help prevent and treat instances of schistosomiasis among children. We CURAFA™ Points of Care deploy our NTDeliver tool to monitor the volumes of mediWe aim to address inequalities regarding primary healthcare cines reaching schools, particularly those of last-mile access in emerging economies and to enable accessibility, deliveries to remote, rural locations in Kenya. In addition availability, awareness, and affordability of primary healthto tracking the efficiency of schistosomiasis medicine supply care in order to fulfill our vision of primary healthcare for chains, we are stepping up our monitoring to understand everyone, everywhere. the positive impact of these supply chains on children’s Five facilities within the CURAFA™ initiative are operlives. For instance, we track the number of children treated. ational in underserved, low-income communities in the In 2019, we further improved this tool and firmly estaboutskirts of Nairobi, Kenya. They serve as points of care lished it as an essential part of the program. Building on for integrated primary healthcare services. Each facility this experience, we are reviewing the best way to retrieve is run by local pharmacists and nurses who provide pharunused medicines from the field and store them centrally for maceutical and clinical services, medicines, digital health upcoming deworming campaigns. We are also considering solutions, health education, insurance, and financing soluhow best to expand the use of this tool to other countries. tions to their communities. These teams are supported by modern facilities that include Wi-Fi access and cell-phone Further partnerships charging stations, tablet computers, televisions, and refriWe are a founding member of the Accessibility Platform, gerators for cold chain medicines that are solar powered. In which meets to discuss local supply chains during our 2019, the five sites collectively served over 2,000 patients Access Dialogues. Spearheaded by the private sector, the every month. We implemented a patient management platplatform seeks to raise awareness of the importance of form and acquired a telemedicine solution in 2019 to improving supply chain efficiency when expanding access improve patient outcomes. to healthcare worldwide. In particular, it aims to increase The overarching objective is to further develop the the sharing of knowledge and information through open, primary healthcare service model, resulting in a sustainable multi-stakeholder dialogue and to identify opportunities for business model. The first achievements towards scale-up collective action. We also share best practices with other were the development of a franchising manual and the companies and partners on efficient, secure end-to-end CURAFA™ replication request by the Guinean Ministry of supply chains. Health and Public Hygiene. In recognition of this work, we received a grant from the UK Department for International Development (DFID). 79 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Products Fight against falsified medicines them. In 2019, the GPHF consolidated all 100 test methods According to a WHO report, more than 10% of all medicines within a single manual in English, with translations into in developing and emerging countries are counterfeit or French and Spanish due to become available in 2020. substandard, a situation that creates a major health risk. More than 850 Minilabs are currently in use. In 2019, For more than 20 years, the Global Pharma Health Fund 21 Minilabs were supplied. 15 were given to the Philippines (GPHF), a non-profit initiative funded by our company, has and the others to Bangladesh, the Democratic Republic of been fighting falsified and substandard medicines with its the Congo, India and Mongolia. unique portable, compact laboratory, the GPHF Minilab™. In November 2019, we engaged in discussions on the The GPHF Minilab™ fits into a tropics-resistant flight topic of detecting falsified medicines. At the National case and can detect falsified medicines rapidly and costConsciousness Week Against Counterfeit Medicines effectively. Largely used in Africa and Asia, and cited by (NCWACM) in the Philippines we discussed challenges and WHO as one of the most important tools for detecting solutions for the fight against counterfeit drugs with local substandard and falsified medicines, it enables scientists regulatory representatives and government officials. We and clinical staff to verify the content of some 100 active presented our collaboration with Boston University on the pharmaceutical ingredients for authenticity. The GPHF development of a new user-friendly tool to assess the develops the Minilab’s method inventory, supplies the portvalidity of drugs. able laboratories at cost and provides training on how to use 80 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Products Prices of medicines  Part of the non-financial report In OECD countries, prescription drug costs accounted for between 6% and 29% of total healthcare spending in 2017. However, advances in the research and development of innovative medicines are significantly transforming the healthcare landscape, allowing chronic diseases – the greatest cost drivers – to be treated more effectively and affordably. Our approach to pricing medicines Customer-centric contracting models We want to help ensure that all patients have access to We are dedicated to advancing value-based healthcare the most effective medicines for their needs, which is why through pricing and contracting mechanisms that fully we are working to prevent cost from becoming a barrier to comply with all local laws. In collaboration with payers, treatment. We are committed to flexible and fair pricing such as health insurance companies, we developed various – both within and across countries. We therefore adapt our productand market-specific reimbursement and prices based on local market access, taking into account contracting models. These help to provide patients with factors such as health system capacity and financial prompt access to our innovations. For instance, in the standing, geographic circumstances and existing infrastrucUnited Kingdom and Ireland, we entered into a risk-sharing ® ture, statutory requirements, unmet medical needs and agreement that provides immediate access to Mavenclad socioeconomic aspects, such as the patients’ ability to pay. for patients with multiple sclerosis (MS). Under this agreeThis approach involves working closely with governments ment, the National Health Service only has to reimburse and other stakeholders. In addition to these considerations, medication costs for patients who respond to the drug. If ® we continuously monitor dynamic healthcare environments treatment has to be switched from Mavenclad to another and markets, pricing and reimbursement systems and legal product, a partial rebate is paid to the National Health and regulatory guidelines, adjusting our prices as necesService. Around 1,300 patients in the United Kingdom and sary. around 250 patients in Ireland had been reimbursed for the We review our prices on an annual basis to ensure they cost of the drug under this program as of end of 2019. meet patient access needs. We use a consistent, dataSince October 2018, we have been using a similar pay-for® driven approach to monitor our local pricing. We also performance contract for Mavenclad together with GWQ make our products affordable to patients in certain countries ServicePlus AG, a network of around 60 health insurers with by participating in government tenders, establishing low11 million patients in Germany. price secondary brands or branded generics and by operWe have also established contracting models for our ® ® ating patient access programs. oncology drug Erbitux , our MS drug Rebif and our growth ® Moreover, we support risk-sharing agreements and are hormone Saizen , to make it easier for patients to access working to improve data efficiency in health systems, in these medicines. Similarly, we have capped per-patient order to achieve an optimal distribution of funds and costs and formed risk-sharing agreements in certain counresources. tries. Setting medicine prices Pricing schemes to serve low-income patients Our Global Pricing and Market Access unit sets market We work in close partnership with governments and other launch prices in coordination with the respective franchises. stakeholders on innovative, differential medicine pricing The team reports directly to a member of our Healthcare schemes and we supply products at reduced prices to Executive Committee. Our individual subsidiaries are certain countries in Africa, Asia, Latin America, and the responsible for managing prices and continually adapting Middle East. In India, for instance, we cooperate with public them to local conditions. sector representatives, such as Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited (BHEL) and the Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Our commitment: Medicine price guidelines (ONGC), to offer discounted prices for certain general and principles medicine and endocrinology products to patients with a The affordability of our health solutions is part of our limited ability to pay. broader patient value proposition, which includes increasing Moreover, we regularly participate in government accessibility, availability and awareness. Our medicine tenders for products that are used in public hospitals serving pricing adheres to the stipulations of our overarching Access low-income patients. Many of these tenders take place in to Health Charter and is defined in detail by our Pricing low to middle-income countries. of Medicines guideline. Additionally, our Patient Access Programs Policy sets out standards for offering medicines at reduced prices. 81 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Products ® Low-price second brands access in China to Erbitux , our oncology medicine used For some of our existing brands, we have created lowfor instance in the treatment of colorectal cancer. Geared price second brands, particularly in countries with a large primarily toward low-income patients who receive the drug ® percentage of patients with very low incomes. In Brazil, for free of charge, our Erbitux donations have benefited instance, 11 of our products are available in a lower-priced around 12,900 patients in China since October 2012. The ® format. We have also established low-price second brands program ended when Erbitux was added to China’s in countries including Mexico, the Philippines, Poland, and national healthcare reimbursement catalog, which now South Africa. gives patients immediate access to the product. We run similar assistance programs in other countries Generics such as India, where we also offer a patient access program ® Together with our partners, we offer branded generics for Erbitux , providing treatment cycles for free under particularly in lowto middle-income countries. This helps certain conditions. Around 2,300 patients participate in the meet the urgent need for affordable, high-quality medicines initiative each year. In nations such as China and Peru, we required to treat endemic diseases. In doing so, we help to offer a free-of-charge biomarker screening that determines ® ensure better access to consistently high-quality medicines whether Erbitux would be a suitable treatment. In China, at lower prices. To date, we have launched four branded around 40,800 patients have benefited from this program generics in the Philippines and three in Angola. We also since 2014. launched a branded generic product in Brazil and Mexico. In addition to our oncology initiatives, we offer access ® ® ® programs for our drugs Rebif , Gonal-f and Saizen . In Patient access programs China, for instance, we operate the Gonal-f Baby Fund, Worldwide, we operate patient access programs that allow an access program that provides financial assistance for us to offer certain products at more affordable prices in fertility treatments to low-income couples having difficulty several countries. Examples include efforts to expand conceiving. 82 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Products Health awareness Many people suffer from certain conditions but do not realize it. This results in individuals either not receiving treatment or not receiving it in time, although effective medicines and therapies are available. To try and prevent this occurrence, we conduct global campaigns that raise awareness and improve knowledge of diseases, their symptoms and treatment options. Ultimately, healthcare professionals and patients can only make informed decisions if they have proper knowledge and the right information. Our approach to raising health awareness for the 11th consecutive year. This annual awareness Awareness plays a key role in our approach to improving campaign, which we founded together with the Thyroid access to healthcare. We seek to empower communities, Federation International (TFI), aims to highlight some of the medical professionals and patients with appropriate tools, lesser-known aspects of thyroid disorders. information and skills so that they can make high-quality, We hosted numerous events during the week, including informed decisions on prevention, diagnosis, treatment, events specifically targeted at healthcare professionals. The care, and disease management. campaign reached people in many different countries via the We often join forces with committed partners to conduct events as well as press coverage and social media. We also educational campaigns for prevention, early diagnosis and introduced the world’s first-ever series of thyroid emojis or awareness. This also helps build the capacities of medical “thyrojis”, tapping into a popular trend of the 21st century professionals working in the fields of research, technology with a series of customized emojis representing the many and healthcare. faces of thyroid disorders. How we build health awareness Awareness campaigns for head and neck cancer The strategic direction and output of all awareness activities In 2019, we supported two key head and neck cancer are aligned with our respective businesses. Our diverse awareness events: World Head and Neck Cancer Day business units plan and implement our awareness projects (WHNCD) on July 27 and the European Head and Neck either on a global level or through their local offices, with Cancer Awareness Week from September 16-20. Activities projects organized according to the specific needs of the focused on aligning with the UK-based patient advocacy local community. The offices are also responsible for local group The Swallows to create an emotive video on the mobilization during our global campaigns. journey of a patient and his carer, tying in with the existing Embracing Carers initiative. The September Our commitment: access to health through campaign built on the campaign in July, continuing to work awareness with The Swallows and featuring video footage of the same Our strategy for addressing access to healthcare incorporpatient, focusing on the transition from treatment to survivates the topic of awareness and is laid out in our Access to orship. Health Charter, which we revised in 2019. Our awareness campaigns are also subject to the respective marketing World Cancer Day principles set out in guidelines such as our “Pharma Code On February 4, we again marked World Cancer Day, an for Conducting Pharmaceutical Business and Pharmaceutical annual initiative led by the Union for International Cancer Operations.” In addition, our campaigns are governed by Control (UICC). Building on the UICC’s theme “I Am and I internal policies and guidance for reviewing our interactions Will”, we created a compelling campaign to communicate with health systems and by the review processes for our ongoing drive to transform cancer care. Our campaign, communication materials as well as further global, regional “I Am. I Will #TransformCancerCare.” focused on how and local rules and regulations. personal contributions make a collective impact on the evolution of oncology care. It was supported by 250 images Global awareness campaigns from 13 countries generating over 33,000 impressions on We regularly conduct campaigns to raise awareness of social media. various diseases across the globe, often in collaboration with patient advocacy groups. We focus on diseases that Colorectal Cancer Awareness Month align with our core competencies, expertise and experiIn 2019, we stepped up our efforts to raise awareness of ence along the health value chain. These are, in particular, colorectal cancer (CRC). We worked closely with DiCE, a cancer (specifically colorectal as well as head and neck representative body for digestive cancer patients in Europe, cancer), thyroid disorders, diabetes and multiple sclerosis. to redefine the CRC Awareness Month campaign. We pooled resources, extending the collective reach of the campaign Awareness and knowledge transfer for thyroid far beyond what would have been possible individually. disorders We maintained a consistent, unifying theme throughout Throughout 2019, we continued our work to raise awarethe campaign, encouraging our employees and external ness of thyroid disorders. At the global level, we supported audiences to take part. In addition, we developed a suite the International Thyroid Awareness Week in May 2019 of materials to maximize CRC Awareness Month activities, 83 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Products including a video on the CRC screening journey and an integrated and transformative health solutions, such as new infographic banner on the importance of such screenings. diagnostics, therapies and preventive methods, together with approaches that strengthen local health systems in Cancer Immunotherapy Month lowand middle-income countries. June 2019 marked the seventh annual Cancer ImmunoMore information on the One Merck for Malaria program therapy Month, which aims to raise awareness of the lifecan be found in the Focus Programs chapter. saving potential of immunotherapies. On June 14, supporters were encouraged by leading cancer groups to World Health Day wear white to promote a future without cancer and to On April 7, 2019, we celebrated World Health Day as an promote their activities in social media via #WearWhiteDay. opportunity to communicate about the importance of equity White represents the immune system’s white blood cells in quality health services for individuals, economies and (lymphocytes) that fight cancer. It also symbolizes the society. The campaign, promoted by the World Health laboratory coats worn by the scientists and clinicians Organization (WHO), highlighted the need for universal working to find a cure for cancer and it represents the color health coverage to ensure that all people can obtain the care of all cancer awareness ribbons combined, which is signithey need, when they need it. ficant as immunotherapy has the potential to treat all types Since the spread of infectious diseases remains a major of cancer. global health threat, the World Health Day is an occasion for us to confirm our engagement in combating schistosomiasis World Multiple Sclerosis Day and malaria through science and technology innovations. We participated in the annual World Multiple Sclerosis Day on May 30, 2019. This year’s official theme was #MyInWorld Diabetes Day visibleMS, focusing on all the invisible symptoms of the For World Diabetes Day 2019, on November 14, we disease. A total of 37 Group companies participated in this launched a campaign that echoed the International Diabetes MS International Federation (MSIF) initiative by showcasing Federation’s (IDF) theme, namely– “The Family and their activities in support of the MS community under the Diabetes”. The campaign was an extension of the previous umbrella of our #MSInsideOut campaign. year’s World Diabetes Day campaign “See it. Slow it. Stop As part of our World MS Day activities, we created it.”, which aimed to identify risk factors among people who the My Invisible MS art gallery. It was based on pieces of are likely to develop type 2 diabetes. art created by people living with MS who illustrated their The campaign focused on sharing the message that invisible MS symptoms. We displayed the art gallery in 17 having a supportive family contributes significantly to different countries around the world. people’s ability to lead a healthier lifestyle and fight type 2 We remain focused on bringing our commitment to fight diabetes. MS to life in a meaningful way, addressing patients’ evolving Our company remains steadfast in its commitment to its needs and improving the lives of carers. We also recognize partnership with the IDF, working on a range of educational the valuable impact that community and grassroots initiactivities that seek to raise awareness of prediabetes and atives have in contributing to this effort. As a result, we type 2 diabetes management and prevention. are working on an initiative through which these groups can apply for a grant to supplement work specifically aimed at Fertility Awareness Week improving the provision of support to carers. European Fertility week provided an opportunity for our company to increase awareness of in vitro fertilization and World Malaria Day the patient journey. We created a platform for an open Since 2015, our company has been championing World dialogue around the reality of fertility. This helped people Malaria Day, which takes place every year on April 25. We living with infertility in Europe to be heard. The platform was conduct campaigns that raise awareness of the disease. In supported by our global social media campaign “We are in 2019, we marked the event with our partners in Ghana it together”, which comprised opinion pieces by our senior and conducted an internal awareness campaign to showcase management and an employee emphasizing the need for our engagement in the fight against malaria. In particcollaboration to support female fertility. ular, the campaign highlighted the One Merck for Malaria At the same time, we launched various country initiprogram as our company-wide approach towards the control atives. For instance, in France we had a #Testyourfertility and elimination of the disease. This program leverages social media campaign, focusing on prevention and creating competencies from all of our business sectors to deliver awareness of infertility issues among 18to 24-year-olds. 84 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Products Healthy Women, Healthy Economies initiative world. Embracing Carers is designed to increase awareness, To help empower women to overcome the challenges of action and discussion around the often-overlooked needs of communicable and non-communicable diseases and to rise caregivers. We believe that the topic of caregiving is one to their economic potential, we are committed to the of the most under-addressed public health issues of our “Healthy Women, Healthy Economies” initiative. Under the time, with caregivers receiving little recognition and support auspices of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC), despite providing vital services for others. We raise awarewe collaborate with representatives of several governments ness of the issues faced by caregivers, prompt stakeholders through this public-private partnership, which seeks to to show deeper engagement, establish global best pracidentify and implement policies that advance women’s tices and advocacy resources and endorse the improved health and well-being to support their economic participaintegration of carer support into the spectrum of care. tion. In 2019, Embracing Carers worked to transform awareIn July 2019, we partnered with the “March of Dimes” ness into action by launching a global “Time Counts” initiative in a three-year collaboration, launching “Healthy campaign, which encouraged people to find large or small Babies, Healthy Business”, a program that supports health ways to help a caregiver in their lives and pledge that time. benefits for mothers and promotes family-friendly work Embracing Carers also provides support to more than 30 environments. patient and carer groups globally, enabling them to create initiatives dedicated to behavioral change and peer-to-peer Embracing Carers initiative support programs to improve caregivers’ lives. Embracing Carers is a global initiative that we lead in collaboration with prominent caregiving organizations around the 85 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Products Product safety and quality Chemical product safety  Part of the non-financial report Since many of our chemicals are classified as hazardous substances and mixtures, we must ensure that they pose no risk to people or the environment. We therefore comply with all relevant national and international regulatory requirements, laws and guidelines, an approach that is crucial to our business success. At the same time, we aim to meet the expectations that stakeholders such as customers and employees have of a comprehensive hazard management program. Our approach to safe chemical products Integrating Versum Materials and Product safety is one of our top priorities. Starting at the Intermolecular development stage, we investigate the potential adverse In the process of integrating Versum Materials and Interimpacts chemical substances may have. Along the entire molecular, we are verifying whether their product safety value chain of our chemicals – during import, manupractices comply with the applicable regulatory requirefacture and commercialization – we fulfill all regulatory ments as well as our internal standards, adapting the underrequirements, often even exceeding them. We publish lying processes as needed. extensive information on the safe handling of our products (see merckmillipore.com and merckgroup.com) on our Our commitment: Legal requirements and websites. Group-wide guidelines Through Group-wide guidelines, we guarantee continual How we ensure chemical product safety compliance with national and international regulations and Our Healthcare, Life Science and Performance Materials have also endorsed general voluntary commitments of the ® business sectors each have their own organizational strucchemical industry, such as the Responsible Care Global tures in place to provide support and guidance on product Charter. safety. The employees responsible for product safety from Our Regulatory Affairs Governance Policy details our all three units work in close collaboration with each other as Group-wide processes for managing and implementing well as with our Group-wide governance function Corporate product safety and sets out the necessary management Regulatory Affairs Chemicals (EQ-R) to ensure the safety structures. To meet the product safety regulations relevant of our products. Their tasks include registering chemicals, to our company, in 2019 we revised our Regulatory Affairs classifying hazardous substances and communicating risks Governance Policy to more clearly define the roles, rights, by means of safety data sheets and labels. powers, and responsibilities within our Group. Our Group Product Safety Committee (GPSC) monitors The legal requirements applicable to our operations regulatory requirements worldwide to check for relevant include the Globally Harmonized System of Classification changes, initiating the measures needed to integrate new and Labeling of Chemicals (GHS) and its implementation in requirements into our processes and reviewing their regional and national legislation (such as the CLP regulation progress. in the European Union and HazCom in the United States). EQ-R ensures that our company complies with all reguOur Group Label Standard provides a consistent framelatory requirements Group-wide. Because it is not subject work for labeling products according to GHS requirements. to any operational commitments and reports directly to the In addition to these, we also comply with the EU chemhead of our Group Environment, Health, Safety, Security, icals regulation REACH, the amended U.S. Toxic Substances Quality function, EQ-R operates independently of our busiControl Act (TSCA), and the amended German Federal ness sectors. Any necessary corrective or preventive actions Banned Chemicals Ordinance (ChemVerbotsV). are the responsibility of each business sector. EQ-R furtherNo significant incidents of non-compliance with regumore supports individual units in implementing and lations or voluntary standards involving chemical product harmonizing efficient processes. labeling were reported in 2019. 86 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Products REACH registration with standards such as those of the German Federal InstiIn 2018, upon completing the third registration phase of the tute for Occupational Safety and Health (BAuA), as well EU chemicals regulation REACH, we committed ourselves to as the German Chemical Industry Association (VCI). We the following actions: We shall continuously review our own furthermore provide our customers with safety data sheets registration dossiers to verify quality and keep the informacontaining information on the proper handling of nanomation up-to-date, improving the dossiers as needed. In 2019, terials during transport, processing, storage, and disposal. we developed and implemented the processes necessary to In principle, we only utilize this new technology with the accomplishing this. greatest care, abiding by the precautionary principle and taking nanomaterial safety very seriously. In doing so, we ICCA Product Safety Summaries observe Group-wide requirements for safety, environmental By mid-2019, we had made product safety summaries availstewardship and health impact mitigation, and leverage our able on the website of the International Council of Chemical existing processes and systems to ensure product safety. Associations (ICCA). Effective October 1, 2019, the website had been taken down by the ICCA because information on Sharing nanotech knowledge chemical substances is available on other web portals. We Beyond our internal safety efforts, we regularly engage provide information on the safe handling and use of our other companies, associations and regulatory agencies in chemicals on the websites of our Life Science and Performa dialogue on the opportunities and risks of nanotechance Materials business sectors. nology. We take part in committees and working groups, including the Nano Panel of VCI’s Technology and EnvirSafety analysis during product development onment committee, as well as Responsible Production and We believe that product safety starts with development. Use of Nanomaterials, a joint technology working group By conducting hazard, exposure and risk assessments, of the Society for Chemical Engineering and Biotechnology we work to ensure that our chemicals can be safely used (DECHEMA) and the VCI. Within the VCI, we furthermore later on. As stipulated by law, we analyze all products review the latest scientific literature in order to stay abreast in terms of their impact on human health and the envirof new advances in nanotechnology. onment, complying with the relevant regulatory requirements. Before launching a new product, we evaluate all Product safety information pertinent hazardous substance data and classify the product As part of our efforts to communicate the potential dangers according to the Globally Harmonized System of Classificof our products, we provide our customers with in-depth ation and Labelling of Chemicals (GHS), along with locally informational material on all our chemicals. These brochures applicable regulations such as CLP in Europe. In conducting contain instructions on proper use and handling to these safety assessments, the employees in our Life Science prevent them from posing a danger to people and the envirand Performance Materials business sectors receive advice onment. and guidance from their respective Regulatory Affairs unit. We provide all chemicals classified as hazardous with safety data sheets. These contain information on the Our approach to nanotechnology physicochemical, toxicological and ecotoxicological properNanotechnology is a highly innovative field of development ties of the agent and reflect the relevant regulatory requirethat researches and uses structures 50,000 times thinner ments of the countries in which they are published. We than a human hair. This technology opens up many opportherefore produce country-specific safety data sheets in 44 tunities for our Group. In our Life Science and Performance languages for our Performance Materials business sector Materials business sectors, we utilize nanomaterials to and in 37 languages for our Life Science business sector. develop products with new functions and properties that We also provide safety data sheets for the non-hazardous can help make resource and energy consumption more materials and finished medicinal products manufactured by efficient, for example. In our Healthcare business sector, our Healthcare business sector. Since all these documents we explore the use of nanomaterials in medical therapies. must be kept up-to-date and consistent, we have autoDespite their promise, the unique structure of nanomated and standardized the majority of our Group-wide particles may harbor risks, which we assess in line with legal hazard communication processes within our business requirements such as REACH. Our Group-wide Policy for sectors. Use and Handling of Nanomaterials underpins our approach In 2019, we updated 12 million safety data sheets for to this technology. In the manufacture and processing of our Life Science business sector. our products, we adhere to all legal requirements along 87 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Products 26 m. into account. To access it, customers only need to scan the product’s barcode or enter it manually. Informing and educating customers In 2019, we ran the Docs Online project within our Life Science business sector, which allowed us to verify that safety data sheets in total are made available to our customer documents such as CoAs (Certificates of Analysis), customers. CoOs (Certificate of Origin) and safety data sheets are upto-date and available on the Sigma-Aldrich website, which has belonged to Merck since 2015. Additionally, it is now easier to locate the documents. For individual special We offer an app that enables our Life Science customers to product groups, we contact our customers directly if access the latest product safety information. Covering the needed, for instance when legal requirements change. whole life cycle of the product along its entire supply chain, ® Through our ScIDeEx program, our customers can check the information is available worldwide in the respective whether they can use a chemical safely within the boundnational language and takes country-specific regulations aries of the EU REACH exposure scenarios. 88 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Products Patient safety  Part of the non-financial report The safety of patients who are treated with our medicines is our absolute priority. Our pharmaceutical products need to be effective in treating the respective disease, while also posing as little risk as possible to patients. That is why we consistently monitor risks and any adverse effects that may arise and take the necessary actions to minimize them. Our approach to ensuring patient safety We assess the effectiveness of these materials in close Through rigorous benefit-risk management, we help to collaboration with our Benefit-Risk Action Team. If required, ensure that the benefits of our drugs always outweigh the we adjust the content of the materials and their distribution, risks for patients. Every new medicine passes a series of and describe the results from the effectiveness analysis in precisely defined development stages. Before any drug is our periodic safety reports and risk management plans, given to humans, we conduct extensive preclinical testing which we submit to relevant health authorities for evaluboth in vitro and in vivo . Through toxicological testing, we ation. determine whether an active pharmaceutical ingredient is toxic to living organisms and, if so, at what dosage. This How we monitor patient safety also helps us determine the dose that humans can safely Our Global Patient Safety unit is responsible for pharmacovitolerate. Only when this is complete do we perform clingilance. It continually collects current safety data from a ical studies to investigate the safety and efficacy of the wide variety of sources across the globe, including clinical drug when used in humans. During clinical development, studies, early-access programs, spontaneous reports on we diligently use all collected data to continuously evaluate adverse effects , patient support programs and articles the drug’s benefit-risk profile. If we consider the drug’s published in medical and scientific journals. benefit-risk profile to be positive, we then submit an applicOur experts help to make sure all information on the ation for marketing authorization to the regulatory authorrisks and adverse effects of our medicines is properly docuities. mented, tracked and reported to the respective health authorities in accordance with regulatory requirements. The Continual monitoring Global Patient Safety unit analyzes all data and reassesses Once a drug is launched, the number of patients being the benefit-risk profile based on these data, where required. treated with it increases significantly. In certain circumWe, then, inform regulatory authorities, physicians and stances, rare adverse and potentially serious effects that go patients about new risks, additional risk mitigation measundetected during clinical development may occur, which ures and potential changes in the benefit-risk balance. is why we continuously monitor and manage the positive Our Global Patient Safety unit became part of our Global benefit-risk profiles after market launch. Pharmacovigilance Development function at the end of 2018, enabling us to includes the process of monitoring a drug on an ongoing better integrate sound knowledge of patient safety into basis to detect and assess signals as part of signal manageearly decision-making, in particular through the advent of ment activities. The aim is to track any adverse effects in an predictive safety. Our expertise, in close collaboration with effort to take appropriate action to minimize and commuChemical & Preclinical Safety, Translational Medicine and nicate the risks in a transparent way. We always provide other functions, will help ensure the seamless assessment physicians and patients with the latest information on the of benefit-risk profiles throughout the product life cycle to safety of all our marketed drugs. The above applies to the deliver therapies that are truly differentiated and provide entire life cycle of a product, ranging from development, transformational value to patients. We restructured the market launch and commercialization to expiration of the Medical Safety function in 2019. It is now therapeutically marketing authorization. aligned as a holistic end-to-end function, including a unified Capabilities that we have developed and strengthened in Safety Scientist group and a new function known as Medical this area include: Operations and Analytics. Investigational and marketed drugs were previously managed through two separate funcAdvanced benefit-risk management tions within Global Patient Safety. Overall, this newly Big data analytics (using real-world data) consolidated department will help us to focus on scientific Advanced signal detection technology data and medical safety. Acknowledging the importance and Pilot processes in patient-centric adverse effects collection magnitude of our journey, we launched a Transformation Office. To establish a robust and streamlined end-to-end Based on the conditions of regulatory approval, we regularly process for Individual Case Safety Report (ICSR) managedevelop and publish educational materials for patients ment, the Medical Assessment group was integrated into the and healthcare providers to communicate any known Safety Operations group. Thus, one team is now accountand potential risks and ways to minimize them for newly ® ® able for the entire ICSR process. approved products (such as Bavencio and Mavenclad ). 89 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Products Our Merck Healthcare Quality (HCQ) unit processes (FMD, 2011/62/EU), the MHRA Guidance on the Regulation quality complaints relating to our products. When quality of Medicines, Medical Devices and Clinical Trials, and regudefects may have an impact on patient safety or lead to latory changes in African countries with – among others adverse effects, Global Patient Safety gets involved. – respect to clinical trial guidelines. We also compiled comments on drafted guidelines and provided them to Our Medical Safety and Ethics Board health authorities, for example on “ICH – Draft Guidance Our Medical Safety and Ethics Board (MSEB) oversees the E8(R1) General Considerations for Clinical Studies” and “ICH safety and benefit-risk assessments of our drugs throughout – Draft Guidance E19 Optimization of Safety Data Collecclinical development and commercialization. It endorses tion.” appropriate measures to minimize risk, such as package leaflet updates. This board is chaired by our Chief Medical Monitoring drug safety Officer (CMO) and consists of experienced physicians, Regulatory authorities conduct periodic inspections to verify scientists and experts from our company. Throughout a that we comply both with statutory requirements and with drug’s entire life cycle, the MSEB reviews and assesses our own internal standards for drug safety. In Germany, important medical safety risks and benefit-risk issues, and these are handled on behalf of the European Medicines reviews ethical issues, as appropriate. Agency (EMA) by the German Federal Institute for Drugs Within the Global Patient Safety unit, the Benefit Risk and Medical Devices (BfArM) and the Paul Ehrlich Institute Action Team is responsible for signal management, benefit(PEI), the German Federal Institute for Vaccines and risk assessment, risk management and all topics regarding Biomedicines. We follow up on the findings of health product safety and the benefit-risk profile of our medicinal authority inspections and take the necessary actions to products. Recommendations from the Benefit Risk Action ensure the proper functioning of our pharmacovigilance Team are endorsed by the Pharmacovigilance Advisory system. In 2019, three pharmacovigilance inspections Board (PVAB), also chaired by Global Patient Safety unit. were conducted (France, Germany and Serbia). Furthermore, we perform audits to ensure that all our Our commitment: Guidelines and statutory units and subsidiaries involved in pharmacovigilance requirements consistently meet all requirements across the globe. In We follow international guidance and standard procedures, 2019, we conducted a total of 29 pharmacovigilance audits such as the International Conference for Harmonization and found no significant deviations in our pharmacovigilance (ICH) guidelines and the Good Pharmacovigilance Practices system from these requirements. We also audit vendors (GVP ) established by the European Medicines Agency (EMA) and licensing partners involved in pharmacovigilance, which and national health authorities. In addition, we adhere to all helps us hone our pharmacovigilance processes so that they statutory pharmacovigilance regulations in those countries surpass statutory requirements. where we market our products, and we continuously work to In line with our goal to enhance patient safety, we impleincorporate all required changes in our Group-wide standmented a patient-friendly interface in the mobile app agReards and processes. We began harmonizing the processing porter. With this app, not only field nurses and our sales of personal data according to new European legislation on representatives, but also non-medically trained users can data privacy (General Data Protection Regulation) in 2018 report any side effects or adverse events arising from the and continued this effort globally in 2019. use of our products. This places patient feedback at the core of our efforts to consistently collect data on adverse effects. Collecting information and checking processes In 2019, we implemented further changes to the app to In 2017, the EMA implemented a new process to monitor improve data quality for the adverse events reported. We the safety of medicines in EudraVigilance: This provides also made the app available in a total of 14 languages, with marketing authorization holders with access to data on an Arabic version currently in preparation. suspected adverse effects and requires them to monitor the EudraVigilance data for safety signals and to report these Innovative signal detection to health authorities. In response to these new requireThrough our tool for signal detection, called Empirica, we ments and to the new data transmission format stipulated analyze and manage large amounts of global data, such as by ICH guideline E2B (R3), we upgraded our Global Safety scientific studies and news about adverse effects. This helps Database to ensure the technical capabilities needed to us to comply with regulatory timelines for safety signals support the coordinated exchange of individual case safety and other safety-related factors and will ensure that all reports. In 2019, we started safety reporting in line with the signal data, documentation and decisions are captured in enhanced E2B(R3) standard in China, Europe and Japan. one place. It also allows easy access to and analysis of our In 2019, we assessed new country-specific regudata as well as cross-functional collaboration between the latory requirements and implemented necessary changes Global Patient Safety unit and other internal and external in order to meet them. Examples include new benefit-risk stakeholders. We use a key performance indicator (KPI) assessment and safety signal notification requirements in to track whether all signals, validated and not validated, Canada, Denmark, Serbia, and the United States, and detected from external or internal sources are managed and requirements for local pharmacovigilance responsible completed within the timeline defined by standard operating persons in Botswana, Kazakhstan and Kenya. Other procedure, which is 60 days from the date of detection. The examples include: the EU Falsified Medicines Directive KPI shows that the implementation of Empirica improved 90 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Products the tracking of all safety. Using diverse statistical tools tional Pharmaceutical Manufacturers (AIPM), we shared our and leveraging all available safety data from our internal expertise through conferences, provided training and and external databases also helped to improve our signal seminars in the industry, presented to university school detection rate. students and professors and liaised with the health authority in Russia. Up-to-date labeling and product information The Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities Our product information explains to physicians and patients (MedDRA) is a clinically validated medical terminology how to properly use the respective drug and allows for system used by health authorities and the industry worldan informed decision on the treatment. In accordance with wide. Following the release of the new MedDRA version statutory regulations, the package leaflet contains all 22.0, the MedDRA Maintenance and Support Services relevant information such as indication(s) and ingredients, Organization (MSSO) presented the Russian version of as well as dosage, storage, mode of action, instructions MedDRA. We also collaborated with health authorities in for use, warnings, precautions and possible adverse effects. Brazil and China to contribute to the creation of local Should the medicine contain ingredients that could impact language versions of MedDRA. the environment, the package leaflet may also contain In Russia, we implemented a new adverse effects information on the proper disposal of the product. database for the health authority in September 2019. We review and update all product information docuInformation for marketing authorization holders is currently ments such as package leaflets, ensuring that our medicinal being developed in collaboration with the national industry products contain the latest information on safety, efficacy association and health authorities. and pharmaceutical formulation, as appropriate. In accordIn 2019, we also formulated a new strategy to increase ance with statutory requirements, all modifications to the the contribution made by our Access to Health Initiative leaflets are submitted to the respective regulatory author(A2H) to pharmacovigilance. Improving access to highities for approval. In 2019, there were no incidents of quality health solutions for underserved populations and non-compliance with statutory regulations concerning communities in lowand middle-income countries is the labeling of drugs or pharmaceutical products. key objective of A2H Initiative. A key aspect of this new strategy is fostering pharmacovigilance initiatives in safety Internal and external training data-sharing with health authorities and building pharmaAll employees involved in the safety and quality of pharcovigilance capacity with reputable partners in underserved maceutical products take part in training in line with our countries in a sustainable way. global training standards. We verify compliance with these To this end, we selected lowand middle-income counrequirements by producing training compliance reports and tries from the UN Human Development Index (HDI) and by performing regular audits. included these in our project scope. The primary focus Our training is delivered via a global-learning platform. in 2019 was on encouraging universities and ministries All of the approximately 24,000 biopharma employees of education in these countries to establish pharmacovireceive basic pharmacovigilance training once a year gilance curricula in schools of medicine, pharmacy and that covers the procedure for reporting adverse effects from nursing, and to support health authorities in adopting pharour products. Other training courses keep employees up macovigilance systems through industry associations or to date on their professional expertise as well as internal partnerships. standard operating procedures and other relevant requireFurthermore, for the selected countries we appointed ments. This helps to ensure adherence to Good PharmacoviMerck ambassadors per region to systematically collect and gilance Practice (GVP) requirements. report information on pharmacovigilance initiatives and activities in each region. The analysis of preliminary informSharing expertise with other countries ation already demonstrated that we actively contributed to We endeavor to transfer our drug safety expertise around the preparation of the Brazil health authority’s new pharthe world, especially into countries where health workers macovigilance regulations and the creation of a Brazilianneed to build their pharmacovigilance expertise. In 2019, Portuguese MedDRA. In Russia, we began a joint educawe continued the pharmacovigilance workshops for tional initiative with the Sechenov University, which took medical school students in Guatemala, as reporting adverse place between October and December 2019, targeting effects is often not sufficiently covered by the curricula students in their fourth year at the School of Pharmacy. The there. topic of pharmacovigilance was also covered in this training We also assist Latin American health authorities in course. implementing electronic reporting processes for Through the A2H initiative, we also promoted patient adverse effects. We support the implementation of eleccentricity in lowand middle-income countries through a tronic reporting in Argentina, El Salvador and Peru. Health pharmacovigilance awareness video that we developed authorities in Brazil, Mexico and Tunisia are also moving and distributed. For example, this included presentations towards adopting this technology. at a Tunisian pharmacovigilance congress, information on Additionally, we conducted pharmacovigilance training company-sponsored disease awareness websites in India, and shared pharmacovigilance expertise in the Eurasian pharmacovigilance workshops for medical school students in Economic Union (EAEU). As members of the pharmacoviGuatemala and over 2,300 pharmacists in China. We plan to gilance working group within the Association of Internaexpand this approach to other countries. 91 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Products Stakeholder dialogues in 2019 cipants and speakers from Algeria, Europe, Morocco and Tunisia, our #AdverseEventAwareness video built confidLecture for pharmacy students of Peoples' ence among our partners and stakeholders, and enhanced Friendship University of Russia patient centricity and pharmacovigilance awareness. The Being members of the pharmacovigilance working group initiative was met with approval from Tunisian and of the Association of International Pharmaceutical ManufacMoroccan health authority representatives, who proposed turers (AIPM), both, the Eurasian Economic Union (EAEU) collaborating to assess opportunities for further developQualified Person for Pharmacovigilance (QPPV) and the ment. Local Patient Safety Officer (LPSO) in Russia took part in projects to increase pharmacovigilance (PV) awareness Towards a digital pharmacovigilance partnership among local and international industry, healthcare profesin Tunisia sionals and university students. They presented PV-relevant To ensure the smooth implementation of accurate, electopics at professional conferences and educational events. tronic reporting on pharmacovigilance in Tunisia by In April 2019, representatives of our company held a lecture using the ICH E2B system, we liaised with the Tunisian for pharmacy students at the People’s Friendship University Pharmacovigilance Department. In this way, we helped to of Russia. In this way, we increased the students’ knowensure the system complemented the Tunisian pharmacoviledge on PV and raised awareness of its importance. gilance center’s existing connection to the World Health Organization database for safer use of medicines, called Boosting patient-centricity in North Africa Vigibase. The Tunisian Pharmacovigilance Department At the Tunisian pharmacovigilance congress in April 2019, tested the system and plans to make it mandatory for all we presented a video on educating patients about pharmaceutical companies involved in electronic reporting. adverse drug reactions. Reaching more than 200 parti92 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Products Product-related crime  Part of the non-financial report According to the World Health Organization (WHO), a considerable proportion of the medicines in developing countries are illegal, counterfeit or substandard. In industrialized nations, however, such products are also becoming increasingly available on the market through unlicensed Internet pharmacies and dubious online platforms, posing a risk to public health. Moreover, chemical products can also be used for illegal purposes such as the manufacture of illicit drugs. Our approach to product-related crime How we are tackling product-related crime Our company develops and manufactures products of the Our Group Corporate Security function coordinates all our highest quality. In order to protect both customers and anti-counterfeiting activities, all of which are overseen by patients, we secure our products against counterfeiting and the Chief Security Officer and the head of Environment, are resolutely committed to fighting product-related crime Health, Safety, Security, Quality (EQ). Furthermore, all our by, for instance, collaborating with health, regulatory and sites have a product crime officer who is responsible for law enforcement agencies at the regional, national and investigating potential cases of counterfeiting, acting as international level. In taking preventive action, we the interface between local regulatory and law enforcement cooperate with industry representatives, Interpol and the authorities, national associations, our Group functions, and World Customs Organization. Our guidelines, standards and our sites. In 2019, conference calls with all product crime processes apply to all our business sectors and markets officers were held every two weeks to discuss strategic worldwide. matters along with local issues and suspected cases of criminal activity. How we define product-related crime 1. Counterfeit products: In line with the relevant WHO Integration of Versum Materials and standard, we define a counterfeit product as “a product that Intermolecular is deliberately and fraudulently produced and/or mislabeled As part of integrating Versum Materials and Intermolecular with respect to its identity and/or source to make it appear into our organization, we are examining the structures and to be a genuine product.” processes in place to prevent and prosecute product-related This includes products crime, making changes as needed. with incorrect active ingredients or concentrations thereof Group-wide anti-counterfeiting network without any active ingredients Our Anti-Counterfeiting Operational Network (MACON) is with dangerous impurities responsible for globally monitoring and executing all with modified/altered packaging and/or incorrect brand anti-counterfeiting measures for our products. Along names with coordinating prevention and the development of with an authentic active ingredient, but not one produced security systems, this organization is also responsible for under GxP conditions investigations. Comprising experts from various units such that have expired as Legal/Trademarks, Product Security, Export Control, that were diverted from the legal supply chain Supply Chain, Patient Safety, and Quality Assurance, this network is coordinated by our Corporate Security unit. 2. Illegal diversion of products: This term refers to the To investigate suspected cases, MACON collaborates diversion of either pharmaceuticals or chemical substances with the competent law enforcement agencies and regufrom within the legitimate supply chain either to sell or latory authorities. In 2019, MACON investigated and export them through illegal channels to produce narcotics, pursued numerous incidents that primarily involved counweapons or explosives, or to use them for other illegitimate terfeits within the legitimate and illegitimate supply purposes. chains as well as theft and illegal diversion. 3. Misappropriation of products: This refers to theft from production sites and warehouses, or while in transit. 93 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Products Our commitment: Group-wide guidelines and implementing the requirements of the EU Falsified Medicines standards Directive. In February 2019, we started applying a unique Our guideline entitled “Crime Relating to Products of the serial number to the packaging of all the prescription Merck Group” describes our goals and strategies for medicines we commercialize in the European Union (Track combating product-related crime. The Group-wide Product and Trace). We also use this system in Colombia, Russia, Crime Investigation standard sets out mandatory requirethe United States, Turkey Egypt, and other parts of the ments and defines the procedures we follow within the Middle East. In the coming years, we intend to roll out this Group. Moreover, it ensures that cases are processed effisystem in all African countries as well as the rest of the ciently and creates a clear legal framework for dealing with Middle East. Plans are in place to implement it in Malaysia illicit products. and Indonesia as well. In addition, we also pursue our own initiatives: Enhanced monitoring and reporting systems We apply the Security M label to some of our products, We analyze and document all counterfeit product incidents enabling users to easily verify authenticity. We take using a Group-wide reporting system. This approach a risk-based approach to identifying the products to be provides us with a complete picture of the security labeled in this manner. situation, enabling us to identify possible links between In our Mobile Anti-Counterfeiting System (MAS) different cases and effectively tackle them. Introduced in project in Nigeria, we are working closely with one of our 2018, our standard operating procedure entitled Data and suppliers on a text message-based identification system. Documentation Quality Management details the corresPatients scratch off a barcode that is printed on the ponding process, making the risks more transparent and the product packaging then text this code to a number that processes more efficient. has been specifically set up for this purpose. They immediately receive a response telling them whether their code Tracking system for chemical substances is authentic. We monitor chemicals that could be misused to produce We sponsor the non-profit Global Pharma Health Fund illegal weapons, explosives or narcotics, tracking them ® (GPHF), which supplies the GPHF-Minilab , a compact through an internal system that flags suspicious orders or laboratory used mainly in lowand middle-income counorders of sensitive products. These are only released once tries to test the quality of 90 different active ingredients we have confirmed the existence of a (verified) end-user quickly and inexpensively. You can find more information declaration. on this project under Pharmaceutical supply chain. In addition to fulfilling the duties stipulated by statWe offer our customers in the pharmaceutical industry utory provisions on export control, we also report suspi® Candurin pearl effect pigments with unique color cious orders, inquiries and requests to the competent properties. When used to coat tablets and capsules, these authorities. Through these efforts, we are honoring a volunpigments make it more difficult to create counterfeit tary commitment of the German Chemical Industry Assocopies. ciation (VCI) and meeting the terms of the Guideline for Operators published by the European Commission. In 2019, Industry-wide exchange we reported 1,519 orders placed for relevant substances, In an effort to fight product-related crime, we actively partiwhich represents 1.8% of the overall order volume. In addicipate in various associations and industry-wide initition, we received six inquiries from the authorities regarding atives. For instance, we work in very close partnership specific suspected cases that we helped to resolve. with the Pharmaceutical Security Institute (PSI), a nonWe evaluate the effectiveness of our measures based on profit organization dedicated to protecting public health. It the number of reported, investigated and solved cases, as both promotes the exchange of information on counterfeit well as their severity. products and helps the authorities to implement sanctions against the counterfeiters. You can find more information on Supporting customers and patients our efforts under Stakeholder dialogue. To protect patients, the identity and authenticity of pharmaceuticals must be verifiable. We ensure this by rigorously 94 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Products Raising awareness of product-related crime audits are based on the EMA ICH Q10 pharmaceutical We aim to raise awareness of product-related crime among quality assurance standard. They also allow us to ascertain our business partners and employees, educating and the extent to which our security requirements are being training our employees Group-wide on the subject. met by contract manufacturers and distributors. In addition, All staff involved in security, such as product crime we conduct special security audits if a concrete need is idenofficers, participate in appropriate training programs tified. We also perform these audits as standard practice aimed at building their capacities and promoting best-pracwhen we certify external service providers for our Security tice sharing. We are continuously evolving these programs M label. This applies to both pharmaceutical contract manuand adapting them to new trends. In 2019, for instance, facturers as well as companies that print packaging. Defects we held 35 training courses for our product crime officers that we deem as critical must be rectified either before we covering incident reporting, case management, and cooperenter into a contract, or a detailed corrective action plan ation with the authorities. must be submitted for our approval. In 2019, we conducted this type of security audit in Russia, which found two critical, Security audits for contract manufacturers eight significant and two minor defects. Corporate Security and distributors is monitoring the implementation of the necessary We regularly check whether our distributors and contract corrective actions. As soon as these have been completed, manufacturers are complying with GMP and GDP (Good we can start the planned business endeavors. Manufacturing Practice/Good Distribution Practice). These 95 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Products Transport and warehouse safety  Part of the non-financial report We transport and store numerous products and materials around the world, including commercial chemicals and pharmaceuticals, raw materials, intermediates, and waste, as well as technical materials and packaging, all of which could pose a hazard to health and the environment if handled incorrectly. Our approach to safe transport and storage Our commitment: Internal standards and It is our aim for all our shipments to reach our customers international rules and sites safely, undamaged and with the required safety Our Group-wide safety concepts and standards govern information. Several of the materials we store and transport the safe storage of hazardous substances. Our Warehouse are classified as hazardous. The storage of such hazardous Safety standard, for instance, sets out measures to prevent goods and the transport thereof – whether by road, rail, materials from leaking or igniting and requires us to specify plane, or ship – are governed by regulations applicable the dangers posed by any stored substance. Moreover, worldwide. To minimize risks to people and the environspecial safety rules apply to all warehouse employees. ment, we apply strict safety regulations across the Contract warehouses must also adhere to our high Group that of course also comply with applicable legislasafety requirements. Before we sign a contract, providers tion. We conduct regular reviews to ensure that our own must submit a statement detailing how they plan to meet warehouses as well as those of third parties comply with our stringent safety standards. We also perform audits to these regulations. In addition, we train our employees ensure compliance from both our own warehouses as well as accordingly. third-party facilities, utilizing a standardized checklist of the key requirements to help us assess potential contract wareHow we achieve transport and warehouse house risks. Furthermore, our Group standard Warehouse safety Requirements for Third-party Warehouses defines specific The overriding responsibility for transport and warehouse structural and organizational requirements for such safety lies with our Group Environment, Health, Safety, facilities. Security, Quality (EQ) function (see Environmental stewardIn Germany, the Technical Rules for Hazardous ship), which defines the standards and guidelines applicSubstances (TRGS 510 “Storage of hazardous substances in able Group-wide. In addition, our individual sites are subject non-stationary containers”) govern the storage of packto various national and international regulations governing aged hazardous materials and apply across all our wareenvironmental stewardship and public safety, which local house and distribution centers worldwide. An updated site directors are responsible for complying with. version of the TRGS is due to take effect sometime in Each of our sites around the world has an EHS manager 2020, and we are currently working with the Committee and a dangerous goods manager, a position that equates on Hazardous Substances (AGS) to revise these rules. to the Dangerous Goods Safety Advisor required by EU Moreover, all our existing sites comply with applicable regulations. Both advise the site director on the safe storage requirements of the Globally Harmonized System of Clasand transport of hazardous goods while also monitoring sification and Labelling of Chemicals (GHS). As part of the compliance with statutory requirements and our own integration process, we are examining whether the sites internal standards. of the recently acquired companies Versum Materials and Our EHS managers are also responsible for monitoring Intermolecular are GHS-compliant. our contract warehouses. Before signing a contract with Our Group Transport Safety standard defines the safety a third-party warehouse operator, we assess whether they levels for our facilities and is based on the United Nations properly adhere to national and international storage and Recommendations on the Transport of Dangerous Goods. transport regulations and whether they are able to meet our This is especially important for sites in those countries with additional requirements. We summarize the findings from no local regulations covering the transport of hazardous this audit in an EHS report. materials. All standards are reviewed as necessary, at a minimum Integrating Versum Materials and every three years, and updated to reflect current requireIntermolecular ments. When needed, we support our site directors in In the process of integrating Versum Materials and Interimplementing relevant changes at the local level. molecular, which we acquired in 2019, we are reviewing their existing structures and processes for transport and Enhancing transport and warehouse safety warehouse safety, making adjustments as necessary. In addition to the inspections conducted by our EHS and dangerous goods managers, we regularly perform Group risk-based audits to ensure that our sites comply with warehouse and transport safety regulations. We generally conduct these every four years, performing them more 96 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Products frequently at sites that pose a potentially higher risk. If Across the globe, we conduct around 1,000 internal major shortcomings are identified, we re-audit the and external seminars on transport and warehouse respective site the following year. Conversely, we may safety every year. The e-learning program we developed decide to extend the period between audits at facilities for hazardous material transport and storage is mandatory where, based on the findings from previous audits, we deem for logistics, EHS and dangerous goods managers. It the potential risk to be low. Our EHS managers are also currently features eight courses that are mandatory for the responsible for monitoring contract warehouses. assigned participants. In 2019, we audited nine of our warehouse facilities Our dangerous goods managers hold regular conference for compliance with our Warehouse Safety and Transport calls to share their experiences and discuss current Safety standards. All audit observations were assessed to changes. All new EHS managers must complete EHStart-up! pinpoint the areas where we can improve. For instance, we a three-day orientation seminar on environmental stewardsubsequently revised our criteria for recycling shipping ship, safety and safe logistics. In 2019, 26 EHS managers cartons in order to reuse as many original shipping boxes took part in this training in Darmstadt. as many times as possible at our distribution centers. In 2019, we also audited four third-party warehouses and drew Ensuring proper transport up the necessary corrective action plans. Beyond this, we We primarily use logistics companies to deliver our products started analyzing our current audit processes for contract to customers. In Germany, we transport the majority of warehouses at the end of the year. our hazardous waste ourselves. Furthermore, we participate We report transportation incidents and accidents in in the Transport Accident Reporting and Emergency accordance with the Recommendations on the Transport of Response System (TUIS) operated by the German ChemDangerous Goods – Model Regulations (UN Orange Book, ical Industry Association (VCI). Within this system, we section 7.1.9) in conjunction with the criteria of the exchange expertise and best practices on chemical transEuropean Agreement concerning the International Carriage port with experts from other chemical companies and also of Dangerous Goods by Road (ADR, section 1.8.5). There provide hands-on assistance in the event of a chemical was one reportable incident during 2019. transportation accident. Our site fire departments in Darmstadt and Gernsheim collaborated with the fire departments Employee training and best practice sharing in the region to develop the TUIS Messkonzept Südhessen. Our employees undergo regular training in line with their When a transportation or warehouse accident occurs, this tasks and responsibilities, which is conducted by either their standardized assessment system for southern Hesse allows respective supervisor or our EHS and dangerous goods us to quickly determine whether and how fast hazardous managers. Topics include internal standards and procedsubstances are spilling and spreading. In emergencies, our ures, changes to international requirements, and proper fire departments also provide on-site assistance using their incident management, and many of the subjects have specialized equipment. ready-made training materials available that can be modified to reflect the circumstances of the respective site or Making transport vehicles safer country. All truck drivers employed by our company hold a The safe transportation of dangerous goods requires safe dangerous goods driver’s license, provided that this qualvehicles, another factor our company takes very seriously. ification exists locally. In Germany, our truck drivers are In Germany, for instance, we have been constantly evolving subject to the requirements of the German Professional our SafeServer truck body technology. Under this Driver Qualification Act (BKrFQG) and must therefore design, the aluminum panels integrated into the side walls complete additional training on transporting hazardous of the truck render the walls extremely stable. In 2019, 18 goods and securing cargo. of our trucks had already been equipped with this technology. 97 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Employees Employees Within this chapter: 99 Good leadership 102 Career at Merck 105 Fairness and dialogue 107 Diversity 111 Work-life balance 113 Health and safety 98 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Employees Good leadership  Part of the non-financial report Good leaders are key to the success of not only our employees, but also our company. Because they provide our talent with the right framework to unleash their potential and generate new ideas, we highly value the continuing education and development of our managers. Within our company, many teams collaborate across sites and national borders, with global collaboration playing a crucial role in the professional training and growth of our leaders. Our approach to good leadership Our strategic competency model describes the core competencies that underpin the conduct of our employees at all levels of the hierarchy (see diagram). Our competency model 99 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Employees In our day-to-day work, these core competencies play an accounting. Marcus Kuhnert, Executive Board member and important role in our success. This model provides the Chief Financial Officer, is responsible for this unit. foundation for all development activities within our human resources work. Employees and supervisors discuss specific Our commitment: Leadership behaviors growth and development needs, as well as the progress Building on our business strategy, competency model and they have made to date. company values, in 2018 the Executive Board defined six Our competency model is of course also applicable to leadership behaviors that describe the way we expect our our leaders. By setting an example, they play a key role leaders to act. We also analyzed the best practices of other in embedding the competency model across our organizacompanies and benchmarked our approach to leadership tion. In addition, the model defines the leadership culture against market standards. through which we intend to grow our business. Building on this framework, in 2018 we defined six leadership behaviors Management and talent programs for leaders that summarize the way we expect our leaders to act. In recent years, we have initiated three different programs By participating in our employee surveys, our employees to enhance the skills of our people managers: can also assess the quality of the leadership within the company. The Managerial Foundation Program imparts the basics of leadership, such as communication techniques, leadership How we facilitate good leadership styles, conflict management, motivation, and emotional We expect our leaders to be attuned to the needs of their intelligence. diverse teams and therefore provide them with various tools The Advanced Management Program covers topics such and extensive data. At the same time, they can access as change management, self-reflection and resilience. transparent feedback through specially developed tools in Our Global Leadership program focuses on the competenorder to track the impact of their decisions. We work with cies needed to ensure successful international collaboraexternal providers to train our leaders on approaches to tion. good leadership that are backed by science and well-estabIn 2019, the Managerial Foundation and Advanced Managelished within the business world. ment programs were offered at several of our sites worldwide, while the Global Leadership program was held in How we structure our human resources China, Germany and the United States. management For 20 years, we have been partnering with top internaHuman Resources (HR) is responsible for advising all busitional universities to offer the Merck University program. ness sectors and Group functions within our organization. Over a period of roughly one year, senior leaders take We also have three Centers of Excellence in place to classes on management techniques and strategic business respond to the needs of our employees, organization and development, with 480 senior leaders having participated to company culture: Talent, Development & Recruiting; date. Compensation & Benefits; and Engagement & Inclusion. In Another initiative we have been offering our up-andearly 2020, these HR units were consolidated into Innovcoming leaders since the 1990s is our International Manageation HR. Across all our sites, HR employees from Market ment Program, where participants work on an HR and Sector HR work hand-in-hand with leaders from interdisciplinary project over a period of eight months. After the various units to develop attractive compensation models completion, they present the results of their efforts to the and benefits, along with strategies to engage our employees Executive Board. In 2019, 25 of our employees took part in even more strongly. In the process, they adhere to Groupsuch a project. wide HR guidelines and requirements, which is verified by In addition to these various programs, we partner with internal audits that are performed every two to three years. universities across the globe to enable our employees to As part of the integration of Versum Materials and Interobtain qualifications such as an Executive MBA. molecular, which we acquired in 2019, we will be reviewing For local leaders in emerging markets such as China these HR guidelines and requirements, making adjustments and the Middle East, we offer our own Growth Markets as necessary. Management Program (GMMP), which covers business Belén Garijo is the Executive Board member responsible administration topics and company-specific content. for Group Human Resources. Our Chief HR Officer, in charge In 2019, we also conducted a Group-wide awareness of the various HR activities, HR experts and HR business campaign to educate our leaders on our new leadership partners, reports directly to her. Our Merck Business behaviors. Services unit oversees the operational tasks of human resources work, such as drafting contracts and payroll 100 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Employees New program for experts research an intelligent humanoid robot . We want to learn In early 2019, we rolled out our new Expert Foundation how people react to intelligent robots and AI in the workProgram, which teaches participants the fundamentals of place and where these would be best deployed. Our aim is their role as experts in interdisciplinary project groups. to prepare our leaders and employees for the introduction of AI within their working environment. The study is also Leveraging potential in growth markets intended to help make new technologies tangible, thereby In 2019, nine employees successfully completed Afrika paving the way for early acceptance. kommt!, a one-year program offered by the German Society Using the big data applications developed by our People for International Cooperation (GIZ) that trains young Analytics HR unit, leaders obtain rapid, specific answers experts and leaders from sub-Saharan Africa. In to HR-related questions. Besides consolidating conventional supporting this initiative, we are helping to build a pool master data, this software also collects information on of regional partners to encourage economic cooperation compensation, performance and potential, along with between Germany and Africa. 17 former scholarship recipiinformation on succession and human resources planning. ents now work for us in an array of specialist and leadership By interlinking the data, this software can help leaders positions, some of them in various African countries and recognize trends early on. They thus have access to an others in Darmstadt. We chose 17 new candidates for the extensive trove of data they can utilize within the bounds of eighth intake of Afrika kommt!; they started their new posidata privacy. tions within the Group in November 2019. In 2018, a Group-wide HR innovation campaign also gave rise to an initiative entitled “Ad@m”, which features a Leveraging the opportunities of digitalization chatbot . Accessible to HR business partners and leaders, The digital transformation has long since reached the world this software provides support for HR-related issues, among of work. New, agile approaches to work and artificial intelothers. Going forward, the chatbot will be taking over standligence (AI) are increasingly gaining ground, a shift we are ardized tasks so that leaders and HR business partners have actively supporting within our company. Since 2017, for more time for other matters. instance, we have been partnering with TU Darmstadt to 101 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Employees Career at MeRck  Part of the non-financial report Globally, our employees drive advances in science and technology. We encourage every one of them to pursue the career path that aligns with their individual ambitions, skills and talents. To sustain our success, we endeavor to attract talent who will bring courage, creativity and curiosity to our company. Our approach to attracting and retaining and company culture. More information on the structure of talent HR can be found under “Good leadership”. We believe that curiosity can make great things happen. Our HR4You digital platform, which can be accessed We therefore seek to provide an environment that gives our by all employees, helps us to globally harmonize our HR employees scope for creativity and ignites their passion to processes. For instance, the platform allows them to initiate innovate. Our employer brand communicates this mindset and steer the Performance and Potential Management to the outside world. Through our motto “Bring Your CuriProcess themselves, to apply for vacation or to access their osity to Life”, we show applicants, whether potential pay slips. apprentices or university graduates, what they can expect when they join our company. To this end, in Germany we Our commitment: Employee development cooperate with regional target universities, student initiatguideline ives and associations. In addition, we regularly organize Our People Development & Learning Policy provides a events in order to give students an insight into our Group-wide framework within which employees can manage company. We also take part in job fairs in Germany and their professional growth. It defines requirements for our abroad. University graduates can apply for a position with development opportunities, roles and responsibilities. The our company directly or complete one of our trainee corresponding processes are described in our People Develprograms. In addition to recruiting talented students, we opment & Learning Standards. also provide financial assistance. For instance, we collaborate with the German Academic Scholarship Foundation Providing feedback and supporting (Studienstiftung des deutschen Volkes) and support the development scholarships granted by Deutschlandstipendium, a scholarWe regularly provide our employees with performance feedship program of the German federal government. back. The Performance and Potential Management In addition to our recruiting efforts, the vocational Process ensures that, in addition to this regular feedback, and advanced training of our employees also plays an a meeting is held once a year to evaluate their overall essential role for us. We support their personal and profesperformance. This process is applicable to all employees sional development in line with their strengths, ambitions Group-wide in Role 2 or higher, and additionally to all nonand competencies, thereby laying the groundwork for an exempt staff employed by either Merck KGaA or any other enriching and challenging career with our company. We subsidiary based in Germany. endeavor to find qualified employees at an early stage in Our managers and their subordinates agree on inditheir career and systematically advance them. vidual annual objectives, define the framework and specify Apart from dual education programs, we consider vocathe desired development direction for the year. The annual tional training a key way to meet the current and future bonus depends on individual performance and objective need for qualified professionals. As competition for achievement. Additionally, the bonus calculation also young talent grows, job and occupation security are crucial, reflects the company’s overall performance, which we which is why we continuously invest in new technologies determine using various company key indicators. and integrate these into our vocational training programs. Once the development direction is defined, our If, after completing their apprenticeship, our employees managers and their staff create a detailed development wish to continue studying while working, we will cover up to plan that reflects each employee’s core tasks and the 75% of the costs and grant them special leave. company’s current strategic priorities. When drafting the development plan, all employees have access to the DevelHow we organize recruiting, vocational opment Advisor. Building on the Merck competencies and training and advanced training Merck leadership behaviors, this digital tool provides a Human Resources (HR) supports and advises all business selection of development opportunities that employees can sectors and Group functions within our organization. Our tailor to their own needs. Every employee can thus create Talent, Development & Recruiting center of expertise their development plan quickly and easily via HR4You. develops strategies to advance our employees, organization 102 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Employees They can additionally collect feedback from selected Performance-based pay colleagues and external partners on their personal develWe reward the performance of our employees so as to opment. This 360-degree feedback helps to identify maintain a competitive edge in attracting qualified profespersonal strengths and advancement opportunities. sionals, which necessitates commensurate compensation. Moreover, our people have access to a real-time feedback Within our Group, compensation is based on the requiretool that can be accessed via their PC or smartphone, ments of each position as well as each employee’s making it even easier to give and receive feedback. respective performance. In addition to competitive pay, we Intended to help promote a cross-hierarchical feedback offer attractive fringe and social benefits. Our benefits4me culture, this tool has been used since its rollout by approxpackage consists of three pillars, namely company-funded imately 24,700 employees, who provided feedback around benefits including our company pension plan, health and 43,300 times. We are continuously updating the tool to well-being offerings, and services, for instance bicycle or make it more user-friendly. IT hardware leasing offers. To meet the multifaceted needs of our workforce, we offer a variety of benefit packages 98% worldwide. To ensure a competitive remuneration structure, we regularly review our compensation policy based on data analyses and benchmarks. In doing so, we take internal factors and market requirements equally into account. Before adapting our remuneration structure, we consult with of our employees took part in the Performance and Potenkey stakeholders such as employee representatives. The tial Management Process in 2019. 75% of them setting up pay structures within our company are based on defined an approved development plan. criteria such as job requirements and performance. We do not make any distinctions based on gender. Sparking young people's interest in our Employee learning and education company Our Group-wide advanced training and continuing education We employ trainees in units such as Inhouse Consulting, program ensures that our employees develop the skills and Finance, Production, Marketing, Sales, Procurement, Human abilities needed to help us realize our company strategy. Resources, as well as Research and Development. AddiWe constantly adapt our offers to meet the current learning tional functions can be added as required. needs of our employees and the strategic priorities of our Our GOGlobal program enables university graduates company. As part of their individual development plan, our to join our company as a trainee. Within 24 months, employees can use our learning management system to these entry-level employees get to know various departregister for seminars and e-learning courses. In 2019, we ments and functions while also gaining international work additionally launched the method of “Working Out Loud” experience. Centered on China, Germany and the United Group-wide – a self-guided learning method that aims to States, the program offers insight into various units and foster collaboration within the company. includes international assignments, individual continuing In 2019, more than 11,200 employees took part in our education, mentoring, and coaching. In 2019, we employed classroom training courses worldwide. These courses are a total of 106 trainees. flexible, meaning that while the core curriculum is uniform To cultivate young academic talent, we also offer Group-wide, there is still room for site-specific modificainternships in all departments to university students. tions. In addition, around 2,500 employees registered for Interns who perform exceptionally well are enrolled in our Group-wide e-learning courses, and approximately 430 talent-retention program. Besides these programs, we also completed language training online. offer university students jobs as working students and the opportunity to complete their bachelor’s, master’s or doctoral thesis while working at our company. In addition, we regularly invite university students to various events, where we present the different occupational areas within our Group and ways to join the company. In 2019, we further expanded our efforts to cultivate young talent by increasing both the number of participants in our talent retention program as well as the number of Deutschlandstipendium scholarship recipients we sponsor. 103 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Employees Vocational training and dual education apprenticeship. In 2019, 20 participants aged 16-25 started programs this program. Since its launch in 2006, 246 young people In 2019, 589 people were enrolled in vocational training have taken part; 120 of them have successfully completed programs at our sites in Germany, with 182 starting an an apprenticeship, while 45 are still in a vocational training apprenticeship at our company. In total, we offer apprenprogram. ticeships across 25 occupations, primarily in production, We also have a similar offer for refugees. In 2019, laboratory work and office administration. Furthermore, we the “Integrating refugees through training” program again enable young adults to pursue a dual education program in prepared ten young people for vocational training, thereby the fields of business administration, business IT, process opening the door to the German labor market. The program engineering (chemical engineering), and mechanical engincomprises language, technical, cultural, and career-related eering. Apprentices in the Laboratory group begin their training. In 2019, we hired two of the participants from training as chemistry or biology lab technicians and, subject the 2018 program as apprentices and placed six others in to suitability, may receive the opportunity to start a dual apprenticeships with other companies. Two participants are education program after six months. Since 2014, we have now pursuing further studies at schools or universities. been offering permanent employment contracts to all apprentices and graduates of dual education Leveraging the opportunities of digitalization programs in occupations for which we have long-term The digital transformation is increasingly shaping our vocademand. In 2019, the hiring rate for graduates of these tional and continuing education programs. IT skills are programs – taking voluntary terminations into account – becoming increasingly important while digital media are was 90%. paving new paths for learning. This is why we are increasingly integrating 3D printing, Big Data and Artificial Special vocational training opportunities Intelligence into our curricula. Moreover, we are testing In Darmstadt, our “Start in die Ausbildung” program helps out novel learning and innovation methods such as Scrum young people who have a high school diploma but searched and Design Thinking. To learn how to operate plants and for an apprenticeship for at least one year without success. machinery, our apprentices also utilize virtual reality envirWe offer them the opportunity to complete an 11-month onments. Initially, they practice operating the systems program with our company, gaining insight into the using a virtual reality display before applying and furthering world of work and improving their qualifications for an their new skills in the actual operating environment. 104 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Employees Fairness and dialogue  Part of the non-financial report As a science and technology company, we are always searching for new solutions as we work to constantly develop and evolve further. Motivated, curious employees are crucial to our success, which is why we actively engage them in our efforts to advance our company. In this context, honest feedback from every individual helps us pinpoint the areas where we can and must do better. Our approach to employee engagement Conduct with a set of global human rights principles. These We seek to understand the needs of the people who work include the fundamental conventions of the International for us and therefore regularly conduct employee surveys, Labour Organization (ILO), which cover freedom of assoboth Group-wide and within select countries, individual ciation and collective bargaining, forced labor, child labor, business sectors or specific projects. These surveys help to anti-discrimination, equal opportunity, equal pay, working facilitate communication between managers and employees hours, occupational health and safety, and the prevention and also show us areas where we can improve. Moreover, of abuse and harassment. In 2019, in consultation with such surveys are paramount to our company culture, which renowned external human rights experts, we used a benchvalues dialogue and employee input. mark analysis as the basis for drafting and implementing In 2019, we rolled out a new Social and Labor Standards a Group-wide guideline governing adherence to ILO labor Policy that further bolsters the foundation for fair and open standards. This new Social and Labor Standards Policy puts interactions with our employees. into practice the social and labor requirements of our Human Rights Charter and our Code of Conduct, emphasHow we engage our employees izing fair and respectful interactions. In addition, it makes The Engagement and Inclusion unit within our HR organclear that we do not tolerate any form of discrimination, ization is responsible for employee engagement, diversity physical or verbal harassment, or intolerance in the workand inclusion, and also develops and manages our employee place. We conduct internal audits to ensure that our local surveys. subsidiaries comply with these principles. We include local employee representatives in our company's decision-making processes, doing so regularly Understanding our employees and extensively. Within Germany, 14 of our subsidiaries To better gauge our performance both within our company have employee representation, while 26 of our subsidiaries and relative to our competitors, we conduct Group-wide across eight other European nations have employee represemployee surveys every year. In this way, we ensure a entative bodies (Austria, Belgium, France, Ireland, Italy, regular exchange between our employees, managers the Netherlands, Spain, and Switzerland). Collective agreeand leaders. The 2019 employee engagement survey ments apply to 66% of all employees of Merck KGaA, Darmrevealed that 74% of our employees feel engaged at work. stadt, Germany. Local works councils as well as a Group In 2019, we fundamentally changed the survey methodoworks council represent our employees, discussing topics logy, which means this year's results cannot be compared such as compensation, working hours and organizational with those of previous years. Approximately 47,000 realignments. The Senior Executives Committee advocates employees (88%) took part. for the interests of our top leaders, while the Euroforum In addition, we moved forward with our Science Network represents our employees at the European level. Focusing project in 2019. Due to the broad positioning of our on the economic situation, employment rates and significant company, we do not have a central research and developchanges within our Group, this body covers all EU countries ment organization that unites expertise across our busias well as Switzerland and Norway, although not all counnesses. However, our Science Network is advancing the tries have their own delegate. formation of a science community within our company in a bid to drive internal collaboration and accelerate the Our commitment: Group-wide Social and exchange of innovative ideas. One component of this initiLabor Standards Policy ative is the Continuous Performance Dialogues, which We are dedicated to upholding the appropriate and fair engage 1,300 employees and their supervisors in a labor and social standards that are stipulated in our discourse to align performance and potential appraisals with Human Rights Charter, which complements our own Code of research and development needs. 105 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Employees Encouraging and rewarding ideas wide by 111 teams from various countries, Group functions Our company has a long tradition of rewarding ideas. In and business sectors. 1853, we were the first industrial company in the world to contractually stipulate bonuses for successful employee Keeping employees informed and suggestions for improvement, and approximately 60 encouraging dialogue years ago we laid out bylaws stipulating principles and rules We keep our employees up to date and encourage for our ideation efforts. Our idea management program exchange through a number of formats tailored to seeks to inspire our employees to think creatively and specific target groups. Examples include our international encourage them to contribute to the continuous improveintranet EVA or our international employee magazine “pro”, ment of our procedures and processes. We reward all ideas which is published in seven languages and is available in that are successfully implemented by offering employees a a digital format as well as an app. Since the end of 2018, bonus based on how much the suggestion enhances our the magazine has also been featuring podcasts on important processes or cuts down our costs. company topics. “pro” has a readership covering more than In 2019, our employees submitted approximately 1,570 90% of our approximately 57,000 employees worldwide suggestions for improvement via our Germany-wide in their local language. Several subsidiaries also publish ideation program. These ideas are expected to yield local editions, for example in Germany, Korea, Mexico, and around € 2.4 million in cost savings in the first year. As a Russia. Newsletters issued by individual business sectors reward for their proposals, our employees received around also help keep employees informed. € 370,000 in bonuses. EVA is our global intranet for all countries and business Besides these incentives, we annually present awards sectors. Ranking as one of the most important internal in recognition of outstanding ideas, teamwork and communication media – second only to e-mail – it receives projects. In 2019, the Executive Board presented four approximately 2 million hits per month. A software permits teams consisting in total of 37 employees with awards in the the automatic translation of news into 22 languages and categories of Performance, People, and Technology, along thus facilitates comprehension worldwide. with a special CEO Award. Projects were submitted Group106 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Employees Diversity  Part of the non-financial report Our employees work together closely, irrespective of gender and gender identity, color, religion or creed, age, disability, national origin, ancestry, citizenship, family or marital status, military or veteran status, genetic information or sexual orientation. They all bring their professional backgrounds, life experience and perspectives to the table. We firmly believe that a diverse workforce and an appreciative corporate culture are essential to our ability to innovate and to our business success. Our approach to diversity and equal potential. Our goal is to further expand the diversity of our opportunity workforce and offer all our people equal opportunities for We are committed to creating an inclusive culture that advancement. reflects our values and enables employees to unleash their 1 Our employee numbers 1) Each figure represents one percentage point for the respective gender. In 2019, we continued to implement our diversity The strategic competencies that guide our employees strategy with its defined two special areas of focus. We and leaders in their tasks are set out in a Competency continue to promote women in leadership positions, and Model, a fundamental element of HR processes such as improve opportunities for talented employees from Asia recruitment, feedback and training for people managers and while promoting a deeper understanding of this growth leaders. Building on this model, in 2019 we defined six leadmarket. We also continue to pursue the other goals of ership behaviors and also started to sensitize our people our strategy: cultivating an international work environment, Group-wide to unconscious bias. We help leaders to recogtaking action against all forms of discrimination, creating nize these thought patterns in their daily interactions and teams with a balanced age structure, and building a diverse decision-making processes, to reconsider them and to make base of educational backgrounds and experience. a lasting change to their behavior. 107 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Employees Women in leadership roles At the end of 2019, women occupied 33% of leadership Group Human Resources (HR) analyzes existing requireroles Group-wide, which means that we exceeded our 2021 ments and is implementing a number of programs and target of maintaining a 30% representation of women in processes in order to anchor diversity within the company these positions. In 2019, we developed goals and measures to achieve a more balanced gender structure in different Our commitment: Industry-wide initiatives hierarchical levels of our business sectors. With more and regulations women participating in leadership programs today, In 2019, we introduced our Social and Labor Standards they are also increasingly being considered as candidates Policy, which clearly indicates that we do not tolerate any when filling leadership positions. Our flexible working form of discrimination, physical or verbal harassment, or models and our seminars on unconscious bias are helping to intolerance. increase the proportion of women in the company. To underscore our commitment to equality, fairness, inclusion and tolerance at the workplace, we additionally How we are making diversity a pillar of the participate in industry-wide initiatives. company Our Chief Diversity Officer is responsible for steering the In 2019, we signed the Women’s Empowerment Prindiversity strategy. She reports directly to Belén Garijo, the ciples, an initiative of UN Women and the UN Global Executive Board member whose responsibilities include Compact to promote gender equality and women’s Group Human Resources. The Diversity Council, which empowerment in the workplace. consists of executives from all our business sectors and In addition, we endorsed the Business Coalition for the select Group functions, redefined its mandate in 2019: Equality Act, a group of leading U.S. employers that support the Equality Act. The members of the Diversity Council are visible advocIn 2017, we adopted the new Inclusion Action Plan of ates of our Diversity & Inclusion agenda and actively the German Mining, Chemical and Energy Industrial Union support the Executive Board and the managing directors (IG BCE), which defines concrete measures to create a of our subsidiaries. more inclusive workforce for employees with disabilities. The members propose strategic goals, initiate measures In endorsing this plan, we are meeting the requirements and ensure within their respective units that line of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons managers meet their responsibilities. with Disabilities. The members exchange information, discuss the latest In 2015, we signed the IG BCE Equal Opportunity Charter, challenges and share best practices. thereby promising to do everything in our power to The members are accessible to all employees. achieve gender equality within the company. As leaders of our company, the members are role models In 2013, we endorsed the German industry-wide “Charta within their units. der Vielfalt” (Diversity Charter). 108 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Employees Meeting statutory requirements of the event was to sensitize participants to unconscious The German Law for the Equal Participation of Women and bias and respectful working environment. Men in Leadership Positions in the Public and Private Sector On the occasion of the 2019 International Women’s Day, in has been in effect in Germany since 2015. Owing to our the United States we again sponsored the Big Sisters initilegal form as a KGaA (corporation with general partners), ative, a mentoring program for young women from underthis law also applies in part to us. Detailed information can privileged communities. be found on our website. In Italy, we offer an internship program specifically for Consisting of 37.5% women (six out of 16 members), women with MS because on average, women develop our Supervisory Board already meets the stipulations of multiple sclerosis (MS) twice as often as men. German legislation on the gender quota. Owing to our legal form as a KGaA (corporation with general partners), we are not required to set targets for our Executive Board. For Networks to bolster diversity the two management levels below the Executive Board of Creating an inclusive work environment and fostering a Merck KGaA, however, the Executive Board set the following culture of mutual respect are two prominent priorities of targets in 2016: our Diversity Strategy. That is why we purposefully support various employee networks. Apart from our internal 21% women on the first management level of Merck women’s network in various countries, these include KGaA below the Executive Board networks that further the interests of the LGBTQI 26% women on the second management level below the community, Afro-American employees and international Executive Board staff. Moreover, employee networks pursuing similar goals began working more closely together and several expanded The deadline set for reaching these targets is December 31, internationally in 2019. Above and beyond this, we want to 2021. help them establish leadership structures and set goals for themselves. Rooting out unconscious bias We want to promote a stronger sense of diversity and Our women’s networks are creating a working envirinclusion among our employees. This also includes learning onment that values qualified women and helps them to how unconscious bias influences us in daily working life. advance. In 2019, we raised employee awareness of the topic at In 2019, our Rainbow Network for homosexual, occasions such as International Women’s Day and our own bisexual, transsexual, and intersex employees again Diversity Days. We launched a new, Group-wide training supported Christopher Street Day in Frankfurt and Darmcourse on the topic, which is also part of our management stadt (both in Germany). We were one of the main official education programs. Approximately 3,160 employees corporate sponsors of the event in Darmstadt. In 2019, completed the course in 2019. They learned how to recogtwo further company Rainbow networks were formed in nize the unconscious biases and stereotypes they harbor Switzerland and Brazil, with employees in Geneva themselves and how to prevent unintended, unfair treat(Switzerland) and São Paulo (Brazil) taking part in Pride ment. The training is also available as an e-learning course. parades in 2019. The Rainbow Network has also been In 2019, we also set up the Job Analyzer, a digital tool active in the United States and Canada since 2016. In the for filling vacant positions globally. It helps us maintain run-up to Christopher Street Day, we organized pre-Pride gender neutrality when communicating with applicants events at 11 of our sites in the United States and ran while minimizing unconscious bias in the recruiting process. further activities to mark Pride month. The Job Analyzer is currently available in English, with plans Our U.S.-based Black Leadership Network is dedicated for localized versions for the United Kingdom and Canada. to advancing and developing African-American German and French versions are also scheduled for compleemployees, offering advanced training and continuing tion in 2020. education programs, tailored career planning and networking opportunities. In addition, 2019 saw the Promoting women leaders and talent establishment of the “Leaders of Color” network in North We support our business units in their efforts to increase the America. Consequently, the Black Leadership Network will proportion of women in leadership roles. For example, two temporarily discontinue its activities, working instead to business sectors already have sponsoring programs in support the multifaceted and integrative approach of the place. This offers women the possibility of having an expernew network. ienced leader as a sponsor who supports and advises them. In our Carer Network, we bring together employees Furthermore, we hosted a variety of events on the topic from across the globe who provide nursing care assistin 2019: ance for family members. As a platform for exchange, this network helps its members to better cope with personal Approximately 3,450 employees took part in Diversity and professional circumstances while caring for sick or Days – an event series dedicated to the topic of inclusion. aging family members. To raise awareness for the often On the occasion of 2019 International Women’s Day, the overlooked needs of carers, the network also supports the Healthcare business sector organized an event in Darmgeneral mission “Embracing Carers”. stadt (Germany). More than 200 participants from all business sectors and Group functions attended. The aim 109 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Employees Tapping into external networks and an inclusive work environment. On the other hand, they For ten years now, our company has been a corporate help us to address potential deficits. partner of the Healthcare Businesswomen’s Association (HBA), a global organization committed to furthering the Successfully integrating international advancement and impact of women in the healthcare employees industry – almost exclusively through volunteers. We Our company is becoming increasingly international. We support female employees who wish to volunteer for the currently employ people from a total of 139 nations, 22% HBA. In 2019, more than ten of our employees were active of whom are German citizens. Our leadership (Role 4+) in Germany, Europe and the United States. Two of them includes representatives of 73 nationalities. In 2019, 64% of were members of the Europe Regional Council, with one leadership positions were held by non-German employees. serving as Regional Chair Europe. We are represented on As of the end of 2019, 9% of our workforce worked outside both the global and the European advisory boards. In additheir home countries. tion, we sponsor events organized by the HBA and give our To best facilitate this international collaboration, we female employees free access to events and conferences. In offer intercultural training for all employees along with 2019, the HBA recognized one of our initiatives dedicated to suitable digital tools. For instance, our Cultural Navigator the promotion of women in leadership positions. helps prepare our staff for international projects and business trips abroad. To help employees transferred abroad to Taking action against discrimination adjust more quickly, we offer language training and interAs stipulated in our Code of Conduct and in our Social national networks. For instance, more than 700 expatriate and Labor Standards Policy introduced in 2019, we do not employees are members of the International Community, tolerate any form of discrimination within our company. If which meets regularly in Darmstadt. employees feel discriminated against, harassed or not tolerOur business language is English. To ensure that all ated, they can report the issue via various channels. employees understand our communications, we also provide Their first point of contact is either their supervisor or one of a great deal of information in the respective local languages the two Group functions Human Resources (HR) or Compliof our employees. ance. Alternatively, employees throughout the Group can call our SpeakUp Line anonymously. Group Compliance is Rising to the challenges of demographic responsible for investigating alleged cases. As a member change of our Group Compliance Case Committee, our Group HR Another issue we are tackling is demographic change. We function coordinates cases relating to HR. Details on alleged expect the average age of our workforce to continue to rise cases can be found under Compliance. in the coming years. In Germany, we are responding to this trend with various initiatives including our workplace Good ranking in diversity and equality indices Health Management program. For example, we use BELS, We ranked fourth – among three other companies, reaching our workplace ergonomic assessment tool, to design work 80 out of 100 possible points in 2019 in the DAX 30 LGBT+ spaces that help employees to maintain their physical Diversity Index of the Uhlala Group. performance and remain healthy. The tool takes the demoAt the beginning of 2020, the American Human Rights graphic development in account by evaluating various ageCampaign Foundation rated our LGBTQ activities throughout related stress factors, which in turn enables us to adapt 2019. We scored 90% out of 100% in the “Corporate our workplaces to suit the needs of older individuals. Equality Index” (CEI) which measured the equality and Moreover, we also offer innovative shift models and a inclusion of our LGBTQ employees. prevention program for shift workers. These rankings show us on the one hand that we are on the right track when it comes to successfully living diversity 110 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Employees Work-life balance  Part of the non-financial report We know that priorities in life can shift. That is why we are considerate of such changes, offering our employees a range of options such as flexible working models, working hour accounts for early retirement or the possibility to take an extended leave of absence. We also attach great importance to family matters and support employees through generous parental leave, childcare and assistance in finding nursing care for family members. Our approach to ensuring a good work-life Flexible working models balance Our employees can choose between various flexible working We realize how important work-life balance is for a models. Our mywork@Merck program, for instance, is productive and motivated workforce, which is why we seek available to employees at our Darmstadt and Gernsheim to offer our employees the best possible working conditions. sites (both in Germany), along with many other facilities This includes both occupational illness and pension benefits across Asia, Australia and Europe. In agreement with their as well as flexible working models. In many countries, our teams and supervisors, employees can freely choose their employees can already flexibly set their own working hours working hours and location. Together with their respective and location, making use of more than 30 different partsupervisors, the teams can decide for themselves when and time working models. In Germany and the United States, how often fixed physical presence in the office is necessary where around 45% of our workforce is based, we offer for all members. Working hours are no longer recorded or parental leave conditions that exceed the respective monitored. This approach aims to strengthen the culture of minimum statutory requirements. performance and trust within the company. It is open to both exempt and non-exempt employees provided that their How we strengthen work-life balance positions are suitable. In the coming years, we plan to roll Human Resources (HR), which supports and advises all out mywork@Merck globally following its successful estabbusiness sectors and Group functions within our company, lishment in Germany and Japan in 2013 and 2017, respectdevelops measures for a healthy work-life balance. ively. The model is currently being launched in Brazil, China, During individual consultation sessions, experts assist Colombia, Ecuador, France, Guatemala, Italy, Korea, our employees with retirement planning matters, for Mexico, Spain, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, and the instance company pension benefits or long-term accounts. United States. At the end of 2019, a total of 5,990 Representatives from the German Pension Insurance also employees in Germany were enrolled in this program. In visit our premises regularly to discuss statutory pension 2019, 5% of our employees worked part-time, 17% of matters with employees. whom were men. You can find more information on the topic of illness benefits under “Health and safety”. Supporting mothers and fathers We want to make it easier for our employees to return to Our commitment: Group guidelines and local work after parental leave, which is why we offer a program regulations for parents in Darmstadt and Gernsheim (both in Germany). In 2019, we introduced our new Social and Labor Standards In 2019, a total of 95 employees signed up for this program, Policy. It harmonizes certain labor standards Group-wide, which gives mothers and fathers on parental leave the for instance on working hours and parental leave options, chance to interact while also helping them stay in touch with and reflects the conventions of the International Labour the company. In addition, they can make use of various Organization (ILO). training and networking opportunities. We established At the end of 2018, our Executive Board adopted a a similar program in the United States. Group-wide guideline on flexible work arrangements that Moreover, we offer female employees within our Life aims to create even greater working time and location flexScience and Healthcare business sectors in the United ibility in the 12 countries where 75% of our employees States eight weeks of paid maternity leave, and in 2019, work. In the second phase, we plan to roll out the guideline we introduced five weeks of paid paternal or adoption leave to further countries in 2020 and 2021. Apart from these for employees in all three business sectors. By contrast, the 12 countries with the highest headcounts, we are simultanstatutory minimum requirement only provides for 12 weeks eously working on local provisions for Colombia, Ecuador, of unpaid parental leave per year. In the case of an adopGuatemala, and Korea and are launching these as part of tion, we also reimburse up to US$ 5,000 in adoption fees. our “mywork@Merck” program. At our sites in Germany (around 25% of our workforce), 792 employees were on parental leave in 2019, 40% of whom were men. In other key countries, we grant additional 111 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Employees support benefits that exceed the legal requirements, deposit salary components or comp days into the account. such as paid parental leave for employees in Brazil. In India, On top of this, our company provides subsidies to encourage too, we offer five days of paid paternity leave even though the use of these long-term accounts. Employees can then it is not legally required. utilize the accrued balance to stop working up to three years In offering these benefits, we do not differentiate before regular retirement, or to reduce their working hours between fulland part-time staff or employees with fixedby 50% for up to six years. In 2019, over 9,500 employees term contracts. The latter may apply for parental leave until made use of this option. the end of their employment contract, with their employment continuing as agreed until the contract ends. Taking a sabbatical Generally, all employees of Merck KGaA, Merck Healthcare Childcare and support KGaA and Merck Real Estate GmbH in Germany (20% of For more than 50 years, a daycare center for children our workforce) can apply for a sabbatical, which gives aged one to twelve has been located at our global headquarthem up to one year off from work. At the end of 2019, ters in Darmstadt. This facility is funded by the Merck family 66 people were on sabbatical. For personal emergencies in (Merck’scher Kindertagesstätten-Verein e. V.) and offers which an employee needs an immediate leave of absence, 150 places in the crèche, nursery school and school afterwe additionally offer an emergency sabbatical of up to three care program. It is open year-round, Monday to Friday from months’ duration. 6:30 a.m. until 7:00 p.m. The groundbreaking ceremony for the new daycare center building took place in 2019. The Assistance with family nursing and elder care current building will make room for a new one, which is We offer special seminars and family care services scheduled for completion in early 2021. This will more than to employees in Darmstadt (Germany) who are providing double the capacity of the daycare center from 60 to over nursing care for family members. Moreover, through our 130 nursery school places and add 60 new crèche places. “family leave” model, we offer employees throughout In Darmstadt we furthermore offer an emergency Germany the possibility to take a shortor long-term leave childcare service to cover situations when regular childof absence, either part-time or full-time. In line with the care becomes unavailable. During school breaks in the German Family Leave Act and the German Home Care German federal state of Hesse, we host a number of vacaLeave Act, we are thus enabling employees to organize and tion camps focused on sports, art, research, and nature for provide nursing care for their family members. up to 350 children. In addition, we offer the possibility of inIn addition, we offer our employees in Germany family home care for acutely ill children. For up to two days a year, care seminars on a range of topics several times a year. parents throughout Germany can engage the services of a In 2019, these addressed reconciling family nursing care trained educator free of charge to look after their children at with work obligations, financial and legal issues pertaining home. For the children of our employees in Gernsheim, five to family requiring nursing care, and geriatric dementia places are available at a public daycare center. and depression. An external partner provides advice on Our facility in Mumbai, our main site in India, also has all nursing care matters and supports employees in their a daycare center for the children of our employees. In search for suitable options. In Darmstadt, our company the United States, parents can visit www.care.com to find health insurance fund also connects people with nursing external childcare. Furthermore, in the United States we care staff, and, in the United States, our employees can offer up to ten days of provisional childcare, as well as use the website care.com to locate nursing care services. discounted daycare center places and home childcare. Additionally, telephone counseling services are offered at our sites in the 12 countries with the highest number of Saving for retirement through a long-term employees. account Our international Embracing Carers™ initiative aims to We enable our employees in Germany to reduce their raise awareness of the needs of family caregivers while also working hours before retirement or to retire earlier by offering them concrete assistance. More information on the drawing on a long-term account. For instance, they can program can be found under “Health awareness”. 112 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Employees Health and safety  Part of the non-financial report When it comes to the health and safety of our employees, we take our responsibility very seriously, doing everything we possibly can to safeguard them against both accidents and work-related illnesses. By focusing on stress prevention, nutrition and exercise, we help our employees avoid acute or chronic health problems through preventive measures that are easy to integrate into their daily work routine. Our approach to preventing accidents and To make mental health an integral part of our organpromoting health ization, we furthermore founded an interdisciplinary Mental We seek to promote the health of our employees and mainHealth Team in 2019, which is tasked with creating and tain their ability to perform over the long term, which necesensuring a work environment that puts our employees at sitates a safe workplace. One of our Group-wide objectives ease and safeguards them as far as possible from mental is therefore to step up our safety culture, with our goal for stress. Serving as strategic partners and experts, the Mental 2020 being to keep our lost time injury rate (LTIR) under Health Team offers our workforce interdisciplinary support 1.5. At all our sites, we conduct hazard assessments even from a single source. before a new plant is commissioned to minimize or eliminate any potential safety risks to our employees. Existing How we manage occupational health and facilities are supposed to undergo a review every five years, safety which is the responsibility of the local EHS managers. Our Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) management Random checks are performed to ensure that the reviews system is the responsibility of our Group Environment, are conducted at the stipulated intervals. Furthermore, we Health, Safety, Security, Quality (EQ) function, which have the risk situation reassessed after any changes are reports to Executive Board member Belén Garijo. EQ sets made to a plant. Moreover, we are working to make workobjectives, globally oversees initiatives, and conducts place health management a greater part of our company internal EHS audits, while local EHS managers ensure that and leadership culture. each individual site complies with occupational safety laws Over the last two years, we have developed a key and regulations. All new EHS managers are required to performance indicator management system to review complete EHStart-up!, a three-day orientation held at our the efficacy of our Health Management practices. 2018 was global headquarters in Darmstadt. This seminar covers the first time we included questions regarding employee topics such as occupational health and safety as well as our health in our worldwide, anonymous Employee Engagement BeSafe! safety culture program. survey. In the long run, we intend to use the input to We collect workplace accident data from our sites on calculate our Healthiness Index, which should reflect the a monthly basis. Every facility is required to immediately general state of health of our workforce. We currently have report relevant accidents to EQ, where the cases are investthe initial results from the areas of health and work-life igated and assessed. If necessary, we implement additional balance, which are being utilized to devise suitable meassafety measures at our sites. This procedure is an integral ures to boost the health of our employees and help them practice at all of our production facilities around the world. better reconcile their personal and professional lives. In addition, our German sites in Darmstadt and Gernsheim We align our health initiatives with the needs of our have an occupational safety committee in place that meets workforce. In 2019, we defined our objectives for the next four times a year and makes decisions on current EHS several years, creating a roadmap that will focus on shift issues. work, mental stress, demographic change, and the analysis We involve our employees at the organizational level in of key disease occurrence information in order to take the occupational health and safety efforts, for instance during appropriate actions. We regularly evaluate the success of joint inspections or in the selection of personal protective our efforts. In 2019, for instance, we analyzed the results gear. This approach is crucial because our people best of our Weight Watchers At Work for Shift Workers program understand the actual work situation and what is needed. along with the expanded deployment of our mobile gym We take this input and develop further ways to improve buses. The results of our company health insurance fund’s occupational health and safety. If employees are worried health report have been available since mid-2019, and we about their health or safety, they are encouraged to use are using these to advise our leadership on the health situour global SpeakUp Line and are also allowed to temporarily ation in their respective units. This report is published every step back from their work until the issue has been resolved. two years. 113 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Employees At our Darmstadt and Gernsheim sites, our Health for occupational health and safety. Where necessary, we Management unit helps weave health awareness into our are implementing our internal Group-wide principles. We company culture. The appropriate strategy, individual focal are furthermore reviewing their current process for tracking areas and steps required are developed by an interdisoccupational health and safety performance indicators and ciplinary steering committee consisting of various senior are working to harmonize methodologies and timelines. leaders such as the head of Occupational Health & Safety, Starting in 2020, we will be incorporating occupational the chairman of the Works Council, the head of Health health and safety indicators for Versum Materials and InterManagement, and the production heads of our business molecular into our reporting. sectors. Meeting six times a year, the committee discusses topics such as workplace health fundamentals, good leaderOur commitment: Policies and works ship and tailored health programs. agreements Across our sites worldwide, our EHS managers help Our approach to occupational health and safety is detailed organize and evolve EHS practices. In Tokyo (Japan), for in our Group Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) Policy. instance, we have implemented special anti-stress This is an integral part of our EHS management system, programs to promote employee mental health. In Taiwan, which undergoes an external OHSAS 18001 audit every an array of exercise programs has been organized under year. the banner of “Enrich your health deposit”. Our site in Our Group Health Policy defines how we ensure workGillingham (United Kingdom) has a program in place that place safety for our employees while also promoting their encourages its employees to ride their bike to work and health and well-being. This document details our Groupdo something positive for their health. In supporting these wide approach to safety and health management as efforts, we seek to promote and maintain the physical and well as our comprehensive behavioral modification program mental well-being of our workforce. to prevent workplace accidents and occupational diseases. On top of their usual tasks, some of our production One component of the policy is our Global Wellbeing and employees at our sites in Darmstadt and Gernsheim are also Health Promotion Framework, which describes the differing responsible for health matters. After completing a training requirements in a wide array of countries. Our individual course, these health partners act as a liaison between our sites are responsible for performing local workplace risk employees and Health Management, providing a channel assessments and hazard analyses. In 2019, we implethrough which employees can voice their ideas and suggesmented our internal Group Procedure Lab Safety standard, tions for workplace health management practices. Since which describes the measures to be taken to safeguard the our production employees have shown great appreciation health of lab employees and to minimize the environmental for the dedication of these first health partners, we have burden of lab operations. Moreover, in 2019 we revised decided to start introducing this practice in other departour EHS Compliance for Contractor Management standard, ments as well. In 2019, we added health partners to three thereby integrating our contractors into our occupational administrative units and two laboratory units. As of the end health and safety efforts, in line with the latest findings and of 2019, there were a total of 66 health partners at the in compliance with our Group-wide regulations. Darmstadt and Gernsheim sites. At most of our sites in Germany, we work in partnership Our Health Management unit asks all participants to with employee representatives to draft comprehensive submit anonymous opinions and suggestions for each of the works agreements on occupational health and safety. measures implemented, which help shape the evolution and Introduced in 2017, for instance, our Occupational Integragrowth of these initiatives. tion Management works agreement governs the procedure for employees who have been on extended sick leave. OccuIntegration of Versum Materials and pational Integration Management applies to all our sites in Intermolecular Germany. This works agreement is designed to retain an In the course of integrating the companies Versum Materials employee’s position while also helping to prevent adverse and Intermolecular, we are examining their existing health impacts after the respective employee returns to management structures, policies, standards, and processes work. 114 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Employees Safety certification renewed research & development facilities will be integrated into the Our occupational health and safety management system is program in the course of upcoming EHS audits. currently OHSAS 18001 certified at 31 of our sites. At In 2019, we conducted awareness campaigns at 30 of these sites, 100% of employees are covered by a various sites as part of our BeSafe! program in a bid to certified occupational safety management system. At our further bolster our safety culture. For instance, we increased global headquarters in Darmstadt, the OHSAS 18001 occuemployee awareness by means of a safety video that forms pational health and safety standard applies to around 70% part of our BeSafe! training and is also available on our of employees; the occupational health and safety of the intranet. In 2019, we created Italian, Korean and remaining 30% of Darmstadt employees, who do not work Portuguese versions of the video in an effort to reach more in operating units, is safeguarded by the Merck Management of our employees in their local language, bringing the total System. The certification process helps us pinpoint weak up to nine languages. In addition, several subsidiaries again areas, identify opportunities for improvement and take suitheld safety competitions. Furthermore, we conducted two able measures. Other sites are also required to apply this refresher courses on key content from our BeSafe! program, standard. as well as occupational safety training in many countries We are preparing to transition to ISO 45001, which is in accordance with the statutory requirements and specific replacing OHSAS 18001, a process that should be complete risks of each country. by 2020 along with the ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 recertification. Our Health Management unit At our Darmstadt and Gernsheim sites, our Health ManageAccident rates ment unit conducts an array of campaigns and programs to The lost time injury rate (LTIR) is the indicator used promote the health of our workforce. These activities are to assess the success of our safety efforts. This figure is based on health indicators derived from sources such as a global measure of the number of accidents resulting in the health report issued by our company health insurance at least one day of missed work per one million manfund, evaluations from our Site Medical Center and, since hours. We track the LTIR for both employees and temporary 2018, our employee survey. We utilize the findings in the staff. Having achieved the target we set in 2010 for a 2.5 creation of prevention programs tailored to specific LTIR, in 2015 we set a new ambitious goal of permanently target groups or facilities. Moreover, our Health Managelowering this figure to 1.5 by 2020. After all, we believe ment unit offers specific health initiatives such as mindfulthat nothing is worth an accident. In 2019, our LTIR was ness courses and workplace ergonomics consultation. Along 1.5. The majority of incidents resulting in lost time were these lines, we have a standard procedure in place for slips, trips and falls, along with contusions and lacerations continuously assessing the working conditions and environfrom the operation of machinery and equipment. In 2019, ment, making state-of-the-art updates wherever needed. If we recorded no fatal accidents. other sites express interest, our Health Management unit Generally, our sites are not endangered by hazards will advise on potential improvements or health programs. that could potentially cause severe injuries or have serious When requested, we also provide local consultation and run health consequences. This is because as a rule, before campaigns by means of an internal service contract. starting any activity worldwide, we perform a hazard Our employees have access to a health catalog detailing assessment. In conducting this analysis, we identify hazards our Health Management services in both English and and have them eliminated before commencing a project or German that contains information on ergonomics, nutrition, commissioning a plant. If this is not possible, we put measstress, and mental health issues. ures in place to minimize the potential impacts as far as possible. Fit@Merck fitness program Throughout Germany, we offer our employees services such Clear rules of conduct as our Fit@Merck program, which provides them with a Experience shows that most workplace accidents can be subsidy of up to € 195 per year towards gym memberprevented by proper conduct. Through our BeSafe! safety ships and physical fitness classes. In Darmstadt and culture initiative, we are raising employee awareness of Gernsheim, we furthermore run a company sports program the dangers in the workplace and providing them with that currently features 28 different activities such as tennis, appropriate safety behavior rules. All relevant production volleyball, strength training, triathlon, yoga, and bouland warehouse sites have now been incorporated into the dering. program. In 2020, the remaining administrative and 115 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Employees Special ergonomics programs opportunity to take part in the Weight Watchers At Work for In an effort to improve our workplace, we regularly assess Shift Employees program. Weight Watchers designed this the ergonomics of individual workstations, implementing new approach in partnership with our Health Management appropriate measures as required. Our workers also receive unit and has not yet conducted the program at any other training on occupational ergonomics tailored to specific company. Aimed at employees with a body mass index areas, whether manufacturing, office work or the labor(BMI) equal to or greater than 25, which is considered overatory. Moreover, we offer people at many sites the option weight, a Weight Watchers coach provided in-depth instrucof participating in special ergonomics training such as the tion on making healthy nutritional choices and leading Industrial Athlete Program in the United States, which helps a more active lifestyle. The course focused particularly on employees improve their physical and general well-being. living and coping with shift work, with the schedule planned around the participants’ shifts. On average, workers lost Training in mobile gyms seven kilograms during the program. In 2019, we expanded our Training Island project, which centers around mobile gyms located in renovated buses. Examinations and support for our employees With access to state-of-the-art equipment and professional Our Physical Ability Test and Health Preservation process trainers, participants can work out close to their office twice allows us to ensure that all employees meet the health a week for 12 minutes. The program was designed in particrequirements for their particular tasks. Due to new statutory ular to prevent musculoskeletal disorders and to motivate requirements, our Site Medical Center is working with our employees to exercise. In addition to working out, partiLegal department and the Works Council to develop a new cipants can also access individual consultation on topics physical aptitude examination. such as food and nutrition, while start and end screenings Our Travel Health & Medical Advisory Service assists make personal successes visible. In 2019, 920 employees employees who spend a lot of time abroad on company made use of this opportunity. business, providing them with recommendations on necessary vaccinations and advice on hygiene risks. Weight Watchers At Work for Shift Employees From April to July 2019, 21 Life Science and Performance Materials shift workers in Darmstadt and Gernsheim had the 116 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Environment Environment Within this chapter: 118 Environmental stewardship 121 Climate action 124 Waste and recycling 126 Water management 129 Plant and process safety 117 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Environment Environmental stewardship  Part of the non-financial report Our business operations impact the environment, generating greenhouse gas emissions, wastewater and waste. In addition, we use materials that can adversely affect the environment if not handled properly. At all our production sites, we meet a strict set of environmental regulations and continually adapt our processes to new regulatory requirements. Due to the growing scarcity of natural resources, we strive to use energy, water and materials as efficiently as possible. Our approach to environmental stewardship our global headquarters in Darmstadt (Germany) covering Minimizing negative environmental impacts and taking topics such as energy efficiency and climate action, meaningful climate action requires a holistic approach. We wastewater, occupational health and safety, process safety, aim to closely monitor detrimental emissions into the air, and our Rapid Incident Report System (RIRS). All EHS water and soil and do our best to prevent them. Our producmanagers participate in regular e-learning courses and tion sites are located in established industrial and commerclassroom seminars on new requirements and regulations. cial zones. Before acquiring a company – and thus its sites EQ senior leadership regularly reports on environmental – we first conduct an ecological risk assessment, taking into stewardship performance to the Executive Board. Every six consideration information from publicly accessible sources months, EQ prepares a report on environment, health and such as neighbors and non-governmental organizations safety for the Executive Board. Focusing on the progress (NGOs). made, the report also covers climate action, water management, waste and recycling, as well as plant and process How we structure our environmental safety. The Executive Board uses this brief as a source of stewardship practices information and as documentation to support ISO 14001 Executive Board member Belén Garijo is responsible for and BS OHSAS 18001 certification. environmental stewardship, which also covers climate Our Executive Board is responsible for approving overimpact mitigation, water management, waste and recycling, arching Group-wide guidelines such as our Environment, biodiversity, and plant and process safety. Our Group EnvirHealth and Safety (EHS) Policy. Operational standards are onment, Health, Safety, Security, Quality function (EQ) approved by the head of EQ. steers all the related efforts Group-wide. At our individual Within our business sectors, the Operations Leadership sites, each site director is responsible for environmental Committee (OLC) makes strategic decisions on emissions stewardship as well as occupational health and safety at and energy, water and waste. The OLC consists of represthe operational level. At larger facilities, the site directors entatives from Healthcare, Life Science, Performance Materreceive support and advice from Environment, Health and ials, and our Group EQ function. Decisions made by the OLC Safety (EHS) managers, with EHS coordinators performing and any resulting actions are implemented at the operathis role at smaller facilities. These local EHS organizations tional level within the respective business sector. report to and work in close collaboration with EQ. Whenever we design new sites or plants, we always In 2019, our EHS organization comprised more than involve EQ, which is responsible for reviewing the ecological 200 EHS managers – supported at the local level by aspects of a project and for advising our sites. Additionally, further staff members. All new EHS managers are required EQ performs detailed environmental impact assessments for to complete EHStart-up!, a three-day training course at large-scale projects. 118 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Environment INFO Integration of Versum Materials and Intermolecular In the course of integrating Versum Materials and InterOUR GROUP EQ FUNCTION molecular, two companies we acquired in 2019, we are (ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH, SAFETY, reviewing their existing management structures, policies, SECURITY, QUALITY) standards, and processes for environmental stewardship Responsibilities of Environment, Health, and are implementing our internal Group-wide requirements Safety, Security, Quality (EQ): if necessary. We are furthermore reviewing their current Develop and implement the Group EQ process for collecting environmental-related indicators and strategy are working to harmonize methodologies and timelines. Perform environmental and safety audits Starting in 2020, we will be incorporating the environmental Conduct compliance audits indicators for Versum Materials and Intermolecular into our reporting. Implement EQ management systems Conduct EQ improvement programs Our commitment: Standards and standard Provide advice and input on investments, operating procedures process development and acquisitions Our approach to environmental stewardship is built on our Provide training Group Environment, Health and Safety Policy (EHS Responsibilities of local EHS units: Policy), which has been approved by our Executive Board. Closely aligned with the requirements of the chemical Wastewater treatment ® industry's Responsible Care Global Charter and the Waste management ISO 14001 environmental management standard, this Environmental analysis policy underscores our leaders’ responsibility for environPlant safety mental stewardship, health and safety. It is also aimed at our suppliers, encouraging them to likewise adopt higher Occupational health and safety standards of environmental sustainability and safety. Our Fire protection/risk prevention EHS Policy thus complements the Responsible Sourcing Approval procedures Principles of our Group Procurement function. Internal guidelines, standards and standard operating procedures define how we put the principles of our EHS policy into practice. For instance, the Merck Group EHS, Security and Quality Manual describes how we organize environmental stewardship and occupational safety Group-wide. In addition to this manual, we have also put Clearly defined incident reporting procedures in place a number of other internal environmental stewardTo review critical situations, near misses and environmental ship standards such as our Air Emissions Standard, Waste incidents as quickly as possible and take countermeasures, Management Standard, Sustainable Water Management we have a set of reporting procedures in place that allow us Standards, and Energy Management Standard. to track the respective incident, its degree of severity and all Potential EHS risks posed by acquisitions, divestments risk mitigation efforts. We record all incidents Group-wide or site closures are assessed within the scope of due diliand report them to the Executive Board every six months. gence, a process defined in our EHS Due Diligence and Post In the event of major incidents, our digital Rapid Merger Transaction Standard. When performing audits, new Incident Report System (RIRS) promptly notifies the sites are given priority. Executive Board as well as our Group EQ and CommuWe regularly review our internal guidelines, standards nications functions. Major incidents could include fatalities, and standard operating procedures. In 2019, we updated accidents with multiple casualties, incidents that impact and introduced multiple standards and processes such as neighboring communities, or natural disasters such as our Fire Protection standard, which provides our sites with earthquakes and flooding. Through the RIRS, we can quickly a clear set of fire protection requirements. In 2019, we coordinate with all those involved and immediately inform furthermore established a new Laboratory Safety standard. the impacted sites of the respective incident. 119 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Environment Material investments in environmental impact internal audit reports and management reviews carried out mitigation under the Group certificate afford us a better overview of Efforts to diligently prevent and monitor air, water and soil how all our sites are performing. emissions entail significant expense on our part, as does 81 proper waste disposal. In addition, we have set up provisions for groundwater and soil remediation to ensure that we can execute all the necessary measures. As of December 31, 2019, our provisions for environmental impact mitigation totaled € 142.7 million, 93% of which was attributable to Merck KGaA. of our sites worldwide are currently covered by our Assessing environmental impacts and ISO 14001 certificate. reporting violations In general, we conduct risk-based assessments along with internal and external audits on all our production sites every three years with the goal of analyzing and minimizing Every year we contract a third party to perform a certificaour environmental footprint. Conducted by our Group EQ tion audit. In 2019, a sample of ten sites underwent an audit function, these assessments serve to ensure that our for our Group certificate, with all audited facilities passing requirements are being met, with appropriate corrective the audit. Beyond undergoing external inspections, we also measures being implemented as needed. In addition to conduct internal audits to ensure Group-wide compliance audits, we also have grievance mechanisms in place to with our requirements. identify potential violations of our standards. In our Group EHS audits, we assess our sites’ performance on a fiveDiscussing environmental issues tier scale: “excellent”, “good”, “satisfactory”, “poor”, and By participating in a variety of industry associations and “critical”, which in turn determines how frequently an audit federations, we engage in a discourse on overarching is conducted. If the findings are deemed to be good, we environmental issues, sharing best practices and lessons audit the facility less often, while significant violations can learned. Additionally, we contribute to the dialogue on plant increase the frequency. In 2019, 93% of the 41 sites and process safety in our capacity as a member of the audited were rated as “good” or “satisfactory”; no site was European Process Safety Center and the Commission on rated “critical”. Process Safety of the German Federal Ministry for the EnvirApart from using audits to identify issues, we also onment, Nature Conservation and Nuclear Safety. Furtherencourage employees to report potential breaches of our more, we discuss topics of local relevance in meetings with standards to our Compliance unit. In the 2019 period, we members of the communities in the vicinity of our sites. recorded no significant violations of environmental laws or regulations Group-wide. Biodiversity at our sites Unsealed surfaces represent an important habitat for plants ISO 14001:2015 Group certificate and animals. At our facilities, however, we are required Since 2009, our company has held a Group ISO 14001 certito seal certain surfaces to minimize the risk of chemicals ficate that mandates all production sites with more than 50 entering the ecosystem. Insofar as safety requirements employees to implement an environmental management permit, we seek to increase the proportion of unsealed system with predefined indicators for factors such as surfaces. greenhouse gas emissions and water use. Other facilities are not obligated to undergo certification. The annual 120 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Environment Climate action Climate change is one of the major challenges of the 21st century. Our company is no exception when it comes to generating greenhouse gases. We are therefore working to reduce these emissions to mitigate our impact on the climate. This course of action matters not only to us, but to our customers and many other stakeholders as well. Changes in the climate can lead to planning and investment uncertainty. At the same time, statutory and regulatory requirements are being modified in a bid to encourage climate-friendly behavior. We believe that climate action and energy efficiency will pay off in the long run, benefiting both the environment and our business. Our contribution to climate action efficiency indicators for Versum Materials and InterWe are taking action to mitigate our impact on the climate. molecular into our reporting. Our goal for 2020 is to reduce our direct greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1) and indirect emissions (Scope 2) by Our commitment: Standards and legal 20% relative to the 2006 baseline, an objective set by the frameworks Executive Board in 2009. Scope 1 covers emissions that we Energy Management and Emissions of Refrigerants, two produce ourselves, for instance by burning fossil fuels to of our Group EHS standards, enable energy and processgenerate power, while Scope 2 pertains to emissions from related emissions to be managed consistently across the the consumption of purchased energy, such as electricity Group. Through an audit process, we check compliance with or district heating. Worldwide, 38 of our sites account for all EHS standards on a random basis. roughly 80% of our greenhouse gas emissions, which is We know that efficient energy management plays a why we are focusing our actions here. In 2019, we started major role in climate action and is also important to our developing a new climate target for the period leading up to customers. With this in mind, 13 of our sites have decided to 2030. achieve ISO 50001 certification, the international standard In past years, we focused our efforts on curbing greenfor energy management. house gas emissions through energy efficiency initiatives. In addition, we are subject to a wide array of national By adapting and updating our systems and facilities, we are and international energy and climate regulations. In continually improving the energy efficiency of our research, terms of energy efficiency and renewable energies, we are production and buildings. We are also working to reduce particularly impacted by the EU Energy Efficiency Directive process-related greenhouse gas emissions as well as emis(2012/27/EU), which stipulates that the affected companies sions from our own power generation. When financially must conduct regular energy audits or implement an viable, we use renewable sources to generate our own ISO 50001-certified energy management system. The sites power. Since 2019, we have been increasingly sourcing subject to these requirements are responsible for taking the electricity from renewable sources. requisite actions and furthermore undergo audits conducted by internal or external experts. The German federal Energy How we structure our climate action Services Act transposes the elements of the EU Energy EffiOur Group Environment, Health, Safety, Security, Quality ciency Directive into German law. (EQ) function is responsible for climate action within our The EU Energy Performance of Buildings Directive company (Environmental stewardship), with our individual (2018/844/EU) moreover sets the mandatory energy sites implementing the necessary measures at the local requirements for new buildings, for the major renovation level. of existing buildings, and for technical building systems. In Germany, this is also governed by the Energy Conservation Integration of Versum Materials and Act and the Energy Conservation Ordinance, which were Intermolecular implemented by the operators of our plants and buildings In the course of integrating Versum Materials and Interwith support from internal and external experts. molecular, two companies we acquired in 2019, we are In Germany, our company is furthermore subject to reviewing their existing management structures, policies, additional statutory energy supply requirements such as the standards, and processes for climate action and energy Energy Industry Act and the Renewable Energy Sources Act. management, and are implementing our internal GroupOur power plant in Darmstadt and our heating plant wide requirements if necessary. We are furthermore in Gernsheim (both in Germany) have made it necessary reviewing their current process for collecting greenhouse for us to participate in EU emissions trading since 2005. gas and energy consumption-related indicators and are The European climate and energy policy up to the year working to harmonize methodologies and timelines. Starting 2030 is designed to achieve the goals of the 2015 Paris in 2020, we will incorporate the greenhouse gas and energy Climate Agreement, with EU emissions trading playing a key role in reaching the greenhouse gas reduction targets. 121 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Environment The amended EU Emissions Trading Directive (2003/87/ amounted to 0.041 kg of CO2eq per euro of net sales in this EC) took effect in April 2018, thereby updating the legal period. framework for the fourth phase of the EU emissions trading Between 2006 and 2019, we more than doubled our program (2021 – 2030) and tightening the rules for free sales, which means that, relative to sales, our emissions CO2 allowances. Going forward, we will therefore have to dropped significantly. purchase emission allowances that we are still largely These figures do not yet include the emissions assoobtaining for free during phase three (2013 – 2020). ciated with the acquisition of Versum Materials, which we completed in early October 2019. The corresponding emisSlight rise in energy consumption sions indicators have not yet been integrated into our We used 2,240 gigawatt hours of energy in 2019, versus reporting. Based on the figures Versum Materials reported 2,227 gigawatt hours in 2018. Our energy intensity relative for the previous two years (not calculated in accordance to sales totaled 0.14 kilowatt hours per euro in 2019. with our metrics), we are currently expecting this to add roughly 1.3 million metric tons of CO2eq per year to our Our emissions carbon footprint. The majority of these are process-related Despite growth in our operating business, we managed to emissions. During the integration process, we are reduce our greenhouse gas emissions by 15% relative examining the root cause of these high emissions along with to the 2006 baseline. Our process-related emissions slightly ways to curb them. Because we have no data available for rose from 90,000 metric tons in 2018, to 93,000 metric Versum Materials dating back to 2006, we cannot incortons in 2019. In the reporting year, we emitted 665,000 porate these additional emissions into our current climate metric tons of CO2 equivalents, versus 666,000 metric tons action target. However, we will be integrating these into the in 2018. Greenhouse gas emission intensity (Scope 1 and 2) scope of our next target, which will take effect in 2021. 1 Total greenhouse gas emissions (metric kilotons) (Scope 1 and Scope 2 of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol) 1) In line with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, for all previous years (up to the 2006 baseline), greenhouse gas emissions have been calculated based on the current Group structure in the fiscal year and retroactively adjusted for acquisitions and divestments of (parts of) companies, or for changes in emission factors (portfolio-adjusted). 2) Estimated Versum Materials emissions. Because we have no data available for Versum Materials prior to 2017, we cannot retroactively calculate these data. For this reason, we will be reporting Versum Materials greenhouse gas emissions separately from other parts of the Group until 2020. Climate impact mitigation energy efficiency, including our Edison program, and In 2019, our emissions reduction actions focused on therefore did not initiate any new measures in 2019. purchasing power from renewable energies. Additionally, we utilize our own photovoltaic plants worldwide with Employees and climate action a total output of approximately 2,300 kilowatts. FurtherWe encourage our employees to do their part to protect the more, we are taking steps to optimize the HVAC systems climate. Aside from regularly reporting on our Group-wide and heat exchanger networks at our global headquarters in climate actions in our EHS newsletters, we also provide Darmstadt (Germany), efforts that are already saving 1,100 helpful information and tips on our intranet. Moreover, we metric tons of carbon dioxide per year. Improvements to support employees who prefer greener modes of transportthe heat exchanger networks were initially carried out in a ation. For instance, we constantly update our pool of leased pilot plant and can be applied to other plants. Since 2012, vehicles with more efficient models. our strategic Edison program has saved us approximately 89,000 megawatt hours of energy, the majority of which was electricity. In developing a new climate action target for 2030, we are revising our approach to promoting 122 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Environment Green mobility Bike leasing and sharing in Germany In recent years, we have significantly lowered the average At our German sites, we also encourage our people to CO2 emissions of our company car fleet. Nevertheless, we use eco-friendly forms of transportation through will not succeed in reducing these emissions as planned by “bike4me”, a program enabling them to lease a bike at 20% by the end of 2020 (2013 baseline). Currently, we are favorable rates with payments coming out of their pre-tax working on new Group-wide guidelines and a list of measincome. In 2019, 339 of our employees entered into leasing ures in order to rapidly include new engine types in our agreements. fleet. Going forward, we will set a new reduction target Furthermore, our employees throughout Germany can based on the requirements stipulated by the new worldalso use the Call a Bike service offered by Deutsche Bahn, wide harmonized light vehicle test procedure (WLTP). the German railway company, to borrow a bike free of The average emission rate of our company car fleet in charge for the first half hour. Deutsche Bahn has set up Darmstadt and Gernsheim (both Germany) is currently 120 further bike sharing stations around our sites in Darmstadt. g/km. Starting in 2020, we will be calculating and reporting We sponsored 100 bikes in the city in 2019. this figure according to the WLTP. Our company fleet at these two sites consists of 24 electric cars (As of: December Switching to sea freight 2019), representing 16% of the motor vehicle pool. To In an effort to lower greenhouse gas emissions resulting encourage green mobility, we have installed an extensive from the transport of our products, we use sea freight charging infrastructure at our global headquarters in Darmrather than air shipping whenever possible. However, stadt, part of which is available to our employees for their this is only an option for products that can withstand own personal use. In addition, we also provide charging protracted transport times undamaged. At the same time, stations for company and personal vehicles in France, India, we cannot allow the quality of customer service to suffer Ireland, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, and the United due to lengthy transport. Given all these factors, raw materStates. ials such as mica are transported primarily by ship. Subsidies for employees Transparency for CO2 emissions and energy At our German subsidiaries, we offer a subsidy of € 100 consumption towards monthly lease payments to employees who opt for The CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project) assesses a greener car model. In the United States, we provide the ways in which companies are working to lower greenour employees with financial incentives to choose a more house gas emissions and minimize the risks and sustainable lifestyle. For example, employees can receive up consequences of climate change, along with their success to US$ 1,000 in subsidies towards the installation of solar and strategy for doing so. The CDP rating scale ranges from power on their home and up to US$ 100 towards the cost A to D-, with A being the top score. In 2019, our company of an energy audit. Employees are also eligible for as much received a “C”, thus maintaining the result achieved in 2018 as US$ 3,500 towards the purchase of a hybrid or electric (likewise C). vehicle that was designated as “SmartWay Elite” by the U.S. Since 2008, we have been reporting in detail on our Environmental Protection Agency. To date, we have helped climate actions as stipulated by the CDP, particularly Scope 59 of our U.S. employees install home solar power systems 1 and 2. Regarding Scope 3, we only track emissions from and motivated 366 people to purchase a qualifying hybrid or business travel and employee commuting, from our waste electric vehicle. management activities, and from the production and transportation of fuels and energy. We are working to create Job ticket and carpooling transparency for other Scope 3 categories such as the We offer our workforce in Darmstadt a job ticket, an annual production of our raw materials, which we are not reporting public transit pass whose cost we partially cover. In 2019, because we lack sufficient data. However, we intend to 4,265 employees made use of this option. They also have remedy this issue in the coming years. access to an online tool that helps them organize carpools. 123 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Environment Waste and recycling Although waste contains valuable raw materials that can be reused in the production stream, it can also pose a risk to the environment. We therefore consider it essential to prevent or recycle as much of our waste as possible. Our approach to waste and recycling management practices. Moreover, in an effort to ensure Because we want to reduce our environmental footprint, we Group-wide compliance with our environmental standards, strive to both limit the loss of raw materials and reduce the we regularly host activities such as EHS forums and conferimpact of our waste disposal practices on the environment. ences to keep our local EHS managers and site directors To this end, we are working to lower the Merck Waste Score, informed on various waste disposal matters and raise our key waste management indicator, by 5% by 2025 (2016 awareness for the topic. baseline). We generally try to prevent the generation of waste, for Integration of Versum Materials and instance by developing new production processes or optimIntermolecular izing existing ones. Since this is not always feasible, we In the course of integrating Versum Materials and Interdo our best to reuse the accrued waste to produce matermolecular, two companies we acquired in 2019, we are ials or generate energy. We support the circular economy reviewing their existing management structures, policies, approach through our Merck Waste Scoring System and the standards, and processes for waste management and recycrelated goal of recycling. Waste separation makes it possible ling, and implementing our internal Group-wide requireto recover and recycle raw materials, while unrecycments if necessary. We are furthermore reviewing their lable waste is discarded in an environmentally sustainable current process for collecting waste-related indicators and manner in line with the strictest waste disposal standards. are working to harmonize methodologies and timelines. In doing so, we comply with local legal regulations and take Starting in 2020, we will incorporate the waste indicators for into account the available disposal options. Versum Materials and Intermolecular into our reporting. Responsibility for the waste disposal process Our commitment: Group-wide EHS standard As a generator of waste, we are responsible for the ultimate Our Group-wide EHS Waste Management Standard provides disposal of our waste products and therefore choose our a consistent framework for waste management service providers with the utmost care, contractually stipacross all our sites, defining organizational structures and ulating disposal requirements. We conduct random audits minimum requirements. It also stipulates that all facilities to verify their compliance with our disposal standards, document their waste by type and quantity and report these especially when it comes to hazardous waste. data to our Group EQ function. How we organize our waste management and Systematic waste reduction recycling Within our company we use a variety of methods for recycOur Group Environment, Health, Safety, Security, Quality ling and disposing of waste, each of which has a different (EQ) function bears overall responsibility for our waste impact on the environment. To systematically account for management and recycling practices, while our EHS these impacts in our waste reduction efforts, we have managers are in charge of implementing our guidelines created the Merck Waste Scoring System, which allows us to and requirements at our individual sites (see Environmental compare the amount of waste our individual sites generate stewardship). At both the Group level and in the United and track our various waste streams. Under this system, the States, we have established waste expert network volume of waste is assigned to one of five categories: landgroups whose members share their waste management filling, thermal disposal, waste-to-energy, recycling, and expertise and best practices with one another. prevention. This is then multiplied by a factor that increases Waste management forms part of our Group-wide envirbased on the disposal method’s environmental impact. The onmental management system, which is certified to sum of the scores from each category provides the total ISO 14001. As well as undergoing external certification, Merck Waste Score. Prevented waste is multiplied by a we also conduct internal EHS audits to review our waste factor of zero, thus lowering the overall result. 124 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Environment Reducing the environmental impacts of waste Advancing the circular economy In 2017, we calculated our Group-wide Waste Score for In early 2019, we rolled out our ProMec initiative at our 2016. Taking this as a baseline, our goal is to shrink the Darmstadt (Germany) site. This program aims to promote environmental footprint of our waste disposal by 5% by a sustainable, resource-efficient circular economy by 2025. To achieve this objective, we constantly examine expanding our existing solvent recycling program, thereby our production processes and disposal methods to identify minimizing the negative environmental impacts from the potential areas for improvement. We are supported in this disposal of our production waste. Through the pilot, we endeavor by two waste expert network groups that reguare now recycling approximately 1,300 metric tons of liquid larly discuss best practices, share lessons learned across our production waste per year. sites, and drive the transition to greener disposal methods across the Group. In general, all sites are expected to do Optimizing processes to reduce solvent usage their part to achieve this goal. In 2019, we optimized the manufacturing process for puroRelative to 2018, the amount of waste we generated mycin, one of our active ingredients used in research, at our in 2019 decreased slightly, totaling 244 metric kilotons site in Jerusalem (Israel). Per production batch, we are now (2018: 245 metric kilotons). Soil, construction and demolireplacing 4,000 liters of the carcinogenic solvent dichlorotion waste continue to account for the majority of our total methane with 200 liters of methanol. In 2019, we thus waste, representing 31%, the same as in 2018. The Merck saved 8,000 liters of dichloromethane. Waste Score does not factor in this type of waste, which can rarely be avoided and must be disposed in accordance with Educating employees on proper waste disposal clearly prescribed methods. In 2019, our Life Science business sector created a set of more than 70 different signs on waste, recycling and composting. The designs are available in four languages to all business sectors. They provide a flexible, uniform and easy-to-understand system which educates employees on site-specific waste, recycling, and composting requirements. 125 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Environment Water management With water scarcity affecting more and more regions worldwide, sustainable water management is a key focus of our environmental stewardship. After all, we too depend on the availability of water. However, our wastewater may contain traces of substances such as heavy metals or active pharmaceutical ingredients. Our water management practices comply with all applicable water protection laws, which are becoming increasingly stringent. Our approach to sustainable water Integration of Versum Materials and management Intermolecular To us, sustainable water management means not negatively In the course of integrating Versum Materials and Interimpacting the aquatic ecosystems from which we obtain molecular, we are reviewing their existing management freshwater, or into which we discharge treated wastewater. structures, policies, standards, and processes for water To promote sustainable, efficient water management management, and implementing our internal Group-wide practices, we use an assessment tool from the European principles if necessary. We are furthermore reviewing their Chemical Industry Council (Cefic) to evaluate the water current process for collecting water and wastewater-related management systems across our facilities. Based on this indicators and are working to harmonize methodologies and assessment, our sites draw up an action plan and implement timelines. Starting in 2020, we will incorporate the water it step by step. and wastewater indicators for Versum Materials and InterBesides evaluating our approach to water stewardship, molecular into our reporting. we have also set the goal of reducing our water use at sites in water stressed areas by 10% by 2020, relative Our commitment: Standards and procedures to the 2014 baseline. To this end, we are systematically Our Group-wide “Sustainable Water Management Part 1 – analyzing our water use data utilizing tools such as the Wastewater” and “Sustainable Water Management Part 2 – Water Risk Filter of the World Wide Fund For Nature (WWF) Water use and stormwater protection” standards detail the and the Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas of the World Resources way we integrate modern mechanisms of sustainable Institute (WRI). These help us determine whether a site is water management into our management system. Both located in a water-stressed area, which occurs when the are based on the commitments we made under the global water withdrawn exceeds the amount of water renewed. ® Responsible Care initiative. Our “Wastewater” standard At the same time, it is our responsibility to minimize provides us with a method of assessing our wastewater the impact of our wastewater across all our sites, which is discharge into the ecosystem, while “Water use and stormwhy our regular EHS audits also review site-specific water water protection” sets out Group-wide requirements for the management practices at our production and development responsible use of water as a resource. In addition, it estabfacilities. lishes a way for us to manage the risks that arise from direct Our water management efforts focus more heavily on or indirect water abstraction and also covers risks such as our manufacturing sites than our administrative facilities contaminated rainwater and flooding. We perform internal because they have a greater potential for impacting local audits to verify that our sites comply with these standards. aquatic ecosystems. They are all required to measure and assess the risks and impacts of the hazardous substances in their wastewater How we organize our water management and to analyze water withdrawal and rainwater risks. Our Group Environment, Health, Safety, Security, Quality In addition to these efforts, we are constantly optimizing (EQ) function (see also “Environmental stewardship”) bears our production and treatment processes to minimize, for overall responsibility for water management. At our sites, instance, the amount of active pharmaceutical ingredient engineers work in close collaboration with our EHS residues in our wastewater. Furthermore, all our pharmamanagers to conserve water and treat wastewater. ceutical manufacturing facilities have wastewater treatment plants and regularly assess the composition of their wastewater. 126 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Environment Water withdrawn from our own sources For the most part, we draw our process water from our own wells and source drinking water from local suppliers. In no instances do we compromise sensitive water sources. However, in the course of our sustainable water management activities, we keep an eye on trends that could potentially lead to sources being reclassified as sensitive. 3 1 Water abstraction (millions of m ) – 2019 1) The figures exclude Versum Materials since the integration process is still underway. More information can be found under Report profile. The cooling water used for our production processes cubic meters of water in total, with 784,661 cubic meters generally runs in a circular system. Depending on regulatory originating in water-stressed areas. This figure includes our standards and the energy footprint, we sometimes use manufacturing sites in Mexico City (Mexico), Mollet del freshwater for cooling in a once-through system. For certain Vallès (Spain), Kankakee (Illinois, USA), Norwood (Ohio, applications, we treat production wastewater and reuse it. United States), Savannah (Georgia, United States), Hsinchu In 2019, we recycled a total of 23.3 million cubic meters of and Taoyuan (both in Taiwan). These seven sites must both water. transparently report their water use and identify the process steps that require a particularly high volume of Comprehensive analyses water. Building on this information, we draw up action plans We make use of the Self-Assessment of the European to help our individual facilities lower their water consumpChemical Industry Council (Cefic), which was initially tion. We aim to achieve a 10% reduction in annual water utilized to survey our sites’ water management practices. use in water-stressed regions by 2020 (2014 baseline). By We continuously analyze the environmental impacts from the end of 2019, the respective sites had curbed their water our discharged water, and, as needed, take site-specific use by approximately 21% versus 2014. The sharp increase steps to address potential issues. over the previous year (2018: 11%) was partly due to production declines at our site in Savannah (Georgia, United Curbing water use States). We seek to minimize our impact on the water situation in the vicinity of our sites. In 2019, we consumed 14 million 127 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Environment Assessing our water management practices permit for the period from 2020 to 2034; we meet all the In addition to reporting on our climate action efforts, we requirements stipulated by the permit. We constantly invest also report water-related data to the CDP (formerly known resources in our various sites to meet the increasingly strinas the Carbon Disclosure Project). This initiative collects gent quality standards set forth by law, and consistently environmental data from companies once a year, evaluating coordinate our efforts with the respective authorities. their processes and performance on a scale from A to D-. In 2019, we were awarded a “B” for our water management Wastewater continuously monitored (2018: B-). Our two sustainable water management standards also cover the topic of wastewater. Our individual sites are Our wastewater responsible for assessing their wastewater management In 2019, we generated 13.2 million cubic meters of practices and identifying the areas that need improvement. wastewater. This consisted of around 9.3 million cubic They must also comply with the respective requirements meters of freshwater, which was directly discharged into imposed by local authorities. An expert has been surface waters, and 3.9 million cubic meters of other water, appointed for each of our business sectors to provide which was treated at external treatment plants or disposed guidance for our sites. of in an ecologically sustainable manner. Approximately 50% of our total wastewater was discharged by three sites. Antibiotic residues in wastewater Our Gernsheim site in Germany discharges its treated We process antibiotic active ingredients in small quantities. wastewater into the Rhine River and our Onahama facility The wastewater generated from these activities is subject in Japan into the Pacific Ocean. The wastewater generated to an additional purification process before being discharged by our Darmstadt (Germany) site is purified in our treatinto the environment. In 2018, we conducted a systematic, ment plants before being discharged into Schwarzbach/ Group-wide assessment of our ecological impacts from Ried creek, a tributary of the Rhine River. The volume of manufacturing and handling antibiotics. The results treated wastewater we discharge represents approximately confirmed the efficacy of our water treatment procedures: 4% of the average water volume of the Schwarzbach/Ried across the board, antibiotic residues were minimal and fell creek. At the end of 2019, we were issued a new discharge below local detection thresholds. 128 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Environment Plant and process safety  Part of the non-financial report The safety of our plants and processes is a key element of our environmental stewardship practices, allowing us to protect both our workforce and the people in the immediate vicinity of our sites. Furthermore, high-performance safety systems help minimize production errors and lower the risk of financial losses. Our approach to plant and process safety from planning and construction to operation, retooling, We seek to minimize manufacturing process hazards servicing and maintenance through to closure. Before wherever possible in order to avoid workplace accidents, commissioning a plant, we draft a safety concept that is production outages and chemical leaks. We train our subject to continuous review and, when necessary, updated employees regularly in an effort to prevent human error until the facility is decommissioned. This concept contains and also to detect technical defects before they can cause an overview of potential risks and the corresponding damage. protective measures. Our Group-wide EHS Spillage Control standard governs How we organize our plant and process the handling of hazardous materials and stipulates safety organizational requirements to prevent toxic substances Our Group Environment, Health, Safety, Security , Quality from spilling or leaking during storage and transport. In function (EQ) coordinates plant and process safety within addition to this standard, our Risk Management Process our company (Environmental stewardship), with our indiguides all our sites in identifying and assessing risks and vidual sites and their EHS managers handling this at the is used to devise steps to minimize them. Our Group operational level. In particular, fire protection is paraProcedure Hazard and Operability Study defines the indimount to the safety of our plants and processes. viduals responsible for pinpointing potential hazards during We conduct internal EHS audits to verify the safety new plant construction, plant alterations or safety-relevant of our plants and processes. While doing so, we also evalplant modifications as well as the manner in which these uate select suppliers based on criteria such as purchasing dangers should be identified and documented. In 2019, we volumes, type of incoming raw materials and geographic revised our Fire Protection standard, which provides our location. If we identify technical or organizational deficiensites with a clear framework of fire protection requirements. cies pertaining to occupational and plant safety, our vendors The revised EU directive on the control of major accident are obligated to rectify them. Our own sites are likewise hazards involving dangerous substances (aka Seveso III) required to correct any defects discovered during the audit, was transposed into German law in 2017 through the with the auditor verifying whether the specified corrective amended version of the 12th German Hazardous Incident action has been taken. When it comes to our suppliers, Ordinance (aka 12th BImSchV). Our processes and docuour Procurement organization verifies that the appropriate ments governing the assessment and reporting of measures have been implemented. potential hazards comply with statutory requirements. On request, members of the public may access our safety Integration of Versum Materials and reports at any time. At our Darmstadt (Germany) site, we Intermolecular hold neighborhood meetings to inform people about potenIn the course of integrating Versum Materials and Intertial hazards and protective measures in the event of a molecular, two companies we acquired in 2019, we are hazardous incident. Further information can be found in our reviewing their existing management structures, policies, Hazardous Incident Brochure, which we update every three standards, and procedures for plant and process safety years and send to approximately 17,000 households in the and are implementing our internal Group-wide requirements vicinity of our global headquarters. The document is also if necessary. We are furthermore reviewing their current available on our website. process for collecting plant and process safety-related indicators and are working to harmonize methodologies and Keeping a close eye on safety timelines. Starting in 2020, we will be incorporating plant Our EHS performance indicators make it possible to and process safety indicators for Versum Materials and measure safety and identify opportunities for improvement. Intermolecular into our reporting. We track EHS performance indicators at all our production and warehouse facilities, as well as at major research sites. Our commitment: Standards and legislation In doing so, we record both accidents and near misses. We Our Group-wide EHS Plant and Process Safety standard, investigate each individual incident and devise appropriate which sets forth the safety rules for all production plants and countermeasures in an effort to prevent such accidents from warehouses, encompasses the entire life cycle of a plant, reoccurring in the future. 129 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Environment 3.6 Under our EHS Incident Rate (EHS IR), which also includes our Loss of Primary Containment (LoPC) indicator, we record and evaluate all major and minor incidents. Also important is the EHS Leading Rate (EHS LR), which is calculated based on an analysis of near misses and critical situations. In 2019, we specified the Occupational Illness Rate (OIR) as an additional indicator. Complementing our EHS Our EHS IR indicator was 3.6 in 2019, which represents IR indicator, which tracks spontaneous accidents, the OIR a significant year-on-year decrease (2018: 5.3). In 2019, is intended to record work-related illnesses and their longwe introduced a new calculation method, which is why term effects. our EHS IR figures for 2019 and 2018 deviate from those Furthermore, we have set the goal of stabilizing our lost previously reported. time injury rate (LTIR) at 1.5 Group-wide by 2020, which measures the number of accidents Group-wide resulting in at least one missed day of work per million man-hours. Our individual business sectors also define their own annual In 2019, we recorded no significant incident-related spills targets for EHS IR and EHS LR. EHS performance indicator across any of our production, research and warehouse sites reports are submitted once a month at the business sector Group-wide. level, with the Executive Board receiving reports on the topic every six months. Training and sharing lessons learned The safety of our plants and processes is predicated on the EHS Incident Rate successful interplay between man and machine, which To document accidents and other incidents, we track the is why it is crucial for us to provide our employees with EHS Incident Rate (EHS IR), an indicator that covers the regular training. Our internal continuing education programs following four types of incidents: for site, production, engineering, and EHS managers also cover plant and process safety. Likewise, we train newly The number of workplace accidents involving our hired EHS managers in plant and process safety during their employees and the contractors who work at our sites onboarding, with 25 new EHS managers completing this Environmentally relevant incidents as defined by the training in 2019. European Chemical Industry Council (Cefic) and the In the interest of improving safety, it is extremely German Chemical Industry Association (VCI), for example important to continuously share best practices and product spills lessons learned. This approach enables all our production The activation of operational safety precautions with no sites to learn from incidents at other facilities and impleadverse impact on people or the environment, such as ment preventive measures. Once a month, for instance, site preemptive systems shutdowns directors and EHS managers participate in safety leadership Deviations identified during external reviews and audits calls to share new lessons learned. Additionally, our site EHS managers regularly hold sessions to discuss matters. The calculation of the EHS Incident Rate includes the number of incidents and the severity of the event relative to the number of man-hours worked. The lower the EHS Incident Rate, the safer the site is. 130 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Community Community Within this chapter: 132 Community involvement 134 Global Health 136 Broad Minds 131 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Community Community involvement We take on social responsibility, especially in those areas where we can leverage our expertise. Our aim is to support health, education and cultural projects and assist people in need in the countries where we operate, especially in the immediate vicinity of our sites. Our approach to community involvement pendently by our subsidiaries, which choose for themselves Worldwide, we are deeply committed to supporting the the spheres of activity from our Corporate Responsibility communities in which our sites are located. In selecting strategy they wish to support. social projects, we choose initiatives that align with our straThe Merck family has also long been committed to philtegic spheres of activity, namely Global Health, Broad Minds anthropic work, consolidating its activities under the and Sustainable Solutions. Beyond efforts that empower umbrella of the Merck Family Foundation and the people, we also provide disaster relief when emergencies “Merck’sche Gesellschaft für Kunst und Wissenschaft e. V.”. arise. The Merck Family Foundation supports social projects interWe are particularly determined to facilitate access to nationally, focusing on health and education, furthering health for people worldwide. To do so, we take a multicitizens’ initiatives, development cooperation, and interculpronged approach that includes a wide array of health tural understanding. In addition, the foundation cooperates projects aimed at strengthening communities. In pursuing with government and scientific institutions as well as nonthese activities, we apply our competencies, knowledge and governmental organizations. It gives priority to advancing experience in the health industry. projects that our employees are privately involved in. The We view scientific education as a key component of “Merck’sche Gesellschaft für Kunst und Wissenschaft e. V.” culture – and vice versa. Education can help us understand is a philanthropic organization that promotes artistic and culture, while culture can also build a bridge to educascientific projects related to either the Rhine-Main region, tion; it can stimulate curiosity, nurture creativity and even the city or district of Darmstadt (Germany), or to the busiinspire scientific discovery. We therefore sponsor cultural ness sectors of Merck KGaA. For instance, the organization initiatives and support a number of educational projects awards doctoral and postdoctoral grants and fellowships to aimed at cultivating the next generation of scientists. As leading researchers in the fields of chemistry and pharmacy. part of these efforts, we deploy our expertise to encourage and inspire curious young people who share our passion for Our commitment: The principles of our science and technology. community involvement Our activities are intended to have a sustainable effect We align our projects with our Group Policy on Contributions on the community. We work with reliable partners to to Society, which defines what community outreach means support many long-term projects, enabling us to strengthen to our company and the objectives we wish to pursue. This our relationship with our stakeholders and to reinforce our policy gives our business sectors and subsidiaries abroad a social license to operate. framework for structuring their respective activities themselves. Moreover, it sets out roles and responsibilities, How we structure community support emphasizing that our activities should have a sustainable, The Group Corporate Affairs function monitors our Grouppositive effect on the community. With this in mind, we wide community outreach and coordinates some of our focus our efforts on long-term projects. In 2019, we revised activities, including the Praziquantel Donation Program, the this Group policy so as to more closely align projects with Global Pharma Health Fund (GPHF) and the Deutsche Philour strategic spheres of activity. harmonie Merck. Beyond these Group-wide efforts, our We also rolled out and communicated our new Corporate business sectors also run their own projects such as the Volunteering Guideline. Applicable Group-wide, it aims to educational program SPARK, while several of our health encourage our people to get involved in supporting the initiatives in lowand middle-income countries operate community. We grant our employees up to two days of paid under the auspices of the Merck Foundation. Most of our leave per year to take part in volunteer activities either run regional activities are planned locally and executed indeor supported by our company. 132 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Community Our Good Deeds In 2019, we spent around € 46 million on community Our community outreach activities are collectively involvement, which also includes community outreach referred to as “Our Good Deeds” and include volunteer spending by Versum Materials and Intermolecular (as of the initiatives as well as monetary and product donations. In beginning of October 2019). However, it does not include January 2020, our employees were again asked to select contributions from the Merck Foundation, nor initiatives that their favorite projects from 2019. The projects with the primarily serve to market our products. most votes were distinguished with an Our Good Deeds Award” and also received financial support. Our community involvement – 2019 Examples of good deeds them to children from socioeconomically disadvantaged In 2019, our employees again participated in numerous families. philanthropic projects, most of which were conducted In France, employees collected winter clothing, which locally. they distributed along with hygiene articles to homeless In October 2019, our Healthcare team in the Netherpeople. Employees also ran a toy drive to bring Christmas lands organized an “Impact Day”. In cooperation with a local cheer to children from disadvantaged families. partner, the team of 30 employees chose to spend the day To mark the integration of Versum Materials and Interwith residents from a care center for the elderly. During the molecular, our Performance Materials employees took part event, they enjoyed social activities with residents, going in an initiative designed to raise the business sector’s level for a walk together and accompanying those with mobility of community engagement. Various activities, for instance challenges. an online quiz, were held to allow every employee to impact In Thailand, our employees organized an internal charity the funding amount. A total of € 100,000 will now be used bazaar for the second time, selling items such as homemade to support charitable projects around the world that food and drinks. The money raised was donated to a local employees have proposed themselves. organization that works to improve educational opportunFurther projects can be found under “Broad Minds” and ities for children. “Global Health”. In Poland, our employees took part in a campaign by the local Red Cross, collecting school supplies and donating 133 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Community Global Health We use our expertise to support health initiatives around the world. We particularly focus on promoting local healthcare infrastructure, providing basic and advanced training for health workers as well as educating people on health issues. Our commitment: the principles of our a fellowship program to train African senior researchers community involvement on clinical management and clinical study practices. We align our health activities with our Group Policy on Contributions to Society, which was revised in 2019. More Health education in India: Fighting anemia information is available under “Community involvement”. together In addition, health initiatives are also governed by our In India, more than 50% of all women suffer from anemia. Healthcare business sector’s policies and our “ Access to In 2019, as part of our Healthy Women, Healthy Economies Health Charter“ , which was updated at the end of 2018. initiative, we continued our support of the Swasth Nari We calculate the value of our pharmaceutical donations Sashakt Parivar (healthy woman, healthy family) program. according to the World Health Organization (WHO) As part of this initiative, we continued to provide funding guidelines for medicine donations. for the non-profit organization Doctors For You. By the end of 2019, the organization had reached nearly 4,800 women Educational initiatives for healthcare in Mumbai aged between 18 and 35, testing them for professionals anemia and offering nutritional counseling and medical We are dedicated to improving medical care around the treatment for those with low hemoglobin. Unique to this world. Every year, our Global Medical Education and initiative, Doctors For You not only treats anemia, but also External Relations unit initiates and supports a multitude provides vocational skills development courses to the of educational initiatives for healthcare professionals. women undergoing treatment. This includes funding educational programs through indeWithin the scope of the Swasth Nari Sashakt Parivar pendent third-party providers as well as leading the develprogram, we introduced a new project on hypothyroidism opment of scientifically and clinically relevant programs. In education for women. Launched in the Raigad district of this way, we advance the knowledge of healthcare profesMaharashtra, the project primarily aims to reach out to sionals, sensitize for clinical disease patterns and encourage women in the 18-55 age group, facilitating screening for familiarization with progressing medical treatment methods, hypothyroidism, creating awareness and providing both all of which ultimately benefits patients. education on preventive measures and information on In 2019, we supported more than 87 Continuing Medical diagnostic facilities for treatment. Education (CME) programs offered by 22 independent medical education providers and designed 17 new Merck Heightening disease awareness in Brazil Medical Education Programs. More than 100,000 healthcare Since rare forms of cancer are often detected too late professionals participated via e-learning platforms and inand pose a serious health threat, we want to drive the person courses. conversation on these diseases and raise awareness of early The educational initiatives we launch through our Global diagnosis and treatment. Health Institute help to strengthen local health systems. To heighten awareness of colorectal cancer, we Our efforts mainly focus on collaborations with academia presented our giant intestines exhibition in March 2019 and R&D institutions in Africa to initiate and implement in São Paolo (Brazil). Featuring an inflatable model of the research programs with focus on schistosomiasis and organ large enough for visitors to walk through, the exhibmalaria. We continued these initiatives in 2019. These ition provided audiovisual information on the human intestinclude, for example, our research collaboration for drug ines, with more than 1,000 people attending. We also discovery in Cape Town (South Africa) and our Master provided educational videos and speeches given by health program at the Makerere University (Uganda) to assess professionals. resistance of identified bacterial pathogens and to support In partnership with the Brazilian Association of the the development of an infection control program. Personal Hygiene, Perfumery and Cosmetics Industry, we In addition, we support the Ghana Health Service’s conducted events for patients and caregivers at National Malaria Control program with microscopy stations two hospitals to provide information on colorectal cancer and by offering training for health workers to improve and care during treatment. These included workshops malaria and co-infection diagnosis. PhD students and provided by our medical team and a lecture on the importyoung academic researchers are involved in our research ance of skin care during cancer treatment. program to study the epidemiology of the malaria parasite. Building on our success in 2018, we organized a roadAs part of our collaboration with the European & Develshow in Brazil in 2019 featuring a multiple sclerosis (MS) oping Countries Clinical Trials Partnership (EDCTP), we offer mini-simulator and additional interactive information. More 134 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Community INFO than 500 visitors had the opportunity to take a virtual journey through the brain of a patient to better understand neurodegenerative disease and the challenges patients face IMPROVING ACCESS TO HEALTHCARE in everyday life. In addition, Merck in Brazil supported the THROUGH THE MERCK FOUNDATION art exhibition “My invisible MS” at the Museum of Image and Sound in São Paulo. The exhibition featured artworks The Merck Foundation is a non-profit organizacreated by patients around the world, depicting the invisible tion that aims to improve the health and wellsymptoms of MS. Brazil was one of 16 countries that hosted being of people and advance their lives through this unique collection of artwork. science and technology – especially in lowand Further educational health projects can be found under middle-income countries as well as underserved “Health awareness”. regions. Its efforts are primarily focused on improving access to innovative healthcare soluImproving access to healthcare in Madagascar tions in underserved communities, building healthcare and scientific research capacity and We take part in the AR-MADA initiative, which provides empowering people in STEM subjects, with a sustainable healthcare for underserved populations in special focus on women and young people. remote, rural areas of Madagascar where access to healthcare is very limited or non-existent. At least six times a To find out more about the Merck Foundation’s year, volunteer doctors travel to different remote areas programs and impact, please visit www.merckof the island to distribute medicines free of charge, foundation.com. provide expertise and help with local workforce capacitybuilding. Since its inception in 1999, the project has reached almost 360,000 underserved patients. We sponsor the initiative and provide strategic support. 135 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Community Broad Minds Building on a long-standing tradition within our company, the promotion of scientific education and culture is a core element of our commitment to society. It enables us to promote characteristics that are very valuable to us as a high-tech company, namely creativity, enthusiasm for new discoveries, curiosity, and the courage to transcend boundaries. To tap into these key drivers, we sponsor educational and cultural initiatives at many of our sites, grant scholarships and further learning in specific subjects. Our commitment: The principles of our Junior Labs at the Technical University community involvement Darmstadt When it comes to supporting creativity and inspiration We regularly invite young people to our Junior Labs, which within our communities, we align our efforts with our Group we operate together with the Technical University of DarmPolicy on Contributions to Society, which was revised in stadt, to discover the joy of experimentation. Linking 2019. More information is available under “Community classroom lessons with the latest topics and state-of-theinvolvement”. art research methods, the initiative encompasses different focus areas. In the course of 2019, approximately Advancing educational initiatives worldwide 2,500 school students worked on research experiments In a quest to spark the interest of young people in science, here. In addition, we operate the “livfe BioLab”, where we hold competitions, recognize special achievements and around 1,500 pupils conducted biology experiments under offer opportunities for hands-on learning. professional guidance in 2019. For example, we support and hold a variety of STEM competitions in Germany. As the host of the competition Continuing education for teachers and in the German federal state of Hesse, we have been expanding school partnerships supporting the “Jugend forscht” competition for more than As part of our school sponsorship program, we helped 35 years. In 2019, 72 young researchers took part. In addiapproximately 50 schools in Darmstadt (Germany) and the tion, we support the “Internationale Biologie-Olympiade vicinity thereof to conduct experiment-based science Hessen”, the “Internationale Chemie-Olympiade Hessen und projects in 2019. Thüringen”, the “Chemie – die stimmt!” competition, the We also support teachers by offering professional one-week “Erfinderlabor” as well as the German-wide “Tag development courses and suggesting teaching techder Mathematik” with 100 school students from the Darmniques. In 2019, we again hosted a science conference stadt region. Apart from helping out with funding, we assist attended by more than 100 teachers from the region. by hosting the competitions, offering site tours and allowing Building on long-standing school partnerships in the competition participants to conduct research in the Germany, we are now also putting our experience to use junior labs we support at the Technical University of Darmworldwide. By focusing on training for teachers, we can stadt (Germany). help them to design exciting lessons that will spark their students’ curiosity in science. Recognizing and promoting special In 2019, we focused on continuing our project in Kenya, accomplishments where we are applying a simple educational concept for chilIn 2019, we granted awards to the three best high school dren (“Finding out with Fred”), which combines scientific students in STEM subjects at each of 25 schools in the education with imaginative stories. In order to develop the Rhine-Main region. Together with the journal “Chemie in curricula for the lessons, we work with partner organizunserer Zeit”, we also awarded the annual “Julius Adolph ations, who help us to adapt the experiments to local Stöckhardt Prize” for the first time in 2019. This annual circumstances. All the experimental designs in the indiprize recognizes dedicated chemistry teachers who present vidual teaching blocks are possible with inexpensive materchemistry curricula in an especially engaging manner, ials that are easy to obtain locally. We are partnering with thereby spurring interest in chemistry classes. the Kenya Chemical Society here. 136 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Community SPARK: igniting a passion for science in the next lowand middle-income countries with laboratory equipgeneration ment, training and opportunities to collaborate with other As part of our global volunteer program SPARK, employees experts in their field. To date, we have enabled the organfrom our Life Science business can dedicate their time and ization to equip 76 universities in 36 lowand middleexpertise to assist schoolchildren in hands-on learning. The income countries with 265 metric tons of used but fully goal is to ignite a passion for science and inspire them to functioning laboratory equipment, providing access to consider a Science, Technology, Engineering or Mathemthe global scientific community and helping to accelerate atics (STEM)-related career. SPARK activities include our scientific research. The goal is to expand the access to vital Curiosity Labs™ program, which engages students through resources and help the global scientific community advance dynamic, interactive lessons. In 2019, the program reached scientific research. more than 8,000 students from around the world. We also We are the exclusive sponsor of the new online platform offer tours of our production sites, career panel events and hosted by Seeding Labs, TeleScience. It features educamore. In addition to providing materials for interactive tional videos and training sessions led by our Life Science lessons, we collaborate closely with education experts employees, who share techniques and tips on a wide range around the world to ensure that SPARK aligns with specific of science topics. TeleScience developed 18 videos and has local requirements and that it complements existing been visited by more than 2,300 users from 117 countries curricula. since its launch in 2018. In 2019, as part of SPARK, our Life Science business ran its third year-long Curiosity Cube™ tour across North Pioneering hands-on learning America. Consisting of a shipping container retrofitted into a We have been engaged in a signature partnership with mobile science lab, the Curiosity Cube™ provides a learning Technorama since 2017. Located in Switzerland, this organenvironment that immerses visitors of all ages in specific ization is the third largest science center in Europe and a science topics through hands-on experiments and statepioneer of practical, self-directed learning. To date, 76 of of-the-art technology. Supporting the daily work of our employees have participated in six newly developed teachers by offering tools and resources that many schools science experiments for over 1,000 visitors through events lack, the tour focuses on schools with underprivileged called Technorama Days. Through our partnership, over students, which account for 94% of the facilities visited. 3,000 teachers have benefited from enhanced advisory and The hands-on science experiments offered in 2019 training services. We also helped to convert wet laboratories focused on the periodic table of elements. The students into larger, state-of-the-art spaces, giving more than learned about elements in nature, technology and the 100,000 visitors per year hands-on chemistry experiences. human body. The 2019 Curiosity Cube™ was equipped with We have developed ten unique workshop themes for these digital microscopes, 3D printers and virtual reality gear. laboratories and held 500 workshops. In total, the Curiosity Cube™ traveled 48,000 kilometers across North America in 2019 and engaged students in Clean water for China 99 communities. Following the visit, 92% of students Our partnership program with the One Foundation charity improved their understanding of life science terminofund aims to provide safe drinking water to schools in China, logy. where over 40 million students across 114,000 rural schools Throughout 2019, over 2,300 of our employees volunlack access to such. We donate one Chinese renminbi teered more than 19,400 hours via the overall SPARK Global (approximately US$ 0.14) a day on behalf of each of our Volunteer Program that also includes the Curiosity Cube™, employees in China. The money is used to supply rural engaging over 66,500 students worldwide. schools with safe drinking water. In addition to making a personal contribution to this project, in 2019 24 employees Partnering with Seeding Labs volunteered 16 hours each, raising awareness on topics In 2019, we further increased our support of Seeding Labs, such as safe water, sanitation and electricity and organizing a non-governmental organization that provides scientists in small scientific experiments for the schoolchildren. 137 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Community Music and literature as ambassadors Literary awards for bridge builders Like music, literature is an important mediator between Our symphony orchestra cultures. That is why we grant five literary prizes around The Deutsche Philharmonie Merck is a professional the world, some annually, others every two years. These symphony orchestra established back in 1966. It is an comprise the Johann Heinrich Merck Award for Literary integral part of cultural life in Darmstadt (Germany) and the Critique and Essay in Germany (since 1964), the Premio local region and regularly tours internationally, performing Letterario Merck in Italy (since 2003), the Merck Kakehashi in Moscow (Russia), in April 2019. Literature Prize in Japan (since 2014), the Merck-Tagore It is important to us to spark an interest in music Award in India (since 2012) as well as the Merck Translation early on. Children aged four and older enjoy the traditional Award in Russia (since 2016). We thus mainly recognize cushion concerts. In our annual orchestra workshops, those authors who build bridges between cultures, as well talented young musicians work with our professional as between literature and science. Worth € 20,000, the orchestra musicians to develop sophisticated concert 2019 Johann Heinrich Merck Award for Literary Critique and programs. Around 60 young aspiring musicians participated Essay went to Austrian literary scholar and critic Daniela in 2019. Strigl. In 2019, the Merck-Tagore Award worth around The Deutsche Philharmonie Merck gave its 31st charity € 6,000 went to Bahamian professor Kris Manjapra. concert in January 2019, raising a total of € 50,000. Via the “Echo hilft!” initiative, the proceeds went to help five community projects in the Darmstadt area. ~21,000 people attended the concerts given by our symphony orchestra in 2019. 138 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Facts & figures Facts & figures Within this chapter: 140 Report profile 143 Indicators 143 Economics 144 Business ethics 147 Employees 160 Environment 167 Community 169 Goals 180 Recognition and rankings 184 Non-financial report 189 GRI content index 189 General disclosures 194 Economic Standards 197 Environmental Standards 201 Social Standards 208 Global Compact CoP 213 Assurance reports 213 Assurance report CR 215 Assurance report NFR 139 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Facts & figures Report profile  Part of the non-financial report The global community is facing major challenges. We too are deeply engaged in tackling the social, economic and ecological issues of our time, which include a variety of developments. Digital innovation is opening up new avenues for social and technological development; advances in artificial intelligence and genetic engineering are giving rise to new ethical questions, and climate change is forcing us to fundamentally transform our mindset and consider new approaches. In addressing these trends, we are continuing a long tradition of corporate responsibility, which is also reflected in our reporting practices. We have been detailing our efforts to meet our obligations to society since 1993. This initially took the form of environmental reports, but then in 2003 evolved into a full Corporate Responsibility (CR) Report released every two years. In 2016, we started publishing our CR Report on an annual basis. In our 11th CR Report, we elaborate on our ambition to create shared value for both our company and society as a whole. With transparency as a key goal, we aim to extensively inform our stakeholders of our activities and successes, along with the challenges we face. Our 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report meets the regulatory requirements for a combined separate non-financial report. The index to the non-financial report provides an overview of the relevant content. This CR report also documents the progress we have made in implementing the principles of the United Nations Global Compact (Communication on Progress). Reporting framework This CR report covers fiscal 2019 and pertains to our entire Group including our subsidiaries in 66 countries. Any deviations from this reporting framework are indicated on a case-by-case basis. Acquisitions of Intermolecular and Versum Materials The closing of the acquisition of Intermolecular, Inc. on September 20, 2019 and Versum Materials, Inc. on October 7, 2019 marked two major milestones in the transformation journey of our Performance Materials business sector. Together, we are optimally positioned to enable next-generation digital devices for a smart, safe and connected world. The business combination is expected to make us a leading electronic materials player focused on the semiconductor and display industries. Intermolecular and Versum Materials will strengthen our Performance Materials business sector and become part of the Semiconductor Solutions business unit, one of the three Performance Materials business units alongside Display Solutions and Surface Solutions. We are still in the process of consolidating the approaches, goals, results, and measures for the primary non-financial topics identified through our materiality analysis and expect this to be entirely completed by 2021. The sections of the non-financial report in which these acquisitions play a significant role reflect the December 2019 status of the consolidation. 140 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Facts & figures Data collection and consolidation systems In general, the 2019 CR Report provides non-financial indicators that represent the entire Group, including the recently acquired companies Intermolecular and Versum Materials. The majority of the figures we publish reflect the status as of December 31, 2019. We explicitly state when the information provided deviates from these parameters. Since 2005, we have been using a Group-wide electronic data collection system to collect environmental and occupational health and safety data, which are tracked locally at our individual sites and approved following review. To maximize the quality of these data, we support the sites in optimizing their collection processes and their corresponding quality assurance measures. Moreover, our Group Environment, Health, Safety, Security, Quality (EQ) function takes measures such as internal EHS audits to review both the processes and the data provided. We compile environmental performance indicators from all our production sites Group-wide, as well as those warehouse, research and administrative facilities that are relevant in terms of their environmental footprint. The scope of consolidation therefore covers all Group sites that have relevant impacts on the environment, with the exception of the newly acquired Versum Materials sites, which will be incorporated into our data collection process as of 2020 where pertinent. All employee master data are continually updated in an SAP database. Some employee data are only disclosed for select sites or countries, which is accordingly indicated in the respective text passages. We use community data management software to track data pertaining to our community outreach activities. Determining report content We align the content of our CR Report with the internationally recognized guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the principles of completeness and materiality, as well as input from our stakeholders. This report has been prepared in accordance with the “GRI Standards: Comprehensive Option”. Furthermore, we have taken into consideration the requirements of the capital market for assessing companies' sustainability performance. In 2018, we performed a comprehensive materiality assessment to determine the CR topics of relevance to our Group, which we then updated in 2019. Experts from our business sectors and relevant Group functions reviewed the findings and validated them. Moreover, as stipulated by section 289c (2, 3) of the German Commercial Code (HGB), we checked the issues validated in 2018 for double materiality . We have derived the content of this CR report from the results of the materiality assessment, which can be found together with the materiality matrix under Materiality analysis. Our Executive Board has reviewed and approved this report. The content of the non-financial report has also been reviewed by the Supervisory Board in accordance with section 111 (2) of the German Stock Corporation Act (AktG). External audit KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft has audited the annual financial statements and management report of our company for the fiscal year spanning January 1 to December 31, 2019 and has issued an unqualified opinion. Additionally, after undergoing a limited assurance, our company received an independent assurance statement for the present CR Report as well as for the non-financial report. The additional content provided on both the company's websites as well as external web pages that is linked in this report does not form part of the information assured by KPMG. 141 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Facts & figures Point of contact: We welcome your feedback and are happy to answer any questions. Merck KGaA Corporate Affairs Group Corporate Responsibility Maria Schaad Frankfurter Str. 250 64293 Darmstadt Germany Tel.: +49 6151 72-0 Fax: +49 6151 72-200 The previous CR report was published in April 2019. Our next CR report is scheduled for publication in April 2021. 142 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Facts & figures Indicators Economics 1 Net sales, operating result (EBIT) and research and development costs, by business sector Performance € million Healthcare Life Science Materials Group 2 2018 Net sales 6,246 6,185 2,406 14,836 Operating result (EBIT) 731 1,036 508 1,727 3 4 4 4 R&D costs 1,687 251 242 2,227 2019 Net sales 6,714 6,864 2,574 16,152 Operating result (EBIT) 1,149 1,280 307 2,120 3 R&D costs 1,666 276 267 2,268 1 As a non-operating segment, Corporate and Other is not shown here as a separate item, but rather under Segment Reporting in our 2019 Annual Report. 2 Figures comprise the continuing operations of the Merck Group excluding the Consumer Health business, which was divested on December 1, 2018. 3 Part of the non-financial report 4 Previous year’s figures have been adjusted, see in our 2019 Annual Report Note (45) “Effects from new accounting standards and other presentation changes” in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 143 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Facts & figures Business ethics  Part of the non-financial report Internal audits on corruption and Human Rights Charter 2019 2019 thereof 1 2 3 2016 2017 2018 Merck Group Merck KGaA Number of audits relating to corruption 55 50 54 50 25 % of audits relating to corruption 68 65 69 65 32 Number of audits relating to the workplace requirements of our Human Rights Charter 47 45 46 46 23 1 Consumer Health business has been out of Internal Auditing scope since September 2017. 2 The figures exclude Versum Materials and Intermolecular since the integration process is still underway. For more information, see report profile. 3 Includes global audits which are conducted at the headquarters in Darmstadt and/or the management of the audited function is reporting into KGaA. In 2019, during 46 of our audits conducted in 22 countries, we reviewed workplace parameters as per our Human Rights Charter. No violations were identified. Reported compliance violations 2019 2019 thereof 1 2016 2017 2018 Merck Group Merck KGaA Total number of reported compliance violations Number of reported compliance incidents 36 39 72 75 5 Number of confirmed cases 12 14 19 30 1 Confirmed cases by category Violation of the Merck Human Rights Charter 2 0 0 0 0 Bribery and corruption 2 1 1 0 0 Violation of the Merck Pharmaceutical 4 2 2 9 0 Guidelines Violation of Data Privacy and Confidentiality 0 2 3 3 0 Guidelines Manipulation of business documents 2 1 0 0 0 Violation of cartel laws and fair competition 0 0 1 0 0 rules Infringements in the areas of finance, 0 0 0 0 0 accounting and banking Theft and fraudulent actions against Merck 1 1 5 8 0 Other violations of the Merck Compliance Principles for the relations with business 1 2 1 4 1 partners Other violations of Merck values, internal 0 5 6 6 0 guidelines or legal requirements 1 The figures exclude Versum Materials and Intermolecular since the integration process is still underway. For more information, see report profile. 144 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Facts & figures Compliance training 2019 2019 thereof 1 1 1 2,3 3 2016 2017 2018 Merck Group Merck KGaA Total number of persons trained on 4 anti-corruption guidelines 29,764 17,044 11,404 36,109 5,535 Total number of employees trained on anti-corruption guidelines 25,889 13,345 11,155 35,673 5,517 % of employees trained on anti-corruption 51 25 22 63 65 by employee category Number of Role 2+ employees trained on anti-corruption 14,379 7,080 9,257 26,890 3,943 % of Role 2+ employees trained on anticorruption 84 27 36 96 100 % of employees below Role 2 trained on anti-corruption 34 23 7 30 35 by region (%) Europe 54 18 19 71 65 North America 57 46 36 59 not applicable Asia-Pacific (APAC) 38 25 16 47 not applicable Latin America 52 19 12 62 not applicable Middle East and Africa (MEA) 66 29 18 80 not applicable 1 In 2016, 2017 and 2018 the job grading system had not yet been implemented for employees of all Sigma-Aldrich legal entities in Germany, or for employees of Allergopharma. In the facts and figures, these employees are included under “employees below Role 2”. 2 In 2019, the position assessment had not yet been carried out for employees of Versum Materials as well as of Allergopharma. In the figures, employees whose positions have not been assessed have been allocated to “employees below Role 2”. 3 As of 2019, we changed our reporting method. Previously, our reports covered the active workforce who has been trained on a specific subject during a particular year. From 2019 onwards, we report on the active, trained workforce in the company, regardless of whether their training has already taken place prior to the reporting year. The possibility of trend forecasts for year-to-year comparisons is therefore limited. 4 Includes contractors, external supervised workers (e.g. temps) and contract partners working on-site who were trained on anti-corruption guidelines (2019: 436). The (employee) target audience for a specific training is related to the risk level associated with employee positions and Role levels. Target audiences therefore may not include all Group employees and also may vary from training to training. In order to address the special responsibility held by management personnel, and staff with HR responsibility, trainings on anti-corruption guidelines for these employees are in focus. This applies to all employees rated Role 2+. Our compliance and anti-corruption principles are communicated to all our business partners, who undergo a Business Partner Risk Management (BPRM) process. 145 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Facts & figures Legal actions 2019 2019 thereof 1 2016 2017 2018 Merck Group Merck KGaA 2 Total number of legal actions pending or completed (for anti-competitive behavior, violations of anti-trust or violations of monopoly legislation) 2 3 3 3 2 pending 2 3 3 3 2 completed 0 0 0 0 0 1 Since 2018, our reported figures have excluded the Consumer Health business, which was divested on December 1, 2018. 2 As published in the annual reports, the herein listed total number of legal actions refers to the significant legal risks as per the company’s definition. The significance of legal risks is based on potential negative effects on projected financial objectives as well as on the probability of occurrence. For further information please see our annual reports: Annual Report 2016, pages 135-136 and pages 228-229, No. 26 Annual Report 2017, pages 148-150 and pages 252-253, No. 27 Annual Report 2018, pages 146-148 and pages 247-251, No. 26 Annual Report 2019, pages 120-122 and pages 243-245, No. 26 1 Customer privacy 2 3,4 2016 2017 2018 2019 Total number of substantiated complaints received from outside parties 0 0 0 0 Total number of complaints from regulatory bodies 0 0 0 1 Total number of identified leaks, thefts, or losses of customer data 1 0 1 1 1 These data only reflect incidents classified as significant. 2 Includes Sigma-Aldrich as of 2017. 3 Since 2019, our reported figures have excluded the Consumer Health business, which was divested on December 1, 2018. 4 The figures exclude Versum Materials and Intermolecular since the integration process is still underway. For more information, see report profile. 146 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Facts & figures Employees  Part of the non-financial report Total number of employees 2019 2019 thereof 1 As of Dec. 31 2016 2017 2018 Merck Group Merck KGaA Total number of employees 50,414 52,941 51,749 57,071 8,474 Men 28,848 30,083 29,006 32,531 5,755 Women 21,566 22,858 22,743 24,540 2,719 1 Owing to the hive-down of Merck Healthcare KGaA as of April 1, 2019, effective 2019 the figures only include Merck KGaA. 147 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Facts & figures Number of employees by hierarchical level 2019 2019 thereof 1 1 1 2 As of Dec. 31 2016 2017 2018 Merck Group Merck KGaA Total employees 50,414 52,941 51,749 57,071 8,474 Senior management (Role 6+) 181 197 193 190 74 Middle management (Role 4 & 5) 2,685 2,927 3,095 3,352 730 Low management (Role 3) 8,139 8,904 9,019 9,499 1,943 Other employees (below Role 3) 39,409 40,913 39,442 44,030 5,727 % of women (total) 43 43 44 43 32 thereof in senior management (Role 6+) 25 30 36 39 14 thereof in middle management (Role 4 & 5) 805 917 1,025 1,146 199 thereof in low management (Role 3) 3,361 3,714 3,795 4,029 665 thereof other employees (below Role 3) 17,375 18,197 17,888 19,326 1,841 % of men (total) 57 57 56 57 68 thereof in senior management (Role 6+) 156 167 157 151 60 thereof in middle management (Role 4 & 5) 1,880 2,010 2,070 2,206 531 thereof in low management (Role 3) 4,778 5,190 5,224 5,470 1,278 thereof other employees (below Role 3) 22,034 22,716 21,554 24,704 3,886 by age group Up to 29 years old (%) 15 15 15 15 14 thereof in senior management (Role 6+) 0 0 0 0 0 thereof in middle management (Role 4 & 5) 7 3 5 8 1 thereof in low management (Role 3) 183 194 211 190 65 thereof other employees (below Role 3) 7,229 7,479 7,279 8,362 1,142 30 to 49 years old (%) 62 62 61 60 51 thereof in senior management (Role 6+) 76 72 69 69 29 thereof in middle management (Role 4 & 5) 1,670 1,782 1,829 1,933 446 thereof in low management (Role 3) 5,784 6,308 6,206 6,516 1,237 thereof other employees (below Role 3) 23,996 24,733 23,536 25,859 2,643 50 years or older (%) 23 23 24 25 34 thereof in senior management (Role 6+) 105 125 124 121 45 thereof in middle management (Role 4 & 5) 1,008 1,142 1,261 1,411 283 thereof in low management (Role 3) 2,172 2,402 2,602 2,793 641 thereof other employees (below Role 3) 8,184 8,701 8,627 9,809 1,942 1 In 2016, 2017 and 2018 the job grading system had not yet been implemented for employees of all Sigma-Aldrich legal entities in Germany, or for employees of Allergopharma. In the facts and figures, these employees are included under “other employees (below Role 3)”. 2 In 2019, the position assessment had not yet been carried out for employees of Versum Materials as well as of Allergopharma. In the figures, employees whose positions have not been assessed have been allocated to “other employees (below Role 3)”. 148 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Facts & figures 1 Average number of employees by functional area 2 3 2016 2017 2018 2019 Group 50,439 52,053 53,809 53,645 thereof women 21,136 22,353 23,388 23,503 Production 14,829 15,571 16,240 16,455 thereof women 4,698 5,059 5,359 5,529 4 Logistics/Supply Chain 3,955 3,729 4,014 4,109 thereof women 1,459 1,442 1,569 1,626 4 Marketing and Sales/Commercials 14,887 15,115 15,479 13,970 thereof women 6,401 6,609 6,981 6,608 Administration 8,190 9,286 9,864 10,342 thereof women 4,421 4,798 5,067 5,194 Research and Development 6,249 6,789 7,245 7,561 thereof women 3,274 3,591 3,871 4,053 Infrastructure and Other 2,329 1,564 966 1,208 thereof women 883 854 541 493 1 The average employee headcount is calculated by adding up all employees at the end of each of the last 13 months, and dividing this total by 13. 2 The average employee headcount for fiscal 2018 incorporates the Consumer Health employees on a pro rata basis up until the end of November 2018 due to the divestment of the Consumer Health business as of December 1, 2018. 3 To calculate the average number of employees in fiscal 2019, the employee headcount of Versum Materials has been included on a pro rata basis as of October 2019 owing to the acquisition. They are allocated to the functional area Infrastructure and Other . 4 In conjunction with the new job architecture implemented in 2017, some functional areas have been renamed and reorganized. Due to the new structure from 2017 on, it will only be possible to deliver a limited trend forecast in a year-on-year comparison. 149 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Facts & figures Number of employees by region 2019 2019 thereof As of Dec. 31 2016 2017 2018 Merck Group Merck KGaA Total 50,414 52,941 51,749 57,071 8,474 Europe 24,438 25,980 25,792 26,715 8,474 Women 10,884 11,627 11,464 11,909 2,719 Women (%) 45 45 44 45 32 Number of employees with temporary contracts 1,031 1,279 1,209 1,137 254 % of employees with temporary contracts 4 5 5 4 3 North America 10,037 10,520 10,978 12,829 0 Women 4,308 4,518 4,742 5,285 not applicable Women (%) 43 43 43 41 not applicable Number of employees with temporary 1 contracts 122 138 148 158 not applicable % of employees with temporary 1 contracts 1 1 1 1 not applicable Asia-Pacific (APAC) 10,754 11,294 10,486 12,728 0 Women 3,981 4,298 4,348 5,049 not applicable Women (%) 37 38 41 40 not applicable Number of employees with temporary 1 contracts 2,231 2,603 2,846 3,263 not applicable % of employees with temporary 1 contracts 21 23 27 26 not applicable Latin America 4,140 4,050 3,340 3,433 0 Women 1,910 1,896 1,648 1,690 not applicable Women (%) 46 47 49 49 not applicable Number of employees with temporary contracts 40 40 62 55 not applicable % of employees with temporary contracts 1 1 2 2 not applicable Middle East and Africa (MEA) 1,045 1,097 1,153 1,366 0 Women 483 519 541 607 not applicable Women (%) 46 47 47 44 not applicable Number of employees with temporary contracts 153 172 189 182 not applicable % of employees with temporary contracts 15 16 16 13 not applicable 1 Employees whose contract type had not yet been recorded in our database by December 31, 2019 were divided up proportionally between the categories “Employees with permanent contracts” and “Employees with temporary contracts”. External contractors are currently not logged in our employee data system, nor are there any plans to integrate them. 150 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Facts & figures Employees by business sector As of Dec. 31 2016 2017 2018 2019 Healthcare employees 18,837 19,795 17,456 18,136 thereof women 9,090 9,656 8,884 9,232 thereof women (%) 48 49 51 51 Life Science employees 19,178 19,607 20,667 21,934 thereof women 7,928 8,276 8,837 9,487 thereof women (%) 41 42 43 43 Performance Materials employees 5,469 5,529 5,278 7,329 thereof women 1,427 1,455 1,411 1,712 thereof women (%) 26 26 27 23 Employees by contract type As of Dec. 31 2016 2017 2018 2019 Total employees 50,414 52,941 51,749 57,071 1 Number of employees with permanent contracts 46,837 48,709 47,295 52,276 1 % of employees with permanent contracts 93 92 91 92 1 thereof women 19,741 20,741 20,545 22,237 1 thereof women (%) 42 43 43 43 1 Number of employees with temporary contracts 3,577 4,232 4,454 4,795 1 % of employees with temporary contracts 7 8 9 8 1 thereof women 1,744 2,117 2,198 2,303 1 thereof women (%) 49 50 49 48 full-time employees 48,056 50,498 49,273 54,265 % full-time 95 95 95 95 thereof women 19,457 20,677 20,577 22,208 thereof women (%) 40 41 42 41 part-time employees 2,358 2,443 2,476 2,806 % part-time 5 5 5 5 thereof women 2,109 2,181 2,166 2,332 thereof women (%) 89 89 87 83 1 Employees whose contract type had not yet been recorded in our database by December 31, 2019 were divided up proportionally between the categories “employees with permanent contracts” and “employees with temporary contracts”. 151 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Facts & figures New employees 2019 2019 thereof 1 As of Dec. 31 2016 2017 2018 Merck Group Merck KGaA Total number of new employee hires 7,085 7,285 7,129 7,924 454 by age group up to 29 years old 2,930 2,940 2,967 3,432 260 30 to 49 years old 3,736 3,848 3,728 4,055 180 50 or older 419 497 434 437 14 by gender Women 3,388 3,412 3,401 3,622 158 Men 3,697 3,873 3,728 4,302 296 by region Europe 2,689 3,058 2,560 2,529 454 North America 1,348 1,603 1,524 1,733 0 Asia-Pacific (APAC) 2,201 1,955 2,222 2,729 0 Latin America 636 497 583 578 0 Middle East and Africa (MEA) 211 172 240 355 0 2 Rate of new employee hires (%) 14 14 14 14 5 3 by age group up to 29 years old 41 40 42 43 57 30 to 49 years old 53 53 52 51 40 50 or older 6 7 6 6 3 3 by gender Women 48 47 48 46 35 Men 52 53 52 54 65 3 by region Europe 38 42 36 32 100 North America 19 22 21 22 not applicable Asia-Pacific (APAC) 31 27 31 34 not applicable Latin America 9 7 8 7 not applicable Middle East and Africa (MEA) 3 2 3 5 not applicable 1 These figures exclude the approximately 2,400 Versum Materials and Intermolecular employees who are not classified as new hires because they joined Merck as part of the acquisitions. 2 Formula for calculating the rate of new employee hires: Total number of new employee hires divided by number of employees at the end of the fiscal year. 3 Formula for calculating the rate of new employee hires by age/gender/region: New employee hires of the focus group divided by the total number of new employee hires. 152 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Facts & figures 1,2 Staff turnover 2019 2019 thereof 3 2016 2017 2018 Merck Group Merck KGaA Total turnover rate 12.07 9.05 9.09 9.07 1.97 Turnover rate by gender Men 12.87 8.75 9.03 8.69 2.09 Women 10.96 9.46 9.18 9.54 1.75 Turnover rate by age group Up to 29 years old 19.20 13.66 14.24 13.13 2.94 30 to 49 years old 11.37 8.38 8.53 8.90 1.92 50 or older 9.19 7.87 7.39 7.03 1.65 Turnover rate by region Europe 6.23 6.22 5.73 5.72 1.97 North America 11.50 11.02 9.90 11.02 not applicable Asia-Pacific (APAC) 22.37 12.53 14.51 13.18 not applicable Latin America 18.85 13.74 15.41 13.47 not applicable Middle East and Africa (MEA) 10.8 11.22 9.77 12.14 not applicable Total number of leavers 6,087 4,710 4,613 4,863 183 by gender Men 3,771 2,596 2,578 2,621 128 Women 2,316 2,114 2,035 2,242 55 by age group Up to 29 years old 1,464 1,058 1,061 1,042 39 30 to 49 years old 3,589 2,713 2,649 2,898 93 50 or older 1,034 939 903 923 51 by region Europe 1,490 1,488 1,457 1,500 183 North America 1,132 1,143 1,064 1,264 0 Asia-Pacific (APAC) 2,543 1,387 1,468 1,484 0 Latin America 814 570 522 459 0 Middle East and Africa (MEA) 108 122 102 156 0 1 The table contains unadjusted turnover rates. The rate excludes employees who depart due to parental leave or a long-term illness, as well as employees who are transitioning to the non-working phase of partial retirement. 2 Employee headcount is calculated as follows: Total number of leavers from the past 12 months divided by the average employee headcount multiplied by 100. 3 Since 2018, the figures exclude the Consumer Health business, which was divested on December 1, 2018. In 2019, the average length of service for employees Group-wide was 9.5 years (2018: 10 years), with 16.3 years (2018: 14.9 years) for Merck KGaA employees. 153 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Facts & figures 1 Work-related accidents 2019 2019 thereof 2 2016 2017 2018 Merck Group Merck KGaA Lost Time Injury Rate (LTIR = workplace accidents resulting in missed days 3 of work per one million man-hours) 1.3 1.5 1.2 1.5 3.3 by region 3 Europe 2.2 2.4 1.8 2.7 3.3 North America 1.1 1.0 1.1 0.9 not applicable Asia-Pacific (APAC) 0.4 0.3 0.3 0.2 not applicable Latin America 0.4 1.3 1.5 1.7 not applicable Middle East and Africa (MEA) 1.6 0.0 0.7 0.0 not applicable Number of deaths 0 0 0 0 0 by region Europe 0 0 0 0 0 North America 0 0 0 0 0 Asia-Pacific (APAC) 0 0 0 0 0 Latin America 0 0 0 0 0 Middle East and Africa (MEA) 0 0 0 0 0 by gender Women 0 0 0 0 0 Men 0 0 0 0 0 1 Including supervised workers 2 The figures exclude Versum Materials since the integration process is still underway. More information can be found under Report profile. 3 Figure retroactively adjusted Both Merck employees as well as supervised workers have been included in the calculation of these indicators. Through the LTIR, we record work-related accidents that involve at least one day of missed work. A work-related accident is an injury that results from the type of work, in the course of doing said work, and that has no internal cause. Workrelated accidents are considered relevant if they occur on the premises, on business trips, during goods transport, as a result of external influences (e.g. natural disasters), or due to criminal acts involving personal injury. Commuting accidents and accidents during company sporting activities are not included. First-aid incidents are generally not included in the LTIR since these usually do not result in more than one day of missed work. By 2020, we intend to sustainably lower the LTIR to 1.5. The aim is to permanently stabilize or outperform this challenging number, which we achieved for the first time in 2015. The LTIR is the key occupational safety indicator for the Merck Group as a whole. Therefore, we do not publish any other indicators such as workplace accidents, lost days or days of absence. The LTIR is not broken down by gender as this differentiation is not relevant to our strategic planning. For Merck KGaA (about 15% of the employees of the Merck Group), we only report work-related illnesses if these have been certified as an occupational illness by the employers' liability insurance association. In 2019 period, two cases of work-induced illness were verified (as of the end of December 2019). 154 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Facts & figures Employees who regularly receive a performance and development evaluation 2019 2018 Merck 2019 thereof 1 1 1, 2 3 2016 2017 Group Merck Group Merck KGaA % of employees who receive a performance and development evaluation 97 97 98 98 100 by gender Women 97 97 99 98 100 Men 97 97 98 98 100 4 by employee category Senior management (Role 6+) 100 100 100 100 100 Middle management (Role 4 & 5) 100 100 100 100 100 Low management (Role 3) 100 100 100 100 100 Other employees (below Role 3) 96 96 98 98 100 1 In 2016, 2017 and 2018 the job grading system had not yet been implemented for employees of all Sigma-Aldrich legal entities in Germany, or for employees of Allergopharma. In the facts and figures, these employees are included under “other employees (below Role 3)”. 2 Since 2018, the figures exclude the Consumer Health business, which was divested on December 1, 2018. 3 The figures exclude Versum Materials and Intermolecular since the integration process is still underway. For more information, see report profile. 4 In 2017, we switched our job architecture from a Global Grading System to Roles. Figures have been retroactively adjusted for previous years. Regular feedback and employee performance evaluations are essential to fairly ranking individual performance and to helping all employees follow their own career path at Merck. Our globally uniform Performance and Talent Management Process requires annual feedback meetings and performance assessments for all employees rated Role 2 and up in the job grading system that is used in 2019. Apart from evaluating employee performance, this helps us to identify individual development opportunities. When it comes to applying this process, our individual subsidiaries can decide for themselves whether to include employees rated below Role 2. In Germany, all permanent employees have been participating in the Performance and Talent Management Process since 2013. In 2019, a total of 53,605 employees worldwide were involved in the process. The Performance and Talent Management Process is coordinated via our online platform HR4You. Internationality of employees 2019 2019 thereof 1 1 1 2 As of Dec. 31 2016 2017 2018 Merck Group Merck KGaA Number of nationalities 129 131 136 139 80 Number of nationalities in management positions (Role 4 or above) 70 65 70 73 30 % of non-Germans in management positions (Role 4 or above) 65 64 64 64 11 1 In 2016, 2017 and 2018 the job grading system had not yet been implemented for employees of all Sigma-Aldrich legal entities in Germany, or for employees of Allergopharma. 2 In 2019, the position assessment had not yet been carried out for employees of Versum Materials as well as of Allergopharma. 155 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Facts & figures Employee age by region As of Dec. 31 Europe Middle East Number of North (including Asia-Pacific and Africa employees Worldwide America Germany) Merck KGaA (APAC) Latin America (MEA) 2018 Up to 29 years old 7,494 1,573 3,175 1,574 2,082 470 195 thereof women 3,534 661 1,537 633 966 285 85 30 to 49 years old 31,638 5,636 15,247 5,987 7,616 2,342 799 thereof women 14,238 2,511 7,044 2,281 3,123 1,183 377 50 or older 12,611 3,769 7,370 3,572 788 528 159 thereof women 4,971 1,570 2,883 1,183 259 180 79 Average age 41.7 44.1 42.8 42.9 36.9 40.4 39.2 Total employees 51,749 10,978 25,792 11,133 10,486 3,340 1,153 2019 Up to 29 years old 8,560 1,829 3,282 1,208 2,713 498 238 thereof women 3,983 773 1,595 440 1,225 289 101 30 to 49 years old 34,377 6,441 15,540 4,355 9,067 2,373 956 thereof women 15,076 2,733 7,191 1,465 3,531 1,200 421 50 or older 14,134 4,559 7,893 2,911 948 562 172 thereof women 5,481 1,779 3,123 814 293 201 85 Average age 41.7 44.4 43.0 43.4 36.8 40.3 38.6 Total employees 57,071 12,829 26,715 8,474 12,728 3,433 1,366 Age of youngest employee As of Dec. 31 2016 2017 2018 2019 Age of youngest employee, excluding apprentices 17 18 17 18 156 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Facts & figures Voluntary insurance benefits (voluntarily introduced and (co-) financed) 2019 2019 thereof 1 As of Dec. 31 2016 2017 2018 Merck Group Merck KGaA 2 % of employees with healthcare benefits 68 68 67 68 0 % of employees with Group accident insur3 ance 39 42 39 36 4 4 % of employees with life insurance 57 58 58 58 0 % of employees with disability insurance 5 (short-term and long-term) 32 35 37 39 0 1 The figures exclude Versum Materials and Intermolecular since the integration process is still underway. For more information, see report profile. 2 Any spend on voluntarily introduced and (co-) financed healthcare benefits for employees and possibly their dependents. Not taking into consideration any mandatory social security cover (mostly covered by an insurance policy). 3 Any spend on voluntarily introduced and (co-) financed accident insurance that pays a defined amount in case of death or disability caused by a work-related accident (not taking into consideration any mandatory social security cover, e.g. workman's compensation). 4 Any spend on voluntarily introduced and (co-) financed life insurance cover that pays a defined amount of money in case of natural death (not accidental). 5 Any spend on voluntarily introduced and (co-) financed insurance cover that disability pays for salary continuation in case of inability to work caused by an insured incident. All our employees are covered by either statutory or voluntary accident and health insurance. Employees of Merck KGaA are covered by statutory insurance as stipulated by the regulations in force in Germany. We offer a company pension in numerous countries along with various programs for supplemental company pensions and survivor's benefits. The global benefits listed in the table above are designed to provide additional security to our workforce and their families and to improve their quality of life. Benefits represent voluntarily employer-initiated as well as employer-financed assistance to our workforce in addition to the regular compensation package. Our benefits offer meaningful choices, where possible, to support a diverse workforce and are sensitive to the needs and customs of the employees who use them, regardless of country, age, family status, interests, or values. Long-term pension obligations and post-employment benefits € million 2016 2017 2018 2019 Present value of all defined benefit obligations as of Dec. 31 4,698 4,707 4,719 5,644 1 Pension expenses 226 304 319 357 1 Figure retroactively adjusted. Depending on the legal, economic and fiscal circumstances prevailing in each country, different retirement benefit systems are provided for the employees of the Merck Group. Generally, these systems are based on the years of service and salaries of the employees. Pension obligations of the Merck Group include both defined benefit and defined contribution plans and comprise both obligations from current pensions and accrued benefits for pensions payable in the future. In the Merck Group, defined benefit plans are funded and unfunded (see our 2019 Annual Report, Note on Provisions for pensions and other post-employment benefits). 157 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Facts & figures Flexible working hours in Germany As of Dec. 31 2016 2017 2018 2019 % of employees utilizing the “mywork@Merck” working model 36 40 42 43 In coordination with their teams and supervisors, employees taking advantage of “mywork@merck” can choose when and where they work. Parental leave in Germany 1 2 2 2 As of Dec. 31 2016 2017 2018 2019 Number of employees with a right to parental leave 359 353 308 375 thereof women (recorded via maternity leave in the respective year) 191 151 188 239 thereof men (recorded via special paternity leave in the respective year) 168 202 120 136 3 Number of employees who took parental leave 480 352 500 542 thereof women 303 150 240 248 thereof men 177 202 260 294 Number of employees on parental leave who worked part time during their leave 102 49 128 164 thereof women 95 47 109 140 thereof men 7 2 19 24 Number of employees who returned from parental leave 174 312 312 536 thereof women 62 143 65 243 thereof men 112 169 247 293 Return to work rate (%) 36.3 88.6 62.4 98.9 thereof women 20.5 95.3 27.1 98.0 thereof men 63.3 83.7 95.0 99.7 Number of employees still working for Merck one year after their return from parental leave 190 238 268 –⁴ thereof women 73 89 26 –⁴ thereof men 117 149 242 –⁴ Retention rate (%) 95.6 89.8 93.1 –⁴ thereof women 93.8 85.6 63.4 –⁴ thereof men 96.8 92.5 97.9 –⁴ 1 Figures only pertain to the Darmstadt and Gernsheim sites in Germany (which accounted for around 21% of Merck Group employees in 2016). Figures are calculated on the basis of the data from one entire year, which also includes those employees who took parental leave during the calendar year but who had not returned by Dec. 31. 2 Figures pertain only to Merck KGaA (which accounted for around 20% of Merck Group employees in 2017, roughly 22% in 2018 and around 15% in 2019). Figures are calculated on the basis of the data from one entire year, which also includes those employees who took parental leave during the calendar year but who had not yet returned by Dec. 31. 3 Since parental leave can be taken for a period ranging from one month to three years, it is possible for employees to be recorded across a period of up to four calendar years. This explains why the number of employees on parental leave exceeds the number of employees who have a right to it. 4 Figure will be available on December 31, 2020. 158 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Facts & figures 1 Employees with disabilities (%) As of Dec. 31 2016 2017 2018 2019 1 Employees with disabilities 4.5 4.3 4.3 4.4 1 Only pertains to Merck KGaA (which accounted for around 15% of Merck Group employees in 2019, calculations based on the German Social Code IX SGB IX). Apprentices in Germany As of Dec. 31 2016 2017 2018 2019 Number of apprentices 576 588 604 589 % of apprentices 4.6 4.4 4.5 4.3 159 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Facts & figures Environment  Part of the non-financial report 1 Total greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and 2 of the GHG Protocol) 2 3 4 metric kilotons 2006 2016 2017 2018 2019 5 6 Total CO2eq emissions 782 681 689 666 665 Thereof 6 direct CO2eq emissions 378 384 373 353 359 6 indirect CO2eq emissions 404 297 316 313 306 Biogenic CO2 emissions 0 14 13 13 12 1 In line with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, for all previous years (up to the 2006 baseline) the greenhouse gas emissions have been calculated based on the current corporate structure as of Dec. 31 of the reporting year and retroactively adjusted for acquisitions (e.g. Sigma-Aldrich in 2015) or divestments of (parts of) companies, or for changes in emission factors (portfolio-adjusted). 2 Baseline for our emission targets is 2006. 3 Since 2018, our reported figures have excluded the Consumer Health business, which was divested on December 1, 2018. 4 The figures exclude Versum Materials since the integration process is still underway. Based on the figures Versum Materials reported for the previous two years (not calculated in accordance with our metrics), we expect this to add roughly 1.3 million metric tons of CO2eq per year to our carbon footprint. More information can be found under Report profile. 5 eq = equivalent 6 Figure retroactively adjusted. Our response to the Carbon Disclosure Project contains a detailed description of our calculation methods. We have included the following gases in our calculation of direct and indirect CO2eq emissions: Direct CO2 emissions: CO2, HFCs, PFCs; CH4/N2O negligible; SF6/NF3 not available. Indirect CO2 emissions: CO2. In 2019, we emitted 0.041 kg of CO2eq per euro of net sales. 160 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Facts & figures 1 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 3 of the GHG Protocol) 2 3 2016 2017 2018 2019 Total gross other indirect emissions (metric kilotons 4 CO2eq ) 426 353 380 373 Fueland energy-related emissions, not included in Scope 1 or 2 (category 3) 127 118 131 127 Waste generated in operations (category 5) 127 68 80 84 5 Business travel air travel (category 6) 103 98 103 86 6 Business travel rail travel (category 6) 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02 Business travel rental car travel (category 6) 0.6 0.6 1.4 1.3 Employee commuting (category 7) 68 68 66 75 7 7 7 7 Upstream leased assets (category 8) 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 8 8 8 8 Processing of sold products (category 10) 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Downstream leased assets (category 13) 0 0 0 0 Franchises (category 14) 0 0 0 0 1 Because of the characteristics of the Scope 3 emissions data we do not correct these data subsequently. 2 Since 2018, our reported figures have excluded the Consumer Health business, which was divested on December 1, 2018. 3 The figures exclude Versum Materials since the integration process is still underway. Exception: Category 7: The figure is based on the headcount as of December 31, 2019 and thus includes Versum Materials. With the exception of scope 3 category 6 emissions, the data from Intermolecular are already included. More information can be found under Report profile. 4 eq = equivalent 5 This figure covers roughly 95% of the employees of the Merck Group because the data for the employees of Sigma-Aldrich, acquired in November 2015, are only partially available. 6 German Railway 7 Already covered under Scope 1 and 2 emissions 8 Merck produces a huge variety of intermediate products for various purposes. Due to their many applications and our customer structure, the associated greenhouse gas emissions cannot be tracked in a reasonable fashion. No data are available for Scope 3 categories not listed above. Their relevance to Merck is assessed in the Scope 3 document. Biogenic emissions (Scope 3), if present, are not being recorded. Emissions of ozone-depleting substances 1 2 metric tons 2016 2017 2018 2019 Total emissions of ozone-depleting substances 2.2 1.9 1.5 1.0 3 CFC-11eq 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 1 Since 2018, our reported figures have excluded the Consumer Health business, which was divested on December 1, 2018. 2 The figures exclude Versum Materials since the integration process is still underway. More information can be found under Report profile. 3 CFC-11eq is a unit of measure used to compare the potential of various substances to deplete the ozone. Reference value 1 indicates the potential of CFC-11 to cause the depletion of the ozone layer. Substances included: R-12, R-22, R-123, R-141b, R-401a, R-402a, R408a, R-409a, R-502. Source for the emission factors: Montreal Protocol. 161 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Facts & figures Other air emissions 1 2 metric kilotons 2016 2017 2018 2019 Volatile organic compounds (VOC) 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 Nitrogen oxide 0.2 0.2 0.3 0.3 Sulfur dioxide 0.05 0.03 0.01 0.01 Dust 0.02 0.04 0.01 0.01 1 Since 2018, our reported figures have excluded the Consumer Health business, which was divested on December 1, 2018. 2 The figures exclude Versum Materials since the integration process is still underway. More information can be found under Report profile. The VOC, nitrogen oxide, sulfur dioxide, and dust emissions reported here are attributable to production activities as well as energy generation. These figures do not include emissions from vehicles. Emissions are determined partially based on measurements and partially based on calculations or estimates. Only some sites are required to measure individual parameters. Transport of finished goods, by means of transportation 1 2016 2017 2018 2019 % truck 71 73 74 70 % boat 18 15 14 19 % airplane 11 12 12 11 1 The figures exclude Versum Materials and Intermolecular since the integration process is still underway. For more information, see report profile. The figures contain the volumes of the biggest global distribution centers of our Healthcare, Life Science and Performance Materials business sectors. These figures pertain to the total weight of transported products and indicate the primary means of transport. In shipping finished goods from our production sites to the local warehouses of our subsidiaries, we have been working to reduce the use of air shipping in favor of sea freight. This change aims to both reduce costs as well as lower transportrelated CO2 emissions. 162 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Facts & figures 1 Energy consumption 2 3 In GWh 2016 2017 2018 2019 4 Total energy consumption 2,117 2,194 2,227 2,240 4 Direct energy consumption 1,330 1,319 1,323 1,339 4 Natural gas 1,260 1,254 1,257 1,273 5 Liquid fossil fuels 36 32 32 33 Biomass and self-generated renewable energy 34 33 34 33 4 Indirect energy consumption 787 875 904 901 4 Electricity 692 729 755 756 Steam, heat, cold 95 146 149 145 Total energy sold 0.3 0.1 0.0 0.1 Electricity 0.3 0.1 0.0 0.1 Steam, heat, cold 0 0 0 0 In TJ 4 Total energy consumption 7,621 7,898 8,016 8,065 4 Direct energy consumption 4,788 4,748 4,762 4,821 4 Natural gas 4,536 4,514 4,525 4,583 5 Liquid fossil fuels 130 115 115 119 Biomass and self-generated renewable energy 122 119 122 119 4 Indirect energy consumption 2,833 3,150 3,254 3,244 4 Electricity 2,491 2,624 2,718 2,722 Steam, heat, cold 342 526 536 522 Total energy sold 1.1 0.4 0.0 0.4 Electricity 1.1 0.4 0.0 0.4 Steam, heat, cold 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 1 In line with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, for all previous years (up to the 2006 baseline) the energy consumption has been calculated based on the current corporate structure as of Dec. 31 of the reporting year and retroactively adjusted for acquisitions or divestments of (parts of) companies, or for changes in emission factors (portfolio-adjusted). 2 Since 2018, our reported figures have excluded the Consumer Health business, which was divested on December 1, 2018. 3 The figures exclude Versum Materials since the integration process is still underway. More information can be found under Report profile. 4 Figure retroactively adjusted. 5 Light and heavy fuel oil, liquefied petroleum gas (LPG), diesel and gasoline At our sites in Billerica (MA, United States), Bedford (MA, United States), Molsheim (France), Tel Aviv (Israel), Rome (Italy), Guatemala City (Guatemala), Shizuoka-ken (Japan), and Shanghai (China), we use photovoltaics to produce power. Merck currently only records purchased secondary energy – this is primarily electricity and, to a lesser extent, heat/steam/ cold. Details on the local energy mix, including the respective percentage of primary energy, renewable energy, etc. are not available. Data on local energy efficiency in electricity or heat generation are not available either. Our production sites are located in countries with a widely varying energy mix. Our Darmstadt and Gernsheim sites in Germany consume the most energy, representing 28% of our Group-wide total. Here, fossil energy (coal, gas, etc.) accounts for approx. 49%, nuclear energy approx. 13% and renewable energies approx. 38% of the energy mix. Renewable energies account for a higher share of electricity generation at production sites in Switzerland, with nuclear energy taking the lead in France. Based on an estimated global energy efficiency of 37% for the conversion and distribution of generated electricity, this results in a primary energy consumption of 2,043 GWh for 2019. Based on an estimated global energy efficiency of 85% for heat/steam/cold, this results in a primary energy consumption of 170 GWh for 2019. This yields a total primary energy consumption of 2,213 GWh for 2019. (The calcula163 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Facts & figures tion is based on factors stated in the “Manual for energy management in practice Systematically reducing energy costs” published by DENA, 12/2012.) In 2019, Merck's energy intensity relative to net sales totaled 0.14 kWh/€. Water withdrawal 3 1 2 millions of m 2016 2017 2018 2019 3 Total water withdrawal 13.7 14.0 14.7 14.0 Surface water (rivers, lakes) 1.8 1.9 2.1 1.9 Groundwater 7.2 7.3 7.2 6.8 3 Drinking water (from local suppliers) 4.7 4.8 5.3 5.2 Rain water and other sources 0.01 0.00 0.05 0.05 1 Since 2018, our reported figures have excluded the Consumer Health business, which was divested on December 1, 2018. 2 The figures exclude Versum Materials since the integration process is still underway. More information can be found under Report profile. 3 Figure retroactively adjusted. These figures do not include the ground water that we use for safety measures at our Gernsheim site in Germany. Here, the water is fed back directly into natural circulation. Water reused 3 1 2 millions of m 2016 2017 2018 2019 Water reused 22.7 22.4 24.4 23.3 1 Since 2018, our reported figures have excluded the Consumer Health business, which was divested on December 1, 2018. 2 The figures exclude Versum Materials since the integration process is still underway. More information can be found under Report profile. The recirculating cooling system at our Darmstadt, Germany facility accounts for the majority of reused water as it allows the water to be re-utilized multiple times. The volume of reused water is thus greater than the total volume of consumed water. 1 Wastewater volume and quality 3 2016 2017 2018² 2019 3 Total wastewater volume (millions of m ) 12.9 13.1 13.5 13.2 4 4 Chemical oxygen demand (metric tons of O3) 1,535 1,537 1,509 1,562 4 Phosphorous (metric tons) 12 8 10 12 4 4 Nitrogen (metric tons) 378 234 260 481 4 Nickel (kg) 29 32 30 32 4 Lead (kg) 31 35 30 34 Cadmium (kg) 7 6 6 6 Mercury (kg) 2 1 0 0 1 In alignment with ICCA reporting requirements specified by Cefic, we track heavy metal emissions from lead, cadmium, nickel, and mercury. 2 Since 2018, our reported figures have excluded the Consumer Health business, which was divested on December 1, 2018. 3 The figures exclude Versum Materials since the integration process is still underway. More information can be found under Report profile. 4 Figure retroactively adjusted. The wastewater volume includes indirect discharge into both public and Merck-owned wastewater treatment plants, as well as direct discharge (such as rainwater and cooling water). 164 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Facts & figures The wastewater treatment plant at our Gernsheim, Germany site also treats wastewater from the neighboring municipality of Biebesheim. The communal wastewater from Biebesheim is included in the wastewater volume as well as in the emissions stated in the table. Emissions are determined partially based on measurements and partially based on calculations or estimates. Only some sites are required to measure individual parameters. Hazardous and non-hazardous waste 1 2 metric kilotons 2016 2017 2018 2019 3 Total waste 256 255 245 244 4 Hazardous waste disposed 47 43 44 44 4 Non-hazardous waste disposed 38 33 54 41 5 3 Hazardous waste recycled 82 72 75 78 5 Non-hazardous waste recycled 89 107 72 81 1 Since 2018, our reported figures have excluded the Consumer Health business, which was divested on December 1, 2018. 2 The figures exclude Versum Materials since the integration process is still underway. More information can be found under Report profile. 3 Figure retroactively adjusted. 4 Disposed = incineration (without energy recovery) and landfill 5 Recycled = incineration (with energy recovery) and material recycling Exported/Imported hazardous waste 1 2 metric kilotons 2016 2017 2018 2019 3 Exported 4.6 4.9 4.5 4.3 Imported 0.010 0.005 0.000 0.000 1 Since 2018, our reported figures have excluded the Consumer Health business, which was divested on December 1, 2018. 2 The figures exclude Versum Materials since the integration process is still underway. More information can be found under Report profile. 3 Disposal primarily within the EU and the United States. In 2019, approx. 3% of hazardous waste was shipped internationally. Waste by disposal method 1 2 2016 2017 2018 2019 3 Total waste (metric kilotons) 256 255 245 244 Disposed waste 85 76 98 84 Landfilled waste 15 13 35 26 Incinerated waste 70 63 63 58 3 Recycled waste 171 179 147 160 3 Material recycling 139 149 127 132 Waste-to-energy 32 30 20 28 Recycling rate (%) 67 70 60 66 1 Since 2018, our reported figures have excluded the Consumer Health business, which was divested on December 1, 2018. 2 The figures exclude Versum Materials since the integration process is still underway. More information can be found under Report profile. 3 Figure retroactively adjusted. As in previous years, the total waste generated continues to be heavily influenced by the waste from construction and remodeling activities. Construction, excavation and demolition waste accounted for 31% of our waste in 2019. Around 49 metric kilotons of construction, excavation and demolition waste was recycled. 165 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Facts & figures Significant spills 1 2 2016 2017 2018 2019 Total number of significant spills 0 0 0 0 1 Since 2018, our reported figures have excluded the Consumer Health business, which was divested on December 1, 2018. 2 The figures exclude Versum Materials since the integration process is still underway. More information can be found under Report profile. 166 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Facts & figures Community Spending on community involvement 1 € million 2016 2017 2018 2019 Total spending 43.0 33.8 35.7 46.2 1 From 2018 on, we are separating spending on programs of the Merck Foundation from our community involvement figures. We calculate the value of pharmaceutical product donations according to the WHO Guidelines for Medicine Donations; for other product donations, we apply their fair value. Total spending includes the community outreach activities of Versum Materials and Intermolecular from October to December 2019. 1 Community involvement spending by region Middle East North Asia-Pacific Latin and Africa Europe America (APAC) America (MEA) 2018 € million 10.1 2.2 2.6 0.7 20.1 % 28 6 7 2 57 2019 € million 10.6 3.4 2.3 0.5 29.3 % 23 7 5 1 64 1 This table presents the regions across the globe in which we support initiatives. For projects that benefit multiple regions, we have calculated the amount per region by dividing the project spending evenly per country. Regional spending includes the community outreach activities of Versum Materials and Intermolecular from October to December 2019. From 2018 on, we are separating spending on programs of the Merck Foundation from our community involvement figures. 1 Focus of our local community involvement 2 % 2016 2017 2018 2019 Global Health 35 38 34 33 Broad Minds: Education and culture 36 43 42 38 Sustainable Solutions: Environment 5 4 2 3 Disaster relief 2 2 2 2 Other 22 13 20 24 1 Based on number of projects 2 From 2018 on, we are separating spending on programs of the Merck Foundation from our community involvement figures. Spending per category includes the community outreach activities of Versum Materials and Intermolecular from October to December 2019. 167 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Facts & figures 1 Motivations for our community involvement 2 % 2016 2017 2018 2019 Charitable activities 4 9 7 6 Community investment 87 84 88 91 Commercial initiatives in the community 9 7 5 3 1 Based on total spending on all projects 2 From 2018 on, we are separating spending on programs of the Merck Foundation from our community involvement figures. We categorize the motivations for our activities based on the London Benchmarking Group model as well as the guidelines of the Bertelsmann Foundation for corporate social responsibility. Projects that primarily aim to make improvements within the community are classified as community investment. Initiatives that are predominantly aimed at company-relevant factors such as image or personnel recruitment are classified as commercial initiatives in the community. Charitable activities cover any other projects that benefit a charitable organization, but cannot be listed under either of the other two motivation categories due to missing data or their narrow scope. Spending per category includes the community outreach activities of Versum Materials and Intermolecular from October to December 2019. 168 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Facts & figures Goals  Part of the non-financial report Legend: New Goal Goal achieved In Progress Goal not achieved Business ethics Compliance Goal: Bring compliance closer to the business Action(s): By: Progress by end of 2019: Status: Third Party Risk Management July 2020 The new Third-Party Risk Management process is still in preparation and will be implemented stepwise as of July 2020. Until then, the existing Business Partner Risk Management process will remain in use; the specific procedures were maintained and updated in 2019. Money Laundering Prevention June 2019 We rolled out a new Anti-money Laundering Policy along with a corresponding screening process for incoming payments in 2019. Self-monitoring as part of the Compliance Risk July 2019 In 2019, the Compliance Programs and Support Assessment process: Integrate self-assessment team launched a redesigned compliance risk of compliance program implementation status in management process. We adapted the risk evalexisting Compliance Risk Assessment uation process and added a new self-monitoring component. 169 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Facts & figures Supply chain standards Goal: Ensure that suppliers adhere to ethical, social, environmental and compliance standards Action(s): By: Progress by end of 2019: Status: Perform a qualitative analysis of the available End of Q2/ In 2019 we redirected our efforts and focused on assessment and audit findings and define poten2019 strengthening and further developing our risktial courses of action. based approach. We have also laid the foundation of cross-collaboration across the company for an overarching concept to more efficiently manage CR-related matters in 2020. Develop a due diligence process for Responsible End of Q3/ In the second half of 2019, a working group with Minerals Sourcing according to the OECD guid2019 representatives from business sectors and Group ance for upstream processes and integrate it into functions was established. the working processes of the affected units. At the end of 2019, the elements of a draft conflict minerals system were developed and will be further defined in 2020. Develop a due diligence process for palm oil End of 2019 In 2019, we focused on other topics and theresourcing according to international guidance and fore did not reach our goal for palm oil sourcing. implement it within the working processes of the However, we aim to develop a due diligence affected units. process by the end of 2020. Animal welfare Goal: Re-accredit relevant animal facilities Action(s): By: Progress by end of 2019: Status: Re-accredit relevant animal facilities. Ongoing In 2019, one site in Italy has completed its reaccreditation. Re-accreditations are conducted every three years. Goal: Ensure animal welfare in our supply chain Action(s): By: Progress by end of 2019: Status: Develop and implement an audit plan for Ongoing Audit plans were developed and implemented in suppliers. 2019 as planned. The process is up and running. Goal: Promote the 3Rs (Reduce, Refine, Replace) Action(s): By: Progress by end of 2019: Status: Develop a Group-wide 3R program. Ongoing The internal 3Rs Award for increasing internal awareness was held again in 2019. 170 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Facts & figures Products Health for all Focus programs Goal: Eliminate schistosomiasis Hand in hand with our partners, we aim to eliminate the tropical worm disease schistosomiasis worldwide Action(s): By: Progress by end of 2019: Status: Donate up to 250 million praziquantel tablets Ongoing Following the orders for 2019 by WHO, we annually to the World Health Organization donated nearly 233 million tablets for distribu(WHO) for African school-aged children. tion in 35 countries, 32 of which in Africa. We continue to maintain production capacities at a level sufficient for manufacturing 250 million praziquantel tablets a year. We signed a new Memorandum of Understanding with WHO in July 2019, extending our partnership for another five years. Optimize the praziquantel formulation. End of 2020 In 2019, we analyzed the results of the first bioMilestone for 2019: complete analysis of bioequiequivalence study, which had already been valence study. completed in 2018. Initiate new partnerships to promote behavioral End of 2019 We extended the behavioral change project with change in African school children. NALA foundation to two new districts in Ethiopia. Milestone for 2019: extend the project to two Health and education activities focusing on safe further districts in Ethiopia. water, sanitation and hygiene were conducted in Mizan Aman and Guraferda. Continue to strengthen the position of the Global Ongoing The GSA has taken on the role to house and Schistosomiasis Alliance (GSA) as a partner platoversee the implementation of a Schistosomiasis form for advocacy, implementation, research, Action Plan and adjusted its work program and communication, and strategy development. working groups to drive progress on the Action Plan. Goal: Availability: Address unmet needs through the research, development and optimization of health solutions We aim to improve global health for underserved populations in lowand middle-income countries, with a focus on combating infectious diseases. Action(s): By: Progress by end of 2019: Status: Develop a pediatric formulation of praziquantel End of Q4/ The Phase III trial began at the Homa Bay clinfor the treatment of schistosomiasis in children 2020 ical center in Kenya in September 2019. The under six. study is ongoing. Milestone 2020: Develop access strategy for Based on the commitment to provide patients in select African countries (Q4, 2020) need with sustainable access to pediatric praziquantel, an innovative access path is currently being designed together with international key stakeholders. Develop a pediatric formulation of praziquantel End of Q2/ The Phase III trial started in September 2019 at for the treatment of schistosomiasis in children 2019 the Homa Bay clinical center in Kenya. The study under six. is ongoing. Milestone 2019: start of Phase III trial. Develop a new antimalarial (PeEF2 inhibitor). End of Q4/ In addition to bringing Phase Ib to completion, Milestone 2020: Design of Phase II and identific2020 our work focused on designing the Phase II ation of combination partner (Q4, 2020) study, identifying a combination partner and devising a commercialization path to tailor further development. Develop a new antimalarial (PeEF2 inhibitor). End of Q4/ Testing of PeEF2 inhibitor completed under the Milestone for 2019: Completion of Phase I/Ib. 2019 seamless Phase I/human blood malaria challenge model (Phase Ib). 171 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Facts & figures Pharmaceutical supply chain Goal: Accessibility: Strengthen supply chains and provide localized health solutions Action(s): By: Progress by end of 2019: Status: Form a partnership to improve healthcare at the End of 2019 We successfully launched and implemented a point of care in developing countries. project in Tanzania with Bahari, a local distributor, and in collaboration with Business for Health Solutions. Goal: Provide and further develop the GPHF Minilab™ Action(s): By: Progress by end of 2019: Status: Update the Minilab manuals and consolidate all End of 2020 A print version of a consolidated English manual test methods into one single volume. was completed in 2019. French and Spanish versions will follow in 2020. Prices of medicines Goal: Provide patients with access to affordable, high-quality products by making more of our branded generics available. Action(s): By: Progress by end of 2019: Status: Continue with the expansion of our branded Ongoing We launched four branded generic products in generics portfolio. the Philippines, three in Angola, one in Brazil, and one in Mexico. Goal: Provide “beyond-the-pill” solutions to patients, caregivers and physicians to enable better management of the condition while maximizing treatment outcomes. Action(s): By: Progress by end of 2019: Status: We entered a partnership on a leading medicaOngoing Significant improvement in adherence to medication adherence solution, Medisafe, to pilot a tion across all brands could be observed during customized program to cardiometabolic patients the initial 12 months of the program delivery. in Brazil, Russia and Mexico. We extended our partnerships in Russia and Brazil. We entered a partnership with a leading digital Ongoing A proof-of-concept pilot was completed in diabetes prevention program provider, Blue several countries and the program was or is Mesa Health, to offer an effective and custombeing offered in Guatemala, Hong Kong, the ized lifestyle counselling program to prediabetic United Arab Emirates and Brazil. Launch preparpatients across different regions. ations are underway in the United Arab Emirates to make the program available commercially as well. 172 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Facts & figures Product safety and quality Chemical product safety Goal: Guided by the precautionary principle, establish a globally aligned hazard and risk communication system for all our relevant chemical products in the supply chain Action(s): By: Progress by end of 2019: Status: Implement the Global Product Strategy: Issue End of 2020 The VCI has limited the product safety product safety summaries for all hazardous summaries to EU REACH lead substances. substances registered under REACH Following a review by the International Council of Chemical Associations (ICCA) and the UN, the ICCA took down the website with the product safety summaries on October 1, 2019 due the broad availability of such information on various portals, such as those of chemical agencies. It is therefore unnecessary for the ICCA to continue maintaining a web portal for product safety summaries. Projects for hazard communication: Update By end of In both our Life Science and Performance Matersafety data sheets for non-hazardous materials 2020 ials business sectors, all safety data sheets for non-hazardous materials had been updated by the end of 2019. These figures do not yet include the products/safety data sheets from the acquisition of Versum Materials and Intermolecular. Harmonize safety data sheets to align with a By end of In our Life Science business sector, the harmonglobally uniform standard 2020 ization process was completed at the end of 2019. In Performance Materials, we have harmonized the majority of our safety data sheets Groupwide. However, national regulations limit what we can do in terms of completely harmonizing our safety information. In the process of integrating Versum Materials and Intermolecular, which we acquired in 2019, we are verifying whether their safety information complies with the applicable regulatory requirements as well as our internal standards, and are adapting the underlying processes where necessary. Patient safety Goal: Enhance patient safety through stakeholder communication Action(s): By: Progress by end of 2019: Status: Enhance the effective and timely communication 2019 New processes were introduced to meet new to stakeholders in agreement with health authorhealth authority requirements for the communicities. ation of safety signals. Mapping of local and regional requirements for safety issues were completed. Enhance patient interface in agReporter applica2019 In 2019, we made the mobile patient-centric app tion and rollout of patient-centric pharmacovigilfor reporting adverse effects (agReporter) availance videos. able in six additional languages: Russian, Simplified Chinese, Italian, Taiwan Traditional Chinese, German, and Turkish (simple form) In order to promote the use of the app by patients to report adverse effects, we introduced new features: 173 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Facts & figures Application enhanced to support mobile browser as well as Safari and Chrome Improvement of data quality for reported adverse effects Goal: Empower early and fully informed decisions by addressing unmet medical needs, deep biology and drug safety Action(s): By: Progress by end of 2019: Status: Define a scoring model as basis for product 2023 We formed a workstream for portfolio prioritizaprioritization and tiered portfolio management. tion and tiered portfolio management to enhance focus on high-priority assets. This action will be supported by an end-to-end vendor management framework. Implement a risk-based approach in global 2023 We formed a workstream for our risk-based patient safety processes to improve efficiency. approach, which will operate alongside the workstream for portfolio prioritization. It will be supported by an end-to-end vendor management framework to allow the team to efficiently work with vendors. Develop real-time pharmacovigilance intelligence 2023 We formed a work package under the workon global, regional and local levels to enable stream for our risk-based approach, in order to strategic decision-making. develop a pharmacovigilance intelligence governance structure and tools. This governance system will help to ensure that the risk-based approach is applied when centralizing our position for pharmacovigilance strategy and negotiations with health authorities. Goal: Provide up-to-date safety information to our customers worldwide, based on the benefit-risk profiles of our products Action(s): By: Progress by end of 2019: Status: Practice predictive safety by developing a robust, 2023 We formed a workstream for our benefit-risk cross-functional benefit-risk strategy that helps blueprint strategy in close collaboration with us deliver therapies that are truly differentiated multiple stakeholder functions. We aim to and provide transformational value to patients. redesign and strengthen the benefit-risk strategy, and to establish effective communication of benefit-risk assessment to internal and external stakeholders. Optimize and automate the processing of indi2023 We formed a workstream to leverage automation vidual case safety reports (ICSRs) from collecto avoid duplicating resources and generating tion to reporting, in order to significantly reduce unsustainable operating costs. manual efforts and further improve quality, while maintaining a high level of timely compliance in reporting. 174 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Facts & figures Product-related crime Goal: Strengthening cross-functional collaboration within the global security network and raising awareness among other target audiences of the strategic relevance of counterfeit medicines. Action(s): By: Progress by end of 2019: Status: Expand organizational structures and certify Ongoing Continued holding product crime officer training employees who deal with product-related crime. programs as well as fortnightly conference calls. Host conferences and seminars; share best pracOngoing Conducted workshops and training seminars in tices and lessons learned through international Africa, China and Latin America. Best-practice networks sharing via international networks: Participated in five Pharmaceutical Security Institute conferences. Establish the Security Academy learning and Ongoing Kick-off held in mid-February 2020, thereafter communication platform with the aim of better quarterly calls. imparting the relevant expertise to all Security functions and key stakeholders. Goal: Develop and implement security technologies and solutions for the authentication, identification, integrity, and security of the product supply chain Action(s): By: Progress by end of 2019: Status: Support regional activities to counter productOngoing Started a project in China to monitor online related crime. marketplaces more purposefully and pinpoint suspected cases. Implemented projects and technical/organizational measures in Mexico and Italy to better monitor the external supply chain (road transport) and minimize the risk of pharmaceutical transport robbery and product theft. Step up internet searches to detect counterfeit Ongoing Start a project in China to monitor online products, illegal parallel imports as well as trademarketplaces in a more focused manner and mark infringements investigate suspected cases. Monitor counterfeit pharmaceuticals in convenOngoing Continued monitoring through external service tional distribution channels as well as online providers to more rapidly identify counterfeit sales versions of our products and take countermeasures. In 2019, we focused on transparently tracking cybercrime in China. Transport and warehouse safety Goal: Ensure warehouse and transport safety for our company and our suppliers. Action(s): By: Progress by end of 2019: Status: Harmonize transport and warehouse safety End of 2020 The harmonization process was completed master data through Group-wide ERP systems. Group-wide. Goal: Ensure warehouse and transport safety for our company and third-party warehouses and avoid incidents with risks for people and the environment. Action(s): By: Progress by end of 2019: Status: Regularly evaluate audit results, incident reports Ongoing The criteria for reusing shipping cartons was and safety-related complaints and implement the revised in order to reduce waste while also resulting corrective actions. continuing to comply with all required safety standards. 175 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Facts & figures Employees Career at Merck Goal: Consistently fill at least two-thirds of leadership positions (Role 6+) with internal candidates. Action(s): By: Progress by end of 2019: Status: Use the Talent Management Process to identify Ongoing In 2019, 87% of vacant positions (Role 6+) were suitable employees with leadership potential and filled internally. optimize the process to systematically advance them. Build a high-potential talent pool that reflects Ongoing We are continuously developing our high-potenour demographic structure. tial talent pool, which is a reflection of the diversity within our company. Goal: Position our Group as an attractive employer for university graduates Action(s): By: Progress by end of 2019: Status: Participate in university fairs and organize inOngoing We are continuously positioning ourselves as an house recruiting events for graduates; position attractive employer for university graduates. Our our company via employer branding channels; employer branding and talent sourcing measures partner with target universities, student initiatenabled us to fill all trainee positions and other ives and organizations/associations. direct entry jobs by the end of 2019. Approach select target universities. Ongoing We leveraged existing measures, for instance intensive collaboration with selected university departments and career services, to bolster our position as an attractive employer for university graduates. Goal: Increase the share of employees (Group-wide) with development plans to 70% by 2020 Action(s): By: Progress by end of 2019: Status: Conduct extensive internal communications and End of 2020 The percentage of employees with development people development campaigns and optimize plans increased from 70% (2018) to 75% existing tools (2019). Create awareness and share knowledge End of 2020 We are taking steps to raise awareness of development plans and help employees to create a solid one. Fairness and dialogue Goal: Measure and improve employee engagement Action(s): By: Progress by end of 2019: Status: Implement a regularly occurring process to Ongoing In 2019, we once again conducted a Group-wide measure employee engagement and take actions employee survey. to improve it. Diversity Goal: Our target is to maintain a 30% representation of women in leadership roles (Role 4+) until 2021. Action(s): By: Progress by end of 2019: Status: Deploy teams at business sector level to develop End of 2021 All business sectors have set up their own teams goals and measures to move women into posithat are dedicated to pursuing the objectives and tions in various hierarchies measures and network with one another. For example, all business sectors have started to introduce our inclusion training. Moreover, we offer specific sponsoring or mentoring programs for women. 176 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Facts & figures Health and safety Goal: Reduce the lost time injury rate Group-wide (to 1.5 or less) Action(s): By: Progress by end of 2019: Status: Reinforce our safety culture to prevent behaviorEnd of 2020 In 2019 we achieved a Group-wide LTIR of 1.5. related accidents. Roll out our BeSafe! program Manager training and safety walkabouts helped at all legacy Sigma-Aldrich sites and monitor us maintain a high level of safety awareness. We ongoing implementation via appropriate took these steps at numerous sites – including performance indicators. 12legacy Sigma-Aldrich facilities. Environment Environmental stewardship Goal: Incorporate all production sites into our Group ISO 14001 certificate for environmental management systems. Action(s): By: Progress by end of 2019: Status: At newly acquired production sites, introduce Ongoing In 2019, no new sites were added to our Group environmental management systems in line with certificate. All sites relevant to the Group certiour Group ISO 14001 certificate and certify them ficate had already achieved ISO 14001:2015 accordingly. certification. 177 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Facts & figures Climate action Goal: 20% reduction in our direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and 2) by 2020 relative to the 2006 baseline Action(s): By: Progress by end of 2019: Status: Systematically examine the energy consumption End of 2020 In line with the EU Energy Efficiency Directive, at our individual production sites we performed renewed energy audits pursuant to EN 16247 at various European sites. Our Energy Management & Technology unit (from the Darmstadt/Gernsheim sites (both Germany)) supported our sites in this endeavor and performed audits in Calais, Meyzieu and Semoy (all in France) as well as in Ivrea (Italy). Furthermore, our Life Science business sector conducted energy management surveys at its sites in 2019. We use the data points collected to create a roadmap so as to streamline our energy management approach. Moreover, in July, Healthcare launched the EHS dashboard, a tool that aims to increase knowledge and transparency of environmental emissions to top leaders and the EHS community. Identify and implement potential energy savings. End of 2020 In developing a new climate action target, we are revising our approach to promoting energy efficiency projects and hosted an energy efficiency conference to discuss the matter. In addition, we set up an Energy Management intranet site to provide a platform for sharing best practices and lessons learned and to evolve energy efficiency strategies; we furthermore formed international work groups to address interdisciplinary topics relating to energy efficiency. Reduce process-related emissions End of 2022 In early 2019, we transferred a production line to a new site and can now manufacture these products in an emission-free plant. This led to an additional 10,000 metric tons of CO2eq savings. Throughout 2018 and 2019, we initiated two additional process emission reduction projects that will continue through the year 2022. Using 2018 production volumes as our baseline, these projects are expected to save an additional 55,000 metric tons of CO2eq. Further projects are being evaluated for feasibility. Renewable energies End of 2020 In 2019, we started integrating the purchase of electricity from renewable sources into the scope of our climate action goal. In line with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG Protocol), we are now capturing our emissions using both the market-based and the location-based approach. Moreover, in the United States, we have additionally purchased renewable energy credits (REC) in order to achieve our 20% target. 178 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Facts & figures Waste and recycling Goal: Reduce the environmental impact of our waste disposal (Merck Waste Score) by 5% by 2025 (baseline 2016) Action(s): By: Progress by end of 2019: Status: Continuously look for ways to improve our Ongoing Through a pilot of our ProMec initiative, we are production processes and disposal methods. recycling approximately 1,300 metric tons of liquid production waste per year. Water management Goal: Introduce a sustainable water management system at 24 of our manufacturing facilities with high water use by 2020 Action(s): By: Progress by end of 2019: Status: Meet the “advanced” requirements set out in the May 2020 During stage 3 of the self-assessment, we will CEFIC flagship self-assessment tool (stage 3). assess the environmental impacts caused by our This will assess our sites’ impact on the water discharged water. This process will continue until situation in the vicinity of each individual site. May 2020 without an interim audit. Goal: Reduce our water use at sites in water-stressed areas by 10% relative to the 2014 baseline. Action(s): By: Progress by end of 2019: Status: Processes optimized to curb water consumption 2020 Water use was reduced by 21% at the respective at seven production sites in Mexico, Spain, sites. Taiwan, and the United States. 179 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Facts & figures Recognition and rankings The following overview presents a selection of major awards and recognition that we have received or achieved. Information on additional recognition and accolades received by individual businesses or sites can be found in the respective chapter of our 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report, or on our website. CR performance Access to Medicine Index In 2018, our company ranked fourth in the Access to Medicine Index, a position we have held since 2016 and one that has consistently put us among the top five firms in the Index. Published every two years by the international non-profit Access to Medicine Foundation, this index ranks the top 20 largest pharmaceutical companies based on their efforts to address access to medicine in lowand middle-income countries. www.accesstomedicineindex.org CDP climate and water We’ve been reporting our climate actions to the CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project) since 2008. In 2019, our climate impact mitigation activities scored a C in the CDP, the same as in 2018. This initiative measures the strategies companies use to reduce emissions along with their successes, as well as how they manage their risks and opportunities on climate change. In addition to reporting on our climate action, since 2016 we have been reporting our water-related performance and processes to the CDP. In 2019, we received a B for our water management practices, up from a Bin 2018. The CDP evaluates companies’ performance in the areas of climate and water on a scale from A to D-, with A being the top score. www.cdp.net EcoVadis rating The independent rating agency EcoVadis evaluates suppliers from 150 countries across the categories of Environment, Labor and Human Rights, Ethics, and Sustainable Procurement. As a member of the Together for Sustainability initiative, we also undergo this assessment; in 2019 we were again assessed and awarded platinum status in 2020, putting us among the top 1% of all participating companies. www.ecovadis.com ESG Rating from MSCI MSCI is one of the world’s largest providers of financial services for institutional investors as well as environment, social and governance ratings (ESG). This independent organization assesses companies according to their exposure to industry-significant ESG risks and their ability to manage those risks relative to industry peers. In May 2019, MSCI gave us an “AAA”, their highest ESG rating and one that puts us among the top 2% of all companies evaluated. They particularly praised our Group-wide ISO 9001 certification, our compliance activities and our robust quality management system. www.msci.com/esg-ratings ESG Rating from Sustainalytics Sustainalytics is a firm that rates the sustainability of listed companies based on their environmental, social and corporate governance (ESG) performance. In 2018, this organization awarded us 79 out of 100 points, putting us among the leading pharmaceutical companies. We received particularly high marks in the categories of corporate governance and community outreach, and our environmental performance likewise earned a high score that far exceeded the average. www.sustainalytics.com 180 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Facts & figures Good Company Ranking In 2018, the management consultancy Kirchhoff Consult released its sixth Good Company Ranking, an index that is published every two years. Among the German blue-chip companies in the DAX 30, we took fourth place in this latest round, having moved up six positions from our 2016 rating. The ranking is published every two years. www.kirchhoff-consult.com Institute for Ecological Economy Research ranking In 2018, the Institute for Ecological Economy Research (IÖW) and “future e. V. – Verantwortung unternehmen” issued its tenth ranking of sustainability reporting by major German companies. Published every two years, this index assesses factors such as the environmental impacts of production processes, transparent communication and efforts to enhance supply chain sustainability. Our 2017 CR Report achieved a score of 426 in the latest ranking, putting us in sixth place. The ranking is published every two years. www.ranking-nachhaltigkeitsberichte.de/en ESG company rating In 2019, the Institutional Shareholder Services (ISS) group of companies again gave our Group a Bon a scale of A+ (top mark) to D-, once more granting us Prime Status (“good” to “very good”) as in 2018. www.issgovernance.com/esg Children’s rights and business The Boston Consulting Group and the “Global Child Forum”, a Stockholm-based non-profit foundation to promote children’s rights conducted a global benchmark study in 2019 entitled “The State of Children’s Rights and Business 2019: From Promise to Practice”. We achieved an average score of 9.5 out of 10 and have been classified as a “Leader” regarding our action for children’s rights. Our performance in the “Workplace” and “Community & Environment” categories received particularly high marks that were far above average. www.globalchildforum.org Sustainability indices Ethibel Sustainability Index (ESI) Excellence Europe and Ethibel EXCELLENCE Investment Register Since 2015 we have been a constituent of the ESI Excellence Europe, a sustainability index that comprises the 200 top-rated European companies based on their corporate responsibility performance. We are also included in the Ethibel EXCELLENCE Investment Register. www.forumethibel.org Euronext Vigeo Eiris Index Since 2015, we have been a constituent of the Euronext-Vigeo Eurozone 120, an index that features the 120 most successful European companies in terms of their environmental, social and governance practices. Since June 2019, we have also been constituents of the Euronext Vigeo Europe 120 index. www.vigeo-eiris.com FTSE4Good Index Since 2008, we have been included in the FTSE4GOOD Index, a leading international ethical investment stock market rating that annually measures the performance of companies in demonstrating strong environmental, social and governance practices. www.ftse.com ® STOXX Global ESG Leaders Index In 2019, our company was once again included in the STOXX Global ESG Leaders sustainability index, which assesses companies based on key environmental, social and governance criteria. www.stoxx.com 181 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Facts & figures CR awards Prize for research and development The R&D 100 Awards are among the most prestigious innovation awards in the world, honoring research and development pion® eers. In November 2019, one of these awards recognized our first-to-market innovation Eshmuno CP-FT Resin , which can be used to efficiently remove aggregates from antibodies, thus lowering the risk to patients. Moreover, this product yields higher capacities than traditional methods and results in a smaller ecological footprint from manufacturing. www.rdworldonline.com Top Employers Institute recognition The annual international evaluation conducted by the Top Employers Institute recognizes leading employers around the world through a stringent evaluation process. Including more than 1,500 companies across 118 countries, this evaluation is based on a detailed assessment of HR processes and structures. In February 2019, we were named one of only 14 global employers of choice by the Top Employers Institute, which recognized our achievements in talent development, performance management, and career and succession planning. In addition to the Global Top Employer 2019 certification, our Group was also named as a Top Employer Europe 2019 as well as a Top Employer Germany 2019. www.top-employers.com/en Most Attractive Employers ranking The success of our efforts is also confirmed by our ranking among the 100 most attractive employers for students and professional scientists in Germany. This index is published annually by employer branding specialist Universum and involves a survey of more than 5,000 people. In the category of Natural Sciences, we again ranked fifth in the student survey and even moved up one place to be ranked sixth by experienced professionals in 2019. www.universumglobal.com Award from Science Magazine Science, a leading peer-reviewed academic journal, once more named us a top employer. Almost 8,000 employees and managers from biotech and pharmaceutical companies took part in the magazine’s online survey, ranking our company fourth. We were praised especially for prioritizing thinking ahead, adapting, and communicating. www.sciencemag.org 182 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Facts & figures Subsidiary awards CSR Award for “Happy Workplace” In April 2019, Merck in Taiwan received the 2019 CSR Award for “Happy Workplace” from Global View Magazine, a prestigious business magazine in Taiwan. We are honored to be recognized alongside other multinational and Taiwan-based global companies. Best places to work In 2019, the Boston Business Journal added us to their list of Best Places to Work, which honors leading employers in the Boston area (Massachusetts, USA) that have built outstanding work environments for their employees. The final rankings were determined through online surveys conducted among employees of each company. www.bizjournals.com One of the most sustainable pharmaceutical companies In 2019, the business magazine “Exame” listed us as one of the most sustainable pharmaceutical companies in Brazil. The magazine highlighted our promotion of diversity and inclusion specifically in terms of gender equality. 183 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Facts & figures Non-financial report  Part of the non-financial report Index for the combined separate integrated non-financial report Through our combined separate integrated non-financial report, we fulfill the legal requirements. The separate non-financial report of the Merck Group has been combined with the separate non-financial report of the parent undertaking, Merck KGaA, in accordance with Section 289b (3) sentence 2 in conjunction with Section 298 (2) of the German Commercial Code, and integrated into our Corporate Responsibility Report. The following index provides an overview of the contents of the non-financial report and contains links to the relevant passages in the CR report. External references within our CR Report are not part of the non-financial report. To provide the type of framework stipulated in Section 289d in conjunction with Section 315c (3) of the German Commercial Code, we have applied the standards of the Global Reporting Initiative (Option: Comprehensive) for this report. Description of business model We describe our business model, corporate structure, governance and Group strategy under Company profile. Strategic and organizational approach to sustainability Under Governance, we present external guidelines and initiatives to which we’ve committed ourselves, along with Groupwide guidelines that are the cornerstone of our responsible governance. Our CR strategy sets out how we practice corporate responsibility, both in terms of strategy and at the organizational level. Material aspects and issues To determine the aspects and matters of relevance to the non-financial report, we conducted a materiality analysis that identified several matters that could not be assigned to any of the five aspects defined as minimum contents under Section 289c (2) of the German Commercial Code. Along with these five aspects, we have therefore decided to report on the following additional relevant matters: Aspect Matter Environmental matters Environmental stewardship Pharmaceutical and chemical residues in the environment (incl. abandoned hazardous waste) Plant and process safety Employee-related matters Health and safety Good leadership Employee engagement Employee development Recruiting and retaining employees Diversity and equal opportunities Work 4.0 Social matters Patient safety Product-related crime Responsible marketing Data protection Respect for human rights Bioethics (incl. genome editing) Clinical studies 184 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Facts & figures Anti-corruption and anti-bribery Compliance Interactions with health systems Chemical product safety (incl. labeling of chemicals) Transport and warehouse safety Prices of medicines Innovation and R&D Digitalization Within our approach to comprehensive risk and opportunity management, we also identify current and potential risks and opportunities in the areas of environment, community and governance. This includes information on the gross risks in terms of potential damage and probability, as well as the residual net risks remaining after mitigation measures have been effected. We did not identify any net risks that fulfill the materiality criteria as set forth by Section 289c (3) no. 3 and 4 of the German Commercial Code. Additional risks are described in the Report on Risks and Opportunities in the combined management report. Aspect: Environmental matters Within our Group, environmental matters fall under environmental stewardship. In the following section, we report on the measures implemented to further environmental stewardship, enhance plant and process safety, and address pharmaceutical and chemical residues in the environment (incl. abandoned hazardous waste). Matter Concepts incl. due diligence processes and outcome of activities Environmental stewOur approach to environmental stewardship ardship How we structure our environmental stewardship practices Material investments in environmental impact mitigation Projects and measures regarding environmental stewardship Goals and progress: Environment Pharmaceutical and Provisions for environmental impact mitigation chemical residues in the environment (incl. abandoned hazardous waste) Plant and process Our approach to plant and process safety safety How we organize our plant and process safety Our commitment: Standards and legislation Projects and measures regarding plant and process safety 185 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Facts & figures Aspect: Employee-related matters Within our Group, employee-related matters fall under the purview of Human Resources (HR). Under this aspect, we report on concepts pertaining to being an attractive employer. These include the matters of health and safety, good leadership, employee engagement, employee development, recruiting and retaining employees, diversity and equal opportunities and work 4.0. Matter Concepts incl. due diligence processes and outcome of activities Health and safety Our approach to preventing accidents and promoting health How we manage occupational health and safety Policies and work agreements regarding health and safety Projects and measures regarding health and safety Goals and progress: Employees Good leadership Our approach to good leadership How we facilitate good leadership Leadership behaviors Projects and measures regarding good leadership Employee engageOur approach to employee engagement ment How we engage our employees Our commitment: Group-wide Social and Labor Standards Policy Projects and measures regarding employee engagement Goals and progress: Employees Employee developHow we organize recruiting, vocational training and advanced training ment Employee development guideline Projects and measures regarding employee development Goals and progress: Employees Recruiting and Our approach to attracting and retaining talent retaining employees How we organize recruiting, vocational training and advanced training (incl. work-life balance) Projects and measures Goals and progress: Employees Our approach to ensuring a good work-life balance How we strengthen work-life balance Group guidelines and local regulations regarding work-life balance Projects and measures regarding work-life balance Diversity and equal Our approach to diversity and equal opportunity opportunities How we are making diversity a pillar of the company Our commitment regarding diversity and equal opportunities: industry-wide initiatives and regulations Projects and measures regarding diversity and equal opportunities Goals and progress: Employees Work 4.0 Projects and measures Leveraging the opportunities of digitalization 186 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Facts & figures Aspect: Social matters “Social matters” encompasses our relationship with consumers. Under this heading, we report on concepts relating to patient safety, product-related crime, responsible marketing, and data protection. Matter Concepts incl. due diligence processes and outcome of activities Patient safety Our approach to ensuring patient safety How we monitor patient safety Guidelines and statutory requirements regarding patient safety Projects and measures regarding patient safety Goals and progress: Patient safety Product-related crime Our approach to product-related crime How we are tackling product-related crime Our commitment: Group-wide guidelines and standards regarding product-related crime Projects and measures regarding product-related crime Goals and progress: Product-related crime Responsible Our approach to responsible marketing marketing How we conduct ethical marketing Code of Conduct and industry-wide regulations regarding responsible marketing Projects and measures regarding responsible marketing Data protection Data Privacy integrated into Group Compliance Harmonizing data privacy Group-wide Ensuring data privacy and information security Internal reporting Aspect: Respect for human rights Under “Respect for human rights”, we report on concepts related to bioethics (including genome editing) and clinical studies. Matter Concepts incl. due diligence processes and outcome of activities Bioethics (incl. Our approach to ethical business conduct genome editing) How we assess bioethical topics and issues Identifying topics and issues early on Merck Bioethics Advisory Panel discussions Projects and measures regarding bioethics Clinical studies Our approach to safe and transparent clinical studies How we govern clinical studies International guidelines and agreements regarding clinical studies Projects and measures regarding clinical studies 187 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Facts & figures Aspect: Anti-corruption and anti-bribery Within our corporate structure, anti-corruption efforts fall under Compliance Management, so we report here on compliance and interactions with health systems. Matter Concepts incl. due diligence processes and outcome of activities Compliance Our approach to compliance How we ensure compliance Guidelines and standards regarding compliance Projects and measures regarding compliance Goals and progress: Compliance Interactions with Our approach to interacting with health systems health systems How we ensure transparency and compliance at an organizational level Group-wide guidelines and industry standards regarding interactions with health systems Projects and measures regarding interactions with health systems Other matters In the following section, we report on significant issues that are not covered in any of the five minimum aspects stipulated in section 289c (2) of the German Commercial Code: Matter Concepts incl. due diligence processes and outcome of activities Chemical product Our approach to safe chemical products safety (incl. labeling How we ensure chemical product safety of chemicals) Legal requirements and Group-wide guidelines regarding chemical product safety Projects and measures regarding chemical product safety Goals and progress: Chemical product safety Transport and wareOur approach to safe transport and storage house safety How we achieve transport and warehouse safety Internal standards and international rules regarding transport and warehouse safety Projects and measures regarding transport and warehouse safety Goals and progress: Transport and warehouse safety Prices of medicines Our approach to pricing medicines Setting medicine prices Medicine price guidelines and principles Projects and measures regarding prices of medicines Innovation and R&D Our approach to innovation How we drive innovation Our commitment: Protecting innovative ideas Projects and measures regarding Innovation and R&D Digitalization Our approach to driving digital innovation 188 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Facts & figures GRI content index General disclosures The CR Report 2019 has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: 'Comprehensive' option. The following GRI content index provides an overview of general disclosures, the GRI Standards and management approaches that were identified to be relevant. It also indicates where the corresponding information can be found. The GRI content index, as a part of the CR report 2019, has received an independent audit certificate after undergoing a limited assurance audit. GRI Content Index: General disclosures GRI Standards and Disclosure Number Comment Reference Organizational profile 102-1 Name of the organization Company profile 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Company profile Products & Industries 102-3 Location of headquarters Company profile 102-4 Location of operations Company profile List of shareholdings 102-5 Ownership and legal form Company profile 102-6 Markets served Company profile Macroeconomic and SectorSpecific Environment 102-7 Scale of the organization Company profile Indicators: employees Indicators: environment Net sales Capitalization Consolidated Balance Sheet 102-8 Information on employees and other Supervised workers such as temps Indicators: employees workers are not logged in our employee data Career at Merck system. 102-9 Supply chain Supply chain standards Mica supply chain Pharmaceutical supply chain 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and Company profile its supply chain Supply chain standards Fundamental Information about the Group 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach CR strategy Environmental stewardship Transport and warehouse safety Health and safety Climate action Plant and process safety Chemical product safety Patient safety 189 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Facts & figures 102-12 External initiatives CR strategy Governance Compliance Human rights Sustainable Development Goals Diversity Fairness and dialogue 102-13 Membership of associations Stakeholder dialogue Environmental stewardship Compliance Human Rights Supply chain standards Global strategy Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Letter from the CEO 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Letter from the CEO CR strategy Materiality analysis Goals Report on Risks and Opportunities Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of CR strategy behavior Governance Compliance Human rights Health for all Diversity Good leadership Bioethics Clinical studies Animal welfare Sustainable products Environmental stewardship 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about Compliance ethics Diversity Mica supply chain Human rights Bioethics Clinical studies Animal welfare Indicators: business ethics Governance 102-18 Governance structure CR strategy Management Statement on Corporate Governance 102-19 Delegating authority CR strategy Procedures of the corporate bodies 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, CR strategy environmental, and social topics 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, CR strategy environmental, and social topics Stakeholder dialogue Materiality analysis Environmental stewardship Fairness and dialogue Interactions with health systems Global strategy 190 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Facts & figures 102-22 Composition of the highest governance Management body and its committees Statement on Corporate Governance The Executive Board The Supervisory Board Objectives of the Supervisory Board with respect to its composition 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body Management Statement on Corporate Governance 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest Diversity governance body The Executive Board Statement on Corporate Governance Gender quota Diversity policy Objectives of the Supervisory Board with respect to its composition 102-25 Conflicts of interest Compliance Information on corporate governance practices 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting CR strategy purpose, values, and strategy Values and compliance Report of the Supervisory Board 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance CR strategy body The Executive Board Statement on Corporate Governance 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s Company profile performance Board of Partners The Supervisory Board Articles of Association Statement on Corporate Governance 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, envirCR strategy onmental, and social impacts Materiality analysis Stakeholder dialogue Compliance Report profile Report on Risks and Opportunities Statement on Corporate Governance 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management CR strategy processes Report profile Report on Risks and Opportunities Report of the Supervisory Boards 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and CR strategy social topics Report profile Report on Risks and Opportunities Report of the Supervisory Boards 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainReport profile ability reporting 102-33 Communicating critical concerns Compliance Values and compliance 102-34 Nature and total number of critical Compliance concerns Values and compliance 191 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Facts & figures 102-35 Remuneration policies Compensation report 102-36 Process for determining remuneration Compensation report 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration Career at Merck Compensation report Voting results Annual General Meeting 2019 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio Competitive salaries and additional benefits not only increase our attractiveness as an employer; they also motivate our people and build loyalty to the company. The compensation we offer is based on market analyses in the relevant field and the value of the respective position, as well as the employee's skill set and performance. Our Global Rewards Policy defines the framework for compensation and benefits across the entire Group. As far as possible, we strive to offer all our employees comparable compensation structures. Furthermore, we monitor Compliance with minimum standards. We do not consider the information required under GRI 102-38 and GRI 102-39 to be relevant to assessing the fairness of our compensation structures. 102-39 Percentage increase in annual total Competitive salaries and additional compensation ratio benefits not only increase our attractiveness as an employer; they also motivate our people and build loyalty to the company. The compensation we offer is based on market analyses in the relevant field and the value of the respective position, as well as the employee's skill set and performance. Our Global Rewards Policy defines the framework for compensation and benefits across the entire Group. As far as possible, we strive to offer all our employees comparable compensation structures. Furthermore, we monitor Compliance with minimum standards. We do not consider the information required under GRI 102-38 and GRI 102-39 to be relevant to assessing the fairness of our compensation structures. Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Stakeholder dialogue 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Fairness and dialogue 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Stakeholder dialogue Materiality analysis 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Stakeholder dialogue Materiality analysis 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Stakeholder dialogue Materiality analysis 192 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Facts & figures Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated finanReport profile cial statements Company profile 102-46 Defining report content and topic BoundReport profile aries Materiality analysis 102-47 List of material topics Materiality analysis 102-48 Restatements of information Report profile 102-49 Changes in reporting Report profile Materiality analysis 102-50 Reporting period Report profile 102-51 Date of most recent report Report profile 102-52 Reporting cycle Report profile 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the Report profile report 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI content index GRI Standards 102-55 GRI content index GRI content index 102-56 External assurance Report profile Assurance report GRI content index 193 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Facts & figures Economic Standards GRI Content Index: Economic Standards GRI Standards and Disclosure Number Comment Reference GRI 201: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Materiality analysis Boundary Climate action Water management 103-2 The management approach and its Statement on Corporate components Governance 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Governance Economic performance Pension schemes Report on Risks and Opportunities 201-1 Direct economic value generated and Indicators: community distributed Indicators: employees Indicators: economics Consolidated Income Statement Consolidated Cash Flow Statement Information by business sector /country and region Personnel expenses 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and We report in detail on various Climate action opportunities due to climate change aspects of climate change as part of Water management our participation in the CDP Global Compact CoP (formerly known as the Carbon CDP Disclosure Project). Report on Risks and Opportunities 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other Indicators: employees retirement plans Pension schemes 201-4 Financial assistance received from governAccounting: Property, plant and ment equipment Property, plant and equipment Research and development costs 194 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Facts & figures GRI 202: MARKET PRESENCE 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Career at Merck Boundary Good leadership Materiality analysis 103-2 The management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by This indicator is not relevant to us, Career at Merck gender compared to local minimum wage which is why we do not collect data on the ratio of the standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage. Our Global Rewards Policy applies to all our subsidiaries worldwide and guarantees a systematic compensation structure. Both base pay and short-term variable compensation are oriented to the median base pay of the relevant reference market. Our pay brackets are reviewed on an annual basis and reflect market conditions. It goes without saying that we always adhere to local minimum wage levels. 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired We encourage both local hiring and Good leadership from the local community international appointments across all levels of the company. The percentage of local managers is not recorded as it is not relevant to our strategic personnel planning. GRI 204: PROCUREMENT PRACTICES 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Supply chain standards Boundary Mica supply chain Materiality analysis 103-2 The management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers Supply chain standards GRI 205: ANTI-CORRUPTION 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Compliance Boundary Interactions with health systems Materiality analysis 103-2 The management approach and its Values and compliance components Responsible marketing 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to Compliance corruption Indicators: business ethics Values and compliance Report on Risks and Opportunities 205-2 Communication and training about antiCompliance corruption policies and procedures Indicators: business ethics 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and As applicable, we report on risks Compliance actions taken from litigation and legal proceedings Indicators: business ethics in our Report on Risks and OpporReport on Risks and Opportunities tunities. 195 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Facts & figures GRI 206: ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Compliance Boundary Materiality analysis 103-2 The management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, Indicators: business ethics anti-trust, and monopoly practices Additional material topics TECHNOLOGY (Innovation and R&D, Digitalization) 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Innovation and digitalization Boundary Materiality analysis 103-2 The management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach DATA PROTECTION 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Compliance Boundary Materiality analysis 103-2 The management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 196 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Facts & figures Environmental Standards GRI Content Index: Environmental Standards GRI Standards and Disclosure Number Comment Reference GRI 301: MATERIALS 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its In all our endeavors, we attempt to Sustainable product design Boundary efficiently utilize materials and Packaging and recycling recycle as much as possible. Where Environmental stewardship 103-2 The management approach and its feasible, we use recycled materials Waste and recycling components (in packaging, for instance.) Overall, Materiality analysis 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach our company considers material consumption to be a major concern. There are few opportunities to use recycled material in our production processes, because our business model puts us at the start of the value chain. We therefore do not collect such data at the Group level. Individual data and measures are reported in the respective chapters. 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume Siehe GRI 103: 301 Waste and recycling Sustainable product design Packaging and recycling 301-2 Recycled input materials used Siehe GRI 103: 301 Waste and recycling Packaging and recycling 301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging Owing to the multitude of products Waste and recycling materials we supply and the minimal comparPackaging and recycling ability of our various initiatives, we do not collect quantitative data at the Group level. The individual measures taken by our various businesses are reported in the respective chapters. GRI 302: ENERGY 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Environmental stewardship Boundary Climate action Sustainable product design 103-2 The management approach and its Materiality analysis components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Climate action Indicators: environment 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organizClimate action ation 302-3 Energy intensity Climate action Indicators: environment 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Climate action Indicators: environment 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of Sustainable product design products and services 197 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Facts & figures GRI 303: WATER AND EFFLUENTS 2018 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Environmental stewardship Boundary Water management Materiality analysis 103-2 The management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 303-1 Interactions with water as a shared Water management resource Indicators: environment 303-2 Management of water discharge-related Water management impacts 303-3 Water withdrawal The amount of seawater, produced Water management water and other water withdrawn Indicators: environment and discharged is not significant and Climate action is therefore not reported separately. 303-4 Water discharge The amount of seawater, produced Water management water and other water withdrawn Indicators: environment and discharged is not significant and is therefore not reported separately. 303-5 Water consumption Most of the water we use in our Water management production is discharged directly or Indicators: environment indirectly. Evaporation processes are not a material part of our production. At individual production sites, we bind small amounts of water in our products. We are working to implement collection systems for this consumption. As we have no water storage capacity, this information is not relevant for our company. GRI 304: BIODIVERSITY 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Environmental stewardship Boundary Materiality analysis 103-2 The management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, managed Land use planning takes impacts on Environmental stewardship in, or adjacent to, protected areas and bioversity into account, with approareas of high biodiversity value outside priate measures being taken on a protected areas case-by-case basis. 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products, Environmental stewardship and services on biodiversity 304-3 Habitats protected or restored Environmental stewardship 304-4 IUCN Red List species and national conserLand use planning takes impacts on Environmental stewardship vation list species with habitats in areas bioversity into account, with approaffected by operations priate measures being taken on a case-by-case basis. 198 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Facts & figures GRI 305: EMISSIONS 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Environmental stewardship Boundary Climate action Materiality analysis 103-2 The management approach and its Sustainable product design components Packaging and recycling 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Climate action Indicators: environment 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG Climate action Indicators: environment 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Climate action Indicators: environment CDP 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Climate action Indicators: environment 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Climate action Indicators: environment Sustainable product design Packaging and recycling CDP 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances This disclosure is not material Indicators: environment (ODS) to Merck. 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), This disclosure is not material Indicators: environment and other significant air emissions to Merck. GRI 306: EFFLUENTS AND WASTE 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Environmental stewardship Boundary Waste and recycling Packaging and recycling 103-2 The management approach and its Materiality analysis components Plant and process safety 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination Please note that the effluentsrelated content in the current GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016 Standard has been updated and can be found in GRI 303: Water and Effluents 2018 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Waste and recycling Packaging and recycling Indicators: environment 306-3 Significant spills Plant and process safety Indicators: environment 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste Indicators: environment 306-5 Water bodies affected by water discharges Please note that the effluentsand/or runoff related content in the current GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016 Standard has been updated and can be found in GRI 303: Water and Effluents 2018 199 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Facts & figures GRI 307: ENVIRONMENTAL Compliance 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Environmental stewardship Boundary Materiality analysis 103-2 The management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 307-1 Non-Compliance with environmental laws Environmental stewardship and regulations GRI 308: SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Supply chain standards Boundary Materiality analysis Mica supply chain 103-2 The management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using Supply chain standards environmental criteria Mica supply chain 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the Supply chain standards supply chain and actions taken Mica supply chain 200 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Facts & figures Social Standards GRI Content Index: Social Standards GRI Standards and Disclosure Number Comment Reference GRI 401: EMPLOYMENT 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Career at Merck Boundary Human rights Materiality analysis 103-2 The management approach and its Work-life balance components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 401-1 New employee hires and employee Indicators: employees turnover 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees At Merck KGaA (15% of the Indicators: employees that are not provided to temporary or partcompany's total workforce), partCareer at Merck time employees time employees receive the same job benefits as full-time workers. Employees with temporary contracts, however, are not entitled to all company benefits, such as a company pension. 401-3 Parental leave Indicators: employees Work-life balance GRI 402: LABOR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Materiality analysis Boundary Fairness and dialogue 103-2 The management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operaThe regulations on periods of notice tional changes vary worldwide. We apply the rules that are in force locally. There is no need for us to track periods of notice at Group level. 201 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Facts & figures GRI 403: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY 2018 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its The disclosures under GRI 403 Health and safety Boundary relate to our employees and other Materiality analysis supervised staff, both internal and 103-2 The management approach and its external. The employees of thirdcomponents party contractors are not included. 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 403-1 Occupational health and safety manageHealth and safety ment system 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and Health and safety incident investigation 403-3 Occupational health services Health and safety 403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and Occupational health and safety Health and safety communication on occupational health and committees are required by law in safety Germany. All employees of Merck KGaA are therefore represented by such committees, which operate at the site level. These employees account for around 15% of our total workforce. The majority of sites outside Germany also have health and safety committees to represent their employees. Each individual site is responsible for arranging and maintaining such committees. Health and safety issues are governed Group-wide by our EHS Policy. The organizational implementation of the policy is the responsibility of our individual sites and is subject to local laws and regulations. Merck KGaA, which accounts for approximately 15% of our total workforce, has works agreements in place on occupational health and safety. 403-5 Worker training on occupational health and Health and safety safety 403-6 Promotion of worker health Health and safety 403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational Health and safety health and safety impacts directly linked by Supply chain standards business relationships 403-8 Workers covered by an occupational health Health and safety and safety management system 403-9 Work-related injuries We have identified the lost time Health and safety injury rate (LTIR) as a key performIndicators: employees ance indicator for our company. 403-10 Work-related ill health Indicators: employees Health and safety Plant and process safety 202 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Facts & figures GRI 404: TRAINING AND EDUCATION 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Career at Merck Boundary Good leadership Materiality analysis 103-2 The management approach and its Plant and process safety components Work-life balance 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Diversity Environmental stewardship 404-1 Average hours of training per year per We do not keep track of the average Career at Merck employee hours our employees spend on Plant and process safety vocational training and continuing Environmental stewardship education because this indicator Good leadership does not have any bearing on the quality or success of our efforts. 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and Career at Merck transition assistance programs Diversity Good leadership Work-life balance 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular Career at Merck performance and career development Indicators: employees reviews GRI 405: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Diversity Boundary Career at Merck Materiality analysis 103-2 The management approach and its Objectives of the Supervisory components Board with respect to its composi103-3 Evaluation of the management approach tion 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and Since there is no globally uniform Diversity employees definition of the term “minority”, we Indicators: employees do not record this sort of data. The Executive Board Moreover, many countries in which The Supervisory Board we operate have strict data privacy Objectives of the Supervisory regulations governing the recording Board with respect to its composiof personal employee data. tion 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of The salaries we offer are predicated Career at Merck women to men on the respective job description and are based on our Global Job Catalog, which has fixed salary bands that are identical for men and women. Variable salary components that fall under performance-based compensation are paid on the basis of whether mutually agreed targets have been achieved. A performance management system governs this process. 203 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Facts & figures GRI 406: NON-DISCRIMINATION 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Diversity Boundary Materiality analysis 103-2 The management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective Diversity actions taken Compliance GRI 407: FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Supply chain standards Boundary Mica supply chain Human rights 103-2 The management approach and its Compliance components Materiality analysis 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Fairness and dialogue 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right Supply chain standards to freedom of association and collective Mica supply chain bargaining may be at risk Human rights Fairness and dialogue GRI 408: CHILD LABOR 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Supply chain standards Boundary Mica supply chain Human rights 103-2 The management approach and its Compliance components Materiality analysis 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Fairness and dialogue 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk Supply chain standards for incidents of child labor Mica supply chain Indicators: employees Fairness and dialogue GRI 409: FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOR 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Supply chain standards Boundary Mica supply chain Human rights 103-2 The management approach and its Compliance components Materiality analysis 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Fairness and dialogue 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk Supply chain standards for incidents of forced or compulsory labor Mica supply chain Human rights Fairness and dialogue 204 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Facts & figures GRI 412: HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Human rights Boundary Compliance Materiality analysis 103-2 The management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 412-1 Operations that have been subject to Human rights human rights reviews or impact assessments 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies Human rights or procedures 412-3 Significant investment agreements and Human rights contracts that include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening GRI 414: SUPPLIER SOCIAL ASSESSMENT 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Supply chain standards Boundary Mica supply chain Materiality analysis 103-2 The management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using Supply chain standards social criteria Mica supply chain 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain Supply chain standards and actions taken Mica supply chain GRI 415: PUBLIC POLICY 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Stakeholder dialogue Boundary Materiality analysis 103-2 The management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 415-1 Political contributions Stakeholder dialogue GRI 416: CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Patient safety Boundary Responsible marketing Interactions with health systems 103-2 The management approach and its Clinical studies components Chemical product safety 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Sustainable product design Materiality analysis Report on Risks and Opportunities 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety Patient safety impacts of product and service categories Clinical studies Chemical product safety Sustainable product design 416-2 Incidents of non-Compliance concerning As applicable, we report on risks Report on Risks and Opportunities the health and safety impacts of products from litigation and legal proceedings and services in our Report on Risks and Opportunities. 205 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Facts & figures GRI 417: MARKETING AND LABELING 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Patient safety Boundary Chemical product safety Responsible marketing 103-2 The management approach and its Interactions with health systems components Materiality analysis 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 417-1 Requirements for product and service Within our businesses, product Chemical product safety information and labeling labels are both important and Patient safety mandatory. All pharmaceuticals and Responsible marketing chemicals are subject to reporting and notification requirements, which we completely fulfill. The individual requirements are reported in the respective chapters 417-2 Incidents of non-Compliance concerning Patient safety product and service information and Chemical product safety labeling Report on Risks and Opportunities 417-3 Incidents of non-Compliance concerning As applicable, we report on risks Responsible marketing marketing communications from litigation and legal proceedings Report on Risks and Opportunities in our Report on Risks and Opportunities. GRI 418: CUSTOMER PRIVACY 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Clinical studies Boundary Compliance Materiality analysis 103-2 The management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning Indicators: business ethics breaches of customer privacy and losses of Clinical studies customer data Compliance GRI 419: SOCIOECONOMIC Compliance 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Compliance Boundary Materiality analysis Report on Risks and Opportunities 103-2 The management approach and its Responsible marketing components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 419-1 Non-Compliance with laws and regulations As applicable, we report on risks Indicators: business ethics in the social and economic area from litigation and legal proceedings Report on Risks and Opportunities in our Report on Risks and OpporResponsible marketing tunities. 206 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Facts & figures Additional material topics ETHICAL CONDUCT (bioethics, clinical studies, animal welfare) 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Bioethics Boundary Clinical studies Animal welfare 103-2 The management approach and its Materiality analysis components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach HEALTH FOR ALL (access to health, prices of medicines, health awareness) 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Global strategy Boundary Focus programs Open innovation sharing 103-2 The management approach and its Prices of medicines components Health awareness 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Materiality analysis PRODUCT-RELATED CRIME 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Product-related crime Boundary Materiality analysis 103-2 The management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Community involvement Boundary Global Health Broad Minds 103-2 The management approach and its Materiality analysis components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach WORK 4.0 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Career at Merck Boundary Good leadership Materiality analysis 103-2 The management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 207 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Facts & figures Global Compact CoP Communication on Progress in 2019 in implementing the principles of the UN Global Compact We have been a participant in the United Nations Global Compact since 2005. As a signatory to the initiative, we have committed ourselves to ten principles based on key UN conventions regarding human rights, labor standards, environmental protection, and anti-corruption. At the same time, the UN Global Compact calls on all its signatories to actively support the implementation of the principles within their own sphere of influence. The following table summarizes the key actions we took in 2019 to implement the principles of the Global Compact. Link: www.unglobalcompact.org Human rights Principle 1: Key actions in 2019: Relevant GRI Reference: Businesses should support disclosures: and respect the protection Broadened human rights and modern Compliance of internationally proclaimed slavery risk assessment within our Compli103-2: 412, Human rights human rights. ance Risk Reporting and Self-Monitoring 412-2 process Reported human rights topics as part of our Compliance Risk Reporting Addressed the topics of human rights and modern slavery in the “EHS StartUp!” onboarding course for new EHS managers Opened our SpeakUp Line, previously only available to employees, to external stakeholders Updated the Merck Human Rights Charter with the involvement of external stakeholders Adopted the Group-wide Social and Labor Standards Policy Introduced an annual e-learning course on our Human Rights Charter and Social and Labor Standards Policy, targeted to all managing directors and senior leaders reporting directly to the Executive Board 208 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Facts & figures Principle 2: Key actions in 2019: Relevant GRI Reference: Businesses should make disclosures: sure that they are not Trained Procurement employees on the topic Human rights complicit in human rights of sustainability and human rights 412-3, 414-1, Compliance abuses. Invited suppliers to a Together for Sustain414-2 Supply chain standability (Initiative for sustainable supply ards chains in the chemical industry) training course in Shanghai (China) Conducted CR-relevant internal and external audits and inspections of suppliers and collected self-reported information Held the presidency of the Responsible Mica Initiative and participated in working groups Labor standards Principle 3: Key actions in 2019: Relevant GRI Reference: Businesses should uphold disclosures: the freedom of association Conducted internal audits on workplace Human rights and the effective recognition aspects of our Human Rights Charter that 102-41, Compliance of the right to collective are specified in our Social and Labor Stand402-1, 407-1 Fairness and dialogue bargaining. ards Policy Supply chain standConducted internal and external audits and ards inspections of suppliers regarding corporate responsibility and collected self-reported information Regularly and extensively included local employee representatives in company’s decision-making Reviewed human rights aspects within the scope of our Site Security Risk Assessments Principle 4: Key measures in 2018 Relevant GRI Reference: Businesses should support disclosures: the elimination of all forms Conducted internal audits on workplace Human rights of forced and compulsory aspects of our Human Rights Charter that 409-1 Compliance labor. are specified in our Social and Labor StandFairness and dialogue ards Policy Supply chain standPublished on our website the UK Modern ards Slavery Statement endorsed by our Executive Board Conducted CR-relevant internal and external audits and inspections of suppliers and collected self-reported information Addressed the topics of human rights and modern slavery in the “EHS StartUp!” onboarding course for new EHS managers 209 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Facts & figures Principle 5: Key measures in 2018 Relevant GRI Reference: Businesses should support disclosures: the effective abolition of Conducted internal audits on workplace Human rights child labor. aspects of our Human Rights Charter that 408-1 Compliance are specified in our Social and Labor StandFairness and dialogue ards Policy Supply chain standHeld the presidency of the Responsible Mica ards Initiative and participated in working groups Mica supply chain Regular, unannounced inspections of mica mines and processing plants by the Indian organization IGEP Conducted CR-relevant internal and external audits and inspections of suppliers and collected self-reported information Principle 6: Key actions in 2019: Relevant GRI Reference: Businesses should support disclosures: the elimination of discriminRevised the mandate of our Diversity Compliance ation in respect of employCouncil 102-8, 202-1, Diversity ment and occupation. Developed goals and measures to achieve a 202-2, 401-1, more balanced gender structure in different 401-3, 404-1, hierarchical levels of our business sectors 404-3, 405-1, and functions; exceeded our 2021 target of 405-2, 406-1 maintaining a 30% representation of women (2019: 33%) in leadership roles (“Role 4+”) Expanded internal diversity programs Rolled out and integrated throughout the Group a training program on unconscious bias Set up the Job Analyzer, a digital tool for gender-neutral communication with applicants 210 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Facts & figures Environmental stewardship Principle 7: Key actions in 2019: Relevant GRI Reference: Businesses should support a disclosures: precautionary approach to Passed external audits pertaining to the ISO Environmental stewenvironmental challenges. 14001:2015 Group certificate at ten sites 201-2, 301-1, ardship Performed 41 internal EHS audits, whereby 302-1, 303-1, Climate action 93% of the audited sites were assessed as 305-1, 305-2, Water management “good” or “satisfactory” 305-3, 305-6, Waste and recycling Reduced CO2 emissions by 15% (2018: 305-7 Plant and process 11%) relative to the 2006 baseline amid safety operating business growth (2020 reduction Chemical product target: 20% compared with the 2006 safety baseline) Transport and wareImplemented measures to ensure product house safety safety (e g. REACH, GHS, Global Product Strategy) as well as plant and process safety (e.g. Risk Management Process) Used our Waste Scoring System with the aim of shrinking the environmental footprint of our waste by 5% by 2025: We achieved a 1.6% reduction in 2019 (2018: 0.9%) Rolled out the ProMec initiative at the Darmstadt site so as to promote the circular economy by expanding solvent recycling to reduce negative environmental impacts when disposing of product waste Reduced our water use at sites in waterstressed areas by 21% relative to the 2016 baseline (2018: 10.8%) Principle 8: Key actions in 2019: Relevant GRI Reference: Businesses should underdisclosures: take initiatives to promote Systematically examined potential energy Climate action greater environmental savings at our production sites 301 308 Waste and recycling responsibility. Rolled out 70 standardized signs created by Sustainable product our Life Science business sector for waste, design recycling and composting at all sites Commercialized greener products such as Cyrene™, which was named “Environmental Product of the Year” at the Environmental Leader Awards 2019 Offered sustainable mobility options for employees (for instance “job tickets”, i.e. public transit passes, and the possibility to lease or borrow bicycles) Installed at our global headquarters an extensive electric vehicle charging infrastructure, part of which is available to our employees for their own personal use 211 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Facts & figures Principle 9: Key measures in 2018 Relevant GRI Reference: Businesses should disclosures: encourage the development Launched a new version of our digital tool Sustainable product and diffusion of environDOZN™ for use by our customers to assess 302-4, 302-5, design mentally friendly technolomore sustainable alternatives to various 305-5 Packaging and recycgies. chemicals ling Developed sustainable products such as liquid crystal technologies, raw materials for natural cosmetics and “greener” alternatives to chemicals; expanded our range of “green” solvents Reduced the amount of packaging material and used more sustainable packaging materials as part of “SMASH Packaging”, our sustainable packaging strategy Continuously expanded the recycling program for our Life Science customers Anti-corruption Principle 10: Key measures in 2018 Relevant GRI Reference: Businesses should work disclosures: against corruption in all its Performed 50 internal audits on corruptionCompliance forms, including extortion related risks 102-16, Interactions with and bribery. 35,000 employees and external workers 102-17, 205-1, health systems completed an e-learning course on our Anti205-2, 205-3, Corruption Policy 415-1 More than 50,000 employees and contractors completed our business sectorspecific e-learning course on our Code of Conduct; expanded the course to 20 further languages Conducted a Group-wide communications campaign to raise awareness of our SpeakUp Line to report corruption anonymously Published annual EFPIA transparency reports. 212 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Facts & figures Assurance reports Assurance report CR 1 Limited Assurance Report of the Independent Auditor regarding Sustainability Information To the Executive Board of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt We have been engaged to perform an independent limited assurance engagement on the qualitative and quantitative disclosures on sustainability in the “Corporate Responsibility Report 2019” (further “Report”) of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt (further “Merck” or “Company”) for the fiscal year 2019 published at https://www.merckgroup.com/en/cr-report/2019. It was not part of our engagement to review product or service related information, references to external information sources, expert opinions and future-related statements in the Report. Management’s Responsibility for the Report The legal representatives of Merck are responsible for the preparation of the Report in accordance with the Reporting Criteria. Merck applies the principles and standard disclosures of the Standards of the Global Reporting Initiative in combination with the Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard (Scope 1 und 2), the Corporate Value Chain Standard (Scope 3) of the World Resources Institute/World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) as Reporting Criteria (further “Reporting Criteria). The responsibility includes the selection and application of appropriate methods to prepare the Report and the use of assumptions and estimates for individual qualitative and quantitative sustainability disclosures which are reasonable under the circumstances. Furthermore, this responsibility includes designing, implementing and maintaining systems and processes relevant for the preparation of the Report in a way that is free of – intended or unintended – material misstatements. Independence and quality assurance on the part of the auditing firm We are independent from the company in accordance with the requirements of independence and quality assurance set out in legal provisions and professional pronouncements and have fulfilled our additional professional obligations in accordance with these requirements. Our audit firm applies the legal provisions and professional pronouncements for quality assurance, in particular the Professional Code for German Public Auditors and Chartered Accountants (in Germany) and the quality assurance standard of the German Institute of Public Auditors (Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer, IDW) regarding quality assurance requirements in audit practice (IDW QS 1). Practitioner’s Responsibility Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the report based on our work performed within the scope of our limited assurance engagement. We conducted our work in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (Revised): “Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information” and the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3410: “Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse Gas Statements” of the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (IAASB). These standards require us to plan and perform the assurance engagement to allow us to conclude with limited assurance that no matters have come to our attention that cause us to believe that the Report was not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Reporting Criteria. We do not, however, issue a separate conclusion for each disclosure. In a limited assurance engagement the evidence gathering procedures are more limited than in a reasonable assurance engagement and therefore less assurance is obtained than in a reasonable assurance engagement. The choice of audit activities is subject to the auditor’s own judgement. 1 Translation of the independent assurance report, authoritative in German language. 213 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Facts & figures Within the scope of our engagement, we performed amongst others the following procedures: Inquiries of personnel on Group level responsible for the materiality analysis, in order to gain an understanding of the processes for determining material sustainability topics and respective reporting boundaries of Merck. A risk analysis, including a media search, to identify relevant sustainability aspects for Merck in the reporting period. Evaluation of the design and implementation of the systems and processes for the collection, processing and control of the sustainability disclosures included in the scope of this engagement, including the consolidation of the data, at corporate and site level. Interviews with relevant staff on corporate level responsible for providing and consolidating the data and information, as well as carrying out internal control procedures on the data and information, including the explanatory notes. Assessment of local data collection and reporting processes and reliability of reported data via a sampling survey at the sites in Calais (France) and Darmstadt Evaluation of selected internal and external documents. Analytical evaluation of data and trends of quantitative disclosures which are reported by all sites on group level. Use of the insights and relevant work performed for the group and statutory audit of the (consolidated) financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2019 of Merck KGaA with regard to audit procedures on those information and indicators that were derived from those consolidated financial statements. Reviewing the consistency of GRI Standards in accordance option “Comprehensive” as declared by Merck with sustainability information in the Report An evaluation of the overall presentation of the information, including the explanatory notes, within the scope of our engagement. As described in the Report, Merck engaged external providers to perform assessments and audits. The adequacy and accuracy of the conclusions from these external assessments were not part of our limited assurance engagement. Conclusion Based on our limited assurance engagement, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the qualitative and quantitative disclosures on sustainability for the business year 2019 included in the scope of this engagement and published in the Report are in all material respects not prepared in accordance with the Reporting Criteria. Restriction of use/Clause on General Engagement Terms This assurance report is issued for purposes of the Executive Board of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, only. We assume no responsibility with regard to any third parties. Our assignment for the Executive Board of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, and professional liability is governed by the General Engagement Terms for Wirtschaftsprüfer and Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaften (Allgemeine Auftragsbedingungen für Wirtschaftsprüfer und Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaften) in the version dated January 1, 2017 (https://www.kpmg.de/ bescheinigungen/lib/aab_english.pdf). By reading and using the information contained in this assurance report, each recipient confirms notice of provisions of the General Engagement Terms (including the limitation of our liability for negligence to EUR 4 million as stipulated in No. 9) and accepts the validity of the General Engagement Terms with respect to us. Frankfurt am Main, March 20, 2020 KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft [Original German version signed by:] Glöckner Brokof Wirtschaftsprüfer Wirtschaftsprüferin [German Public Auditor] [German Public Auditor] 214 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Facts & figures Assurance report NFR  Part of the non-financial report Limited Assurance Report of the Independent Auditor regarding the combined separate non1 financial report To the Supervisory Board of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt We have performed an independent limited assurance engagement on the non-financial consolidated statement of Merck KGaA according to § 315b of the German Commercial Code (HGB), that is combined with the non-financial statement of the parent company in accordance with § 289b HGB, (further “combined separate non-financial report”) integrated in the Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt (further “Merck” or “Company”) for the period from January 1 to December 31, 2019. Management’s Responsibility The legal representatives of Merck are responsible for the preparation of the Report in accordance with §§ 315b, 315c in conjunction with 289b to 289e HGB. This responsibility of the legal representatives includes the selection and application of appropriate methods to prepare the combined separate non-financial report and the use of assumptions and estimates for individual disclosures which are reasonable under the given circumstances. Furthermore, this responsibility includes designing, implementing and maintaining systems and processes relevant for the preparation of the combined separate non-financial report in a way that is free of – intended or unintended – material misstatements. Independence and Quality Assurance on the Part of the Auditing Firm We are independent from the company in accordance with the requirements of independence and quality assurance set out in legal provisions and professional pronouncements and have fulfilled our additional professional obligations in accordance with these requirements. Our audit firm applies the legal provisions and professional pronouncements for quality assurance, in particular the Professional Code for German Public Auditors and Chartered Accountants (in Germany) and the quality assurance standard of the German Institute of Public Auditors (Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer, IDW) regarding quality assurance requirements in audit practice (IDW QS 1). Practitioner’s Responsibility Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the combined separate non-financial report based on our work performed within a limited assurance engagement. We conducted our work in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (Revised): “Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information” published by IAASB. This Standard requires that we plan and perform the assurance engagement to obtain limited assurance whether any matters have come to our attention that cause us to believe that the Report for the period from January 1 to December 31, 2019, has not been prepared, in all material respects in accordance with §§ 315b and 315c in conjunction with 289b to 289e HGB. We do not, however, issue a separate conclusion for each disclosure. In a limited assurance engagement the evidence gathering procedures are more limited than in a reasonable assurance engagement and therefore less assurance is obtained than in a reasonable assurance engagement. The choice of audit procedures is subject to the auditor’s own judgement. 1 Our engagement applied to the German version of the combined separate non-financial report 2019. This text is a translation of the Independent Assurance Report issued in German, whereas the German text is authoritative. 215 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Facts & figures Within the scope of our engagement, we performed amongst others the following procedures: Inquiries of personnel on group level who are responsible for the materiality analysis in order to gain an understanding of the processes for determining material sustainability topics and respective reporting boundaries for Merck A risk analysis, including a media research, to identify relevant information on Merck’s sustainability performance in the reporting period Evaluation of the design and implementation of systems and processes for the collection, processing and monitoring of disclosures on environmental, employee and social matters, respect for human rights, and combating corruption and bribery, including data consolidation Inquiries of personnel on group level who are responsible for determining disclosures on concepts, due diligence processes, results and risks, the conduction of internal controls and consolidation of the disclosures Evaluation of selected internal and external documents Analytical evaluation of data and trends of quantitative disclosures which are reported by all sites on group level Assessment of local data collection and reporting processes and reliability of reported data via a sampling survey at the sites in Calais (France) and Darmstadt Assessment of the overall presentation of the disclosures As described in the combined separate non-financial report, Merck engaged external provider to perform assessments in order to ensure compliance with Merck’s requirements concerning environmental impacts. The adequacy and accuracy of the conclusions from these external assessments were not part of our limited assurance engagement. Conclusion Based on the procedures performed and the evidence obtained, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the combined separate non-financial report of Merck KGaA for the period from January 1 to December 31, 2019 is not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with §§ 315b and 315c in conjunction with 289b to 289e HGB. Restriction of Use/Clause on General Engagement Terms This assurance report is issued for purposes of the Supervisory Board of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, only. We assume no responsibility with regard to any third parties. Our assignment for the Supervisory Board of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, and professional liability is governed by the General Engagement Terms for Wirtschaftsprüfer and Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaften (Allgemeine Auftragsbedingungen für Wirtschaftsprüfer und Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaften) in the version dated January 1, 2017 (https://www.kpmg.de/ bescheinigungen/lib/aab_english.pdf). By reading and using the information contained in this assurance report, each recipient confirms notice of provisions of the General Engagement Terms (including the limitation of our liability for negligence to EUR 4 million as stipulated in No. 9) and accepts the validity of the General Engagement Terms with respect to us. Frankfurt am Main, February 17, 2020 KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft [Original German version signed by:] Glöckner Brokof Wirtschaftsprüfer Wirtschaftsprüferin [German Public Auditor] [German Public Auditor] 216 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Facts & figures Glossary 3R principle and lead to higher mortality. The international guiding principle for all animal testing. The number of laboratory animals used as well as the CO2 equivalents stress placed on them before, during and after testing are CO2 equivalents (CO2eq) indicate how much a specified to be kept to an absolute minimum by using methods to quantity of a specific greenhouse gas contributed to the replace animal experiments (replacement), reduce the greenhouse effect, using the global warming potential of required number of tests and animals (reduction), and carbon dioxide as a reference. improve the test methods (refinement). Compliance African sleeping sickness Adherence to laws and regulations as well as to voluntary Human African trypanosomiasis (HAT), also known as codices that are internal to a company. Compliance is a sleeping sickness, is a parasitic disease transmitted by the component of diligent corporate governance. bite of the tsetse fly. The disease mostly affects poor populations living in remote rural areas of Africa. CRISPR/Cas Untreated, it is usually fatal. A biomolecular method for targeting, cutting and editing the DNA of an organism (gene editing). Experts think this Big Data technique has great potential for curing diseases or Extremely large data sets that may be analyzed generating plants and animals with new traits. computationally to reveal patterns, trends and associations, especially relating to human behavior and Design thinking interactions. An approach to developing new ideas. Design thinking uses the designer’s sensibility and methods to match people’s Biodiversity needs with what is technologically feasible and what a The diversity of ecosystems, habitats and landscapes on viable business strategy can convert into customer value earth, the diversity of the species, and the genetic diversity and market opportunity. within a biological species or population. DMF Buruli ulcer Dimethylformamide is a clear, colorless, hygroscopic liquid An infectious disease caused by bacteria that occurs most with a high dielectric constant. It is employed as a solvent commonly in rural sub-Saharan Africa and Australia. in the production of textiles, pharmaceuticals, pesticides, and adhesives. The ECHA (European Chemicals Agency) Chagas disease has designated DMF as a substance of very high concern A potentially life-threatening illness caused by the (SVHC) and included it in the candidate list for protozoan parasite. An estimated eight million people are authorization. infected worldwide, mostly in Latin America. Dual-use products Chatbot Goods that are normally used for civilian purposes, but that A computer program or an artificial intelligence that may also have military applications. conducts a conversation via auditory or textual methods. Due diligence CLP A risk analysis exercised with particular care. Short for “Classification, Labelling and Packaging of Substances and Mixtures”, this is a European regulation EHS based on the Globally Harmonized System (GHS) of Short for “Environment, Health and Safety”, this refers to Classification and Labelling of Chemicals. environmental management, health protection and occupational safety throughout a company. CMP Chemical Mechanical Planarization is a process of smoothing End-user declaration surfaces through chemical and mechanical forces. A binding customer statement regarding the intended use of a product. Co-infection Also known as a double infection, this involves the Endemic countries simultaneous infection of a host by multiple pathogen Countries in which a certain disease, in many cases an species that can negatively influence the disease process infectious disease, occurs. 217 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Facts & figures EQ Good distribution practice (GDP) Our Group Environment, Health, Safety, Security, Quality An EU guideline that regulates the proper distribution of function. medicinal products for human use. Equality Act Good manufacturing practice (GMP) A pending U.S. law with a special focus on LGBTQ people A system for ensuring that products are consistently (lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer). It prohibits manufactured and controlled according to quality discrimination on the basis of the sex, sexual orientation standards. These guidelines are used in the production of and gender identity. medicines, active pharmaceutical ingredients and cosmetics, as well as foodstuffs and feed. ESG ratings These are used to assess a company’s financial Greenhouse gases performance through factors that include aspects of Gases in the atmosphere that contribute to global warming. environmental management, social issues and good They can be either naturally occurring or caused by governance. humans (such as CO2 emissions generated by burning fossil fuels). Essential medicines Defined by the World Health Organization as “those drugs GxP that satisfy the health care needs of the majority of the The general term for good practice quality guidelines and population”. regulations that are used in many fields, especially the medical, pharmaceutical and pharmaceutical chemistry Exposure assessment industries. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency defines exposure assessment as the determination or estimation HazCom 2012 (qualitative or quantitative) of the magnitude, frequency, A U.S. OSHA (Occupational Safety and Health duration, and route of exposure between an agent and an Administration) standard pertaining to the safe handling of organism. This analysis forms part of the chemical safety chemicals in the workplace, with an emphasis on assessment process. occupational safety and environmental protection. This standard requires manufacturers and distributors to FDA provide information on the hazards posed by a product as The U.S. Food and Drug Administration is the U.S. well as ways to minimize risks. government agency responsible for protecting and advancing public health, especially as concerns food and Humanoid drugs. A term that means human-like. First-line treatment ICH A therapy regimen that is generally accepted by the The International Council for Harmonisation of Technical medical establishment for the initial treatment of a given Requirements for Pharmaceuticals for Human Use (ICH) disease. If the first-line treatment is not adequately aims to promote uniform assessment criteria for product successful, a second-line treatment may be administered. registration in Europe, the United States and Japan. The ICH develops guidelines for the evaluation of the quality, Freshwater effectiveness and safety of medicinal products. Water containing 1,000 mg or less of dissolved solids per liter. In vitro Procedures involving components of an organism that were Global Product Strategy isolated from their usual biological surroundings (such as An initiative of the International Council of Chemical test tube experiments). Associations (ICCA) through which participating companies of the chemical industry make a commitment to In vivo comprehensive product responsibility. Latin for “within the living”, this term describes processes that take place within a living organism. Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labelling of Chemicals (GHS) Investigational drug An international standard system to classify chemicals that A pharmaceutical form of an active ingredient or placebo covers labeling as well as safety data sheets. being tested or used as a reference in a clinical trial, including approved as well as unapproved products when Good clinical practice (GCP) used or assembled (formulated or packaged) in a way An international quality standard that enforces tight different from the approved form, when used for an guidelines on ethical aspects of clinical studies. unapproved indication, or when used to gain further information about an approved use. 218 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Facts & figures ISO 14001 the electricity consumption takes place. As a rule, the This international environmental management standard average at country level is used. sets globally recognized requirements for an environmental management system. LTIR The lost time injury rate measures the number of accidents ISO 50001 resulting in missed days of work (one or more days) per This international standard defines globally recognized one million man-hours. requirements for energy management systems. Managing director ISO 9001 At Merck, this individual is ultimately responsible for This international standard defines globally recognized ensuring that their subsidiary, including R&D and requirements for a quality management system. manufacturing centers, complies with all laws and regulations applicable to its business, including Merck Lead substances Guidelines. Manufacturers/importers of a certain substance must submit a joint registration according to REACH. In this Market-based approach context, the company responsible for collecting the This method quantifies the GHG emissions emitted by an substance data and preparing the registration dossier uses electricity supplier or an individual electricity product. the term “lead substance”. Memorandum of understanding (MoU) Leishmaniasis A type of agreement between two or more parties. It A group of diseases caused by protozoan parasites. These expresses a convergence of will between the parties, parasites are transmitted to humans by the bites of the indicating an intended common line of action. infected female phlebotomine sand fly. There are three main forms of leishmaniasis: cutaneous, visceral or kalaMonoclonal antibodies azar, and mucocutaneous. Monoclonal antibodies are proteins that specifically recognize and bind to other unique proteins called LGBT+, LGBTQ, LGBTQI antigens. These acronyms stand for lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer or questioning, and intersex. ????? ???????????????????????????????????? Liquid biopsy Sampling and analysis of non-solid biological tissue such as Neglected tropical disease (NTD) blood. Diseases that occur primarily in developing countries. NTDs include schistosomiasis, intestinal worms, trachoma, Liquid crystals (LC) lymphatic filariasis, and onchocerciasis. This group of A hybrid of a crystalline and liquid state. In general, diseases is called neglected because, despite the large molecules are perfectly arranged only when in a solid number of people affected, they have historically received crystal state, in contrast to the liquid state, when they less attention and research funding than other diseases. move around chaotically. However, liquid crystals are a hybrid of the two states: Although they are liquid, they NMP exhibit a certain crystalline arrangement. Their rod-shaped N-Methyl-2-Pyrrolidone a polar aprotic compound that is molecules align themselves like a shoal of fish. In addition, miscible with water and has good solvency properties. NMP they respond to the electromagnetic waves of light like tiny is used in the manufacture of polymers, semiconductors, antennae. Therefore, such swarms of molecules can either batteries and pharmaceuticals. The ECHA (European allow specially prepared “polarized” light to pass through, Chemicals Agency) has designated NMP as a substance of or they can block it. This takes place in the pixels of liquid very high concern (SVHC) and included it in the candidate crystal displays – as it does similarly in liquid crystal list for authorization. windows, which can provide shade against sunlight. Nucleases Liver-stage malaria A group of enzymes whose primary function is to partially Certain forms of the malaria parasite (P. vivax and P. or fully degrade nucleic acids. ovale) can remain dormant after infecting liver cells. In this stage, they persist for many weeks and even years until OHSAS they relapse into a new disease cycle. Currently, it is not The Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series possible to treat this dormant form. (OSHAS) is an international occupational health and safety management system. Location-based approach The location-based method quantifies the Scope 2 emissions that are emitted on average in the area where 219 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Facts & figures Onchocerciasis Phase II study A chronic parasitic infection caused by nematodes that Phase II clinical trials study the biomedical or behavioral occurs in the tropical regions of Africa and South America. intervention in a larger group of people (several hundred) In approximately 10% of those infected, the disease leads to determine efficacy and to further evaluate its safety. to blindness, which is why onchocerciasis is also referred to Source: http://www.who.int/ictrp/glossary/en/ as river blindness. Phase III study Organoid Phase III studies investigate the efficacy of the biomedical An organoid is a miniaturized and simplified version of an or behavioral intervention in large groups of human organ produced in vitro in three dimensions by means of a subjects (from several hundred to several thousand) by cell culture. It shows realistic micro-anatomy similar to an comparing the intervention to other standard or organ. Organoids are derived from one or a few tissue experimental interventions as well as to monitor adverse cells, embryonic stem cells or induced pluripotent stem effects, and to collect information that will allow the cells, which can self-organize in a three-dimensional intervention to be used safely. culture, owing to their self-renewal and differentiation Source: http://www.who.int/ictrp/glossary/en/ capacities. Organoids are, among others, used as model systems in the investigation of diseases and the Prediabetes development of drugs. A condition regarded as indicative that a person is at risk of progressing to Type 2 diabetes. Orodispersible tablet A tablet that dissolves in the mouth within 30 seconds and Process-related emissions does not have to be taken with water. The active ingredient Greenhouse gases released into the atmosphere during is absorbed through the mucous membrane in the mouth manufacturing operations. and also partly through the lining of the stomach. Product safety summary Other water Intended to provide a general overview of the chemical Water containing more than 1,000 mg of dissolved solids substance and its use. It cannot take the place of a safety per liter. data sheet. Patent pool Public-private partnership (PPP) A consortium of at least two competing companies that A collaboration between public sector (government) allows partners to share the use of patents relating to a organizations, private companies and/or not-for-profit particular technology. organizations. Patient access programs REACH Self-sustaining commercial programs with a revenueA European Union chemical regulation (EC No. 1907/2006) driven purpose which provide medicines for underserved that took effect on June 1, 2007. REACH stands for populations, either through free products or a reduced Registration, Evaluation, Authorization, and Restriction of treatment fee. Chemicals. Patient support programs Registration dossiers Any organized system providing services and direct patient One part of the complex and time-consuming REACH or patient-caregiver interactions that are intended and registration process is the preparation of a technical designed to educate patients about certain diseases, and dossier and its submission to the European Chemicals help patients with access to and/or the management of Agency (ECHA). The information that a registration dossier prescribed medicines and/or disease outcomes and/or offer should contain includes the physical-chemical, toxicological doctors support for their patients. and ecotoxicological characteristics of the substances, human and environmental exposure, intended uses, Pharmacovigilance classification and labelling, and recommended risk The science and activities related to the detection, management measures. evaluation, understanding, and prevention of adverse reactions or other drug-related problems. Risk-sharing agreement An agreement between the producer or manufacturer and Phase I study the payer or provider that allows access to a health Phase I clinical trials test a new biomedical intervention in technology through coverage or reimbursement under a small group of people (for example, 20-80) for the first certain conditions. time to evaluate safety (for instance, to determine a safe dosage range and to identify side effects). Role Source: http://www.who.int/ictrp/glossary/en/ Merck uses a market-oriented system to rate positions within the company. To facilitate consistency across the 220 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Facts & figures organization, each position is assigned a specific role, with STEM an overarching job architecture classifying each role as one Science, technology, engineering, and mathematics. of 11 levels, 15 functions and an array of career types (Core Operations, Services & Support Groups; Experts; Stem cell lines Managers; Project Managers). Groups of stem cells derived from animal or human tissue. They can be cultivated in vitro and multiply indefinitely. Schistosomiasis A parasitic disease spread in warm lakes and ponds by Stem cells snails that serve as intermediate hosts. Undifferentiated cells with the potential to develop into many different cell types that carry out different functions. Scope 3 Scope 3 includes indirect greenhouse gas emissions, such Sunshine Act as the extraction and production of purchased materials, The Sunshine Provisions of the U.S. Patient Protection and transport-related activities, waste disposal, and employee Affordable Care Act aim to create more transparent travel. relationships between manufacturers of drugs, medical devices and medical aids on the one hand, and doctors and Scorecard teaching hospitals on the other. An evaluation tool for measuring, documenting and controlling activities using metrics. Traces Substances dissolved in water that are present only in Scrum minute amounts. Also referred to as micropollutants, these A framework for agile project management. It is a method are synthetic substances present in concentrations ranging that is simple, flexible and quick to deliver results. from one nanogram to one microgram per liter of water. Security Transfer of value This term stands for all necessary measures and Direct and indirect transfers of value, whether in cash, in governance activities to detect, analyze, handle, and kind or otherwise (for instance promotional purposes). mitigate securityand crime-based threats to the company. This helps to protect employees as well as the tangible and TRIPS intangible assets of the company. The Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights is an international legal agreement Signal management between all the member nations of the World Trade A set of activities performed to determine whether, based Organization. TRIPS seeks to ensure that the measures and on an examination of individual case safety reports, procedures for enforcing intellectual property rights do not aggregated data from active surveillance systems or become a barrier to lawful trade. studies, scientific literature information, or other data sources, there are new risks associated with an active WASH substance or a medicinal product or whether known risks This stands for “water, sanitation and hygiene”. have changed, as well as any related recommendations, decisions, communications, and tracking. WLTP Lawmakers require standardized test procedures to Spontaneous reports on adverse effects measure how much fuel a car consumes and whether it If a side effect occurs while using a medicine and is complies with the emissions limits. The new Worldwide reported, this is called a spontaneous report because the Harmonised Light Vehicle Test Procedure (WLTP) took adverse reaction is reported spontaneously (for example by effect in the EU on September 1, 2017 and is now the doctors or patients) and not in a trial or an observational official type approval testing procedure for new passenger study. cars across the EU. It succeeded the NEDC (New European Driving Cycle), which took effect in 1992. Stakeholder People or organizations that have a legitimate interest in a Working out loud company, entitling them to make justified demands. This technique is about deliberately sharing and providing Stakeholders include people such as employees, business knowledge as well as forming relevant working partners, neighbors in the vicinity of our sites, and relationships. The goal is to discover new topics and ideas. shareholders. 221 Merck Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Facts & figures Publication contributors Published on April 14, 2020 by Merck, Group Corporate Responsibility Frankfurter Strasse 250, 64293 Darmstadt, Germany Tel.: +49 (0) 6151-72 0 Fax: +49 (0) 6151-72 5577 Website: www.merckgroup.com Contact for questions regarding this report: Maria Schaad, Group Corporate Responsibility Concept and implementation of HTML, PDF & Print: nexxar GmbH, Vienna – Online annual reports and online sustainability reports Text and consulting: Stakeholder Reporting GmbH www.stakeholder-reporting.com Photos and graphics: Merck, Rüdiger Nehmzow 222
