2020 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT UNIBON SHIPPING LLC Statement of Continued Support From Our Chief Executive Oﬃcer I am pleased to reaffirm my commitment, and the commitment of Unibon Shipping LLC., to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. These principles align with our own motto of more than 10 years, “Ethics First,” a guiding philosophy that reminds us to act as a socially responsible corporate citizen in everything that we do. Our first Communication on Progress outlines the various ways we’ve begun to integrate the Global Compact and its principles into our business practices, operations, company culture and community programs. We are proud of these actions and are committed to sharing this progress report with our stakeholders. Sincerely, REMIL NATH Chief Executive Officer 2020 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS unibon.co PAGE 1 UNIBON SHIPPING LLC Human Rights OUR COMMITMENT OUR PROGRESS Goal 2: Provide a safe and reliable process for At Unibon Shipping, we believe that all individuals Goal 1: Clarify our support for human rights. reporting human rights violations. are entitled to basic human rights, freedoms, and standards of treatment. Our definition of Action: Developed new Global HumanRights Action: Expanded the reach of our reporting human rights is consistent with the United Policy. platforms. Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and the Universal Declaration of Unibon’s board of directors recently approved a Unibon Shipping established a formal process to Human Rights. We consider human rights to new Global Human Rights Policy, which prohibits enable employees, temporary professionals, include the right to life and liberty, freedom from any form of human trafficking, slavery, child clients, contractors, candidates and vendors to slavery and torture, freedom of opinion and labor, harassment or discrimination. The policy report human rights concerns or allegations of expression, and the right to work and education. applies to all Unibon employees and contingent policy violations. Our UAE. hotline is operated by While Unibon has experienced no human rights workers, all of Unibon’s direct and indirect the Unibon Human Resources Office of controversies and has never engaged in any subsidiaries worldwide, and Unibon’s suppliers Compliance, while our global reporting hotline human rights abuses since our founding in 2009, and vendors. Unibon sought stakeholder input in connects to an independent third-party service we have nonetheless taken steps to further developing the policy and will seek ongoing input via telephone and a web-based reporting portal. codify our commitment to upholding human regarding the policy’s implementation and Unibon Shipping commits to promptly rights within our sphere of influence. evaluation. investigate reports of rights abuses and to pursue reasonable and appropriate action to remediate Outcome: A new Global Human Rights Policy any violations substantiated by an investigation. and a commitment to assess and manage our Unibon does not tolerate retaliation against exposure to human rights abuses. anyone who reports violations of our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics or any law or regulation applicable to unibon Shipping LLC Principle 1 Principle 2 Outcome: An updated and enhanced compliance and ethics hotline Businesses should support and respect Businesses should make sure that they the protection of internationally are not complicit in human rights abuses. proclaimed human rights. 2020 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS unibon.co PAGE 2 UNIBON SHIPPING LLC Labor Principles OUR COMMITMENT OUR PROGRESS Goal 2: Clarify our stance against forced and child As a global shipping firm, we specialize in matchGoal 1: Increase employee awareness about our labor, and codify our support for workplace ing people with gainful employment and believe Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. safety, inclusion and diversity, and freedom of that everyone should have access to dignified association. work. Since our founding, we’ve demonstrated Action: Launched a new global Code of Business our commitment to fair labor practices by buildConduct and Ethics training program In Action: ncluded the following policies in our ing a work environment, November 2018, we launched a new employee comprehensive Global Human Rights Policy: where our employees feel safe, respected and training module covering our Code of Business engaged. Conduct and Ethics. In 2019, we expanded the Policy Against Sexual Harassment. training to international employees and transOur new Global Human Rights Policy, as well as lated the curriculum into English, Hindi, and Policy Against Human Trafficking, Slavery our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and Arabic. As of November 2019, close to 100% of and Child Labor. our Supplier Code of Conduct, our global employees have received the training. confirm our commitment to maintaining a safe Policy on Freedom of Association and and positive workplace for our employees and We also expanded access to our ethics and Collective Bargaining. supporting fair labor practices beyond our compliance reporting platforms, which now operations. include a suite of country-specific phone Policy on Workplace Safety. numbers, as well as an online reporting portal that is offered in over 8 major languages. Diversity Policy. Outcome: New Code of Business Conduct and Non-Retaliation. Ethics training rolled out in 3 countries, reaching over 100 employees and sub contractors. Outcome: A new suite of policies that collectively address fair labor practices and human rights. Principle 3 Principle 4 Businesses should uphold the freedom Businesses should eliminate all forms of of association and the effective forced and compulsory labor. recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 2020 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS unibon.co PAGE 3 UNIBON SHIPPING LLC Goal 3: Support fair labor practices among our manager support, physical workspace, Action (b): Conducted a pay audit for all suppliers. community involvement and organizational Corporate Services Employees Every year, culture. Unibon conducts an affirmative action audit to Action: Established a Supplier Code of Conduct better understand our workforce demographics. In 2018, we approved a Supplier Code of Employee feedback gives us visibility into how Conduct, which outlines the expectations we we can continue to grow, evolve and bring our This exercise allows us to see how our Corporate have of our suppliers in USA, Canada, UK, India. brand promise to life. In 2019, we expanded the Services employees compare to employees in survey to all our office other similarly sized companies in terms of A “Supplier” is defined as any individual or diversity indicators and pay. It also helps us set company, including their employees, agents, specific goals to support women and minorities in subcontractors and representatives, that Outcome: In 2019, over 1,000 Unibon Shipping the company. For example, from our 2019 audit, provides goods or services to Unibon Shipping. employees and sub employees surveyed we found that 56% of our leadership, which Among other conditions, the Supplier Code of globally. includes all senior managers, directors, vice Conduct prohibits child labor and modern presidents and above, are women. This is well slavery in all its forms. beyond the national average and reflects our Goal 5: Support women’s leadership inthe efforts to support women’s leadership within the Outcome: Our Supplier Code of Conduct now workplace. company. However, we also learned that 42.5% of referenced in all supplier contracts. our technical staff are women, which is just below Action (a): Signed a statement of support for the national average. the Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEPs) Goal 4: Increase employee engagement. In 2018, Unibon signed a statement of support This finding inspired us to set a new goal to for the joint initiative of the United Nations increase women’s representation among our IT Action: Expanded the reach of our Employee Global Compact and UN Women. and other technical teams. Experience Surveys Since 2018, The seven WEPs build on the United Nations Unibon’s Corporate Services employees in UAE Outcome: Participation in a global network to Global Compact’s principles by providing best have participated in an employee experience advance gender equality and a new goal to practices for advancing gender equality and survey twice a year. The survey includes increase the number of women in our IT empowering women in the workplace, questions on collaboration, functions in 2020 marketplace and community. Principle 5 Principle 6 Businesses should uphold the effective Businesses should eliminate abolition of child labor. discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 2020 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS unibon.co PAGE 4 UNIBON SHIPPING LLC Environment OUR COMMITMENT initiatives. The committee will facilitate interdepartmental collaboration and help Goal 3: Identify ways to decrease our We are committed to decreasing our identify where improvements can be made environmental footprint. environmental impact. across the enterprise. Action: Improved efficiency across our As our Global Environmental Policy outlines, all Outcome: Outcome: Developed a new operations among other examples, we recently employees of Unibon Shipping LLC are required Environmental Committee Charter to guide our replaced nearly 900 fluorescent lights with more to conduct business in a manner that protects environmental initiatives starting in 2019. efficient LEDs at our warehouse, office and the environment, conserves resources and reduced the energy use of our lighting by ensures sustainable development. The policy Goal 2: Improve environmental tracking and approximately 70%. We followed suit at our offices provides guidance on the various ways we can reporting. in UAE, reducing the energy consumption of our improve efficiencies within our operations and lighting by 70% and 72%, respectively. business practices. This includes reducing paper Action: Reported environmental performance use and business travel and increasing energy data to environmental, social and governance We also reduced paper consumption across all efficiency and digital processes. Unibon and its (ESG) stakeholders in 2019, we increased our offices by transitioning to digital documents employees also support external conservation capacity to track our environmental footprint, whenever possible. efforts through donations to local and evaluating the impact of our leased offices, International nonprofits. transportation and business processes. As our Between 2013 and 2019, we reduced the amount environmental tracking efforts have improved, of paper purchased per employee by 77%. In 2019 OUR PROGRESS so too has our environmental reporting. In 2019, alone, we avoided printing and mailing over 1 we provided more comprehensive emissions million sheets of paper by using e-signature Goal 1: Strengthen environmental oversight. data to CDP and shared this information with technology. many other ESG benchmarking groups. Action: Instituted an environmental committee We recently formed an environmental Outcome: Improved environmental reporting to Outcome: 113 short tons of solid waste and committee to help monitor our environmental external benchmarking groups. 1,000 metric tons of CO2 emissions avoided in footprint and to prioritize high-impact efficiency. 2018 through a reduction in paper consumption. Principle 7 Principle 8 Principle 9 Businesses should support a Businesses should undertake initiatives Businesses should encourage the precautionary approach to to promote greater environmental development and diffusion of environmental challenges. responsibility. environmentally friendly technologies. 2020 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS unibon.co PAGE 5 UNIBON SHIPPING LLC Anti-Corruption OUR COMMITMENT OUR PROGRESS our mandatory harassment and discrimination Unibon’s business model is built around personal Goal 1: Strengthen anti-corruption risk training, and global anti-corruption policy training, connections and trust, and we will not tolerate management which includes real-world examples of cases corruption within any part of our business. We prosecuted by the UAE The Federal Judiciary. comply with all anti-corruption laws and Action: Continued to provide annual Board of regulations, including the UAE anti corruption law Directors updates on Compliance and Ethics Leveraging the auditing expertise of our and the UK Bribery Act. Program. subsidiary, Protiviti, we also recently developed a new methodology to evaluate risks and risk control We ensure compliance with these laws and Once a year, our senior vice president and efficacy, including those associatedwith regulations through Articles 234 to 239 of the corporate compliance officer presents an corruption. Code anti-bribery practices in the UAE. update to the Board of Directors on the priorities and status of our Compliance and Guidelines and Global Anti-Corruption Policy. We Ethics Program. Directors are provided Outcome: Developed a new risk assessment also address this in our Code of Business information on relevant policies, procedures and model. Conduct and Ethics, which directly prohibits trainings. In 2019, this included key updates on corrupt or illegal practices, including the our Data Privacy and Security Policy, payment of bribes or kickbacks, insider trading, and self-dealing. Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Learn more about Unibon Shipping LLC responsibility programs at www.unibon.co 2020 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS unibon.co PAGE 6
