RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2019 Radisson Blu 1835 Hotel & Thalasso Cannes Contents Scope and boundaries  3 About Radisson Hotel Group  4 Letter From The Chairman 6 Highlights and Planning  7 Materiality and Stakeholders  9 Organization and Governance  11 Recognition and Awards  14 Think People  15 Think Community  36 Think Planet  47 Appendices Eco-Labelled Hotels  70 UN Sustainable Development Goals  74 UN Global Compact Compliance  76 GRI Standard Disclosures Table  77 Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement  79 Auditor’s Report  82 2 Responsible Business Report 2019 / Contents Scope and boundaries of this report The 2019 Radisson Hotel Group (RHG) Responsible Business Report describes the most material corporate responsibility Our business entities and sustainability aspects of our operations, not the full Radisson Hospitality AB (publ) is a member of RHG. range of our actions and data. Unless otherwise stated, the Through a master franchise agreement with Radisson information in this report refers to the calendar year 2019. Hospitality, Inc. in the USA, Radisson Hospitality AB This is Radisson's first global annual Responsible Business operates and develops hotel brands across EMEA. Report. Unless indicated, achievements mentioned in this Radisson Hospitality AB is headquartered in Brussels, report cover all hotels which are managed, leased, and Belgium. franchised by RHG. This includes 1,180+ properties which were in operation on 31 December 2019. For new hotels that This report includes Radisson Hospitality AB’s 13th were opened in 2019, or hotels that discontinued operations annual Responsible Business Report. Specific hotel during the year, data is only reported for the months they data of Radisson Hospitality AB is indicated with . were in operation. RHG has limited the reporting boundaries to areas in which the company has full control over data Financial data presented in our Responsible Business collection and information quality. Downstream impacts are Report is derived from audited annual accounts. For generally excluded as we do not currently have reliable tools all external reporting, currencies have been converted to measure their effect. to euros. Our financial reporting accounting principles and currency conversion rates are stated in Radisson Hospitality AB’s 2019 Annual Report. Radisson Hospitality AB applies the precautionary principle. The Responsible Business Report also fulfils the statutory sustainability reporting requirements in the Swedish Annual Accounts Act (based on the EU Directive 2014/95). This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option, see page 76. Radisson Collection Hotel Tsinandali Estate Georgia 3 Responsible Business Report 2019 / Scope and boundaries About Radisson Hotel Group Radisson Hotel Group is one of Radisson Hotel Group portfolio includes Radisson Collection, Radisson Blu, Radisson, Radisson RED, Park the world's largest hotel groups Plaza, Park Inn by Radisson and Country Inn & Suites in the world with seven distinctive by Radisson, brought together under one commercial umbrella brand Radisson Hotels. hotel brands, and more than 1,400 Radisson Rewards is our global rewards program hotels in operation and under that delivers unique and personalized ways to create development in 120 countries. Its memorable moments that matter to our guests. Radisson Rewards offers exceptional loyalty benefits for our guests, signature service philosophy is meeting planners, travel agents and business partners. Every Moment Matters. Radisson Meetings places its guests and their needs at the heart of its offer and treats every meeting or event as more than just a date on the calendar. Radisson Meetings is built around three strong service commitments: Personal, Professional and Memorable, while delivering on the brilliant basics and our signature Yes I Can! service spirit and being uniquely 100% Carbon Neutral. More than 100,000 team members work for Radisson Hotel Group and at the hotels licensed to operate in its systems. For more information, visit: radissonhotels.com/corporate Radisson Collection Hotel 4 Responsible Business Report 2019 / About Radisson Hotel Group Royal Copenhagen Making a difference Team from the Radisson Blu Martinez Hotel, 5 Responsible Business Report 2019 Beirut during Community Action Month Our service philosophy is defined approach we provide food, shelter and a brighter The customer is always at the future for at-risk children and youths. Throughout 2019, our forefront of our minds, and Every Moment Matters. When teams contributed a total of €1.6m in cash and in-kind and Responsible Business is a key element we launched Radisson Hotel dedicated more than 43,000 hours of volunteering time. in our approach to growth and is vital to our ambition to become one of the Group in 2018, we have stepped Thirdly, I would say that RHG is committed to operating our leading hotel companies in the world. worldwide hotel portfolio with the lowest possible energy, As leaders in the hospitality industry, up our efforts to operate in water and carbon footprints as possible. We achieve this we all have a responsibility to act a responsible manner that by implementing Think Planet efficiency principles in our now for the future. standards, and through close cooperation with property demonstrates our desire to owners, builders, and architects. Thank you for supporting us in create a better world. Additionally, we bring Carbon Neutrality to our guests. making every moment memorable and sustainable. All Radisson Meetings are 100% carbon neutral and that As part of that transformation, we outlined our common is a world first at this scale. For each meeting, the carbon vision, the beliefs and the behaviors that we are committed footprint is calculated and then automatically offset by to and this has had a huge impact on how we approach our supporting certified projects that invest in renewables or corporate responsibilities. have a positive sustainable development impact, at no cost FEDERICO J. GONZÁLEZ to our customers. President and CEO, Radisson Hospitality AB Chairman of Radisson Hotel Group We are extremely focused demonstrating our commitment Global Steering Committee to sustainability and Responsible Business, in line with the Furthermore, as a member of the International Tourism targets laid out in our five-year strategic plan. There are Partnership (ITP), Radisson has built on its global three pillars that define our focus for Responsible Business. commitment to focus on carbon, water, youth employment and human rights. We are proud to work together in the The first is that we Think People at all times. Safety & wider travel and hospitality industry, to participate in Security is of paramount importance to every single one significant collaborative initiatives – including the UN of our hotels around the world. Before guests can relax Global Compact, the UN CEO Water Mandate, WTTC and and enjoy memorable moments, they need to know that the Global Tourism Plastic Initiative – that work towards our teams are providing them with the safest possible building a better future for all. environment to stay in. Additionally, we continue to support human rights, business ethics, and diversity I believe that cross-sectoral partnerships combining asset in all our hotels globally. owners, finance, sustainable solution providers and hotels in a location-based approach can be a powerful force for Secondly, our teams Think Community by engaging good towards building a better future for all with a net-zero passionately with their communities and our global charity carbon future in sight by 2050. partner, SOS Children’s Villages. In support of a clearly 6 Responsible Business Report 2019 / Letter from The Chairman 2019 Highlights THINK THINK THINK Responsible Business PEOPLE COMMUNITY PLANET Performance Indicators* 1.0 million 43,000 volunteer hours from RHG employees 15.8% reduction of our carbon emissions 2019 2018 Energy per m2 (kWh) 268 260 hours of class room and 2017 257 on the job training and hotel team members globally per square meter since 2017 Energy per occupied room (kWh) 1.9% 2019 84.3 Partnership launch with ECPAT-USA €1.6 million donated by RHG corporate and hotels reduction of our water consumption 2018 2017 88.4 90.3 to drive human trafficking prevention Water Footprint per occupied room (liters) in cash and in kind to non-profit per occupied room vs last year 2019 509 organizations 2018 519 2017 743 251 Hotels certified by Safehotels Alliance 27,000 449 hotels 2019 Carbon Footprint per square meter (kgs CO2e / m2) 99.3 Hotels certified with eco-labels 2018 109.5 children and women were provided 2017 117.9 safe drinking water for life through 6,500 hotel trainees our towel re-use program 100% of our meetings and events are 2019 2018 Safehotels Alliance Certification (# of hotels) 207 251 686 children sponsored with carbon neutral, offsetting 38,300 tons of carbon per annum 2017 199 SOS Children's Villages 7 Responsible Business Report 2019 / Highlights and Planning *RHG owned, leased and managed hotels 5-year strategic plan Radisson Hotel Group's ambitious and award-winning Responsible Business program started in 1989. The program’s three core areas ensure that we care for people, the community and our planet and act in an ethical way. RHG developed its 5-year strategic plan in 2017. As one of the key initiatives, Responsible Business is a strong business asset for the organization. For 2018-2022, we have defined the following Responsible Business focus areas and targets for our hotels globally. These targets align carefully and Think Think Think contribute to the hotel industry 2030 focus areas and to the UN Sustainable Development Goals. People Community Planet With Think People and our With Think Community we are With Think Planet we strive The 2022 priorities of Radisson Hotel Groups’s Responsible Business program focus on being an ethical contributing to communities to build a better planet for are to further reduce our carbon & water footprint, to focus on human rights business, on welcoming with food, shelter and a better all. We have clear targets to in the supply chain, and on creating shared value in communities in the areas of guests in a safe and secure future for at-risk children. minimize our environmental Food, Shelter and Better Futures especially for children and youth at risk. environment and on diversity footprint in terms of energy & inclusion, we are caring for We foster our international and water use and waste, people in our hotels and the partnership with SOS Children’s and have achieved important value chain. Villages International who work progress toward these goals. in 136 countries to ensure that Our ethical practices can children grow up in a safe and We work on innovations in be seen every day in the caring family environment. our service offering such as way we treat all our people, Carbon Neutral Meetings, from customers and team In hotels, we are enabling a and we contribute to WASH members to suppliers and better future for vulnerable (Water, Hygiene, Sanitation) investors. young people with various projects in water scarce programs delivering communities. employability and life skills. 8 Responsible Business Report 2019 / Highlights and Planning Stakeholders Employees Guests Radisson Hotel Group has defined Our impacts influence the long term success of our We educate and equip employees and hotel We inform and make it easy for guests and organization and of our stakeholders. the most material topics for our team members to make a conscious decision in Radisson Rewards members to participate favor of environmental, in Responsible Business organization in accordance with We operate to high standards of performance and advocate socially and environmentally sustainable ethical, and social issues in their work activities at our hotels. the Global Reporting Initiative business practices. Responsible Business is the way and beyond. (GRI Standards) process. We we do business and we continuously evaluate where we stand and how we can do better. Community Property owners have a clear responsibility to We take an active role in the international Responsible and franchisees We partner with property RHG has identified eight Responsible Business Business network and owners to find innovative support the UN Sustainable stakeholder groups. We maintain clear commitments contribute to the local communities where we solutions that satisfy economic, environmental, and social Development Goals. to each of these. operate. objectives. Governments and Owner & investors authorities We provide Jin Jiang We require our employees International with timely, and hotel team members accurate, and transparent to abide by local and information on Responsible international legislation, Business performance, related especially regarding labor risks, and opportunities. laws, health and safety, human rights, and the environment. Suppliers Corporate clients We strive to purchase We inform and involve products and services corporate clients, advancing the areas such as travel agents, of human rights, labor, meeting planners, environment, and antiOTAs who are seeking corruption, as well as the to become aware of UN SDGs, from suppliers the environmental and who demonstrate social impact of their environmental and social purchases. responsibility. 9 Responsible Business Report 2019 / Materiality and Stakeholders Each focus area corresponds to one or more of our Responsible Business pillars: Think People Think Community Think Planet Materiality assessment S  afety and Security Radisson Hotel Group has to manage the impact of key • As a member of the International Tourism Partnership, P  rotection of Human Rights economic, social, ethical and environmental topics for our RHG is committed to advancing Responsible Business B  usiness Conduct, Ethics Eliminate modern slavery industry and our company in an ever-evolving world. Guided across the operations and using its collective influence to and compliance Responsible recruitment Very High by the Global Reporting Initiative’s materiality principles drive action among our supply chains and stakeholders. C  ommunity C  arbon footprint & renewables and approach, RHG has done a materiality assessment to We work together with senior executives from other development & identify key issues, focus areas, priorities and opportunities. leading hospitality companies to address challenges, engagement E  nergy efficiency share expertise and develop practical solutions to enable W  ater stewardship including Relevance for stakeholders We are conscious that our Responsible Business targets the whole industry to operate responsibly and grow Water, Sanitation & Hygiene and actions need to contribute to the UN Sustainable sustainably. Development Goals. For our assessment, we engage with stakeholders on an ongoing basis to inform them about the • The World Travel & Tourism Council recognizes that strategy and get insight on their expertise, expectations, security, demographics, resource scarcity, waste feedback and priorities. RHG based itself on the following management, and business ethics are all issues that will internal and external sources: particularly influence the nature in which our industry will Eco-labels continue to operate in future. RHG used this in support Green buildings R  esponsible Supply • Our vision and long-term strategy includes the of the materiality matrix. Chain P  eople development Responsible Business Strategy and targets. In addition Waste reduction to be a key strategic initiative, Responsible Business • External contextual information, trend reports and Y  outh employment influenced other essential elements of the 5-year plan research such as the World Economic Forum Yearly High F  ood & Beverage T  alent management such as Strategic Souring and Meetings & Events. Global Risks Report, UNEP Global commitment & employability D  iversity and inclusion progress report, GlobeScan sustainability survey and Guest awareness • Stakeholder engagement include performance reviews UNWTO reports. A  nti-corruption & antibribery like the culture assessment, hotel owner meetings, L  ocal volunteering partnership reviews, surveys, and other stakeholder D  isaster support meetings and workshops. High Very High Relevance for RHG 10 Responsible Business Report 2019 / Materiality and Stakeholders Organization and Governance Our Responsible Business policy is embedded at all levels of the organization. We combine both a top-down and bottom-up approach to ensure maximum engagement in operations and the greatest impact for our company. Organization Americas Reporting and compliance The Board of Directors is periodically informed about Following EMEA's success, RHG Americas has launched Monthly environmental statistics for owned, managed the Responsible Business progress. The global steering its Responsible Business champion program. This and leased hotels are collected in the Think Planet committee, including the chairman is frequently updated network of Champions allows hotel teams easy access section of our financial reporting and consolidation on strategies, plans and progress of the Responsible to initiatives and trainings as well as best practice system. Hotels report their full Responsible Business Business 5-year plan. sharing through regular newsletters and webcasts. performance in the yearly Responsible Business Status Report, which contains over 100 checkpoints on Think The global Responsible Business team sets and THINK team People, Think Community and Think Planet. 90% of our implements the strategy and ensures crossRHG Americas launched in 2019 the THINK Team for its hotels submitted an answer to the Status Report. departmental cooperation. The team works very headquarters in Minneapolis, MN. Made of passionate closely with the Area Support Office teams. corporate employees, the team engages with colleagues Environmental issues and local hotels on Responsible Business topics. Since RHG checks the environmental compliance of all EMEA its inception, the THINK Team members have rolled out hotels. During 2019, no hotel reported environmental In EMEA, a network of 23 Regional Responsible initiatives such as adopting a park, donations for children compliance issues. Business Coordinators sets regional targets in line with in need and a bold waste-reduction program at the group strategy. They also follow-up on progress made corporate office. by hotels. Each hotel is expected to have a Responsible Business Coordinator and Responsible Business team. The Responsible Business Coordinator and their team jointly define the Responsible Business action plans in line with both regional and group priorities. 11 Responsible Business Report 2019 / Organization and Governance Memberships UN Global Compact International Tourism Partnership World Travel and Tourism Council RHG has been a UN Global Compact signatory since RHG is part of the International Tourism Partnership The World Travel and Tourism Council’s objective is 2009. The UN Global Compact promotes companies (ITP), a nonprofit membership organization with a to promote awareness of the economic contribution doing business responsibly by aligning their strategies reach of more than 30,000 hotels and more than of travel and tourism. It also aims to give one voice and operations with the ten principles on human 4 million rooms. RHG works with ITP and senior to major players in the sector when talking to rights, labor, the environment, and anti-corruption. executives from other leading hospitality companies governments and international bodies. Signatories take strategic actions to advance broader to address challenges, share expertise, and develop societal goals, such as UN Sustainable Development practical solutions to enable the industry to operate Federico J. González, President and CEO, Radisson Goals, with an emphasis on collaboration and responsibly and grow sustainably. Hospitality AB, and chairman of RHG Global Steering innovation. The Compact is the world’s largest Committee, is member on behalf of RHG. The voluntary corporate sustainability initiative. More Wolfgang M. Neumann, former President and CEO Council’s key focus areas include security and travel than 9,900 business and other stakeholders from of Radisson Hospitality AB, has been chairman of ITP facilitation, crisis preparedness and response, and 161 countries take part. since June 2015, and Inge Huijbrechts, Global Senior sustainable growth. Vice President, Responsible Business, Safety & Security, RHG, has been chairing the Executive Committee since April 2019. UN CEO Water Mandate Overseas Security Advisory Council (OSAC) ECPAT RHG was the first hospitality company to endorse RHG is one of the founding members of the Hotel In 2019, RHG relaunched its partnership with ECPATthe UN CEO Water Mandate in 2014. The UN CEO Security Working Group (HSWG) at the U.S. USA, the leading policy organization seeking to Water Mandate is a UN Global Compact initiative Department of State Overseas Security Advisory end the commercial sexual exploitation of children that mobilizes business leaders on water, sanitation, Council (OSAC). Our company exchanges information through awareness, advocacy, policy, and legislation. and UN Sustainable Development Goals. Mandate on potential threats, conducts joint training sessions, signatories work together with the United Nations, and enables members to monitor emerging threats. As an ECPAT-USA partner, RHG is also a signatory civil society organizations, governments, and other The exchange of information is vital to helping our of The Code. The Code is the world’s first and only stakeholders. safety and security teams understand evolving threats. voluntary set of business principles that travel and tour companies can implement to prevent sexual exploitation and trafficking of children. The Code is a joint venture between the tourism private sector and ECPAT, providing awareness, tools, and support to the travel and hospitality industry. 12 Responsible Business Report 2019 / Organization and Governance Global goals and industry focus areas UN Sustainable Development Goals Climate The hotel industry must reduce its absolute carbon emissions The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable change by 66% by 2030 to ensure that growth in the sector is Development, adopted by all United sustainable. As part of the ITP, RHG commits to embrace science-based emissions targets and encourage the wider Nations Member States in 2015, provides industry to join in reducing emissions at scale. a shared blueprint for peace and prosperity for people and the planet, Water Water scarcity affects more than 40% of the global population stewardship and countries forecast with the highest water stress are amongst now and into the future. The 17 global those with the greatest tourism growth. RHG is embedding water goals are an urgent call for action by stewardship programs to address water scarcity, improving water-use efficiency, and contributing to improved hygiene and all countries — developed and sanitation for communities around the globe. developing — to unite in this effort. Supporting industry focus areas for 2030 Youth More than one in five young people in the world are not in In 2017, RHG, together with other leading global hotel The goals mobilize countries, organizations, and businesses to Employment school, employed or in training leaving them at high risk of brands, reached consensus for a sustainable industry. end all forms of poverty, fight inequality, and tackle climate change poverty and exploitation. As a member, RHG commits to Aligned with the United Nations Sustainable Development collectively impacting one million young people through in a global partnership. As a responsible leader in the industry, Goals, the International Tourism Partnership (ITP) commits employability programs by 2030. our efforts contribute to these important global goals. to drive action on climate change, water stewardship, human rights, and youth employment. This long-term commitment RHG has analyzed its Responsible Business commitment against the is a call to action from across the industry. UN Sustainable Development Goals. You can find a table showing Human It is the duty of every business, wherever they operate, to how the company contributes to the UN Sustainable Development Rights respect and promote human rights. RHG commits to raise As an ITP member, RHG is committed to advancing Goals on page 74. awareness of human rights risks, embed human rights into Responsible Business across its operations and using its corporate governance, and address risks arising in the labor collective influence to drive action among supply chains and supply chain and during construction. stakeholders. 13 Responsible Business Report 2019 / Organization and Governance Recognition and Awards Responsible Business guest recognition The Responsible Business Guest Satisfaction Survey Sustainable leaders The Park Inn by Radisson, Duqm Hotel & Residence won the (GSS) score serves as a valuable tool for RHG properties. sustainability hotel of the year award at the 2019 Leaders in Radisson Hotel Group has received numerous It provides insights to help hotels prioritize actions and Hospitality Awards by BNC Publishing. This event recognizes outperform competitors. The survey’s functionality enables the high standards of not only its winners, but also those awards and accolades for being an innovative RHG to identify which hotels within our company, brand or companies shortlisted for the awards. leader in sustainability practices, responsible region are ranking above or below other properties. GSS does not include online reviews. Eco Responsible hotel award business, and its safety and security program. The Ural Region Hospitality Award—organized by the Guest Satisfaction Survey Ministry of Investments and Development of Sverdlovsk 2019 7.75 Region, Center of Tourism Development and Hoteliers’ 2018 7.80 Club—named Park Inn by Radisson Ekaterinburg, Russia, 2017 7.68 the best Eco Responsible Hotel in the region. The main areas of concern that guests highlighted were that Responsible Business initiatives could be more effectively communicated to guests. Guests also requested a reduction in the use of plastic at properties, such as bottles, straws and other amenities, as well as more information on recycling options in hotels. Highest honor Our Russia and CIS hotels won honors in the 2019 Buying Business Travel Awards in the key category of Best Business Social Responsibility Program. Based on the global Responsible Business program, the region’s efforts were recognized due to engagement in responsible business best practices. The Business Travel Awards have been presented for more than 20 years. The awards are viewed as the most prestigious professional distinction in business tourism. 2019 Buying Business Travel Awards ceremony 14 Responsible Business Report 2019 / Recognition and Awards Think People The next generations expect companies to care. At RHG, we operate our business responsibly, and want to attract and grow talent. As a global company, we have all the tools in place for employees to develop a meaningful career and deliver memorable moments to our guests. Iñigo Capell Executive Vice President & Global Chief Resources Officer 15 Responsible Business Report 2019 1 million 6,500 4 th partner 251 hours of classroom and hotel trainees modern slavery with ECPAT-USA, hotels certified on-the-job training statement issued fighting human with Safehotels trafficking 16 Responsible Business Report 2019 Employment & Employability In 2019, Radisson Hotel Group EMPLOYEES BY AGE counted 144 nationalities amongst Below 24 Between 25 30 15.1% 23.9% our employees. Women comprise Between 31 40 32.4% 43.4% of our employees while 56.6% Between 41 50 17.4% Between 51 60 8.7% are men. Of our total workforce, 12.5% Between 61 65 1.8% Above 65 0.7% is outsourced labor, mainly in housekeeping and banqueting departments. Collective bargaining agreements EMPLOYEES BY GENDER Male 56.6% cover 31% of our employees. Female 43.4% Empowering employees and social dialogue In line with the European Union Directive on Works Councils (94/45/EC), RHG has established a European Works Council. The Council includes representatives of our central management, employees, and is attended by the Chief Resources Officer. Annual meetings are held, including in 2019. Topics such as our company's finances, business development, performance, ethics reporting and human rights, Responsible Business, and other important issues are discussed with employee representatives. 17 Responsible Business Report 2019 / Think People Employment & Employability Tackling youth unemployment Mentoring youth in the United States Reducing youth unemployment is a global responsibility. The BestPrep eMentoring program works to prepare Although the worldwide travel and tourism industry students with business, career, and financial literacy skills supports one in 10 jobs, there are more than 71 million through hands-on experiences that inspire success in work young people unemployed. RHG understands that we have and life. The nonprofit organization provides educational a key role to play in addressing this issue and creating job programs to primary school students. opportunities for underprivileged youth. RHG had over 6,500 trainees during 2019. Of our hotels, 15.9% reported Volunteers from RHG helped mentor students and hosted a that they currently work with a training or apprentice celebration during the program to introduce students to the BestPrep eMentoring program program for youth-at-risk. hospitality industry. Discovering talent of underprivileged youth Creating careers in Abidjan The Youth Career Initiative (YCI) is a global project to enhance The Radisson Blu Hotel, Abidjan Airport in Ivory Coast the employability of underprivileged young people. YCI received nine young adults as part of the YCI training was developed by the hotel industry, for the hotel industry and allows hotels to make a real difference in the lives of program for disadvantaged youth that was financed by the its graduates and their families. In 2019, RHG has run YCI World Bank and coordinated by the AGEFOP (Agency for programs in three countries (South Africa, Ivory Coast and Vocational Training) under the supervision of Ivory Coast Zambia). In the past years, RHG has also run the program in Ministry of National Education, Technical Education and Romania, Lebanon, Sierra Leone, Ethiopia, Senegal and India. Vocational Training. YCI conducts a threeto six-month education program The apprentices trained on-the-job for one year in which empowers disadvantaged young people and Reception, Housekeeping, and Food & Beverage, as well as trains them for their future professional and social life. receiving classroom learning at the Lycée Hôtelier in Abidjan. The classroom training includes basic hospitality, English The 12-months training resulted in the recruitment of two language skills, and hands-on experience within the participants to kitchen clerk positions and the registration of hotel industry. The program helps students between 18 four others in the hotel’s seasonal agent pool. and 21 years who have dropped out of school, lack the financial means to complete their education, or are at risk of exploitation. Success rates are impressive: 85% of the program’s graduates get a job at RHG or another company or they go on to continue their education. The apprentices in the Radisson Blu Hotel Abidjan Airport 18 Responsible Business Report 2019 / Think People People Development & Talent Management Global Culture & Beliefs At Radisson Hotel Group, we believe that people are our number-one asset. Our culture plays an important role in our business transformation, and in our future business success. Our culture helps us achieve our global vision to become: one of the three ‘top of mind’ hotel companies in the world and the company of choice for guests, owners and talents. 19 Responsible Business Report 2019 / Think People People Development & Talent Management Our Culture Journey Foundation of our Culture Radisson Talks To successfully ensure Every Moment Matters for our A strong corporate culture is powerful. When employees Radisson Talks continued as a space where teams come guests, owners, and talents, we decided that we needed agree with, and care intensely about our beliefs, together for sharing projects, targets and achievements of to align our cultures to create a customer-focused our company performance will increase due to their key five-year plan initiatives. Radisson Talks have a globally experience which delivers that brand promise. A culture motivation. As part of our five-year strategic plan, RHG aligned content calendar and agenda. All of them are live that empowers everyone to ensure a consistent experience has identified the following shared beliefs which serve as streamed, so owned and managed hotels as well as remote for every guest at every property and workplace around the foundation of our corporate culture: corporate team members can connect and not miss the the globe. Believing in our promise means that we believe opportunity of receiving these critical business updates. every moment is an opportunity for our global team • We deliver memorable moments every members to serve, improve, have fun, make an impression, day, everywhere, every time go above and beyond, learn, stretch, grow, and innovate. • We enjoy serving with our “Yes I Can!” spirit • We grow talent, talent grows us The culture journey, which started in 2018 with the • We are many minds, with one mindset definition of our Culture Beliefs, kept evolving in 2019 • We value open and direct interactions to build trust with the development of the Foundations, which set up • We believe anything is possible the standards of how we assess and develop our talent. • We have fun in all that we do We’ve grown our business and culture always keeping in mind the five-year plan initiatives, which ensure a way These beliefs are true to who we are and what we want to forward to reach the top of mind in hospitality. achieve as we pursue the ambitious journey. Celebrating & Rewarding Culture In 2019 we launched for the first time the Every Moment Matters (EMM) Awards, aimed to celebrate the team members who best live up our Culture Beliefs. Every Moment Matters represents our brand promise and drives us to create memorable moments for our guests, owners and talent. EMM Awards are peer-topeer recognition awards, so everyone can participate and nominate their colleagues for how good they follow our culture beliefs. 20 Responsible Business Report 2019 / Think People EMM Award winners People Development & Talent Management Radisson Listens Radisson Academy Radisson Academy 2018 vs 2019 comparsion We want to hear from team members how we can Radisson Academy provides individual team members with continue to keep them engaged, fulfilled and happy we different ways to learn the right skill, at the right time, in the launched Radisson Listens, the first global employee right way. Regardless of their profession, level of training, 2018 2019 engagement survey. role or seniority, we aim to provide a relevant learning path for each team member. 41 Face-to-face 69 sessions All individual responses are completely confidential, ensuring that our teams around the world feel comfortable Radisson Academy Live presents instructor-led trainings Face-to-face 280 889 providing us with feedback. This initiative allows our dedicated to Business and Leadership Development and participants company's leadership to listen to its employees and offers a great opportunity for participants for networking, Face-to-face 9 18 takes notice of what’s happening inside in order to make sharing their expertise, and discussing their experience. training programs communication more transparent. 4 Online training 14 Radisson Academy Online allows team members to programs Learn to Grow access cutting-edge digital learning tools. Employees can 20 Face-to-face 24 In 2019, a huge step forward was made in our Learning learn everywhere, at any time. In 2019 we enlarged the certifications and Development offer. To enable growth and equip our online training offer with 14 new online courses, including team members with the tools and new skills they need, interactive videos and e-learning, quizzes and micro-learning 0 Virtual 9 certifications Radisson Academy was officially launched. modules in multiple languages. 140 Certified 402 The new global learning and development vision enabled On-the-job training is another integral part of the Radisson trainers us to reach out to three times more participants than in Academy. Learning is based on the 70:20:10 model 2018. We are proud to announce that by introducing the which shows that people achieve 70% of their learnings new virtual Trainer certification modality we also started from challenging assignments, 20% from developmental reducing our carbon footprint when developing the skills relationships, and 10% from coursework and training. New and behaviors of our talents. team members can embrace integral elements of Radisson’s DNA such as “Yes I can!” and Responsible Business through on-the-job training. 21 Responsible Business Report 2019 / Think People People Development & Talent Management Talent review Living Responsible Business is a classroom training with a RHG is holding annual talent review meetings across all levels gamified approach. The training is for all hotel employees and of the organization to reach a common understanding of covers topics such as ethics, diversity, inclusion, community the level of performance, ambition and the future potential support, eco-footprint reduction, and sorting waste—as of individuals, while also identifying successors for well as more sensitive topics like tackling sex trafficking and leadership roles. forced labor. It’s available in 21 languages. To enhance the value of the Talent Review Meeting process Leading Responsible Business is a comprehensive and and to ensure traction for those who have career aspirations, engaging e-learning tool for the leaders in hotels and personalized development plans include audiences with the offices. The training covers eco-footprint reduction, youth area director to actively encourage one-on-one time. employability, responsible recruitment and sourcing, promoting human rights, and Radisson’s partnership with New global Responsible Business training SOS Children’s Villages. RHG has introduced a new global Responsible Business training program, Living and Leading Responsible Business. The company is rolling out the new Responsible Business It is the first time that the training program has had global training program across all Radisson hotels. To date, 42% of alignment across our hotels. To ensure that the content is employees have completed training. By end of 2020, RHG relevant in the near 100 countries where we operate, training aims to have deployed the training to all hotels. pilots were conducted in locales as diverse as Sydney, St. Petersburg, Brussels, Albertville MN, and Cartagena. After pilots completed, RHG rolled out the trainings virtually, a process now used for other trainings too. The new Responsible Business training program consists of 21 languages 2 trainings two trainings: Living Responsible Business and Leading Responsible Business. 22 Responsible Business Report 2019 / Think People Diversity & Inclusion One of our core culture beliefs Balanced leadership is that ‘we are many minds with RHG is committed to Balanced Leadership. That means encouraging more women to take on leadership roles within one mindset’. This belief is based the company. Our challenges existing thinking and aims to increase the representation of women in senior positions on our respect for individual across the company. The initiative is driven by various actions differences, life experiences, within and outside the company. and diverse world views. In our hotels in EMEA, at the end of 2019, 23% of our General Managers and 59% of the Heads of Departments at our By working together, we can make memorable experiences hotels are female. for everyone who walks through our doors. To enable that to happen, RHG is dedicated to building a global team of employees that reflect the communities where we work and CORPORATE SUPPORT OFFICE live, and the diversity of the customers we serve. Male 48% Female 52% Our guests and our talents deserve a safe environment where they are valued for who they are. As our workforce is driven by people from different backgrounds, personalities, and points of view, we strive to create places where everyone GENERAL MANAGERS can express their authentic selves, seize opportunities, make Male 77% decisions, and resolve conflicts. Female 23% HEAD OF DEPARTMENTS Male 59% Female 41% 23 Responsible Business Report 2019 / Think People Diversity & Inclusion Mind the gap Proud to be RHG The RHG team in the United Kingdom welcomed the RHG is serious about promoting diversity and inclusion. introduction of gender pay gap reporting last year and Across its properties there are a range of events centered recognized the importance of keeping gender equality at on Pride, a celebration of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, the forefront of its hiring, management, and human and queer social and self-acceptance, achievements, and resources practices. legal rights. The Human Resources team is undergoing a transformation • In the United States, RHG employees and their families in the UK. The key activities underpin the commitment to volunteered at Minneapolis, Minnesota’s Twin Cities Pride supporting Radisson’s talent pipeline, and include talent Event. Volunteers supported the celebration by greeting review meetings, audiences with the area’s Human guests at the RHG booth, offering Radisson Rewards Resources Director, and the introduction of specialist points and registering attendees for a raffle to win a Human Resource functions. two-night stay. RHG is also transforming the Human Resources • The Park Inn by Radisson Amsterdam City West organizational structure by providing specialist services celebrated their annual Pride Parade with their in the following areas: Talent Acquisition, Learning & panoramic elevator covered in rainbows. Development, and Employee Relations. With the introduction of specialist teams and the revised Global • Radisson Hotels in Berlin were proud to Diversity and Inclusion Strategy, RHG will continue to be a part of Pride Week in Berlin, highlighted by the focus on new initiatives that will have a positive impact Christopher Street Day Parade. on the gender pay gap. • In Oslo, Area Support Office employees represented RHG in the city’s Oslo Pride Parade. Proud to be RHG 24 Responsible Business Report 2019 / Think People Diversity & Inclusion Accessible to all All hotels in the RHG portfolio are required to provide an environment which is accessible to everyone, regardless of their abilities. At the end of 2019, more than 5% of the rooms across our hotels in EMEA were accessible. South African guide dogs One example of these ongoing efforts was a community engagement event in South Africa. The Radisson Blu Gautrain Hotel, Sandton Johannesburg helped train guide dogs for the blind. With assistance from the hotel team, the puppies travelled from Hatfield Station in Pretoria to Sandton Gautrain to expose the dogs to various sights and sounds before returning to the hotel. The effort was part of the training for working dogs to help them learn to keep calm and focused in busy, high-traffic environments. Serving up new skills Also in South Africa, an intake of 18 students and interns started their workplace experience at the Radisson Blu Hotel, Port Elizabeth to gain insight into the hospitality industry. They were recruited from PE Mental Health, The Ray Mhlaba Skills Training Centre and NMU and placed in various departments for six to twelve months. The holistic approach of the Ray Mhlaba Skills Training Centre develops future leaders, empowering youth in the country with skills that help define their identities. This builds onto the success of Park Inn by Radisson Cape Town Newlands where 30% of the employees are deaf. Radisson Blu Gautrain Hotel, Sandton Johannesburg 25 Responsible Business Report 2019 / Think People team with the South African Guide dogs Human Rights Radisson Hotel Group abides Eliminating modern slavery by the UN’s Global Compact Our aim is to combat and eliminate any form of modern slavery, and to operate hotels free of child exploitation principlesand follows them in and forced, bonded, or compulsory labor. We apply these principles to our operations and in our supply chain. our policies and procedures. Access our latest modern slavery statement here . We’ve committed to raise awareness of human rights risks, and address risks arising in the labor supply chain. Fighting modern slavery with responsible recruitment Slavery is a hidden everyday problem. It is an antagonizing Key human rights and employment principles are reflected reality that in the present day, men, women and children in two policies, which complement our Code of Business around the world remain victims of modern slavery. In Conduct and Ethics and clarify the principles we live and some regions, hotel operations rely on the talent of migrant work by in our hotels. These policies are: workers who are hired as employees or contracted through employment agencies. Migrant workers are amongst the • Human rights policy: covers our engagement on most vulnerable groups in the labor force due to their issues such as ethical business conduct, the protection immigration status. of children’s rights, combating human trafficking, and protection of the rights of employees. RHG does not accept forced labor in its operations or supply chain. Our responsible recruitment framework helps • Employment Principles: covers Radisson Hotel to ensure we take a pro-active approach to preventing Groups’s promises to our employees. These include forced labor in every part of our business. non-discrimination, freedom of association, and the development of in-house talent. Both policies are publicly available and communicated on internal channels to all hotels and corporate employees. 26 Responsible Business Report 2019 / Think People Human Rights Toolkit to combat modern slavery Self-assessment questionnaire Responsible recruitment toolkit To raise awareness and to prevent forced labor, RHG A vital part of the modern slavery toolkit is the hotel developed a toolkit to combat modern slavery. The self-assessment tool. The questionnaire is designed to toolkit is available to all hotels in EMEA, and helps hotel identify potential gaps and human rights vulnerabilities management and HR teams in their efforts to combat the in the business processes of hotel properties. It also issue. Our efforts have a focus on protecting outsourced identifies the vulnerabilities of third-party intermediaries. labor, which represents 12.5% of the workforce in These intermediaries typically provide services related Recruitment agency due Guidance our hotels in EMEA. to the recruitment, selection, hiring, transportation, diligence documents training, and management of migrant workers. The toolkit also details how hotel management teams should engage with employees, how to check recruitment agencies, Industry impact to tackle forced labor and what due diligence they should conduct. It includes To combat slavery in the hospitality industry, ITP and back-of-house material which increases the awareness of its members, including RHG, launched the Principles modern slavery amongst employees. A specific training on Forced Labor to address human rights risks in the Employee Training module on how to use the toolkit has been included in labor supply chain in 2018. engagement & presentations awareness the Leading Responsible Business training for all Head of Departments and General Managers. Additional support The principles state: tools are available for general managers, human resource 1. Every worker should have freedom of movement teams and head of departments at the hotels. The toolkit 2. No worker should pay for a job is available in 16 languages. 62% of our hotels in EMEA 3. No worker should be indebted or coerced to work actively use the toolkit. Worker Self-assessment interviews questionnaire 62% of hotels are using the toolkit 27 Responsible Business Report 2019 / Think People Human Rights “The continued leadership and commitment of RHG to ending child sex trafficking across the globe makes Partnership with ECPAT-USA them an integral partner in ECPAT-USA's work to Children in all countries of the world are at risk of trafficking protect children.” and prostitution, as well as online dangers such as grooming, Lori L. Cohen, Executive Director, ECPAT-USA sextortion and the proliferation of child sexual abuse images. To end these crimes, knowledge and evidence must be of the highest possible quality to inform decisions and guide action. Hence, RHG has renewed its partnership with ECPAT-USA Qatar hospitality working group in 2019. ECPAT is the leading policy organization seeking to RHG continues its work in Qatar in support of the new labor end the commercial sexual exploitation of children through law reforms, in preparation of the 2022 FIFA World Cup. awareness, advocacy, policy, and legislation. ECPAT works Under the guidance of International Labor Organization (ILO), at all levels, supporting shelters for survivors, training and funded by the Government of Qatar, in collaboration with supporting law enforcement, influencing governments and International Human Rights and Business (IHRB) members conducting a wide range of research. of ITP have participated in the hospitality working group, building the capacity of the hospitality sector in Qatar to RHG joined ECPAT-USA’s Tourism Child-Protection Code of ensure sustainable growth and decent work. RHG has been Conduct (The Code), a worldwide network of organizations an active participant providing input for guidance tools on working to end the sexual exploitation of children around the due diligence of recruitment practices and by sharing of best world. The Code is the world’s first and only voluntary set of practices on specific thematic issues. Learnings from the business principles travel and tour companies can implement working group are already applied in the wider scope of to prevent sexual exploitation and trafficking of children. The our operations. Code is a joint venture between the tourism private sector and ECPAT that provides awareness, tools, and support to the travel and hospitality industry. 28 Responsible Business Report 2019 / Think People Business Ethics & Compliance RHG signed the United Nations Global Compact in 2009, which provides companies with ten principles on Human Rights, Labor, Environment and AntiCorruption. Our commitment to ethical excellence is our heartbeat and we are recognized as a trusted global leader when it comes to being a Responsible Business. 29 Responsible Business Report 2019 / Think People Business Ethics & Compliance Code of business conduct and ethics Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics governs how we do business. It enables us to take positions on key issues of business ethics with a single voice. The code includes ten principles which guide us whenever a business decision needs to be made. The principles are: 1. We respect the law 2. We show respect for all persons in all situations 3. We think ethically 4. We act fairly 5. We do not discriminate against anyone for any reason 6. We are honest and transparent 7. We are loyal to our employer 8. We do not exploit the company’s resources 9. We think of safety at all times 10. We take care of the planet During 2018, the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics was updated in response to the EU’s new General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). 30 Responsible Business Report 2019 / Think People Business Ethics & Compliance Ethics training Anti-bribery training Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics applies to Employees can use the site to find information on our Our anti-bribery e-learning training provides participants every person who works for RHG, and every one of our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and report concerns with an opportunity to understand our company’s policies companies. The Code is distributed to all employees through anonymously, except where local law restricts the Company and procedures. This enables them to correctly respond the Employee Handbook. It is also included in our internal from accepting anonymous reports. The site and hotline to any bribery related issues. The training is in line with the procedures’ manual. All employees are trained in the Code are available in 11 languages. UK Bribery Act and the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of Business Conduct and Ethics, its implications, and (FCPA) and is globally available. reporting processes. Training occurs in the onboarding and For Americas and Asia Pacific, ethical problems or the classroom-based Living Responsible Business training. questionable practices may be submitted through toll The aim of the course is to educate individuals about antifree phone numbers or via email to the Business Conduct bribery regulations and the consequences if they are not Ethics hotline and Ethics mailbox at ethicshotline@radissonhotels.com. applied correctly. At the end of the training, participants A key pillar of ethics at RHG is the Business Conduct and Investigations are conducted in a timely and sensitive manner. know how to recognize bribery, which actions are Ethics hotline. Any employee with concerns or questions considered to be bribery, and how to react when about the Code is encouraged to raise these directly with Anti-corruption confronted with bribery. their supervisor, human resources department or person RHG does not make any contributions or give other support of trust in the hotel or regional organization. (direct or indirect) to political parties or individual politicians. Data privacy RHG receives no direct or significant financial subsidies In light of the Radisson Hotel Group's continued General If the persons to whom the employee reports an ethical from governmental organizations in the countries where we Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) compliance effort and problem or questionable practice are not responsive or operate hotels. further to previous publications in this respect, the Hotel if there is reason to believe that reporting to the persons Data Handling Policy and the Administrative Office Data indicated above is inappropriate in a particular case, the Anti-bribery compliance Handling Policy explains the information requirements employee can report the matter of concern using the Compliance with the UK Bribery Act and the US Foreign under the GDPR. Business Conduct and Ethics hotline. In no event will any Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) is promoted by: action be taken against the employee for reporting, • Making anti-bribery part of our Code of Business The GDPR includes a requirement to inform all individuals in good faith, ethical problems or information on Conduct and Ethics of the processing of their personal data and to provide them questionable practices. • Training employees with specific information about such processing activities. This • Inserting a reference to the legislation in all partner includes informing employees about Radisson's processing For EMEA, the hotline is available online, on contracts of their personal data. RHG has created an employee privacy ethics.radissonhotels.com. The website is run by an • Confirming compliance by all employees in policy and made it available to all employees within GDPRindependent third-party organization, Ethicspoint. management positions once every year regulated regions. No cases of corruption were reported through our Ethics hotline. 31 Responsible Business Report 2019 / Think People Safety & Security In an ever changing world guests want to be welcomed in hotels that ‘always care’ and where the utmost focus is put on safety and security. Safety and security Our core value is the safety and security of guests and employees. It is deeply rooted in our culture and the values that we emphasize in the operation of our hotels. We have a specific program for corporate and regional hotel safety and security. It is used by all our hotel brands to protect our guests, employees, properties, and reputation. “Feeling safe and secure is essential to any traveler, in normal circumstances but even more so in exceptional circumstances like a natural disaster or if traveling to a more highrisk environment. At RHG we have a solid program in place and instill a culture of Safety & Security attentiveness in all our teams around the world.” Inge Huijbrechts Global Senior Vice President Responsible Business, Safety and Security 32 Responsible Business Report 2019 / Think People Safety & Security Data and IT security Fire safety Operational Guest security safety Employee safety TRIC=S RHG builds its program for Safety and Security on the The TRIC=S framework focuses on five cornerstones: foundational TRIC=S framework, which allows to engage our teams and localize our approach to safety and security. The Fire Safety cornerstone requires us to prevent or reduce the risk of fire at our hotel properties by having TRIC=S stands for: equipment, procedures, and training programs in place. Safehotels Alliance Threat assessment + Risk evaluation and mitigation + Incident It also requires us to take fire prevention into consideration In 2015, RHG became the first major international hotel response capability + Crisis management, communication, when renovating or refurbishing. group to sign an agreement with Safehotels Alliance. and continuity = Safe and secure hotels. Safehotels Alliance certifies hotels against their own, The Guest and Employee Safety cornerstones require us independent ‘Global Hotel Security Standard’. 251 hotels The TRIC=S formula is aligned with the Global Hotel to limit the risk of any guest or employee becoming injured Security Standard© and Safehotels Alliance criteria. or ill while staying at, or working in, our hotels. The Safehotels certificate allows RHG to add external validation to its industry-leading safety and security certified by Due to the development of TRIC=S, the role of corporate The Operational Security cornerstone requires us to program and to create additional value for guests, staff, Safehotels Alliance safety and security shifted from a reactive and centralized actively prevent any operational disruptions in the hotel. and investors. The yearly Safehotels audit validates nearly command-and-control model to a more proactive, Any disruptions that may occur should be as limited as 200 criteria, including security equipment, staff awareness decentralized, and dynamic role. The change enabled safety possible in cost, length, and degree. and training, fire security, crisis management, and first aid and security to play a vital part in supporting our growing response. It is increasingly being endorsed and embraced number of hotels in many different locations and the everData and IT Security are essential for the protection of by global clients. At the end of 2019, 251 Radisson Hotels evolving risk landscape. personal data and the operation and assets of the hotels. worldwide, had gained Safehotels certification. 33 Responsible Business Report 2019 / Think People Safety & Security Data and cyber security training Safety and security collaboration Like many industries, hospitality is becoming increasingly RHG is a founding member of the US State Department’s dependent on mobile, net-based applications and Overseas Security Advisory Council (OSAC) Hotel Security transactions. There have been numerous highly publicized Working Group (HSWG). The Working Group exchanges incidents of hacking and data loss around the world. Cyber information on potential and emerging threats, conducts security has been given deserved attention from our IT joint training sessions annually and enables members to and Operations experts who also follow the TRIC=S formula share information and good practices. to determine the threat, mitigate the risks and prepare for possible incidents or disruption. This includes requiring all EU Initiative for the prevention & protection employees who have access to our networks, to yearly of soft targets complete an online training in the secure use of equipment Under the European Commission’s ‘Action Plan to Support as well as in safe storage and sharing of information. the Protection of Public Spaces’, there are various initiatives for promoting the exchange of best practices, networks Crisis management, communication and continuity creation, funding of security-related projects and publication RHG applies a global Incident & Crisis Management process of guidance material. In 2019, RHG worked with HOTREC, to effectively respond to incidents, prevent events from the European industry association representing hotels, escalating and mobilize resources rapidly to manage restaurants, bars, cafes, to provide input and exchange with any crisis. Our crisis management process follows the the EU Forum on safety and security international best practice of: for the protection of soft targets. • ‘Gold’ strategic level = Steering committee AHLA Safety & Security Committee • ‘Silver’ tactical level = Area or Corporate Support RHG is a member of the American Hotel & Lodging Office Crisis team Association (AHLA) Safety & Security Committee. This • ‘Bronze‘ operational level = hotels Committee assists the industry on safety and fire protection issues for the lodging industry by working with appropriate The concept is a flexible response determined by the scope federal, state, and local government agencies. Also serves and scale of incident. It allows for a rapid assessment and as a resource to members in achieving effective and efficient escalation of an incident. Additional trainings and desktop security practices, technology, and training that helps create exercises are carried out regularly. a secure environment for guests and employees. 34 Responsible Business Report 2019 / Think People Radisson Blu Aqua Hotel, Chicago Safety & Security NYPD Shield OSAC training for the Middle East and Africa The OSAC Annual Global Training event is a high-profile RHG is a partner of NYPD Shield, the New York City More than 30 of our top Safety & Security Directors in the and insightful conference packed with topics ranging from Police Department’s counterterrorism program. NYPD Middle East and Africa region took part in a recent OSAC country risk assessments, to insights into learnings from SHIELD is a public-private partnership based on providing training in Abu Dhabi. the Las Vegas (U.S.) hotel shooting incident in 2017, to the best practices, lessons learned, counterterrorism training expectations large corporations have for travel security. opportunities, and information sharing. OSAC promotes security cooperation between private sector interests, the U.S. Government, and other RHG took the stage at the event to train more than 200 Safety first in Niamey governments worldwide. Within OSAC, the hotel industry participants in preventing human trafficking and to share RHG has set a global first in hotel safety and security forms a specific working group to exchange and discuss practical learnings on cyber incidents and fraud. with the Radisson Blu Hotel & Conference Center, Niamey, the changing risk landscape and tools that can help securing the highest level of Safehotels certification, mitigate threats. Executive, just three days after the hotel opened in June 2019. Located in the capital and largest city of the West African country of Niger, the Niamey hotel’s certification marks our fourth hotel in Africa to achieve Executive Level Safehotels recognition this year. More than 80% of Radisson Hotels in Africa have secured the Safehotels certification. 35 Responsible Business Report 2019 / Think People Think Community We are extremely grateful to everyone at RHG who are playing their part in bringing our global partnership to life through raising funds and awareness for all children to be seen. We look forward to continuing our partnership together to help us rewrite the story of children that are growing up in so many different places without the care, protection and guidance that all children need to become their strongest selves. Don Haszczyn Director Of Fund Development, SOS Children's Villages International 36 Responsible Business Report 2019 / Think Community €1.6M global 686 donated to charity SOS Children's Villages individual child by RHG corporate is our global partner sponsorships through and hotels SOS Children's Villages 43,000 35 27,000 volunteering hotels are participating children and women hours in Soap for Hope provided with safe program drinking water for life 37 Responsible Business Report 2019 / Think Community Community engagement As a global hospitality company, Radisson Hotel Group aims to create relationships which are beneficial to our business and the communities in which we operate. We recognize that there are important social needs in many of these communities. Our goal is to have a positive impact on communities by creating shared value. We achieve this through the Think Community pillar of our Responsible Business program. Think Community initiatives generate meaningful donations and volunteer time. In 2019, the value of RHG’s cash and in-kind donations from RHG corporate and hotels to international and local charities amounted to more than €1.6 million. 38 Responsible Business Report 2019 / Think Community Partnership with SOS Children’s Villages Radisson Hotel Group became a global partner of SOS Children’s Villages in 2018. As the world’s largest non-profit organization that supports Rewards Members support SOS Children’s Villages children with no parental support, SOS Children’s Villages The partnership is connected to the Radisson Rewards is active in 136 countries and territories. The organization loyalty program. Members can donate their Radisson provides orphaned and vulnerable children with family Rewards points to support SOS Children’s Villages. support and care programs, as well as education, medical, and emergency relief efforts. The points are used to provide children with school supplies, clothes, and even special surprises. There is no maximum Through its partnership with SOS Children’s Villages, number of points a member may donate. RHG aims to have each of its hotels worldwide sponsor the upbringing and education of at least one child. RHG To get started, visit: radissonhotels.com/rewards/sos is also establishing meaningful relationships with local SOS Children's Villages around the globe and mobilizing supporters and volunteers to help the organization achieve its goal of ensuring that no child grows up alone. We are working on various projects in selected hotels to create internship and work-training programs for children in SOS Villages to learn about the hospitality business and prepare for future careers. 39 Responsible Business Report 2019 / Think Community Partnership with SOS Children’s Villages Cape town play ground Empowering Youth The SOS Children’s Village in Cape Town, South Africa, SOS Children's Villages Vietnam recently launched YouthCan. currently has 88 children in its care. The Village’s playground The purpose of this program is to enhance the knowledge had fallen into disrepair due to the region’s drought and and working skills for SOS youth through intensive training lack of maintenance over the years. In December 2018, the activities, opportunities for field visits, and internships at Radisson Hotels and regional corporate office, Cape Town businesses. Trainees from YouthCan have been welcomed at donated more than €8,000 to the village to begin repairing the Radisson Blu Resort Phu Quoc, where they can put their the equipment and refresh the playground’s appearance. In skills to work. After a successful training period, the trainees addition, our Cape Town hotels are making monthly donations can potentially become members of the resort’s team. and help raise funds to continue the project and plan future campaigns and fundraising drives to benefit the Children’s Talent in Cartagena Village. The Radisson Cartagena team and corporate employees of RHG took part in a Talent Fair at the SOS Children’s Village HeARTworks Cartagena, during which SOS youth shared their skills and More than 50 volunteers from our corporate office and brilliant work. This initiative was an integral part of the highly Cape town play ground hotels joined SOS Children's Villages Illinois to paint successful partnership between the hotel and the village. hundreds of heARTworks with the children of the SOS Children’s Village of Chicago, Illinois. The children’s beautiful paintings, along with more pieces from SOS Children’s Villages in Florida and Colombia, were then shipped to the RHG Americas Business Conference. There they were auctioned off to attendees, with all proceeds going back to SOS Children's Villages HeARTworks Talent in Cartagena 40 Responsible Business Report 2019 / Think Community Partnership with SOS Children’s Villages Seeing green in Lusaka Fresh paint The Radisson Blu Hotel, Lusaka in Zambia announced A team from RHG volunteered to paint the room and equip the new partnership with the SOS Children’s Villages in SOS Children's Village, Florida conference room. This room Lusaka and Plant a Million Zambia. This initiative aims to is the only space of its kind in the entire Village where all face deforestation and other ecological challenges in a department meetings take place. Having an environment sustainable way by planting one hundred million trees with comfortable and sufficient seating, adequate storage to by 2021. This new partnership not only promotes the house donated items, and a fresh coat of paint goes a long community but also the environment as it enhances children way toward creating a uniformed and tranquil environment. and youth’s understanding of sustainable and ecological management of trees and creates a tree nursery at the SOS Tea time in Port Elizabeth Children’s Village in Lusaka. The Radisson Blu Hotel, Port Elizabeth in South Africa hosted an SOS Children’s Villages High Tea in its distinctive Ready for school Bay Suites venue for more than 200 guests. The sold-out In September 2019, the teams of Radisson Blu Martinez event was themed ‘Denim and Diamonds’. Hotel, Beirut and Radisson Blu Hotel, Beirut Verdun visited SOS Children’s Village Bharsaf. The teams brought gifts for The Denim Drive started in 2011 to empower women from the the new school year preparations. village, who are generally single parents, grandmothers, or older siblings who are the head of the household. As income generation, they use donated denim items and re-purpose the fabrics into handcrafted dolls, handbags, laundry bags, slippers, and more. The team of the Radisson Blu Hotel, Kyiv Podil 41 Responsible Business Report 2019 / Think Community planting trees at the local SOS Children's Village Partnership with SOS Children’s Villages Holiday wishes in South Africa The team at the Radisson RED V&A Waterfront, Cape Town came up with the idea to decorate a Christmas tree sustainably and set aside all the traditional tinsel and plastics. They decorated a tree only with glass bottles and other recyclable materials. Each glass bottle decorating the tree was representing a wish to sponsor an SOS child. Ready responders After a cyclone hit Mozambique in March, RHG launched a solidarity action to support the victims of the cyclone through the American Red Cross and SOS Children’s Villages. Hotels encouraged guests to make donations to the American Red Cross and SOS Children’s Villages. RHG collected more than €9,000 in the campaign. The collected money was used to support the rebuilding and providing victims of the cyclone with clean drinking water, food supplies, and safe shelter. The funds also provide healthcare and psychological assistance for children and staff from the SOS Children’s Village in the affected area. Holiday wishes in South Africa Picture: WFP/Rein Skullerud 42 Responsible Business Report 2019 / Think Community Radisson Blu hotels in Istanbul making a difference Food. Shelter. Future As part of Think Community, Radisson Hotel Group partners with organizations that work to better the community. The company’s goal is to provide food, shelter, and a better future for children and at-risk youth. RHG encourages all of its hotels to support SOS Children’s Villages and other local partners Giving thanks Joining forces in Dammam in this scope. During November, team members from the Country Inn & The Park Inn by Radisson Dammam team came together Suites by Radisson Holland, MI, collected non-perishable to distribute Iftar kits for Ramadan. Their support helped food items for donation prior to the U.S. Thanksgiving disadvantaged communities, providing the kits to those Embracing life holiday. The hotel partnered with several local grocery who need it most. In collaboration with Hayata Sarıl Lokantası, an Istanbul stores to maximize donations. Together, the hotel and the restaurant that provides free meals and work opportunities stores collected more than 290 kg of food. All of the food Kind donations to the homeless, chefs and volunteers from Radisson Blu items went to His Harvest Stand, a local organization that In 2019, following a linen rebranding in the United Kingdom’s hotels in Istanbul have made a difference for homeless distributes food directly to those in need. Park Plaza hotels, the hotels donated all useable linens— people and others in need across the city. They have helped including 775 sheets, 890 duvets, 1,920 bath sheets, 870 create menus and hosted tasting events with all proceeds to Making connections hand towels and 625 pillowcases—to eight local charities. benefit Hayata Sarıl Lokantası. The Radisson Blu Hotel, Jeddah Al Salam in Saudi Arabia wanted to connect communities, bringing together Additionally, two U.K. Park Plaza hotels have undertaken expatriate workers who rarely get a chance to see their a successful trial with Clean Conscience, a U.K. charity that families back home. The hotel team distributed free mobile repurposes waste toiletries and linens to those in need. SIM cards with subscriptions to family packages, allowing The goal is for all U.K. hotels to join in 2020. the workers to call their families for longer periods. 43 Responsible Business Report 2019 / Think Community Community Action Month Random acts of kindness In June, Radisson Hotel Group The hotels in Cape Town hosted a soup kitchen and donated celebrated Community Action blankets to the local SOS Children’s Village. Month around the world. The Radisson Blu Hotel, Port Elizabeth donated a collection of winter clothing and the Park Inn by Radisson Polokwane For the 16th consecutive year, the initiative brought together brought random acts of kindness to their local community. hotel and corporate office teams from across the globe to contribute to local communities. The hotel teams in Johannesburg visited the SOS Children’s Village in Ennerdale, organizing stitching and sewing This year, nearly 1,000 activities were organized, providing workshops and helping with some ongoing maintenance more than 30,000 volunteer hours, and raising donations of of the village’s houses. more than €438,000 in cash and in-kind. Blu run Milan The Radisson Blu Hotel, Milan was the proud sponsor of the Blu Run, a non-competitive annual race which takes place just a few steps from the hotel. This year, approximately 30 employees and guests teamed up to participate in the race, raising money in support of the local primary school. 44 Responsible Business Report 2019 / Think Community Community Action Month APAC initiatives At our Asia Pacific Headquarters, the Singapore-based EMEA Supports corporate team prepared more than 5,000 meals at Willing To raise money for SOS Children’s Villages in Belgium, the Hearts Soup Kitchen. team at our EMEA Headquarters in Brussels put up a popup restaurant at the corporate office. At lunchtime, regular The China corporate team visited the ChenYu Autism as well as vegetarian gourmet hot dogs were sold. Rehabilitation Center, where they took part in interactive lessons and brought gifts for the children. Hotels in Oslo hosted a BBQ attended by more than 120 employees, families and friends. Multiple raffles took place, Americas assistance The Radisson Blu Pune Hinjawadi in India invited children raising more than €3,000 for SOS Children’s Villages. At our Americas Headquarters, the corporate team hosted from the local SOS Children’s Village to a special event. an SOS Children’s Villages Week. At the hotel, they enjoyed activities, a special kid’s menu, Chefs at the Radisson Collection Hotel, Moscow visited All the money raised benefitted the non-profit. They also and gifts. a center for children who don’t have any parental care. partnered with BestPrep with 50 volunteers from corporate The chefs organized a cooking masterclass, providing office and local hotels took part in an an eight-week In Thailand, the Radisson Suites Bangkok Sukhumvit and food and inspiration to the children. e-mentoring program, supporting Minnesotan students.. the Park Plaza Bangkok Soi 18 visited their local SOS Children’s Village. They provided stationary, toys, games Volunteers also prepared hundreds of meals at Open Arms and food, and donated funds from their Make A Difference of Minnesota, a local non-profit that cooks and delivers booking program. free, nutritious meals to people living with life-threatening illnesses in the Twin Cities. The Radisson Hotel Duluth-Harborview in Minnesota built its partnership with the American Indian Community Housing Organization, donating soap, shampoo and bed linens. The Radisson Fort George Hotel and Marina in Belize participated in a program to help the homeless. The team donated clothes, towels, soap and food. They also created a mentorship program designed to improve hygiene, supporting 190 children. 45 Responsible Business Report 2019 / Think Community “The Just a Drop partnership with RHG is hugely meaningful. The towel reuse program has not only saved over 81 million liters of water. Through funds raised from these savings it has also transformed the lives of people across WASH Asia, Africa and Latin America by providing access to safe water, sanitation, hygiene education enabling them to flourish and escape extreme poverty.” Fiona Jeffery According to UN Environment Founder & Chairman Just a Drop Program, by 2030, demand for freshwater will exceed supply by 40%. 5.4 million 27,000 21 million towels reused people supported with projects A lack of clean drinking water, and related poor sanitation since 2015 clean drinking water and hygiene, is one of the most impactful factors keeping the world’s poorest people in poverty. Soap for Hope Sydney As part of Think Community, RHG supports local Radisson Blu Plaza Hotel Sydney was joined by APAC communities in water scarce areas globally, by helping to corporate leadership to volunteer and create more than 200 provide safe drinking water, sanitation, and hygiene. new bars of soap. These were donated to the St. Vincent de Paul Society. Approximately 35 of our hotels currently Just A Drop In the past four years, the towel reuse program has funded participate in Soap for Hope. One example of our commitment to global water health 21 projects in India, Kenya, Nicaragua, Peru, Uganda, and is the company’s partnership with Just a Drop. This Zambia. The projects help children stay healthy and attend international water aid works to bring safe drinking school. They also empower women by reducing the amount water to water-stressed communities. of time they need to source water for their families. Overall health conditions are also improved and job opportunities Just a Drop receives funds from our ‘towel reuse’ program are created. in Europe, the Middle East and Africa as well as at Radisson Blu hotels in the Americas. Every time a guest chooses to In Kenya, Just a Drop has been able to introduce sustainable reuse their towels for a second night, participating hotels agricultural practices to communities. The charity has donate to Just a Drop. The money is used to fund projects brought clean water to remote villages in Nicaragua and such as digging wells, installing pumps, and implementing improved sanitation in a number of Indian villages. As with sanitation tools. all Just a Drop projects, each project is community-led and sustainable. The projects are designed to provide long-term benefits and ensure people have clean water for decades to come. 46 Responsible Business Report 2019 / Think Community Think Planet The hotel industry represents approximately 1% of the world’s total CO2 emissions. As one of the largest hotel groups, we have the responsibility to reduce the resources our hotels use. Operating sustainably enables RHG and our owners to be future proof. Our THINK Planet initiatives and tools are efficient, easy to implement and directly help the triple bottom line of planet, people and profit. Aly El-Bassuni Chief Operating Officer Americas 47 Responsible Business Report 2019 / Think Planet 36 449 341 hotels with 100% hotels eco-labelled electric car-charging renewable energy stations 15.8% 1.9% 100% carbon reduction water saved per of our meetings per square meter occupied room are carbon neutral since 2017 vs last year 48 Responsible Business Report 2019 / Think Planet Think Planet principles At Radisson Hotel Group, we are making efforts to reduce our carbon, energy, water, and waste footprint as part of Think Planet. We aim to reduce the negative impact of our business on the planet, and to protect valuable natural resources for future generations. We have set clear targets to minimize our environmental footprint. By 2022, we aim to reduce our water consumption Think Planet and carbon footprint by 10% (compared to 2017). We Performance Indicators* actively strive to use smart technologies to limit our energy and water use, and work closely with suppliers, employees, Energy per m2 (kWh) and guests to reduce waste. 2019 268 2018 260 2017 257 As members of the ITP, we embrace climate action and encourage the wider industry to join in reducing emissions at Energy per occupied room (kWh) 2019 84.3 scale. We aim to align with science-based targets and continue 2018 88.4 to drive best practices in water stewardship initiatives. 2017 90.3 Water Footprint per occupied room (liters) 2019 509 2018 519 2017 743 Carbon Footprint per square meter (kgs CO2e / m2) 2019 99.3 2018 109.5 2017 117.9 *RHG owned, leased and managed hotels 49 Responsible Business Report 2019 / Think Planet Energy During 2019, our energy A world of opportunities It is estimated that 30% of the energy used by buildings is intensity was 84.3 kWh per wasted. A key goal of our Think Planet energy targets is to occupied room. These figures reduce overall energy consumption significantly. There are several ways we do this. They include investing in energy represent a 4.5% reduction in saving technologies and tools, developing environment energy use compared to 2018. friendly building designs, collaborate with owners and investors to invest in sustainability measures and engaging This improvement has been and educating employees. achieved by optimizing lighting, Green buildings heating and cooling systems, RHG is focused on making investments in our properties to significantly lower energy costs and dramatically increase focusing on energy efficiency in environmental friendliness – up to being climate neutral. daily operations, and investing This starts with the buildings themselves, by integrating Think Planet principles in our standards and promoting in new technologies. certifications such as LEED, BREEAM or EDGE. 50 Responsible Business Report 2019 / Think Planet Energy Energy saving technologies Tools and preventive maintenance Thanks to the hotels' Building Management Systems, we Think Planet tools are easy-to-implement energy saving tools optimize the performance of our heating, ventilation, and which provide a quick return on investment. For example, air-conditioning (HVAC) systems. We adopt innovative motion and daylight sensors, thermal insulation on heating technologies such as smart thermostats and energy and cooling pipes, and replacing HVAC filters. efficient packaged terminal air conditioners. Preventive maintenance ensures a guest experience free of LED Retrofit negative surprises. It can also generate significant savings. In both new and existing buildings, we have deployed LED Preventive maintenance tasks include regular cleaning of air lighting to reduce our energy use while improving guest vents and filters, plumbing, water supply inspections and comfort, safety and security. Most of our hotels in EMEA electrical checks. combine LED lighting with keycard controlled or smartlock rooms. Habits Good habits are essential to achieve our Think Planet targets. Kaizen We implement continuous and creative communications to Think Planet Kaizen is a team process to identify the ensure that employees develop good energy-use habits. The possible energy savings in a hotel property, advising and new Responsible Business training program includes specific checking the quality of the specifications and installation modules to help hotel teams to change behaviors and reduce and propose an efficiency CAPEX list. The plan developed overall utility use. includes low cost actions (Just do its), projects list with payback, metering strategy and implementation plan. 51 Responsible Business Report 2019 / Think Planet Carbon footprint and renewables Our Scope-1 and -2 greenhouse Hotel Carbon Footprint Measurements gas emissions result primarily The Hotel Carbon Measurement Initiative (HCMI) is a methodology and tool which enables hotels to measure from energy consumption. In and report on carbon emissions in a consistent way. It was developed by the International Tourism Partnership 2019, our carbon footprint per and the World Travel & Tourism Council in partnership with square meter was 99.3 kg of Radisson and other global hotel companies. HCMI can be used by any hotel anywhere in the world. CO2e, 9.2% lower than in 2018. Our total Scope-1 and Scope-2 Managed hotels in the Americas use Energy Star Portfolio Manager to report their energy consumption. carbon footprint amounts to In 2019, 36 hotels operated on 100% renewable energy, 515,026 tons of CO2e. including all hotels in the Nordics and France. On average in EMEA, 17.9% of the energy we use comes from Renewable energies renewable sources. RHG actively strives to reduce our carbon footprint by increasingly using renewable energy sources. We believe Smart rooms that renewable energy has immense untapped potential. In 2019, PPHE, which owns and operates Park Plaza Hotels That’s why we partner with innovative companies that strive & Resorts across Europe, installed Green Point, an energy to provide clean, renewable energy from alternative sources. efficient room control system in 1,600 rooms in the United Our goal is to actively help fight climate change by reducing Kingdom and 300 rooms in The Netherlands. demand for energy from CO2-intensive sources. Also, 47% of the rooms of our managed hotels in the Americas are equipped with smart thermostats, enabling significant CO2 emission reductions. 52 Responsible Business Report 2019 / Think Planet 100% Carbon Neutral Meetings A world’s first at this scale, Radisson Hotel Group has launched a global initiative to automatically offset the carbon footprint of every meeting and event taking place at its more than 1,100 hotels worldwide. The company’s 100% Carbon Neutral Meetings program will offset 38,300 tons of CO2 annually — at no cost for clients. According to the United States Environmental Protection Agency, that is the equivalent of taking more than 8,300 cars off the roads every year. RHG offsets carbon emissions in partnership with First Climate, one of the world’s largest carbon-offset organizations. 53 Responsible Business Report 2019 / Think Planet 100% Carbon Neutral Meetings First Climate projects Turkey: Harvesting the wind Carbon offsetting is done by supporting projects that combat The Balabanli Wind Farm project in northwestern Turkey involves climate change and have a positive sustainable development installing 22 wind turbines with a capacity of 2.3 MW each. The contribution All selected projects are Gold Standard or Verified windfarm stretches across more than 5 kilometers, harnessing Carbon Standard certified. the favorable wind conditions in the Marmara region. With its combined capacity of 50.6 MW, the wind farm generates about India: Generating biogas for clean cooking 153 GWh of clean electricity per year, supplying more than The project will provide 12,500 households in Maharashtra with 43,000 households. their own biogas plant, which generate thermal energy from manure and kitchen waste. The gas produced can be used for USA: Producing renewable power cooking and household lighting. The biodigesters employed in 75 wind turbines were installed at Capricorn Ridge Wind Farm the project reduce household and animal waste as they produce in Texas. The turbines produce more than 345-gigawatt hours low-cost energy. of clean energy per year. The farm supplies energy to the Lower Colorado River Authority substation in the region, which Kenya: Providing clean cooking and water is then fed into the public grid. The project contributes to the A cooking stove project aims to improve health and incomes by diversification of the U.S. energy mix. reducing time and money spent on cooking fuel. The project has resulted in lowering the price of these critically needed stoves “Without voluntary commitment from by 20%. The project is also using multiple methods to make water treatment systems available to Kenyans. the private sector, the aim of the Paris Agreement to keep global warming well Peru: Reducing deforestation sustainably The Rainforest Community Project has brought together below 2°C is unattainable. By offsetting hundreds of local families and small-scale concession holders the carbon footprint of events hosted who harvest Brazil nuts in the Peruvian Amazon. Through investment from the project, these nuts can be sustainably worldwide in RHG, Radisson Meetings harvested, processed and sold directly to international export helps to reduce emissions. First Climate markets, providing a viable alternative to deforestation and a sustainably generated income. is proud to support this commitment.” Jochen Gassner, CEO, First Climate Markets AG 54 Responsible Business Report 2019 / Think Planet Water stewardship Precious commodity UN CEO Water Mandate RHG signed the CEO Water Mandate in 2014, becoming Water initiatives Specific actions are designed to help hotels further reduce 84,164 m3 A limited and valuable resource, the first hospitality company to do so. Since then our their water consumption. The action plan and toolkit of gray or black water was water is at the heart of one company has centered its actions and guest experience solutions on the Mandate’s six water stewardship include tools and solutions for technical plants, guest rooms, kitchens, pools and landscaping. We install water collected for reuse in 2019. of the most vital sustainable commitments: saving technologies in areas where water consumption is That’s the equivalent of high and engage our guests through initiatives such as our 336 Olympic swimming development challenges of our 1. Direct Operations towel re-use initiative and green housekeeping program. pools. time. Better management of 2. Supply Chain & Watershed Management 3. Collective Action The Think Planet Water Initiative toolkit includes training water is not only good for the 4. Public Policy movies. They are used to train housekeeping, laundry, planet and people, but it’s also 5. 6. Community Engagement Transparency and kitchen employees to reduce their water usage. good for business. Measuring our performance Consumption & Water stress Members of the ITP including RHG, have developed a 8.3% RHG is focused on ensuring water use is equitable in the Around 36% of all the water consumed by our hotels methodology to measure and report water consumption communities where it does business. our water stewardship occurs in water-stressed areas. These are areas where in a consistent manner across the hotel industry. Known efforts include limiting the use of water through technology water is scarce, of poor quality, or not easy to access. as the Hotel Water Measurement Initiative (HWMI), the improvements in its rooms and operations, using rainwater methodology enables any hotel to measure and report on of our hotels do collect and and gray water wherever possible. In 2019, RHG continued its efforts to reduce water the water footprint of an individual hotel stay, a meeting, reuse gray and black water consumption through the installation of water-saving or an event. technologies and the education of both employees and guests. Across the entire Group, water consumption The tool allows RHG to measure and compare water use in was reduced to 470 liters per occupied room in 2019, the same way as other hotel companies. HWMI will generate a reduction of 6.1% compared to 2017. common awareness about water usage in tourism and travel industry. RHG funded the setup of the online HWMI tool on the website of the Green Key eco-label, making it available for use by any hotel in the world. Managed hotels in the Americas use Energy Star Portfolio Manager to report their water consumption. 55 Responsible Business Report 2019 / Think Planet Water stewardship Desalination plant turned on Reduce and re-use When gray becomes green The Radisson Blu Hotel Waterfront, Cape Town spearheads Located on the outskirts of Tatra National Park and The facade of the Radisson Blu Aqua Hotel, Concon in Chile the sustainable use of scarce resources, as the region UNESCO Biosphere Reserve, the new Radisson Blu Hotel in is partially covered by a vertical garden, playing the role of a continues to look to ways to save water. The hotel has Zakopane, Poland is continuing to reduce its water footprint. true green lung. It is equipped with a drip irrigation system started supplying its entire building with fresh water Equipped with a GreenLife gray-water recycling system, the that uses gray water. produced in its own, newly built, in-house desalination plant. hotel is able to considerably reduce its water consumption, while at the same time reducing demand on the community Simple solutions, great results The hotel can harvest sea water for desalination purposes, water supply. The in-house installation is now the largest The Radisson Blu Mall of America replaced the aerators as it is located directly on the rocky Atlantic Coast in gray-water treatment facility in Poland. The German in the sink faucets and the restrictors in the shower heads Granger Bay, Cape Town. A borehole was sunk underneath company GreenLife teamed up with its partner Green which saves 7.5 million liters of water a year. the hotel to access the water source, allowing water to be Water Solutions in Warsaw for the planning and realization pumped through a reverse osmosis plant to keep the hotel's of the system. freshwater tank full at all times. Using a desalination plant allows the hotel to operate completely separate from the municipal water supply. 56 Responsible Business Report 2019 / Think Planet Green buildings Radisson Hotel Group is committed to operating buildings so that they have the lowest possible energy and carbon footprints. We also use ecomodelling tools to create a business case for green buildings, particularly in emerging markets through close cooperation with property owners, builders, and architects. 57 Responsible Business Report 2019 / Think Planet Radisson RED Brussels Green buildings Cutting EDGE Sustainable farming In June 2016, RHG signed a unique cooperation agreement The Radisson Blu Hotel, Dubai Deira Creek, is supporting with the International Finance Corporation (IFC), a member sustainable farming. The hotel has installed a mobile of the World Bank, to use the organization’s EDGE ecohydroponic machine. This innovative approach combined with vertical farming uses less water and produces crops modelling tool and certification program. without soil—using nutrients supplied by irrigation water instead. This type of farming produces higher yields and EDGE encourages the construction of resource-efficient reduces the carbon footprint and water usage by 95%. The buildings by proving the business case for energy and water hotel’s objective is to supply fresh vegetables and fruits its saving measures, as well as the use of energy-efficient 14 restaurants and to local markets while limiting imported building materials. The tool uses local parameters for each products. country, making EDGE an easy tool for operators such as RHG to leverage as it designs green hotels in emerging Energy efficient markets. The Radisson Blu Minneapolis Downtown, MN, focuses Going for LEED Gold on energy reduction on the property. Partnering with the RHG uses the EDGE tool for an initial analysis of pipeline and To earn its LEED Gold status, the Radisson Blu Hotel hotel’s owners, a capital reinvestment has been made in Faridabad in India has engaged in a number of green and the building to reduce energy consumption. The hotel major renovation projects in countries where it is applicable. sustainable practices. Included among the efforts are two hired an energy consultant to help develop a plan, adding RHG actively promotes the EDGE certification of companyrainwater harvesting pits and a heat island roof top with energy-management equipment and replacing inefficient affiliated hotels with stakeholders and business partners. solar panels that can generate an estimated 70,000 Kwh/ mechanical equipment with electronic solutions. The project year. is now anticipated to result in a 10-month payback through reduced utility costs. The hotel was designed with LED lighting, solar panels, solar lighting, and efficient HVAC systems that offer at least a 40% energy savings over traditional systems. Additionally, the hotel has reduced water waste by 43% thanks to lowflow toilets and the utilization of treated gray water from a nearby sewage treatment plant. 58 Responsible Business Report 2019 / Think Planet Sustainable Farming Reduce, Reuse, Replace, Recycle Our key priorities for waste Global commitment management are recycling, RHG has launched in February 2020, a global roll-out plan of plastic reduction – including the introduction of bulk food waste management, and the amenities in all hotels by 2022. RHG will implement bulk amenity dispensers across all brands by the beginning elimination of single-use plastics of 2022, replacing small bottles for common bathroom wherever possible. products. This action will remove 57 million miniature amenities from circulation, avoiding the use of almost 500 With food waste accounting for more than a third of all food tons of plastic annually. produced in the world, RHG is working towards portion control implementation, correct food storage and avoiding wastage during In addition, RHG has a global commitment to preparation or through spoilage. #refusethestraw, ensuring plastic straws and plastic stirrers are no longer used in its hotels by 2021 and eco-friendly All hotels are encouraged to reduce plastic waste through initiatives alternatives will be offered to guests upon request. such as re-usable water bottles, water filtration systems or #refusethestraw movement. Our Global Plan for a Future with Reduced Single-Use Plastics | Video 59 Responsible Business Report 2019 / Think Planet Reduce, Reuse, Replace, Recycle Meeting plastic free expectations resources, it's also a significant contributor to the world’s With more than 1 million meetings taking place at Radisson carbon footprint because of the energy needed to grow Hotels every year, the potential for waste generation is high and transport the food. as attendees consume bottles of water, packaged food, and other items. Over-ordering, over-preparation and over-trimming in restaurants can lead to a to a great of waste. Striving To mitigate these impacts, RHG has worked to replace to prevent this, RHG has implemented measures such branded plastic pens with pencils or recyclable pens in as portion control and correct food storage to aid in selected hotels. Candies are wrapped in eco-friendly, woodpreventing food waste. based foil wrappers in a growing number of markets. Unique market In EMEA, an average hotel uses 39,000 water bottles in Too Good To Go is a solution that allows businesses to meetings and events on average annually. To tackle plastic sell excess food left over at the end of the shift or day to waste, 196 Radisson Hotels are equipped with filtered water combat food waste. Users and businesses save that food systems to reduce the use of plastic bottles. This reduced the and help preserve the environment—reducing food, energy CO2 emissions of each hotel by 3.2 tons annually on average. and water waste, as well as CO2 emissions. The program has a free app that provides a marketplace where To date, the initiative has been a huge success, as shown by a businesses who have surplus food can connect with case study from the UN Environment Program, showing the customers who want to rescue this food. impact of our work to eliminate single-use plastics. Customers order a “magic bag” of surplus food at a discount Reducing food waste on retail price and then collect it from the registered hotels Food waste is a major global issue. According to the in a pre-set collection window. Currently, 25 Radisson Hotels Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, in Europe partner with Too Good To Go, saving 13,079 meals approximately 1.3 billion tons of food is thrown away each and creating a CO2 reduction of 32 tons. year, which represents nearly one-third of the total food produced globally. RHG is working to reduce residual food waste, which is typically thrown away in landfills or incinerated. And it’s a worthy cause. Not only is food waste a misuse of natural 13,000+ meals saved The magic bag of Too Good To Go 60 Responsible Business Report 2019 / Think Planet Reduce, Reuse, Replace, Recycle Beach clean up Farm to table. Table to farm. The Radisson Blu Resort & Spa, Cesme organized its 10th annual On top of working on strict portion control to limit drastically waste, beach cleanup activities. In addition to the hotel’s team members, the team at the Radisson Blu Mall of America, MN has launched a even some of the in-house guests volunteered to collect trash. The partnership with a local pig farm. Consequently, the remaining food group filled 20 bags full of waste, celebrating afterwards with an waste is diverted from landfill. amazing BBQ lunch party that brought the guests and teams from the hotel together. Clean the city Team members at the Park Inn by Radisson Mazatlán, Mexico, recently Joint effort volunteered at a beach and city clean up. This collaboration was a great The Symphony Style Kuwait, a Radisson Collection Hotel, continues example of people working together to preserve natural resources. to secure a sustainable future and has signed a cooperation agreement with Omniya to recycle plastic waste used at the hotel. The initiative includes the distribution of recycling bins to help collect Tactful tourism plastic water bottles or other plastic containers. RHG continues to secure a sustainable future for many of Asia’s rapidly-developing tourism destinations. For example: Omniya is a national environmental project aimed at spreading the culture of waste recycling locally and regionally. The Omniya Project • Radisson Blu Bali Uluwatu, Indonesia offers straws made from was founded in 2015 to spread awareness about recycling in Kuwait. corn-starch, plus bags, slippers and bathroom amenities from natural materials. Art icon • Radisson Blu Resort Phu Quoc became the first international hotel The Radisson RED Brussels found a creative way to repurpose key in Vietnam to produce its own bamboo straws, and guests can cards into art. The hotel collected used key wallets from guests over visit the onsite bamboo farm and learn how the straws are made. the past year and then upcycled them into a pixel-like work of art in • Radisson Blu Resort Maldives will have a glass crushing machine the hotel’s lobby. The image honors Audrey Hepburn, who was born installed, which allows glass waste to be pulverized in-house, in brussels, just like the Radisson RED brand. The artwork mural is packed and shipped for recycling. made of more than 750 keys that were saved from the trash. • Radisson Blu Resort Cam Ranh works towards employing a food waste reduction program. 61 Responsible Business Report 2019 / Think Planet Eco-labels Making sure our hotels operate Green Key is our main partner when it comes to ecocertification. It is also one of the largest hospitality certifiers as sustainable as they can is in the world. Hotels with the Green Key eco-label comply key. Certification from a thirdwith nearly 100 sustainability criteria covering energy management, waste control, water usage, and social party organization is ideal to responsibility. These criteria are recognized by the Global recognize our efforts. It is also Sustainable Tourism Council. All Green Key awarded hotels receive regular on-site audits conducted by third-party a great differentiator. As of end auditors. 2019, 449 hotels, including 79% Local eco-leaders of our EMEA portfolio, have an The Radisson Blu Plaza Hotel Sydney is the first Radisson Hotel in Asia Pacific to be awarded the Green Key eco-label. certification. The Radisson Blu Hotel, Lagos Ikeja has also Radisson Blu Plaza Hotel Sydney receives the Green Key eco-label been awarded. “We have enjoyed a very successful partnership with RHG for almost ten years, and we are looking forward to supporting them in increasing the number of eco449 hotels are eco-labeled labelled hotels.” globally Finn Bolding Thomsen Green Key International Director Radisson Blu Hotel, Lagos Ikeja with the Green Key eco-label 62 Responsible Business Report 2019 / Think Planet Green operations Green and clean Digital opportunities Our Green Housekeeping Program is an initiative to help Hotelkit, an all-in-one hotel operations platform, provides build a better planet for all. It is a housekeeping by-pass a quick and easy way for hotels to improve their internal program designed to help conserve water and energy and communication, store knowledge centrally, optimize reduce the use of detergent. For each night that a guest processes, and plan appointments and tasks in a opts into the program, they receive Radisson Rewards structured manner. Points. Currently, 119 Radisson Hotels are offering Green Housekeeping. By using Hotelkit, hotels see a direct impact on paper reduction. An average hotel saves 8,000 sheets of paper Signature savings annually. In terms of social responsibilities, Hotelkit provides In 2018, Radisson Hospitality Inc. transitioned to e-signatures easy onboarding of new employees and continuous for contracts and other documents requiring signature. training of employees. Articles and how-to-videos in the The transition has resulted in a savings of both time and handbook ensure employees meet safety requirements. paper, since documents are no longer being printed, This encourages knowledge management and self-learning. shipped, or mailed. Currently, the company has 60 e-signature users. In 2019, more than 2,500 documents Additionally, Hotelkit aids in sustaining good interpersonal were sent for electronic signature. relations with employees in different departments. Employees can communicate and contribute ideas with each other regardless of their job position. With every employee having access to HotelKit, it is easier than ever to keep all informed about what is going on in the hotel. 80 hotels using Hotelkit 63 Responsible Business Report 2019 / Think Planet Food and Beverage In our Food and Beverage Food & Beverage direction RHG properties in Europe, the Middle East, and Africa, now operations, where a large have a new corporate Food and Beverage emphasis that part of our carbon footprint promotes guest well-being and sustainability. The changes include food menus that will be 35-40% vegetarian and originates, we work to apply plant based. these principles: local; seasonal; RHG is actively working to make sure properties are using responsible packaging; fair as many sustainable ingredients as possible to reflect exigency for health, food security, and animal welfare. trade, organic and vegetarian. Additionally, Food & Beverage will be using organic and fairtrade coffee across the new restaurant concepts and will be Local means supporting local producers and seasonal is introducing natural and bio-dynamic wines across the new focused on using a maximum of seasonal foods to reduce restaurant concepts as well. the hotels eco-footprint. Responsible packaging considers the life cycle of packaging. Fair trade, organic and Cage Free eggs vegetarian aims to integrate Fair-trade products, RHG has made a commitment to sourcing its eggs from introduce vegetarian options and use organic products cage-free sources globally by 2025 for its entire portfolio. wherever possible. This commitment confirms that, for RHG, the welfare of animals raised for food is a high priority. With this announcement, RHG is ensuring decent welfare standards for animals that are reared for the ingredients used in the meals served in its hotels. 196 hotels use cage free eggs 64 Responsible Business Report 2019 / Think Planet Contributing to sustainable destinations Earth Hour Earth Overshoot Day Earth Overshoot Day is the day each year when human Every year, Radisson Hotel Group consumption goes beyond the natural resources the planet supports Earth Hour, the world's can generate in that year. largest grassroots movement for Humans are using the planet's resources faster than ever, so we must all join #MoveTheDate and help push Earth the environment. Most hotels and Overshoot Day back each year. corporate offices do take part by Beyond this day, we're consuming resources that can't switching off non-essential lights be regenerated. Currently people use 1.7 times as many for an hour. resources as our planet can handle. Pushing Earth Overshoot Day back by just five days would provide a sustainable way of life for everyone by 2050. • The Radisson Blu Hotel, Amsterdam created a special menu with cold dishes, so barely no energy was used in Various teams across RHG took action to commemorate the the kitchen. day by increasing their plant-based diet options on menus, • Guests at the Radisson Blu Hotel Istanbul Ottomare and organizing a meatless Monday, taking action to reduce food the Radisson Blu Olympiyskiy Hotel, Moscow enjoyed waste and by promoting #movethedate. energy-saving candlelit dinners. • The Radisson Blu Resort & Spa, Cesme surprised guests Planting for the planet with cocktails by candlelight in its lobby. Six Radisson Hotels in St. Petersburg, Russia banded • The Radisson Blu Hotel Waterfront, Cape Town invited together with volunteers from the environmental guests to a nighttime yoga session. organization, Circle of Life, to hold a tree planting event and combat rising deforestation. Together, they planted several hundred fir trees. 65 Responsible Business Report 2019 / Think Planet Contributing to sustainable destinations Smart transport Bee populations are under pressure from increasing Since 2017, whenever guests are recharging their batteries urbanization and pollution. To encourage biodiversity in through a stay at a Radisson Hotel, they have been able to their local areas, many Radisson Hotels are now sponsoring also charge their electric car for free. beehives or ‘hosting’ them. Bees are responsible for pollinating 76% of our food crops and 80% of cut-flowers. The service gives guests an easy charging solution and helps They are critical to local biodiversity. Additionally, the honey to ensure they will get to their next destination quickly and the hives produce can be used directly in the hotel. For cleanly. It’s a win for RHG guests and for the environment, example, the Radisson Blu Mall of America in Minnesota thanks to the 328 electric car charging posts spread across hosts two bee hives on its roof. The honey produced is used 104 hotels. in dishes from the hotel restaurant, in cocktails at the bar and as gifts for guests. Many Radisson Hotels are now going the extra step and exclusively using taxi services that offer hybrid or electric RHG is ensuring that the bees have plenty of places to vehicles. This service is already available from 66 of obtain food by planting green roofs, vertical gardens and our hotels. herb gardens. Currently 28 hotels have a green roof, 44 hotels have a vertical garden and 97 hotels have an onsite Local impact herb garden. Radisson hotels around the world are taking vital action to protect biodiversity in their local communities. During 2019, Radisson Hotels planted 16,000 trees and were running 34 beekeeping programs. 66 Responsible Business Report 2019 / Think Planet Responsible Supply Chain Radisson Hotel Group works with SUPPLIER TYPE sustainable suppliers to provide Mature Markets 51% Emerging Markets 49% integrated projects and solutions for our hotels. We are also committed to combating modern slavery in the supply SPEND BREAKDOWN chain and are encouraging our partners Corporate 3% and the broader business community to Regional 49% Local 48% take a stand against human trafficking and for human rights. SUPPLIER TYPE BREAKDOWN Corporate 1% Supplier code of conduct Regional 6% RHG prefers to work with suppliers who demonstrate their environmental, Local 93% social, and ethical responsibility. Our Supplier Code of Conduct outlines the minimum standards that they are expected to achieve. The Supplier Code of Conduct includes obligations for suppliers and the broader business community to take a stand against human trafficking and modern slavery. The Supplier Code of Business Conduct supplements the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and is signed by all suppliers at group and area levels. It also becomes integrated in the supplier agreement. Since 2017 the Supplier Code of Conduct was rolled out globally to all RHG suppliers. 67 Responsible Business Report 2019 / Think Planet Responsible Supply Chain RHG SUPPLIER RISK MAPPING MODEL Reducing risk EcoVadis star rating Low High As part of our ongoing supplier due diligence, the RHG has been awarded a Silver supplier B A company’s Request for Information (RFI) tendering process Supplier with low-level risk rating Supplier with high-level risk rating rating by EcoVadis for the company’s has been enhanced. This allows RHG to evaluate new and product or service with active product or service with active sustainable practices for the fifth potential suppliers during the first phase of the tender involvement in implementation of involvement in implementation of consecutive year. EcoVadis evaluates more risk management risk management Supplier Risk Management Practices process. The RFI contains multiple criteria, including a set of than 20,000 companies annually on their knock-out criteria, allowing RHG to evaluate the supplier’s environmental, human rights and ethical C D financial, environmental, and human resource status before performance. The goal is to improve Supplier with low-level risk rating Supplier with high risk rating signing a contract. This is just one of several tools used to environmental and social practices of product or service with low-level product or service with low-level increase supplier visibility and to better understand and companies by leveraging the influence of (supplier questionnaire) involvement in implementation of involvement of risk management control the business risk of our supply chain. The updated global supply chains. risk management due diligence process evaluates new and potential suppliers during the first phase of the tender process. This means Low High Each company is assessed through a the supplier’s financial, environmental, and human resource Risk Rating questionnaire which is customized to the status can be assessed before a contract is signed. (risk rating tool) size of the business, its industry sector and countries of operation. The EcoVadis rating The supplier risk mapping analysis is another tool that’s used covers four areas: fair business ethics, the to assess existing suppliers and their performance. environment, sustainable procurement and The risk mapping can be used for supplier assessment and labor practices and human rights. The supplier analysis criteria include environmental evaluation and will be a discussion point in yearly meetings The Silver award places RHG amongst the sustainability, human rights, health and safety, community with suppliers. The results of the risk mapping exercise top 30% of EcoVadis performers. action, business ethics, and sustainable innovation in allow RHG to have a dialogue on responsible supply chain research and development. management with suppliers. Ecovadis RHG ratings 2019 54 RHG has risk-mapped the top 50% of our corporate 2018 48 suppliers and selected the best regional suppliers that 2017 48 2015 50 provide high risk products and services, in terms of social 2014 44 and environmental impacts. 68 Responsible Business Report 2019 / Think Planet Appendices 69 Responsible Business Report 2019 Appendix: Eco-Labelled Hotels ARUBA BELIZE DENMARK FRANCE • Radisson Blu Aruba • Radisson Fort George Hotel and Marina • Radisson Collection Royal Hotel, Copenhagen • Park Inn by Radisson Lille Grand Stade • Park Inn by Radisson Copenhagen Airport • Park Inn by Radisson Nice Airport AUSTRALIA BRAZIL • Radisson Blu Limfjord Hotel, Aalborg • Radisson Blu 1835 Hotel & Thalasso, Cannes • Radisson Blu Plaza Hotel Sydney • Radisson Hotel Curitiba • Radisson Blu Papirfabrikken Hotel, Silkeborg • Radisson Blu Hotel at Disneyland® Resort Paris • Radisson Blu Scandinavia Hotel, Aarhus (Marne-la-Vallée) AUSTRIA CANADA • Radisson Blu Scandinavia Hotel, Copenhagen • Radisson Blu Hotel, Biarritz • Park Inn by Radisson Linz • Park Inn by Radisson Toronto-Markham • Radisson Blu Hotel, Champs Elysees, Paris • Park Inn by Radisson Uno City, Vienna • Radisson Blu Toronto Downtown EGYPT • Radisson Blu Hotel, Lyon • Radisson Blu Park Royal Palace Hotel, Vienna • Radisson Hotel & Suites Fort McMurray • Radisson Blu Hotel, Alexandria • Radisson Blu Hotel, Marseille Vieux Port • Radisson Blu Style Hotel, Vienna • Radisson Hotel Edmonton South • Radisson Blu Hotel, Cairo Heliopolis • Radisson Blu Hotel, Nantes • Radisson Hotel Toronto East • Radisson Blu Resort, El Quseir • Radisson Blu Hotel, Nice BAHRAIN • Radisson Hotel Vancouver Airport • Radisson Blu Hotel, Paris-Boulogne • The Diplomat Radisson Blu Hotel Residence • Radisson KitchenerWaterloo ESTONIA • Radisson Blu Hotel, Toulouse Airport & Spa, Manama • Park Inn by Radisson Central Tallinn • Radisson Blu Resort & Spa, Ajaccio Bay CHINA • Park Inn by Radisson Meriton Conference & Spa • Radisson Blu Resort, Arc 1950 BANGLADESH • Park Plaza Beijing Science Park Hotel Tallinn • Radisson Blu Dhaka Water Garden • Radisson Blu Hotel Chongqing Sha Ping Ba • Radisson Blu Hotel Olumpia, Tallinn GEORGIA • Radisson Blu Plaza Chongqing • Radisson Blu Sky Hotel, Tallinn • Radisson Blu Hotel, Batumi BELGIUM • Radisson Blu Iveria Hotel, Tblisi • Park Inn by Radisson Berchem COLOMBIA ETHIOPIA • Park Inn by Radisson Brussels Airport • Park Inn by Radisson Diamond Barranquilla • Radisson Blu Hotel, Addis Ababa • Park Inn by Radisson Brussels Midi • Park Inn by Radisson Hasselt COSTA RICA FINLAND • Park Inn by Radisson Leuven • Park Inn by Radisson San Jose, Costa Rica • Radisson Blu Aleksanteri Hotel, Helsinki • Park Inn by Radisson Liege Airport • Radisson Blu Grand Hotel Tammer, Tampere • Park Inn by Radisson, Antwerp CROATIA • Radisson Blu Hotel, Espoo • Radisson Blu Astrid Hotel, Antwerp • Radisson Blu Resort Split • Radisson Blu Hotel, Oulu • Radisson Blu Balmoral Hotel, Spa • Park Plaza Histria Pula • Radisson Blu Marina Palace Hotel, Turku • Radisson Blu Hotel, Hasselt • Park Plaza Verudela Pula • Radisson Blu Plaza Hotel, Helsinki • Radisson Blu Palace Hotel, Spa • Park Plaza Arena Pula • Radisson Blu Royal Hotel, Helsinki • Radisson Blu Royal Hotel, Brussels • Park Plaza Belvedere Medulin • Radisson Blu Seaside Hotel, Helsinki • Radisson RED, Brussels CZECH REPUBLIC • Park Inn by Radisson Hotel Prague 70 Responsible Business Report 2019 / Eco-Labelled Hotels Appendix: Eco-Labelled Hotels GERMANY GREECE ITALY MEXICO • art otel cologne • Radisson Blu Park Hotel, Athens • Radisson Blu Hotel, Rome • Radisson Paraiso Hotel Mexico City • art'otel berlin kudamm • Radisson Blu Hotel, Milan • Radisson Poliforum Plaza Hotel Leon • art'otel berlin mitte GUATEMALA • art'otel dresden • Radisson Hotel & Suites Guatemala City KAZAKHSTAN MOLDOVA • Park Plaza Berlin Kudamm • Park Inn by Radisson Astana • Radisson Blu Hotel Chisinau, Moldova • Park Plaza Nuremberg HUNGARY • Radisson Hotel, Astana • Park Plaza Wallstreet Berlin Mitte, Germany • art'otel budapest MOROCCO • Park Inn by Radisson Berlin Alexanderplatz • Park Inn by Radisson Budapest KENYA • Radisson Blu Hotel, Casablanca City Center • Park Inn by Radisson Cologne City-West • Park Inn by Radisson Hotel & Spa Zalakaros • Park Inn by Radisson Nairobi Westlands • Radisson Blu Hotel, Marrakech Carré Eden • Park Inn by Radisson Dresden • Park Inn by Radisson Sarvar Resort & Spa • Radisson Blu Hotel, Nairobi Upper Hill • Park Inn by Radisson Frankfurt Airport • Radisson Blu Béke Hotel, Budapest MOZAMBIQUE • Park Inn by Radisson Göttingen KUWAIT • Radisson Blu Hotel, Maputo • Park Inn by Radisson Lübeck ICELAND • Radisson Blu Hotel, Kuwait • Park Inn by Radisson Munich Frankfurter Ring • Radisson Blu 1919 Hotel, Reykjavik • Symphony Style Hotel Kuwait a Radisson NETHERLANDS • Park Inn by Radisson Neumarkt • Radisson Blu Saga Hotel, Reykjavik Collection Hotel • art'otel amsterdam • Park Inn by Radisson Nürnberg • Park Plaza Amsterdam Airport • Park Inn by Radisson Papenburg INDIA LATVIA • Park Plaza Eindhoven • Park Inn by Radisson Stuttgart • Country Inn & Suites by Radisson – Gurugram, • Park Inn by Radisson Residence Riga Barona • Park Plaza Utrecht, the Netherlands • Radisson Blu Fürst Leopold Hotel, Dessau Sector 12 • Park Inn by Radisson Riga Valdemara • Park Plaza Victoria Amsterdam • Radisson Blu Hotel, Leipzig • Radisson Blu Faridabad • Radisson Blu Daugava Hotel, Riga • Park Plaza Vondelpark, Amsterdam • Radisson Blu Hotel, Berlin • Radisson Goa Candolim • Radisson Blu Elizabete Hotel, Riga • Park Inn by Radisson Amsterdam City West • Radisson Blu Hotel, Bremen • Radisson Gurugram Sohna Road City Center • Radisson Blu Hotel Latvija, Riga • Park Inn by Radisson, Amsterdam Airport Schiphol • Radisson Blu Hotel, Cologne • Radisson Gwalior • Radisson Blu Ridzene Hotel, Riga • Radisson Blu Hotel, Amsterdam • Radisson Blu Hotel, Cottbus • Radisson Hotel Khajuraho • Radisson Blu Hotel, Amsterdam Airport, Schiphol • Radisson Blu Hotel, Dortmund • Radisson Hotel Noida LEBANON • Radisson Blu Palace Hotel, Noordwijk-aan-Zee • Radisson Blu Hotel, Erfurt • Radisson Mumbai Andheri MIDC • Radisson Blu Martinez Hotel, Beirut • Radisson Blu Hotel, Frankfurt • Radisson Shimla NIGERIA • Radisson Blu Hotel, Hamburg • Radisson Udaipur LITHUANIA • Radisson Blu Anchorage Hotel, Lagos V.I. • Radisson Blu Hotel, Hamburg Airport • Park Inn by Radisson Kaunas • Radisson Collection Ikoyi Lagos • Radisson Blu Hotel, Hannover IRELAND • Radisson Blu Astorija Hotel, Vilnius • Radisson Blu Hotel, Karlsruhe • Park Inn by Radisson Shannon Airport • Radisson Blu Hotel Lietuva, Vilnius • Radisson Blu Hotel, Rostock • Radisson Blu Hotel & Spa, Cork • Radisson Blu Hotel, Klaipeda • Radisson Blu Mannheim • Radisson Blu Hotel & Spa, Sligo • Radisson Blu Media Harbour Hotel, Düsseldorf • Radisson Blu Hotel, Athlone LUXEMBOURG • Radisson Blu Park Hotel & Conference Centre, • Radisson Blu Hotel, Dublin Airport • Park Inn by Radisson Luxembourg City Dresden Radebeul • Radisson Blu Hotel, Letterkenny • Radisson Blu Scandinavia Hotel, Düsseldorf • Radisson Blu Hotel, Limerick MALTA • Radisson Blu Schwarzer Bock Hotel, Wiesbaden • Radisson Blu St. Helen's Hotel, Dublin • Radisson Blu Resort & Spa, Malta Golden Sands • Radisson Blu Senator Hotel, Lübeck • Radisson Blu Resort Malta, St. Julian's 71 Responsible Business Report 2019 / Eco-Labelled Hotels Appendix: Eco-Labelled Hotels NORWAY QATAR SAUDI ARABIA SWEDEN • Park Inn by Radisson Oslo • Radisson Blu Hotel, Doha • Park Inn by Radisson Al Khobar • Park Inn by Radisson Malmö • Park Inn by Radisson Oslo Airport • Park Inn by Radisson Hotel, Dammam • Park Inn by Radisson Solna • Radisson Blu Airport Hotel, Oslo Gardemoen ROMANIA • Park Inn by Radisson Najran • Park Inn by Radisson Stockholm Hammarby Sjöstad • Radisson Blu Atlantic Hotel, Stavanger • Park Inn by Radisson Hotel & Residences, Bucharest • Radisson Blu Hotel and Residence, • Park Inn by Radisson Uppsala • Radisson Blu Caledonien Hotel, Kristiansand • Radisson Blu Hotel, Bucharest Jeddah Al Salamah • Radisson Blu Arlandia Hotel, Stockholm-Arlanda • Radisson Blu Hotel Nydalen, Oslo • Radisson Blu Hotel, Dhahran • Radisson Blu Hotel, Lund • Radisson Blu Hotel, Alna-Oslo RUSSIA • Radisson Blu Hotel, Jeddah • Radisson Blu Hotel, Malmö • Radisson Blu Hotel, Bodø • Park Inn by Radisson Astrakhan • Radisson Blu Hotel, Riyadh • Radisson Blu Hotel, Uppsala • Radisson Blu Hotel, Tromsø • Park Inn by Radisson Ekaterinburg • Radisson Blu Hotel, Yanbu • Radisson Blu Metropol Hotel, Helsingborg • Radisson Blu Hotel, Trondheim Airport • Park Inn by Radisson Izmailovo • Radisson Blu Plaza Hotel, Jeddah • Radisson Blu Riverside Hotel, Gothenburg • Radisson Blu Park Hotel, Fornebu, Oslo • Park Inn by Radisson Nevsky, St. Petersburg • Radisson Blu Residence Dhahran • Radisson Blu Royal Park Hotel, Stockholm • Radisson Blu Plaza Hotel, Oslo • Park Inn by Radisson Novokuznetsk • Radisson Blu Resort Jizan • Radisson Blu Royal Viking Hotel, Stockholm • Radisson Blu Resort, Trysil • Park Inn by Radisson Novosibirsk • Radisson Blu Scandinavia Hotel, Göteborg • Radisson Blu Royal Garden Hotel, Trondheim • Park Inn by Radisson Poliarnie Zory, Murmansk SENEGAL • Radisson Blu SkyCity Hotel, Stockholm-Arlanda • Radisson Blu Royal Hotel, Bergen • Park Inn by Radisson Pribalitiyskaya, St. Petersburg • Radisson Blu Hotel, Dakar Sea Plaza • Radisson Blu Waterfront Hotel, Stockholm • Radisson Blu Scandinavia Hotel, Oslo • Park Inn by Radisson Pulkovo Airport St. Petersburg • Radisson Collection Strand Hotel, Stockholm • Radisson Blu Trysil Mountain Resort • Park Inn by Radisson Pulkovskaya, St. Petersburg SERBIA • Park Inn by Radisson Rosa Khutor • Radisson Collection Hotel, Old Mill Belgrade SWITZERLAND OMAN • Park Inn by Radisson Sheremetyevo Airport Moscow • Radisson Blu Hotel, Basel • Park Inn by Radisson Hotel & Residence Duqm • Park Inn by Radisson Sochi City Centre SIERRA LEONE • Radisson Blu Hotel, Lucerne • Park Inn by Radisson Muscat • Park Inn by Radisson Veliky Novgorod • Radisson Blu Mammy Yoko Hotel, Freetown • Radisson Blu Hotel, St. Gallen • Radisson Blu Hotel, Muscat • Park Inn by Radisson Volgograd II • Radisson Blu Hotel, Zurich Airport • Radisson Blu Hotel, Sohar • Park Inn by Radisson Yaroslavl SLOVAKIA • Radisson Hotel Zurich Airport • Hormuz Grand, Muscat A Radisson Collection Hotel • Radisson Blu Hotel, Chelyabinsk • Park Inn by Radisson Danube, Bratislava Hotel • Radisson Blu Hotel, Rosa Khutor THAILAND PANAMA • Radisson Blu Hotel, Rostov-on-Don SOUTH AFRICA • Park Plaza Bangkok Soi 18 • Radisson Colon 2000 Hotel & Casino • Radisson Blu Resort & Congress Centre, Sochi • Park Inn by Radisson Cape Town Foreshore • Radisson Blu Sheremetyevo Airport Hotel, Moscow • Park Inn by Radisson Cape Town Newlands TUNISIA PHILIPPINES • Radisson Collection Hotel, Moscow • Park Inn by Radisson Sandton • Radisson Blu Palace Resort & Thalasso, Djerba • Radisson Blu Cebu • Radisson Collection Paradise Resort & Spa Sochi • Radisson Blu Gautrain Hotel, Sandton Johannesburg • Radisson Blu Resorts & Thalasso, Hammamet • Radisson Hotel, Kaliningrad • Radisson Blu Hotel & Residence, Cape Town POLAND • Radisson Resort, Zavidovo • Radisson Blu Hotel Waterfront, Cape Town • Park Inn by Radisson Krakow • Radisson Royal Hotel, St. Petersburg • Radisson Blu Hotel, Port Elizabeth • Radisson Blu Hotel, Gdansk • Radisson Sonya Hotel, St. Petersburg • Radisson Blu Hotel, Sandton Johannesburg • Radisson Blu Hotel, Krakow • Radisson RED Hotel V&A Waterfront, Cape Town • Radisson Blu Hotel, Szczecin • Radisson Blu Hotel, Wroclaw SPAIN • Radisson Blu Resort, Świnoujście • Radisson Blu Hotel, Madrid Prado • Radisson Blu Sobieski Hotel, Warsaw • Radisson Blu Resort & Spa, Gran Canaria Mogan • Radisson Collection Hotel, Warsaw • Radisson Blu Resort, Gran Canaria 72 Responsible Business Report 2019 / Eco-Labelled Hotels Appendix: Eco-Labelled Hotels TURKEY • Park Inn by Radisson Glasgow City Centre • Country Inn & Suites by Radisson Youngstown West • Country Inn & Suites by Radisson, Rochester S., MN • Park Inn by Radisson Istanbul Atasehir • Park Inn by Radisson Manchester City Centre • Country Inn & Suites by Radisson, Annapolis, MD • Country Inn & Suites by Radisson, San Diego No, CA • Park Inn by Radisson Istanbul Ataturk Airport • Park Inn by Radisson Northampton • Country Inn & Suites by Radisson, Atl Turner Field • Country Inn & Suites by Radisson, Saraland, AL • Park Inn by Radisson Izmir • Park Inn by Radisson Palace, Southend-on-Sea • Country Inn & Suites by Radisson, Belleville, ON • Country Inn & Suites by Radisson, Savannah Gateway • Park Inn by Radisson Samsun • Park Inn by Radisson Peterborough • Country Inn & Suites by Radisson, Biloxi-Ocean • Country Inn & Suites by Radisson, Seattle-Bothell • Park Inn by Radisson, Ankara Cankaya • Park Inn by Radisson York • Country Inn & Suites by Radisson, Bloomington MOA • Country Inn & Suites by Radisson, Springfield, OH • Park Inn by Radisson, Istanbul Asia Kavacik • Park Plaza County Hall London • Country Inn & Suites by Radisson, Boise West, ID • Country Inn & Suites by Radisson, St. Petersburg • Radisson Blu Bosphorus Hotel, Istanbul • Park Plaza Leeds • Country Inn & Suites by Radisson, Braselton, GA • Country Inn & Suites by Radisson, Topeka West, KS • Radisson Blu Hotel Kayseri • Park Plaza London Park Royal • Country Inn & Suites by Radisson, Brooklyn Center • Country Inn & Suites by Radisson, Winnipeg, MB • Radisson Blu Hotel, Ankara • Park Plaza London Riverbank • Country Inn & Suites by Radisson, Bryant, AR • Country Inn & Suites by Radisson Nashville Airport East • Radisson Blu Hotel, Diyarbakir • Park Plaza London Waterloo • Country Inn & Suites by Radisson, Calgary Airport • Country Inn & Suites by Radisson Atlanta Galleria/ • Radisson Blu Hotel, Istanbul Asia • Park Plaza Nottingham • Country Inn & Suites by Radisson, Carlisle, PA Ballpark, • Radisson Blu Hotel, Istanbul Ataköy • Park Plaza Sherlock Holmes London • Country Inn & Suites by Radisson, Cedar Rapids Air • Radisson Blu Aqua Hotel, Chicago, IL • Radisson Blu Hotel, Istanbul Pera • Park Plaza Victoria London • Country Inn & Suites by Radisson, Chicago O'Hare S • Radisson Blu Mall of America, MN • Radisson Blu Hotel, Istanbul Sisli • Park Plaza Westminster Bridge London • Country Inn & Suites by Radisson, Chippewa Falls • Radisson Blu Minneapolis Downtown • Radisson Blu Hotel, Istanbul Tuzla • Plaza on the River London • Country Inn & Suites by Radisson, Columbus, GA • Radisson Cincinnati Riverfront • Radisson Blu Hotel, Trabzon • Radisson Blu Hotel London Stansted Airport, • Country Inn & Suites by Radisson, Dahlgren, VA • Radisson Hotel El Paso Airport • Radisson Blu Residence, Istanbul Batışehir • Radisson Blu Hotel Manchester Airport • Country Inn & Suites by Radisson, Eagan, MN • Radisson Hotel Fargo • Radisson Blu Resort & Spa, Cesme • Radisson Blu Hotel, Belfast • Country Inn & Suites by Radisson, Florence, SC • Radisson Hotel Fort Worth North-Fossil Creek • Radisson Blu, Ordu • Radisson Blu Hotel, Birmingham • Country Inn & Suites by Radisson, Gainesville, FL • Radisson Hotel La Crosse • Radisson Blu Hotel, Bristol • Country Inn & Suites by Radisson, Hampton, VA • Radisson Hotel Milwaukee West UKRAINE • Radisson Blu Hotel, Cardiff • Country Inn & Suites by Radisson, Harrisburg West • Radisson Hotel Nashua • Park Inn by Radisson Troyitska Kyiv • Radisson Blu Hotel, Durham • Country Inn & Suites by Radisson, Ithaca, NY • Radisson Hotel Phoenix Airport, Phoenix, AZ • Radisson Blu Hotel, Kiev • Radisson Blu Hotel, East Midlands Airport • Country Inn & Suites by Radisson, Jacksonville, FL • Radisson Hotel Providence Airport • Radisson Blu Hotel, Kyiv Podil • Radisson Blu Hotel, Edinburgh • Country Inn & Suites by Radisson, John Wayne Air • Radisson Hotel Salt Lake City Airport • Radisson Blu Resort, Bukovel • Radisson Blu Hotel, Glasgow • Country Inn & Suites by Radisson, Lake George, NY • Radisson Hotel Santa Maria, CA • Radisson Blu Hotel, Leeds • Country Inn & Suites by Radisson, Lansing, MI • Radisson Hotel Winnipeg Downtown UNITED ARAB EMIRATES • Radisson Blu Hotel, Liverpool • Country Inn & Suites by Radisson, Lawrenceville • Radisson Hotel Yuma • Park Inn by Radisson Abu Dhabi, Yas Island • Radisson Blu Waterfront Hotel, Jersey • Country Inn & Suites by Radisson, Lexington Park • Radisson on John Deere Commons-Moline, IL • Radisson Blu Hotel, Abu Dhabi Yas Island • Radisson Collection Hotel, Royal Mile Edinburgh • Country Inn & Suites by Radisson, Madison West, WI • Radisson Plaza Hotel at Kalamazoo Center, MI • Radisson Blu Hotel, Dubai Deira Creek • Country Inn & Suites by Radisson, Marion, OH • Radisson Quad City Plaza Hotel, IA • Radisson Blu Hotel, Dubai Media City UNITED STATES • Country Inn & Suites by Radisson, Mason City, IA • Radisson RED Minneapolis Downtown • Radisson Blu Residence, Dubai Marina • Country Inn & Suites by Radisson Austin-University • Country Inn & Suites By Radisson, McDonough, GA • Radisson Resort at the Port Cape Canaveral • Radisson Blu Resort, Fujairah • Country Inn & Suites by Radisson Atlanta I-75 So • Country Inn & Suites by Radisson, Mesa, AZ • Radisson Salt Lake City Downtown • Radisson Blu Resort, Sharjah • Country Inn & Suites by Radisson Bakersfield, CA • Country Inn & Suites by Radisson, Mount Morris, NY • Radisson Suite Hotel Oceanfront, FL • Country Inn & Suites by Radisson Bel Air/Aberdeen • Country Inn & Suites by Radisson, Newport News So • Radisson Sunnyvale Silicon Valley UNITED KINGDOM • Country Inn & Suites by Radisson Columbus Air • Country Inn & Suites by Radisson, Norcross, GA • Treasure Island Radisson Hotel • Park Inn by Radisson Aberdeen • Country Inn & Suites by Radisson Fergus Falls, MN • Country Inn & Suites by Radisson, Panama City Bch • Park Inn by Radisson Belfast • Country Inn & Suites by Radisson Jackson Airport • Country Inn & Suites by Radisson, Pensacola, W. FL VIETNAM • Park Inn by Radisson Cardiff City Centre • Country Inn & Suites by Radisson Louisville East • Country Inn & Suites by Radisson, Petersburg, VA • Radisson Blu Resort Cam Ranh • Park Inn by Radisson Hotel & Conference Centre • Country Inn & Suites by Radisson Newark Airport,NJ • Country Inn & Suites by Radisson, Prineville, OR London Heathrow • Country Inn & Suites by Radisson Ontario Mills, CA • Country Inn & Suites by Radisson, Regina, Sask ZAMBIA • Country Inn & Suites by Radisson Port Canaveral • Radisson Blu Hotel, Lusaka 73 Responsible Business Report 2019 / Eco-Labelled Hotels Appendix: UN Sustainable Development Goals No poverty Zero hunger Good health and well-being End poverty in all its forms everywhere End hunger, achieve food security and improved Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for nutrition, and promote sustainable agriculture all at all ages HUMAN RIGHTS DIVERSITY & INCLUSION COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT FOOD.SHELTER.FUTURE FOOD AND BEVERAGE Quality education Gender equality Clean water and sanitation Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and Achieve gender equality and empower Ensure availability and sustainable promote lifelong learning opportunities for all management of water and sanitation for all all women and girls PEOPLE DEVELOPMENT & WATER STEWARDSHIP TALENT MANAGEMENT DIVERSITY & INCLUSION WASH Industry, innovation Affordable and clean energy Decent work and economic growth and infrastructure Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and for all sustainable industrialization and foster innovation EMPLOYMENT & EMPLOYABILITY GREEN BUILDINGS PEOPLE DEVELOPMENT & THINK PLANET THINK PLANET ENERGY TALENT MANAGEMENT 74 Responsible Business Report 2019 / UN Sustainable Development Goals Appendix: UN Sustainable Development Goals Reduced inequalities Sustainable cities and communities Responsible consumption Reduce inequality within and among countries Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable and production Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns CONTRIBUTING TO THINK COMMUNITY SUSTAINABLE DESTINATIONS COMMUNITY ACTION MONTH SAFETY AND SECURITY RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN DIVERSITY & INCLUSION TRIC=S FORMULA REDUCE, REUSE, REPLACE, RECYCLE Climate action Life below water Life on land Take urgent action to combat climate change and its Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine Protect, restore and promote sustainable use impacts of terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably manage resources for sustainable development forests, combat desertification, halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss THINK PLANET PRINCIPLES CARBON FOOTPRINT & RENEWABLES CARBON FOOTPRINT & RENEWABLES 100% CARBON NEUTRAL MEETINGS WATER STEWARDSHIP 100% CARBON NEUTRAL MEETINGS Peace, justice and strong institutions Partnerships for the goals Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for Strengthen the means of implementation and sustainable development, provide access to justice revitalize the global partnership for sustainable for all and build effective, accountable and inclusive development institutions at all levels BUSINESS ETHICS COMPLIANCE MEMBERSHIPS HUMAN RIGHTS SOS CHILDREN'S VILLAGES SAFETY & SECURITY ECO-LABELLING 75 Responsible Business Report 2019 / UN Sustainable Development Goals Appendix: Global Compact Compliance PRINCIPLES OF THE GLOBAL COMPACT RADISSON SYSTEMS AND PROCESSES HUMAN RIGHTS Principles 1: • Living & Leading Responsible Business Training • Supplier Code of Conduct and agreements Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. • Employee Handbook • Human Rights Policy • Code of Business Ethics • Supplier Code of Conduct and agreements Principle 2: • www.ethics.radissonhotels.com • Human Rights Policy Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. • Policy against the Facilitation of Prostitution • Responsible recruitment toolkit LABOR • Human Resources Guidelines • Supplier Code of Conduct Principle 3: • Employee Handbook • Employment Principles Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. • European Workers Councils • Code of Business Conduct and Ethics • Human Rights Policy Principle 4: • Supplier Code of Conduct and agreements • Responsible recruitment toolkit Businesses should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. • Employment Principles Principle 5: • Code of Business Conduct and Ethics • Employment Principles Businesses should support the effective abolition of child labor. • Supplier Code of Conduct and agreements • Human Rights Policy • Human Resources Guidelines • Policy on Sexual Harassment and Illicit Activities • Employee Handbook • Social Networking Policy Principle 6: • Living & Leading Responsible Business training • Supplier Code of Conduct Businesses should support the elimination of discrimination in respect to employment and occupation. • Policy on Recruitment and Selection • Employment Principles • Transfer Policy • Human Rights Policy ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: • Responsible Business & Environment Policy • Environmental reporting and targets Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. • Radisson Technical Standards • Responsible Business & Environment Policy • Living & Leading Responsible Business training Principle 8: • Radisson Technical Standards • Supplier Code of Conduct Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. • Think Planet tools Principle 9: • Radisson Technical Standards • Carbon Neutral Meetings Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. • Think Planet tools • Eco-labeled hotels ANTI CORRUPTION • Global Information Security Policy • Anti-Fraud Policy Principle 10: • Code of Business Conduct and Ethics • Internal Audit Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. • Anti-bribery training • Supplier Code of Conduct and agreements 76 Responsible Business Report 2019 / UN Global Compact compliance Appendix: GRI Standard Disclosures Table DISCLOSURE DISCLOSURE PAGE REASON FOR DISCLOSURE DISCLOSURE PAGE REASON FOR DISCLOSURE DISCLOSURE PAGE REASON FOR NUMBER TITLE NUMBER OMISION NUMBER TITLE NUMBER OMISION NUMBER TITLE NUMBER OMISION GENERAL DISCLOSURES REPORTING PRACTICE TOPIC SPECIFIC GRI STANDARD ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 3 PROCUREMENT PRACTICES 102-1 Name of the organization 4 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 67-68 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 4 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries 3 103-2 The management approach and its components 67-68 102-3 Location of headquarters 3 10 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 67-68 102-4 Location of operations 3 102-47 List of material topics 10 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 67-68 102-5 Ownership and legal form 3 102-48 Restatements of information 11 ANTI-CORRUPTION 102-6 Markets served 4 102-49 Changes in reporting 3 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 10 102-7 Scale of the organization 3 102-50 Reporting period 3 103-2 The management approach and its components 11 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 17 102-51 Date of most recent report 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 11 102-9 Supply chain 67 102-52 Reporting cycle 3 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 31 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 81 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures 31 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 3 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 3 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 31 102-12 External initiatives 12 102-55 GRI content index 76-77 ENERGY 102-13 Membership of associations 12 102-56 External assurance 81 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 10 STRATEGY 103-2 The management approach and its components 11 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 6 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 50-51 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 49 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 19-22 302-3 Energy intensity 49 29-31 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 49 GOVERNANCE 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 49 102-18 Governance structure 11 WATER STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 10 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 9 103-2 The management approach and its components 11 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 17 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 55 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 9 303-1 Water withdrawal by source 55 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 9 303-2 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water 55 11 303-3 Water recycled and reused 55 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 10 77 Responsible Business Report 2019 / GRI Standard disclosures table Appendix: GRI Standard Disclosures Table DISCLOSURE DISCLOSURE PAGE REASON FOR DISCLOSURE DISCLOSURE PAGE REASON FOR DISCLOSURE DISCLOSURE PAGE REASON FOR NUMBER TITLE NUMBER OMISION NUMBER TITLE NUMBER OMISION NUMBER TITLE NUMBER OMISION BIODIVERSITY TRAINING AND EDUCATION LOCAL COMMUNITIES 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 10 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 10 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 10 103-2 The management approach and its components 11 103-2 The management approach and its components 11 103-2 The management approach and its components 36-46 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 64-65 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 19-22 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 36-46 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity 64-65 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 19-22 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and 36-46 development programs 304-3 Habitats protected or restored 64-65 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs 19-22 SUPPLIER SOCIAL ASSESSMENT EMISSIONS DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 10 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 10 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 10 103-2 The management approach and its components 67-68 103-2 The management approach and its components 11 103-2 The management approach and its components 11 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 67-68 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 52 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 23-24 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 67-68 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 52 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 23-24 PUBLIC POLICY 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 52 FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 10 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 52 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 10 103-2 The management approach and its components 29-31 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 49 103-2 The management approach and its components 17-18 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 29-31 Carbon footprint and renewables 52 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 17-18 415-1 Political contributions 29-31 ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association and 17-18 collective bargaining may be at risk CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 10 CHILD LABOR 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 10 103-2 The management approach and its components 11 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 10 103-2 The management approach and its components 32-35 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 11 103-2 The management approach and its components 78-80 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 32-35 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 11 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 78-80 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and service 32-35 SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT categories 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor 78-80 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 67-68 HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT 103-2 The management approach and its components 67-68 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 10 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 67-68 103-2 The management approach and its components 78-80 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 67-68 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 78-80 EMPLOYMENT 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact 78-80 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 10 assessments 103-2 The management approach and its components 11 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures 26-28 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 17-18 412-3 Significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights 78-80 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 17-18 clauses or that underwent human rights screening 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to 19-22 temporary or part-time employees 78 Responsible Business Report 2019 / GRI Standard disclosures table Appendix: Radisson Hospitality AB Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement 2019 ABOUT RADISSON HOSPITALITY AB For nine years, RHAB has been recognized as one of the These expectations are applied and include the practices of the SUPPLIER CODE OF CONDUCT Radisson Hospitality AB (RHAB) is one of the largest hotel World’s Most Ethical Companies by the Ethisphere Institute, an labor agencies and outsourced labor suppliers that Radisson Our Supplier Code of Conduct contains obligations for suppliers companies in Europe, the Middle East & Africa (EMEA) and a independent think-tank and center of research which promotes utilizes. and the broader business community. It requires them to take a member of Radisson Hotel Group (RHG). best practices in corporate ethics and governance. stand against modern slavery and human trafficking. The Supplier OUR BUSINESS AND SUPPLY CHAIN Code of Conduct supplements the Code of Business Conduct Through a master franchise agreement with Radisson Hospitality, Our aim is to bring positive benefits to the communities in TEAM INVOLVEMENT IN ‘COMBATTING and Ethics. Its principles represent the minimum standards that Inc. USA, Radisson Hospitality AB operates and develops hotel which we operate through our high-quality services, economic MODERN SLAVERY’ INITIATIVE Radisson expects its suppliers to achieve. brands across EMEA – including Radisson Collection, Radisson growth and employment opportunities, environmental protection Teams across the organization, and from different countries, are Blu, Radisson, Radisson RED and Park Inn by Radisson. It also initiatives, and community involvement. Our commitment to involved in our antislavery and anti-trafficking initiatives. Strategy The supplier Code of Conduct prohibits the use of any form of operates the Radisson Rewards loyalty program for frequent ethical excellence is our heartbeat, and we are recognized as a and follow-up are coordinated by the corporate Responsible modern slavery, human trafficking, exploitation of children or hotel guests. trusted global leader and a Responsible Business. Business department. This team works closely with the forced or compulsory labor. All work must be voluntary, and in Procurement team, and Human Resources, both centrally and in no case should workers be mandated to relinquish governmentRadisson Hospitality AB features a portfolio of 500 hotels, with EMPLOYMENT AND EMPLOYABILITY the different geographical areas where we operate. issued identification, passports or work permits. Suppliers should more than 108,000 rooms in operation or under development in In 2019, RHAB counted 144 nationalities amongst our employees. ensure that the Employer Pays Principle is applied and that 79 countries across EMEA. Radisson Hospitality AB and its brands Women comprise 43.4% of our employees while 56.6% are STRUCTURE OF OUR SUPPLY CHAIN workers are not required to pay any recruitment fees or expenses employ 45,500 team members. Radisson Hospitality AB has an men. Of our total workforce, 12.5% is outsourced labor, mainly in Our supply chain has three types of supplier categories: local, as a condition of receiving work. industry-leading Responsible Business Program and has been housekeeping and banqueting departments. Collective bargaining regional, and corporate. Corporate and regional suppliers are named one of the World's Most Ethical Companies by the US agreements cover 31% of our employees. managed by our corporate procurement team, via centralized The Supplier Code of Conduct is signed by all suppliers at the think-tank Ethisphere nine times. and regional procurement agreements. These suppliers provide corporate and regional levels and becomes a part of the supplier COMMITMENT TO COMBAT MODERN SLAVERY a variety of products and services including staffing, operational agreement, included in the digital repository module for contract Radisson Hospitality AB is headquartered in Brussels, Belgium. RHG is committed to combatting modern slavery and human supplies and equipment, furniture, fixtures and equipment, food, management in the procurement system. The Supplier Code of trafficking, educating employees on the issue, and encouraging drinks, amenities, linen, and cleaning supplies. Local suppliers are Conduct is conforming with GDPR and other policies. This process GOVERNANCE AND RECOGNITION our partners, stakeholders and the broader business community managed at the hotel level. is monitored by the corporate procurement team. At RHG, we believe that people are our number-one asset. to take a stand against slavery and human trafficking. We operate Our culture plays an important role in our business transformation to high standards and advocate socially and environmentally GUIDING DOCUMENTS: PRINCIPLES AND POLICIES Local hotel suppliers are required to follow the RHG Supplier Code and in our future business success. Radisson acknowledges sustainable business practices. Our aim is to combat and eliminate CODE OF BUSINESS CONDUCT AND ETHICS of Conduct. However, we do not actively register which suppliers and respects the principles contained in the United Nations any form of modern slavery and to operate our business without Our internal Code of Business Conduct and Ethics contains rules have signed at the local level. Declaration of Human Rights. They are consistent with Radisson’s slavery, sexual exploitation, exploiting of children, or forced, and guidelines and serves as a reminder to all RHG employees of core beliefs and our commitment to be a force for good. bonded, or compulsory labor. our policies and commitment to do what is right and ethical. The HUMAN RIGHTS Code applies to every person who works for us, and every one of RHG is committed to maintaining a high standard of business RHG endeavors to conduct its business operations in a manner RHG strives to ensure that: our companies. It is distributed to all employees. ethics, honesty and integrity. The key human rights and that seeks to promote and enhance human rights within its sphere • Every employee has a worker contract employment principles are grouped into three documents. Our of influence. This commitment is aligned with, and supported by, • No employee is forced to work All employees are trained in the Code of Business Conduct and Human Rights Policy and Human Rights Commitments cover the our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and the principles of the • No employee is forced to handover government-issued Ethics, its implications, and reporting processes. The training, part Group’s engagement on issues such as ethical business conduct, United Nations Global Compact. The Group has been a signatory identification, passports, work permits, or bank cards of immersion training for new starters in the group, is mandatory protection of children’s rights, combating modern slavery and to the Global Compact since 2009. to a third party for all employees and includes a reference to the Radisson’s ethics human trafficking, and protection of employee rights. • No employee is required to pay any fees in exchange for work platform. The Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is conforming • No excessive deductions are made from any employee’s wages with the EU’s GDPR regulations and other policies. 79 Responsible Business Report 2019 / Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement 2019 Appendix: Radisson Hospitality AB Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement 2019 Our Employment Principles cover the Group’s promises to its RESPONSIBLE RECRUITMENT SUPPLIER DUE DILIGENCE Our standard supplier contract terms include a clause requesting employees such as non-discrimination, freedom of association, 12.3% of employees are recruited indirectly through a recruitment RHG has overarching accountability for the standards of our that suppliers complete the responsible supplier questionnaire team member well-being, positive working environment and agent and 12.5% (down from 13% in 2018) of hotel employees are supply chain, the treatment of our team members and the and provide reasonable evidence of compliance with Radisson’s development of talent from within. outsourced. We aim to apply responsible practices when recruiting safety of our guests. The products, services, and activities of our Supplier Code of Conduct on request. The provided supplier outsourced employees. To mitigate the risk of modern slavery suppliers may impact our reputation, affecting our level of trust information is assessed, and non-compliance These policy documents are made available to all hotels and and human trafficking, RHG uses the responsible recruitment with other stakeholders. It is imperative that the Group’s suppliers is discussed with the individual supplier accordingly. employees and complement the Code of Business Conduct and framework. The framework for our hotels includes the use of the follow the Supplier Code of Conduct and request the same from Ethics. They help to clarify the principles we live and work by in Responsible Recruitment toolkit, which support our recruitment their supply chain, including third-party labor agencies. The Tendering process our hotels. practices. The toolkit provides guidance on how to prevent modern Supplier Code of Conduct outlines the minimum standards that In addition, the Request for Information (RFI) tendering process slavery and details of how to engage with employees using worker suppliers to the Group are expected to achieve. was reviewed and updated, allowing the Group to evaluate RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS interviews, how to increase awareness of modern slavery amongst new and potential suppliers during the first phase of the tender Our ambitious and award-winning Responsible Business program employees, how to approach a recruitment agency, and what due In addition to compliance with the supplier agreement, we expect process. The RFI contains multiple criteria, including a set of dates to 2001. The Responsible Business policy covers compliance diligence to conduct. our suppliers to comply with the laws and regulations which apply knock out criteria, allowing RHG to evaluate the supplier’s with all applicable legislation regarding labor, health and safety, in the countries and jurisdictions where they conduct business financial, environmental, and human resource status before human rights, and the environment. It requires us to operate The toolkit also supports hotel management teams in their efforts or deliver goods and/or services. 100% Of corporate suppliers signing a contract. without slavery, exploitation of people, or forced, bonded, or to prevent modern slavery, especially with outsourced labor. The recognized our supplier code of conduct. compulsory labor. The policy strives to follow best practices in toolkit has been rolled out to all geographic areas in Europe, the Risk mapping analysis each of these areas. Middle East, and Africa. A specific training module on how to use RISK MAPPING IN PROCUREMENT SYSTEM RHAB uses a risk mapping analysis as part of our supplier due the toolkit has been included in the Leading Responsible Business For RHG to understand and control the business risk to our supply diligence to enable us to understand supplier performance. OPERATIONAL DUE DILIGENCE training for all Head of Departments and General Managers. In chain, we use a range of tools to increase supplier and supply In 2019, Radisson risk-mapped the top 50% of our corporate AUDITS 2019, 62% (identical compared to 2018) of our hotels actively used chain visibility. suppliers. The results of the risk mapping exercise allow RHAB Every hotel undergoes an internal audit every second year. the toolkit. to have a dialogue on responsible supply chain management Elements of the audit include control of background checks for Supply chain working group with our suppliers. It is used for supplier assessment, evaluation, all positions that handle cash as a part of their role, or other SELF-ASSESSMENT QUESTIONNAIRE Together with the industry working group of the International and will be a discussion point in annual performance meetings sensitive positions. The background check must be done by an As part of the Responsible Recruitment Toolkit, RHG is using Tourism Partnership’s (ITP) RHG developed a risk-rating tool with suppliers. First steps have been taken to integrate the risk external company. a hotel self-assessment created with specialized human rights which allows hotels to obtain a more complete overview of our mapping tool into the corporate procurement IT system allowing consultancy Verité. The self-assessment questionnaire (SAQ) supplier risk profile. The rating weights various criteria including capacity building with the existing supplier base. Other elements are checked including supplier contract approval, allows our hotels to identify potential gaps and vulnerabilities geographic risk, industry, spend, volume, workforce risk, resources, work permits for employees from outsourced companies, in the recruitment processes. The SAQ is designed to gather impact, and likelihood of success. The framework allows Radisson TRAINING reference checks on other partners of suppliers, and background information on risks of forced labor and human trafficking that to prioritize its focus and to address low-level involvement of risk We endeavor to educate and facilitate our employees to make a checks on outsourced employees in Accounting & Finance, hotels may be facing, and ultimately to help hotels and its thirdmanagement with suppliers. conscious decision in favor of environmental, ethical, and social Human Resources, Security, IT, Front Office, and Food & Beverage. party intermediaries to detect, remediate, and mitigate risks issues every day, both in their private and work lives. The newly An outsourced company cannot sub-contract any activities of labor abuse. It assesses the risk of forced labor or human Supplier questionnaire updated Responsible Business training program equips the delivered to the hotel without written approval from Radisson. trafficking in the business processes of third-party intermediaries One of the tools RHG uses for supplier assessment is the group’s hotels in operation with expertise and skills on an array In 2019, 61% of our managed and leased hotels have which provide services related to the recruitment, selection, responsible supplier questionnaire. The questionnaire aligns of topics with a special emphasis on roles hotels play in tackling been audited. hiring, transportation, training, and management of migrant with the Supplier Code of Conduct and is updated annually. The modern day exploitation. We train all our employees to recognize workers. Elements of the SAQ have been integrated into the questionnaire includes a rating tool to identify the supplier’s level the risks of modern slavery, sexual exploitation and human annual Responsible Business status report which is mandatory of risk management and mitigation. trafficking in our operations. We explain the benefits of strong for all hotels. measures to tackle slavery and human trafficking, as well as the consequences of failing to combat these problems. Training compliance is measured on an ongoing basis. 80 Responsible Business Report 2019 / Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement 2019 Appendix: Radisson Hospitality AB Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement 2019 COMBATTING MODERN SLAVERY TRAINING Together, we launched the Principles on Forced Labor in 2018 to VIOLATIONS OF OUR SUPPLIER CODE OF CONDUCT Over the coming year we plan to: A specifically training, designed for Area and Hotel HR teams address human rights risks in the labor supply chain. These state Suppliers are expected to comply with the standards of the • Continue the development of tools on the responsible and recruiters, is used to increase awareness of modern slavery. It that every worker should have freedom of movement, no worker Supplier Code of Conduct and with all applicable laws and recruitment framework and to make them available to our provides guidance on due diligence processes. This training is part should pay for a job, and no worker should be indebted or coerced regulations. In cases where modern slavery, human trafficking, hotels. We will continue to conduct risk evaluations of suppliers of the Responsible Recruitment Toolkit and includes information on to work. RHG continues as active member in the work group on the exploitation of children, or forced and compulsory labor is of outsourced labor. responsible practices and the use of the toolkit. development of human rights. discovered in the supply chain, it must be reported to Radisson • Continue to encourage hotel teams to use the Responsible without delay. A specific email address is provided for this Recruitment toolkit CHILD PROTECTION AND ANTI-TRAFFICKING Under the guidance of International Labor Organization (ILO), purpose. The Group encourages any stakeholder with concerns • Further develop elements of the Self-Assessment Questionnaire Protecting victims of human trafficking is imperative to RHG. funded by the Government of Qatar, in collaboration with about the Supplier Code of Conduct and its implementation to in Area HR audit processes Through our partnership with ECPAT-USA and as signatory of the International Human Rights and Business (IHRB) members of ITP discuss this directly with the supplier. • Continue supplier engagement and fully implement evaluations Tourism Child Protection Code of Conduct, we take a public stand have participated in the hospitality working group in Qatar, building and risk mapping analysis for all corporate suppliers, and all and work to prevent human trafficking, sexual exploitation and the capacity of the hospitality sector in Qatar to ensure sustainable If RHAB receives such a report, we will ask the supplier to high-risk and high-volume regional suppliers to ensure they are the exploitation of women and children. We ensure all employees growth and decent work. Radisson has been an active participant comment. If necessary, we may request the supplier implement an complying with our Responsible Business, Human Rights, and are trained in our human trafficking module. This module is part providing input for guidance tools on due diligence of recruitment improvement plan to correct the issue. If the supplier does not act preventing Modern Slavery policies. of our mandatory, classroom-based, Living Responsible Business practices and by sharing of best practices on specific thematic or respond to the report or concern and is not willing to work on • Continue our cooperation with other industry partners via the training. The module includes various case-based scenarios of forced issues. Learnings from the working group are already applied in correcting the issue, they can be subjected to disciplinary action. ITP network and the human rights working group to identify and labor and sex trafficking, training employees to identify suspicious the wider scope of our operations. This can include termination as a RHAB Supplier, and/or review by share best practices and participate in projects such as the ILO behavior and how to report forced sexual exploitation to police. local authorities. working group in Qatar It encourages discussion amongst participants on what actions ETHICS PLATFORM • Include and update modern slavery elements in our existing to take. A cornerstone of our Code of Business Ethics implementation is However, best practice suggests we try to work with the supplier manuals, contracts, owner International Management ethics.radissonhotels.com, a website run by an independent thirdto improve their practices rather than dropping them. Suppliers Agreements (IMA), standards of operation, and audits AWARENESS RAISING PROGRAMS party organization. Employees can use this site to find information are requested to notify their employees, and any sub-contractors BEST PRACTICE IN THE INDUSTRY on our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and report concerns who work for RHAB, that they may report serious or sensitive SIGNED BY THE BOARD RHG believes that the hospitality industry can be a force for good anonymously. Any employee with concerns or questions about the concerns, or possible breaches of the Supplier Code of Conduct. This annual statement for the full financial year 2019 was approved and make a positive contribution to tackle modern slavery and Code is encouraged to raise these directly with their supervisor by the Board of Radisson Hospitality AB. human trafficking. The Group is a member of the International or person of trust in the hotel or regional organization. If this is FURTHER STEPS Tourism Partnership (ITP) and together we work to address not possible, the employee can report the issue online. The site is The risks of modern slavery and human trafficking in our challenges, share our expertise and develop practical solutions available in eleven languages and can be utilized by all employees, operations, and in our supply chain, need our constant attention. to enable the whole industry to operate responsibly and grow outsourced employees, and agency workers. Of the 53 reports Because of the growth of our operations, we must continuously sustainably. made in in 2019, none involved allegations concerning modern monitor and manage our supply chain risk. We will continue to slavery and human trafficking. combat modern slavery and human trafficking to minimize and Every business, wherever they operate, has a corporate manage risks and develop better ways to increase the visibility of responsibility to respect human rights. As part of ITP, we collectively our actions in our operations and supply chain. Mingju Ma commit to raise awareness of human rights risks, embed human Chairman rights into corporate governance, and address risks arising in the labor supply chain and during construction. Radisson Hospitality AB’s Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement 2018 can be found here. 81 Responsible Business Report 2019 / Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement 2019 Appendix: Auditors report AUDITOR’S REPORT ON THE STATUTORY linkedin.com/company/radisson-hotel-group SUSTAINABILITY REPORT To Radisson Hospitality AB (publ), corporate identity number 556674-0964 instagram.com/radissonhotels RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Board of Directors is responsible for the statutory sustainability report, and that it has been prepared in twitter.com/radissonhotels accordance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act. RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE AUDITOR Our examination of the statutory sustainability report has facebook.com/radissonhotels been conducted in accordance with FAR’s auditing standard RevR 12 Auditor’s report on the statutory sustainability report. This means that our examination of the statutory radissonhotels.com/cares sustainability report is different and substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination youtube.com/radissonhotelgroup has provided us with sufficient basis for my opinion. CONCLUSION A statutory sustainability report has been prepared. Stockholm, April 30, 2020 PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Signed by Eric Salander Authorized Public Accountant IDA GUTIÉRREZ DE ESCOFET Senior Advisor for Corporate Affairs Auditor in charge ida.gutierrezdeescofet@radissonhotels.com Erik Bergh Authorized Public Accountant INGE HUIJBRECHTS Global Senior Vice President Responsible Business, Safety & Security inge.huijbrechts@radissonhotels.com 82 Responsible Business Report 2019 / Auditors report #RADISSONCARES
