Sustainability Report February 2019February 2020 MESSAGE OF THE CHAIRMAN 05 ERGA PROFILE 06 ETHICS & INTEGRITY 12 STRATEGY 18 GOVERNANCE 20 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 22 REPORTING PRACTICES 24 ECONOMICAL IMPACT 26 ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT 28 SOCIAL IMPACT 34 GRI CONTENT INDEX 40 MESSAGE OF THE C H A I R M A N 102-14 Since our commitment to support the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact two years ago in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption, a lot of changes and events stroke our beloved country, Lebanon, letting us change a lot of our priorities and perspectives, thinking bigger, much bigger than where we were. In a country hit by a financial and monetary crisis like no other, we felt like challenged and decided to be more firm in fullfilling the requirements of our stakeholders regarding the SDGs. This is our revolution! This is how we decided to face this crisis, this shift of our plans that was slightly expected. We surely knew the Lebanese market has been facing a lot of challenges lately but we couldn’t never imagine this is where we are going to land. And we draw a revolutionnary perspective of where we want to be in the next decade. In this new annual Sustainability Report like the previous one, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles aligned into our new business strategy that has been modified by end of 2019, our culture and our daily operations. We commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders. For so, this report has been published on our Web portal and website for consultation, to assure to our stakeholders our long term commitment to said principles. Elie Gebrayel Chairman and CEO Erga Group SAL ERGA GROUP SAL PROFILE 40 years 221 employees headquarter Agriculture S ec t or s S er v ed b y ERG A in Lebanon Lebanon Commercial of experience in Culture architectural 306 worldwide 4 Branches DEVELOPERS & engineering Dubai Education R I YA D H Healthcare DE SIGN Serving ~ 50 JEDDAH Hospitality & supervision countries DOHA Industrial Leisure & Tourism FULL TIME PART TIME Mixed-Use PRIVATE 71.2% 28.8% PUBLIC 460 67 RELIGIOUS 375 152 483 44 PERMANENT TEMPORARY SPORTS Site Supervision SURVEY Urban Planning TYPE OF DESIGN Project Management PERMIT Restoration PROJECTS Feasibility Study Landscape Interior CIVIL WORKS 6 102-1 8 ERGA GROUP SAL, a joint stock company (Société Anonyme Libanaise), was founded in 1980 by Elie & Randa Gebrayel Architects, carrying their names. Its headquarter is based in Beirut, Lebanon with over 221 highly skilled architects, structural, mechanical and electrical engineers, interior architects, urban planners, landscape engineers, quantity surveyors, project managers and professionals in other engineering fields. Erga has 4 regional branches operating from Dubai, UAE, Jeddah and Riyadh, Saudi Arabia and Doha, Qatar. In total Erga has over 300 professionals in its regional branches. Having acquired 40 years of professional experience, Erga is fully qualified to undertake the design, development, feasibility and direct supervision of the projects entrusted to the group. This enables Erga to succeed as a multidisciplinary architectural and engineering firm and ensure full attention is given to every project, be it small or large, local or regional. As a privately owned company, net sales are not publicly provided. 7 ERGA OPERATIONS, ACTIVITIES & SERVICES ZONE VII 42 RUSSIA ZONE IV: EUROPE 26. France 27. Spain ZONE IV 28. Czech Republic EUROPE 29. Serbia 28 36 30. Turkey 31. Armenia 26 32. Azerbejian 29 33 3132 37 27 30 38 39 ZONE I: MENA 10 1. Morocco 4 Lebanon 8 11 2. Mauritania 1 3 9 3. Algeria ZONE I 5 6 ZONE II13 15 34 4. Tunisia MENA GULF 16 17 5. Libya 18 40 12 41 6. Egypt 2 ZONE V 7. Sudan 7 19 14 NORTH & SOUTH AMERICA 8. Lebanon ZONE II: GULF 33. United States 9. Jordan 22 23 12. Saudi Arabia 20 34. Mexico 10. Syria 21 13. Kuwait 35. Brazil 11. Iraq 24 14. Yemen ZONE VI ZONE III: AFRICA 25 15. Bahrain EAST ASIA, AUSTRALIA 19. Senegal ZONE III 16. Qatar & SOUTH PACIFIC Erga Offices 35 20. Cote d’Ivoire AFRICA 17. UAE Lebanon HQ 21. Ghana 18. Oman ZONE VI: EAST ASIA, Dubai 22. Togo AUSTRALIA & SOUTH PACIFIC Doha 23. Nigeria 36. Kazakhstan Riyadh 24. Equatorial Guinea 37. Krygyzstan Jeddah 25. Congo 38. Turkmenistan 39. Tajikistan Future Potential Offices 40. China Saudi Arabia Brazil 41.Vietnam 50+ Kuwait Mexico Erga Operating Countries Ongoing Projects’ Countries 50+ UAE France Lebanon Qatar Oman China Egypt Saudi Arabia Ghana Vietnam UAE United States Ongoing Projects 8 102 2 Architecture and Engineering Master Planning & Urban Design Interior Design Erga takes a comprehensive approach Erga, thoroughly research, meticuErga delivers creative interior soluto design, working from inception to lously study and methodically devetions that combine design and funccompletion to turn an architectural lop its urban designs based on entionality, using the latest technolovision into reality. vironmental concerns, social equity, gy, working closely with the client Its experienced architects, struceconomic viability, relationships throughout the design process, tural, mechanical and electrical enbetween people and places, urban exploring every possibility and asgineers, landscape designers and movement and form, nature and the sessing the best option. master planners complement its wide built fabric with a view to creating Erga follows a collaborative and inrange of construction consultancy places that work out perfectly and teractive process to create exceptioservices by providing holistic design that are sustainable in the long term. nal environments that meet clients’ solutions that reflect an understanneeds using traditional, custom and ding of the full project lifecycle. modern elements to create harmonious designs. Construction Supervision Project Management Erga, with its experience, expertise and know-how, With a solid experience of 40 years, Erga acts as client brings its knowledge on site, uses its capacity in taking representative assuming project management and action and defines an appropriate behavior in order to construction management tasks. adapt the planning and organization to the site characteSkilled multidisciplinary professionals work in coordiristics. It manages operational functions at each phase nation, determine the needs, collaborate in developing and identifies security risks, health, environment and plans conceiving appropriate solutions depending on project-related control. the complexity of each term. 9 ERGA SUPPLY CHAIN 102 9 1149 suppliers from 42 coun tries Since Erga Group provides a service, as architectural and engineering consultants, the final deliverables, submitted to the client and depending on the scope of the project, are mainly the project documents comprising the set of required drawings with the Bill of Quantity (BOQ) and specifications required to start building the project. Knowing that Erga is not a manufacturing company or distributor, its supply chain is simple. The main suppliers dealing with Erga are as follow: Computer software, hardware Specialties’ Subconsultants & peripherals’ providers (with Maintenance) (Depending on the type and scope of project) Paper providers Bureau de Contrôle Suppliers of Materials providing samples Mock-up providers when needed for mood boards and technical sheets for specifications. 10 ERGA SIGNIFICANT CHANGES 102 10 Company Openings Erga opened a new company, Erga Group Saudi Branch Co. SAL in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. In addition a new company, Erga Architects & Consulting Engineers FZ LLC, has been opened in Ras El Khaimah, United Arab Emirates. Site Office Openings Erga Group Overseas SAL has a new site in Brazaville, the Republic of the Congo where a group of staff members from Lebanon was transferred. Potential New Joint Ventures Erga is, nowadays, negotiating new Joint Ventures and is studying the opening of potential branches worldwide in many countries to cover additional continents and expand Erga’s operations. The projects of North America will be operating from the United States, South America from Brazil, Europe from France and Africa from the Ivory Coast. 11 ERGA GROUP SAL ETHICS & INTEGRITY Each person working with Erga is an important contriBesides, every Chief Officer, Head of Department or butor to Erga’s success. For this reason, Erga designed Section and Team Design Leader is responsible for: a code of conduct and ethics for staff members to pro* Ensuring that all the teams perform their duties in acperly manage each situation in conformity with the cordance with the highest standards of business ethics company’s ethics. All Erga’s stakeholders should also and in conformance with applicable laws; comply with our code acting in conformity with the * Taking every necessary action to ensure that no Erga laws and regulations. entity or member engages directly or indirectly in any This code is published on Erga’s portal and is accorrupted business practice; cessible to all. And the HR department is available to * Ensuring that any expenditure or transfer of Erga corassist for any clarification; in addition to the periodic porate funds is made in accordance with a stated, lecampaigns done to remind on specific matters and gitimate purpose and to the recipient indicated in Erga the annual training session done to new joiners in Erga records; team and those who wish to re-attend it. * Treating team members equally without any special favors to ones, discomforting others. It is imperative that each staff member carefully learn Any deviation or attempted deviation from the above and implement the code of conduct and ethics and that is brought directly to the attention of the appropriate no violation of the code’s values occurs, especially officer or directly to the Chairman (depending on the when this could negatively affect the company’s repuimpact). tation. It is applied to all staff members from upper to The company and its members comply with internal and lower level of the organization. external rules and regulations related to Erga’s work, Audits are regularly done to make sure it is well impleand appropriate action are taken for any violation of mented and to report any breach or deviation. these rules. 12 102 16/17 102 25 Erga Code of Conduct & Ethics Main Titles Erga Code of Conduct & Ethics Key Principles Erga Business Practices Erga code of conduct and ethics is ruled by : General Staff Conduct Principles of transparency, honesty and fairness; Labor Rights – Respect of staff members Respect of the laws and regulations of every country Conflict of Interest we operate in; Confidentiality Respect of the culture of each country and Erga Properties contribution in the society through new activities; Gossips & Rumors Ensuring a good quality of services offered to the Safe & Secure Place – Health & Safety society; External Communication with Media and Investors Valuing teamwork and creativity within the teams; Internal Control of Financial & Accounting Information Preservation of our business partners to achieve Fair Competition stable, long-term relationship and mutual benefits, Business Partners while keeping ourselves open to new partnerships; Bribery through gifts or other benefits Preservation of the Community, Human Rights, Fighting Corruption Fraudulent or Illegal Act Employees Rights and the Environment. Integrity and Quality of Services Integrity of Documents and Information Supplied Exchange of Information Money Laundering Integrity of Financial and Accounting Documents Politics Human Rights Environment Philantropy and Community Relation Activities OF CONDUCT 13 ERGA VALUES CREATIVITY AGILITY ETHICS Creativity is an integral part of ErAgility is the ability to move nimbly Business ethics known as the coga’s daily work and operations. Perwith speed and ease. It refers to disdes of morals, values and principles ceiving a state-of-the-art project in tinct qualities that allow organisaset by a company are considered of an empty space requires a lot of new tions to respond rapidly to changes outstanding importance because it and imaginative ideas to be accomin the internal and external environdetermines good and bad behavior plished. ment without losing momentum or and decision-making. It is the ability to perceive the vision. Adaptability, flexibility and Reputation is the most important world in new ways, to find hidden balance are three qualities essential asset for Erga and it is very difficult patterns, to make connections to long-term business agility. to rebuild once it is lost. To retain a between seemingly unrelated pheLike creativity, agility is essential in positive reputation and image, Erga nomena and to generate solutions. architecture from delivering many is committed to operating on an It is an original cognitive ability and projects at the same time smoothethical foundation as it relates to problem solving process which enly without any delay with the best respecting the surrounding environables individuals to use their intelquality to being up-to-date with the ment, treatment of employees and ligence in a way that is unique and new trends and innovations in the good market practices in terms of directed toward coming up with THE field. customer treatment and prices. PROJECT. 14 102 16/17 HONESTY & INTEGRITY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Integrity is the foundational ethiSocial responsibility has been from cal principle of character based on a long time an essential value in honesty and truthfulness. It is a Erga to give back to the community, condition of mind and isn’t situatake part in philantropic causes and tional. It is doing the right thing provide positive social value. even when no one is around. It is Erga is known for its family spirit the ability to act with honesty and and its commitment to serve the consistency based on moral values society and the environment. or beliefs. At Erga, we integrated social and In Erga, integrity means telling environmental concerns in our the truth even if the truth is ugly. business operations and interacHonesty is better than deluding tions with our internal and external others. It is very difficult to have a stakeholders to make a difference, successful business if customers set an example and build a positive don’t trust you and don’t think you image. are honest. 15 ERGA EXTERNAL INITIATIVES & MEMBERSHIP OF ASSOCIATIONS ERGA complies with a variety of principles, standards and initiatives as below. For some standards, some companies are certified; for others, the requirement is to have professionals certified; and for some we didn’t apply for the certification yet but we are seeking it. Please note that none of these initiatives is obligatory, all of them are voluntary. TECHNICAL ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL 2 certified professionals seeking certification seeking certification Architects & engineers in in Lebanon in Lebanon Lebanon & Qatar trained 1 certified professional in INITIATIVES Lebanon Lebanon 1 certified company Architects & engineers in 1 seeking certification in Lebanon Lebanon & Qatar trained 5 certified professionals in Qatar Dubai 16 102 11/12 ERGA is member in many international and local associations as below. Erga’s commitment to these associations is wether for pure technical professional purpose or for contribution in sustainability or CSR initiatives be it environmental, social or both. Please note that none of these memberships is obligatory, all of them are voluntary. TECHNICAL ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL MEMBERSHIP OF ASSOCIATIONS EDC-Liban The American Society of Heating, Refrigerating & Air-Comditioning 17 ERGA GROUP SAL STRATEGY With all the fast events happening in Lebanon we had to react quickly and adapt with the current situation affecting the country and all businesses in the region. The financial and monetary crisis is not momentary. Unfortunately, it will last for an undetermined period of time. Our last resort to be able to persist is to make sure we are having a business still running smoothly and safely. For this reason, we have to be more aggressive in searching for new markets in more stable regions. We also have to change some of our priorities and compromise in some situations. Moreover, we have to be sure we can still be operational and productive even though our offices might be closed due to the strikes in Lebanon. In addition, we want to make sure our offices are following a high end technology to compete internationally. This is Erga’s revolution! This is how Erga is going to face this crisis. This is Erga’s revolutionnary perspective of where the company will be in the next decade. With all the difficulties faced lately, Erga is still committed to deploying a culture of social responsibility, sustainability and ethics among other important topics adding initiatives in this direction. 18 102 -14/15 KEY RISKS & OPPORTUNITIES IMPACT Insecure and politically unstable Middle East with Difficulty finding new developers ready to invest. global financial and monetary crisis Recession in construction and real estate market. Expand to other international markets where fiDiversify potential clients database nancial crisis is reduced Open horizon to new markets, new investments, new projects... Strikes hitting the country and closing the roads Delays in the delivery of international projects that prohibiting staff members to reach the office can’t be affected by the insecurity in Lebanon. House loans stopped in Lebanon Recession in construction and real estate market affecting architectural and engineering companies and related fields. New architectural and engineering trend more speciFollow the trend and diversify from competition fically green designs, renewable energy... Provide suitable training Erga offices to follow the latest technological trends Despite the financial crisis the office should stay upto-date to compete internationally to persist. 19 ERGA GROUP SAL GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE Erga board of directors defined 4 main committees in Erga to follow up primary issues in the organization. THE STRATEGY COMMITTEE THE RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE Presided by the Chairman, this committee reviews the Presided by the Chairman, this committee oversees risk overall performance of the company, makes decisions management within Erga, sets the tone and influences over modifications in the strategic plan and follows up this culture within the company. the implementation. This committee reviews and approThis committee determines the appropriate level of ves the sustainability report too. risk exposure for Erga, takes major decisions affecting Global risks are monitored by the Board of Directors this exposure, monitors the management of the most through the corporate strategy, respecting set risk and significant corporate risks, assures itself that identienvironmental management policies and procedures. fied risks are being actively managed,with appropriate controls in place, bi-yearly reviews Erga’s Risk Policy to ensure it remains fit for purpose and maintains the Risk Register. The Audit Department has the responsibility for assessing the effectiveness of risk management. PRECAUTIONARY APPROACH Each of the comittees has a responsilibity of reporting any critical concern or risk that arises to its president and it will be directly communicated from committees’ presidents to risk management committee for proper handling. In addition, the Audit department communicates critical concerns or risks that might be detected. 20 102 -11 102 -18-33 THE COMMUNICATION COMMITTEE THE SOCIAL & ENVIRONMENTAL COMMITTEE Presided by the Vice Chairman, this committee takes Headed by the Vice-Chairman, its membership is open care of internal and external communication. Its points to anyone interested in helping. This committee works on of interest are three: “Ergamania” concept symbolizing Erga’s family spirit. It Erga Newsletter reflects the professional work of Erga focuses on the human side, apart from daily operations, and is directly linked to Erga’s commitment towards the highlighting its know-how and expertise in designing society and the environment. Its responsibilities rely on projects and supervising their execution; in addition to setting a social and environmental plan and organizing its family spirit and the organized events to better serve activities boosting the relation between Erga staff the environment and the society. It is annually published and the society serving humanitarian or environmental on Erga website. causes. This committee looks for associations, NGOs or Erga Website reflects Erga’s image. The committee’s families in need that have no outside funding or suprole is to keep the design and content always updated port and organizes internal seasonal events involving adding latest projects, news and contact details. all staff members and their families. Erga Intranet is Erga’s internal communication tool. In addition, whenever a staff member or a relative is in It helps sharing documentation, knowledge, lessons need for any support, the committee tries to involve all learned, professional and social events, scheduling staff members in helping. meetings, filling surveys, accessing online training, parThis committee is responsible for preparing the Sustaiticipating in open discussions and announcing latest nability report. news, Erga offers, … 21 ERGA GROUP SAL STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Identifying & Selecting Stakeholders Key Topics & Concerns Erga defined its stakeholders as a firm and every ProKey topics and concerns are raised and dispatched to ject Design Manager managing a new project defines concerned parties to resolve depending on the subject its project stakeholders. For each stakeholder, Erga and related division. If the concern is related to the busets the ratio impact and power, defines the communisiness and its strategy it is directly channeled to the CEO cation channels and the strategy on how to deal with. or COO. STAKEHOLDERS ENGAGEMENT METHODS Board of Directors Periodic reports with all the needed information to be updated on the INTERNAL Partners & Associates financial, managerial, administrative and technical performance of the firm. Employees Intranet platform, internal emails and memos, continual surveys and annual gathering to be updated on the latest news and performance of the firm. Clients Client Satisfaction Questionnaire, Erga Events and costumer focus groups. Consultants External emails and meetings.... Suppliers & Subconsultants Bureaux de Contrôle EXTERNAL Order of Engineers Respect and alignment with their regulations and application for permits Public Authorities (Permit Units, and other regulatory transactions. NSSF...) & Municipalities Tenants Continual support to specific NGOs and periodically select some cases Local Communities and help in these matters. NGOs 22 102 -40-44 SHOULD COMPANIES ONLY STRIVE TO MAXIMIZE SHAREHOLDER VALUE OR TRY TO SERVE THE INTERESTS OF ALL STAKEHOLDERS? ERGA GROUP SAL REPORTING PRACTICE ENTITIES IN CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS LEBANON UNITED ARAB EMIRATES Erga Group SAL Erga Progress Engineering Consultants Erga Management SAL Erga Architects and Consulting Engineers FZ LLC Erga Group Overseas SAL (Offshore) KSA QATAR Erga Saudi Lebanese Co. for Project Management Erga Qatar LLC Erga Group SAL Branch in KSA Changes in Reporting Claims & Content Index Due to the financial and monetary crisis hitting This document is a GRI-referenced report. Lebanon we had to add new material topics related to Please find attached the GRI Content Index page 40 the economic responsibility as a first priority and keep old environmental and social topics defined last year Contact Point for Information with a second priority. Reporting Period & Cycle Erga submits it Sustainability Report annually from February till January. It covers year 2019. Myriam El Helou Date of Most Recent Report Quality Manager The most recent sustainability report was done for Tel: +961 4 524 124 calendar 2018. Email: mye@erga.com 24 ERGA MATERIALITY 102 -45-56 Material Topics GRI Disclosure Topic Boundary SDGS ECONOMIC High-Tech Intelligent GRI 203 Indirect Erga Board of Directors/ Headquarters Economic Impacts Erga Chief Officers ENVIRONMENT GRI 307 Environmental Client/ Erga Design Green Buildings Compliance Division/ Suppliers Client/ Erga Design Division/ Nature Preservation GRI 304 Biodiversity Suppliers/ Social & Environmental Committee Energy Consumption GRI 302 Energy Erga / Logistics Department/ Lebanon Climate Act / Ministry & Emissions GRI 305 Emissions of Environment Waste Management Erga / Social & Environmental GRI 306 Waste Committee / Recycling NGOs & Recycling or Manufacturer SOCIAL Employees Health GRI 403 Occupational Erga Employees / & Safety Health & Safety HR Department Erga Employees / Social & GRI 413 Local Community Support Communities Environmental Committee/ NGOs/... Employee Training GRI 404 Training Erga Employees / & Development & Education Erga Academy 25 ERGA GROUP SAL 103 ECONOMIC IMPACT As architectural and engineering consultants, in a tormented country, we are struggling for the time being to provide a decent work and economic growth (SDG 8) for Erga and its staff members. For so Erga is committed to invest in its infrastructure to provide a high-end office in this industry with the latest innovations and technologies to be able to compete worldwide since the Lebanese and Middle-Eastern regions are in crisis (SDG 9: Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure). This will be helping Erga in searching for new markets in more stable regions. In line with above mentioned UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), we are engaging ourselves in High-tech Intelligent Headquarters. ERGA INTELLIGENT HEADQUARTERS 203 ERGA INTELLIGENT WORKPLACE ERGA LAB The design of an office has to reflect today’s evolving It is a technologies Research Center. Its mission is to work environment, and collaborative working is becoidentify, develop, and deploy energy-efficient building ming increasingly popular. Here are some key features system technologies. ERGA LAB is not limited to any that make a collaborative workspace: type of techniques. ERGA LAB applies exciting developAn open plan to encourage collaborative collisions ments in digital technologies, 3D printing, and cutting Additional common areas: cafeterias, lounge, etc... edge innovations. Areas that are designed for more than one person, rather than single-occupancy. WELCOME ROBOT Today, robots are cropping up everywhere. Imagine a robot that welcomes a client and guide him to the meeting room. A Robot can make a programmable guided tour to visitors. Erga could be the first company in Lebanon to deploy such a robot. HYBRID CLOUD-BASED INFRASTRUCTURE It is a cloud computing environment using a mix of on-premises and cloud services with orchestration between the two platforms. By allowing workloads to move between clouds as computing needs and costs change, hybrid cloud gives businesses greater flexibility and more data deployment options. 27 ERGA GROUP SAL 103 ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT As architectural and engineering consultants, our major impact on the environment is by consuming energy and paper during our daily operations (SDG 12). So Erga generates waste (SDG14: Life below Water & SDG 15: Life on land) and Greenhouse Gas emissions (SDG 13: Climate Action). In our field, we can advise our clients to choose the latest affordable and clean energy (SDG 7) systems in the industry (SDG9: Industry, Innovation & Infrastructure) in the target of having sustainable cities and communities (SDG 11). We can also impose the materials’ quality and quantities to be specified in any planned construction project (SDG 12: Responsible Consumption and Production). In addition, our work can indirectly affect the biodiversity (SDG 15: Life on land), especially that our client to additionally benefit from his land might cut trees but the law imposes to plant others. In line with above mentioned UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), we are engaging ourselves in the following initiatives: Green Buildings /Designs Nature Preservation Energy Consumption & Emissions Waste Management & Recycling ERGA ENERGY CONSUMPTION & EMISSIONS 302 305 Since 2017, Erga is committed with Lebanon Climate Act to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions with a network of other private companies with whom we share this interest. Workshops and training sessions are frequently given by experts to push our work forward and make the private sector aware of its effective contribution in climate change. An action plan was submitted by Erga to Lebanon Climate Reporting Act of Greenhouse Gas and the Emissions fromMinistry of Environment Private Companies and Institutions involving all staff to enhance Decision 99/1 of 11/4/2013 the green culture and the sustainable architectural vision. Company: Erga Group SAL Year: 2018 Introduce values in shaded areas only, if applicable Indirect Emissions from Purchased Electricity CO2 Emissions CO2 Emissions Carbon CO2 Current Working hours Voltage Emission emissions Consumption Emission Factor CO2 emissions (A) (hours) (V) (t CO2/MWh) (t CO2) Shared generator (KWh) (t CO2/MWh) (t CO2) 0 0 220 1.3 0.00 Single phase Shared generator EDL bill 397201 0.65 258.18 Triple phase 350 1901 380 1.3 454.90 Direct Emissions from Stationary Fuel Combustion CO2 Emissions CH4 Emissions N2O Emissions Carbon Emission CH4 Emission CO2 N2O Emission N2O CO2 Consumption Consumption Conversion Factor Factor CO2 emissions Factor CH4 emissions equivalent Factor emissions equivalent (l) (t) (TJ/1000t) (t C/TJ) (t CO2) (t/TJ) (t CH4) (t CO2) (t/TJ) (t CO2) (t CO2) Gas/Diesel Oil for 62118 51.55794 43.33 20.2 163.81 0.002 0.00 0.09 0.0006 0.00 0.42 Electricity Gas/Diesel Oil for 0 43.33 20.2 0.00 0.002 0.00 0.00 0.0006 0.00 0.00 Space Heating Gas/Diesel Oil for 0 43.33 20.2 0.00 0.002 0.00 0.00 0.0006 0.00 0.00 Water Heating Heavy Fuel Oil for 0 40.19 21.1 0.00 0.002 0.00 0.00 0.0006 0.00 0.00 Boilers Gas for cooking 0 47.31 17.2 0.00 0.005 0.00 0.00 0.0001 0.00 0.00 Lubricants 0 40.19 20 0.00 0.002 0.00 0.00 0.0006 0.00 0.00 TOTAL 163.81 0.00 0.09 0.00 0.42 Buisness Related Transport CO2 Emissions CH4 Emissions N2O Emissions Carbon Emission CH4 Emission CO2 N2O Emission N2O CO2 Consumption Consumption Conversion Factor Factor CO2 emissions Factor CH4 emissions equivalent Factor emissions equivalent (l) (t) (TJ/1000t) (t C/TJ) (t CO2) (t/TJ) (t CH4) (t CO2) (t/TJ) (t CO2) (t CO2) Gasoline 15047 11.13478 44.8 18.9 34.22 0.02 0.01 0.21 0.0006 0.00 0.09 Gas/Diesel Oil 55217 45.83011 43.33 20.2 145.61 0.005 0.01 0.21 0.0006 0.00 0.37 TOTAL 179.84 0.02 0.42 0.00 0.46 29 Emission Calculation ERGA GREEN BUILDINGS & DESIGNS 307 Erga helps as much as possible many municipalities in Lebanon advising them to work, their projects taking into consideration energy saving and their cities and communities’ sustainable development. In addition, Erga is committed in its Strategic Plan to promote green culture among its clients convincing them to install energy and water saving systems. For this reason, Erga Academy plays a major role in technically engaging our architects and engineers providing the suitable training courses related to worldwide green standards (LEED, BREEAM, QSAS, Istidama...) and Energy Modelling Techniques. Whenever a new supplier introduces any new innovation in our field, it is automatically transmitted through Erga Academy and Erga’s Library to our architects and engineers in search for new solutions in designing green buildings and from them it is transmitted to our clients providing the best suppliers’ contact for this purpose. 30 ERGA NATURE PRESERVATION 304 Erga has been committed from 10 years till now to backup Jouzour Loubnan in their journey organizing on a yearly basis plantation days with staff members and their families planting each year more than 800 Cedar and Juniper trees in many regions in Lebanon. Our way of giving back to Nature. WHEN WE SAY GREEN, WE MEAN GREEN ERGA WASTE MANAGEMENT & RECYCLING RECYCLING & REUSING REDUCE As architectural company, waste generated is limited to Erga has been committed from the beginning to reduce the following: the generation of waste, a priority coming before recyThe major waste generated in the company: Paper, cling. So, an initiative to reduce the use of paper was foam boards, cardboards launched and many actions were implemented accordingly: Small water plastic bottles used in meeting rooms Going paperless and transforming the majority of Old computers, peripherals (scanner, printers,....) forms to e-forms, We have been working with L’Arc-En-Ciel (AEC) and Modifying the settings of printers to 2 -sided printing L’Ecoute Organization for a long time for all kind of reby default and to sleep mode when unused, cyclable material (paper, IT equipment, plastic bottles Blocknotes are made from old unused 1-sided printed papers, and caps...). But for the time being, we are more working All erga policies, procedures and internal presentawith L’Ecoute Organization. tions are published online with an impossibility of being For example this year, we updated the majority of the printed out. DO YOU SPEAK architects and engineer’s computers which gave us the opportunity to give to L’Ecoute more than 60 computers. They refurbish them and re-sell them or recycle their material and the benefit goes to the NGO employing people with special needs. In addition, in the archive, anytime we have projects to R ECYCL ING 32 be disposed all their boxes are also sent to L’Ecoute for recycling. L A NGU A GE ? 306 ERGA GROUP SAL 103 SOCIAL IMPACT In Erga, there is a community of architects, engineers and management experts who is the basis of Erga’s success for years. Erga doesn’t compromise on its Employees rights, their health & safety (SDG 3: Good Health & Well Being) nor on their evolution at work, giving a big importance to their training and development (SDG 4: Quality Education) and respecting all genders and social statuses (SDG 5: Gender Equality & SDG 10: Reduced Inequality). Erga is committed to support its community (SDG 1: No Poverty, SDG3: Good Health & Well Being and SDG 2: Zero Hunger) organizing social events through its Social & Environmental Committee with concerned NGOs (SDG 17: Partnerships for the Goals). In line with the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), we are engaging ourselves in the following initiatives: Employee Training & Development Employees Health & Safety Community Support ERGA EMPLOYEE TRAINING & DEVELOPMENT 404 Erga Academy was created to boost the education of Erga staff members to evolve in terms of knowledge, competence and skills and to properly work as per Erga standards & regulations. It is a training system based on live or recorded training given internally or externally. Erga Academy is not strictly limited to training sessions; it manages seminars, workshops, product presentations and Erga’s knowledge base including the Visual Library and the lessons learned. A suitable training system is put in place based on tracks and credits beneficial for each staff member in their field. Five training tracks are identified to be followed: EPREP (Erga Preparatory) The basics of Erga systems to be known by all Erga staff EPRO (Erga Professional) What Erga Engineer should know in Erga Systems Worldwide EADMIN How to be an Erga Administrative Professional EPDM How to become a n Erga Project Design Manager (PDM) Professional SM How to become an Erga Site Management Professional 35 ERGA EMPLOYEE HEALTH & SAFETY ERGA DOCTOR Erga has appointed a doctor available at Erga premises 2 days a week. Erga doctor has for each staff member a confidential detailed medical record. Erga doctor is reached on his mobile phone for urgent matters. MEDICAL & LIFE INSURANCE Erga provides to all its employees non engineers a second class medical insurance covering 100% in and 85% out. While Erga Engineers are obliged to be covered by the insurance imposed by the Order of Engineers where they are registered. In addition, Erga provides a life insurance to all its employees called Jinane program named after an employee who died from a car accident on her way to the office in the morning. Work Insurance is also provided in case an accident occurs at work covering all cases. ERGA FIRST AID & EMERGENCY DEFIBRILLATOR TRAINING In case of emergency, a first aid kit is available in the Office Logistics office. In addition Erga periodically train interested staff members on first aid basics in a way to find in each floor 1 to 2 trained persons. In addition, Erga bought an automatic defibrillator for emergency cases and trained support staff members on using it. 36 403 ERGA SUPPORTS SPORTS ACTIVITIES The Social & Environmental Committee continually participates in sports activities like Beirut Corporate Games competing for 2 days with other companies, Beirut Marathon supporting annually a cause, hiking with the Lebanese Soldiers, biking, caving,... Erga supports as well sports teams like Erga Basketball team & Erga Football team. Beirut Corporate Games Beirut Marathon Erga Football Team Hiking with Lebanese Soldiers Erga Caving Team Erga Basketball Team Biking Event Camping Event 37 ERGA COMMUNITY SUPPORT ERGAMANIA is a simple word symbolizing and resuming Erga’s family spirit that you can’t but feel it whenever dealing with Erga staff. We want all our stakeholders to consider themselves part of what we like to call ERGAMANIA. Erga has other perspectives than only being a solutions provider. It has this other human magical part that is only felt by the people dealing with Erga and is directly linked to our commitment towards the society and the environment. We, as one of the biggest architectural consulting companies in the region, are responsible and aware of our dayto-day impact on society and environment. For this reason, Erga tries to spread a family spirit among its staff members to raise awareness and organizes regularly collective activities to staff members and their families. Our corporate gifts are in their majority a support to Sesobel or Message de Paix. Annually, Erga organizes special events. Below is a hint of what is ERGAMANIA: End of Year Erga Gathering Christmas Day with Erga Children 38 413 All the social events Erga organizes are not limited to what is shown in the pictures. This is just a hint of some of our initiatives. Other than the mentioned visits, Erga helps on a case by case a lot of people in need (orphans, homeless shelters, drug addicts, patients with a need of medication or surgery...). Logos of some of the NGOs we support Santa Barbara funding Christmas Action Lent Food Sale funding Easter Action Blood Drive Donner Sang Compter Periodic Visits to Shelters Periodic Visits to Orphans All year vide grenier supporting Auxilia 39 ERGA GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI DISCLOSURE DESCRIPTION PAGE GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURE 1Organizational Profile 102-1 Name of the organization 6 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 6-9 102-3 Location of headquarters 6 102-4 Location of operations 8 102-5 Ownership and legal form 6 102-6 Markets served 6 102-7 Scale of the organization 6 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 6 102-9 Supply chain 10 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 11 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 20 102-12 External initiatives 16 102-13 Membership of associations 17 2Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 4 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 18-19 3Ethics & Integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 12-17 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 12 40 GRI DISCLOSURE DESCRIPTION PAGE 4Governance 102-18 Governance structure 20 102-19 Delegating authority 20 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics 20 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental and social topics N/A 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees 20 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body 20 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body 20 102-25 Conflicts of interest 15 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values and strategy 20 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body 20 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance 20 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental and social impacts 20 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes 20 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics 20 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting 20 102-33 Communicating critical concerns 20 102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns N/A 102-35 Remuneration policies N/A 102-36 Process for determining remuneration N/A 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration N/A 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio N/A 102-39 Percentage increase in annual total compensation ratio N/A 41 GRI DISCLOSURE DESCRIPTION PAGE 5Stakeholder Engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 22 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 22 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 22 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 22 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 22 6Reporting Practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 23 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 24 102-47 List of material topics 24 102-48 Restatements of information N/A 102-49 Changes in reporting 23 102-50 Reporting period 23 102-51 Date of most recent report 23 102-52 Reporting cycle 23 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 23 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 23 102-55 GRI content index 23-40 102-56 External assurance 23 42 GRI DISCLOSURE DESCRIPTION PAGE GRI103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 103 Economic 26 103 Environmental 28 103 Social 34 GRI200: ECONOMIC 203 Indirect Economic Impacts 27 GRI300: ENVIRONMENTAL 302 Energy 29 304 Biodiversity 31 305 Emissions 29 306 Waste 32 307 Environmental Compliance 30 GRI400: SOCIAL 403 Occupational Health & Safety 36 404 Training & Education 35 413 Local Communities 38 43 www.erga.com
