Eurofins Agroscience Services Sustainability Report No. 1 2018 / 2019 An International Business Line of the Eurofins Group – EAS Group Sustainability Report 2018_2019 Page 1 of 58 Table of Contents Table of Contents ................................................................................................................................. 2 1. Letter from the Head of Eurofins Agroscience Services............................................................. 4 2. Overview of Eurofins Agroscience Services ............................................................................... 5 2.1 Values ........................................................................................................................................ 5 2.2 Mission and Vision.................................................................................................................... 5 2.3 Strategy ..................................................................................................................................... 5 2.4 Structure.................................................................................................................................... 6 2.4.1 Eurofins Agroscience Services operational organisation structure................................... 6 2.4.2 Structure of the EAS Group Pilots in 2019 ........................................................................... 7 3. Sustainability Strategy ................................................................................................................. 8 3.1 Roles & Responsibilities for Sustainability ............................................................................. 8 3.2 Business Model & Value Chain Responsibility........................................................................ 8 3.3 Engagement with our Key Stakeholders.................................................................................. 9 3.4 Areas of impact and their relevance .......................................................................................10 3.5 Sustainability Goals .................................................................................................................12 4. Social Dimension .........................................................................................................................13 4.1 Human Rights & Labour Relations..........................................................................................13 4.1.1 Commitment to EHS at Work ...............................................................................................13 4.1.2 Gender Equality....................................................................................................................15 4.1.3 People Development ............................................................................................................15 4.1.4 Co-operation with Employees & their Representatives ......................................................18 4.2 Community Relations ..............................................................................................................18 4.2.1 Testing Facilities as Honest Brokers between Registrants and Public/Authorities ..........18 4.2.2 Scientific Community ...........................................................................................................19 4.2.3 Beekeepers & Farmers .........................................................................................................19 5. Environmental Dimension ...........................................................................................................20 5.1 Contributing to the Advancement of Regulatory Science......................................................20 5.1.1 Test System Development & Journal Publications ............................................................20 5.1.2 Conference Contributions & Ring Testing ..........................................................................21 5.2 Environmental Protection Measures during Study Conduct .................................................21 5.3 Resource Usage .......................................................................................................................22 6. Supplier Relationship ..................................................................................................................23 7. Outlook: Sustainability as a Journey ..........................................................................................23 7.1 Rolling out Sustainability beyond the Pilot Scope .................................................................23 7.2 Making Progress with Regard to our Sustainability Goals ....................................................24 EAS Group Sustainability Report 2018_2019 Page 2 of 58 Appendix 1: Measurements – Health and Safety –.............................................................................25 Appendix 2: Measurements Gender Equality -.................................................................................31 Appendix 3: Measurements – Training – ............................................................................................33 Attachment 1: Flowering Areas at EAS Group to support Biodiversity ............................................41 Attachment 2: Green Electricity Supplier ...........................................................................................45 Attachment 3: Energy Audit ................................................................................................................46 Attachment 4: EAS Regulatory Report on Biologicals ......................................................................48 Attachment 5: Eurofins Group Code of Ethics...................................................................................51 Attachment 6: General Terms and Conditions of Purchase ..............................................................58 EAS Group Sustainability Report 2018_2019 Page 3 of 58 1. Letter from the Head of Eurofins Agroscience Services Dear Readers, We aim to contribute to global health and safety by: providing our customers with high-quality field, laboratory and regulatory services, whilst: creating opportunities for our employees; and generating sustainable shareholder value. This has always been our mission at Eurofins Agroscience Services. It directly links to “People – Planet – Profit”, the three target areas of sustainable development. At Eurofins Agroscience Services, we acknowledge that our common future depends on a broad view of all three dimensions of sustainability. We are therefore proud to present our first sustainability report. We embarked on this journey as we firmly believe that long-lasting business success requires continuous improvement to our environmental and social performance as a corporate citizen. As our work focuses on the behaviour of substances and formulations in environmental systems and their bioavailability and assimilation in organisms, as well as the biological responses of these organisms and their subsequent fate in the environment, we create reliable data that help registrants of agrochemicals and other chemicals to provide the most effective solutions with the lowest environmental impact possible. In doing so, Eurofins Agroscience Services supports the agricultural sector in providing affordable, healthy food for all, and thus contributes to a more sustainable agriculture. We are strongly convinced that through our business model, core competencies and assets, we can support the agricultural industry’s development towards more sustainable agrochemical inputs, as well as the local communities in which we are operating around the world. But we are not alone on this journey. Thus, we have teamed up with partners in our value chain and communities, integrating their specific perspectives into the building and execution of our sustainability strategy. Besides being a good corporate citizen, we strive to play an active role in the pursuit of the 17 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Eurofins Agroscience Services is a dynamic enterprise, meaning we are always looking for innovative solutions and striving to continuously improve our operations. We provide a great workplace and home for our people and are a well-respected partner in the neighbourhoods and communities in which we operate. We use our resources efficiently and protect the environment in our operations. We also invest our capital in innovations that will provide the basis for our future success. Sustainability is a journey, not a destination. We want to continuously improve our strategies, operations, and environmental and social footprint, in light of the 17 SDGs, and we invite you to become part of a dialogue on how best to pursue these goals. This report is intended to facilitate this dialogue with all of our stakeholders. We have embarked on a journey to ensure sustainability is at the forefront of our business model and would love you to join us in this effort. Together, Sincerely, Klaus Kügler Head of Agroscience EAS Group Sustainability Report 2018_2019 Page 4 of 58 2. Overview of Eurofins Agroscience Services 2.1 Values By listening to our customers’ expectations, we strive to add value through our services and are seeking sustainable innovations to help our customers to achieve their goals. We have long-term collaborations across all of the large-scale agrochemical industry, plus with almost 100% of small and mid-sized agrochemical companies, to support them in the plant protection registration process in order to evaluate the efficacy and to minimise the possible environmental impact of their products. It is of the utmost importance to us that our work enables the sustainable conservation of terrestrial, soil and aquatic ecosystems, and counteracts the loss of biodiversity. Our goal is to provide substantial solutions for a sustainable agriculture and production of safe food. To do so we need a committed, competent and highly motivated team. We rely on and value our employees. We see it as our obligation to provide good working conditions, create a positive working relationship between colleagues, and offer our employees opportunities to shape the company. It is important for us to provide quality in all of our work, with accurate results on time. To achieve this, we use the most appropriate technology and methods and constantly seek to improve our processes. Behaving ethically in all of our business and financial activities is the basis of our work. We demonstrate respect towards our customers and our staff and follow responsible environmental policies. 2.2 Mission and Vision As an international business line within the Eurofins Group, Eurofins Agroscience Services supports our Eurofins Group Mission Statement of “Testing for Life”. We aim to play our part in creating a safer and healthier world by contributing to food security, better nutrition, and sustainable agriculture. We provide our customers with innovative solutions, meeting the highest quality standards with cutting-edge technology and consultancy services, whilst creating opportunities for our employees and generating sustainable shareholder value. A clean and safe environment is a prerequisite for health and quality in life. Eurofins Agroscience Services combines global, multi-disciplined research and technical support to meet regulatory needs. We are the global leader in the Agroscience testing market and our long-term aspiration is to become the most respected partner for the development and assessment of solutions for sustainable and innovative agriculture. 2.3 Strategy Agrochemicals have helped to multiply food production over the last century, in order to keep up with the needs of a growing population and to provide food security for as many people as possible. However, this must be achieved in a sustainable way. The short and long-term impacts of agrochemicals in terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems have to be reduced to an efficient minimum. How this can be achieved is subject to ongoing debate around general sustainable agriculture and agrochemical use. Our business mission and competences place us at the centre of this discussion. In this context, our strategy is to: 1. provide involved parties with reliable and valid data on the benefits and impacts of agrochemical solutions as a “global one-stop service provider”; 2. actively contribute to the development of regulatory science; 3. ensure that we use resources responsibly; 4. take care of our team. EAS Group Sustainability Report 2018_2019 Page 5 of 58 Provide reliable and valid data on the benefits and impacts of agrochemical solutions: With over 30 years of experience, EAS Group offers outstanding technical knowledge and project management skills when sponsoring studies. Our service offering is continuously developed by knowledge transfer initiatives between the Group's various centres of expertise across the globe. We conduct studies and provide regulatory constancy on almost all of the aspects required for the regulatory assessment of agrochemicals, including: Biology; Product Chemistry; Consumer Safety (incl. Operator and Bystander Safety); and Environmental Safety. This includes both synthetic agrochemicals and bio-rational solutions. Beyond this, we are involved in the performance of environmental safety assessments of pharmaceuticals (Pharma Environmental Risk Assessment) and chemicals (REACh). Contribution to the development of regulatory science Since the very beginning of our company’s history, we have been members of the Society of Environmental Toxicology and Chemistry (SETAC), a non-profit organisation dedicated to addressing environmental challenges and offering a platform to facilitate networking, training and exchanging the latest research results on environmental issues. We participate in several working groups and provide lectures, posters, and trainings to the working groups. Ensure that we use resources responsibly This applies to laboratory and, in particular, field studies. We have long-lasting and trust-based partnerships with our local farmers. Fields are rented for performing field trials and reserve areas are used to promote biodiversity and food sources for the various insect populations. Take care of our team We employ talented and competent staff, invest in training, and provide good career opportunities by recognising and encouraging outstanding performance. It is important for us to deliver quality in all of our work, with accurate results on time. To achieve this, we use the most appropriate technologies and methods and seek to improve or adopt processes for the better. We are committed to adding value to the following sustainability goals: Maintaining and constantly improving our environmental responsibility; Respecting and complying with Human Rights; Ensuring that a safe working place is provided and respecting the needs and rights of our personnel. We understand sustainability as a process of change and growth for our business. In this report, we will present data from selected pilot groups of Eurofins Agroscience Services and publish our goals and actions, whilst at the same time describing the areas in which we want to progress over the course of the coming years. These pilot groups highlight the progress we are working towards and are a representative illustration of the standards we apply to Eurofins Agroscience Services globally. 2.4 Structure 2.4.1 Eurofins Agroscience Services operational organisation structure Eurofins Agroscience Services (hereafter called “EAS Group”) is an international business line of the Eurofins Group. It consists out of over 50 separate legal entities with about 1,500 employees, ranging from small field stations up to laboratory sites with over 300 people. Entities are grouped in so-called ‘clusters’ based on the region they belong to – and, in Europe, by type of service provided. We are experts in managing global field studies, worker exposure studies, ecotoxicology, analytical services, physicochemical property testing, metabolism studies, and environmental fate laboratory and field studies. With a comprehensive knowledge of laboratory and field studies, our scientists work EAS Group Sustainability Report 2018_2019 Page 6 of 58 together to respond quickly, using the most current approach and complex, in-depth environmental studies. Our laboratories and field entities are accredited by competent authorities for the quality standards Good Laboratory Practice (GLP) and Good Experimental Practice (GEP) as applicable for their field or work. One subsidiary is also accredited for Good Manufacturing (GMP). We are following the regulatory guidelines that are applicable to our area of work. Guidelines from the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) are a set of internationally accepted specifications for the testing of chemicals. National regulatory guidelines / laws are followed for the countries involved in the study. This report refers to the pilot group, comprising eight legal entities from Germany with a total of 474 people (2019 numbers), representing 34% of the Eurofins Agroscience Services Group globally. In the future, we want to gradually add more entities to the scope of this report. KPIs reported later in this report refer to these pilot companies unless explicitly stated otherwise. The reporting period is from 2018-2019. The closing date for all data and facts was December 31, 2019. 2.4.2 Structure of the EAS Group Pilots in 2019 EAS Field / Agrartest / Stade EAS Chem EAS EcoChem Various field sites/DE Hamburg/DE Niefern/DE EAG Laboratories EAS Ecotox EAS Regulatory Ulm/DE Niefern/DE Niefern/DE EAS Group Sustainability Report 2018_2019 Page 7 of 58 3. Sustainability Strategy 3.1 Roles & Responsibilities for Sustainability Eurofins Agroscience Services (EAS) is on the way to making sustainability an integral part of its corporate culture. The corporate business strategy and the sustainability strategy are fully aligned, also accounting for the long-term investments and growth opportunities identified. In EAS, sustainability is sponsored by the CEO Klaus Kügler, with execution championed and led by Friedrich Knecht (Chief Sustainability Officer). The different cluster leadership teams act as sustainability steering committees to ensure strategic alignment, co-ordination and knowledge sharing. Sustainability experts have direct access to the Chief Sustainability Officer and, thus, influence decision-making at executive management level. In addition, EAS Group has initiated an external advisory committee that will audit the company’s performance on sustainability and challenge its corporate direction on a regular basis. In order to embed sustainability throughout the entire organisation, EAS Group has introduced a training programme dealing with the basic aspects of sustainability, which is being rolled out across the entire EAS organisation. 3.2 Business Model & Value Chain Responsibility There is a strong need to maintain a productive agriculture and efficient land use for a rapidly growing world population. At the same time, the conservation of environmental resources and the preservation of biodiversity are key elements to protect the environment we all live in. This responsibility will continuously grow for the food producing and associated industries, as the integrity of terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems is more and more under threat. With our work, we are in a key position to help to solve the trade-off between the economic efficiency of farming and environmental protection. The short and longterm impacts in terrestrial, soil and aquatic ecosystems, along with the effects on humans, have to be investigated and reduced to a minimum before an agrochemical, chemical or biocide goes to the market. With our work, we therefore support our partners in bringing the best technology with the lowest environmental impact possible to the market. We constantly innovate and invest in our processes and technologies to provide state-of-the-art testing facilities and the highest level of scientific scrutiny possible, in order to best inform the product development efforts of our partners. EAS Group Sustainability Report 2018_2019 Page 8 of 58 3.3 Engagement with our Key Stakeholders In order to understand the perspectives of our key stakeholders, we have mapped them. Internal stakeholders are employees throughout the EAS organisation. They all have an influence because they represent the most critical part of an organisation. To capture their views, we invited employees from different units and levels of responsibility to share their views on our most material issues. Among them, technicians from the different testing facilities and the field team, middle managers, administrative staff and executive management have been involved. Key external stakeholders are first and foremost the partners and customers who use our knowhow and technology to successfully develop their agrochemical, chemical or biocidal products. We further engaged with players in the same industry, to some extent competitors, in order to capture their particular views on our industry as Contract Research Organisations. In the future, we will further engage in dialogue with authorities and local communities in order to better inform our sustainability efforts in light of their views on our sustainability impacts and high priority issues. Depending on the complexity of our industry, we have started this process with a rather limited number of stakeholders, who were previously identified to deeply understand our modus operandi as a CRO. In order to prioritise them, we use a matrix to analyse the influence that stakeholders have on our operations and their level of interest in it (Fig. 1). In the materiality analysis carried out in 2020, we attempted to capture the views of our customers and employees in particular. Fig. 1 Interest/Power-Matrix of EAS’ Key Stakeholders EAS Group Sustainability Report 2018_2019 Page 9 of 58 3.4 Areas of impact and their relevance From the mix of EAS’ stakeholders, the group “customers” (n=6), “academia” (n = 2), “competitors” (n = 3) and “EAS Group internal” (n = 30) were selected. However, interviews with additional stakeholders are in progress. The data for the analysis were mainly collected through filling a questionnaire in combination with semi-structured interviews. In total, more than 40 interviews with internal and external stakeholders were conducted by and under the guidance of an independent sustainability expert. Anonymity was guaranteed to all interviewees. All the interviews took place in 2020, and they were summarised in detailed notes, depending on the interviewee’s preference. The interviews sought a clearer understanding of the relevance of different impacts of EAS’ business on internal and external stakeholders. The relevant topic areas were preselected in light of the 17 SDGs and the potential impacts of the EAS’ business model on them (see Tab. 1). In addition, the interviewees were asked to name additional sustainability topics of concern for them. Questionnaire (English translation) Materiality Analysis Reference not very extremely How important is it for you that EAS… not important important very important don't know to SDG important important 1 …contributes to food security? 2 …contributes to better nutrition and sustainable agriculture? … offers participation of its employees and creates good working conditions as 3 well as a sense of togetherness for its workforce? …offers professional training opportunities and performance appraisal 4 programmes to foster the personal development of its employees? 5 …strives for gender equality at the decision-making levels of its organisation? 7 ...increasingly uses renewable energy for its operations? …makes sustainable use of its financial resources and invests in a sustainable 8 manner? 9 …brings sustainable innovations forward? 12 …uses environmental resources in a sustainable way? 13 …contributes to the protection of aquatic ecosystems? 14 …contributes to the mitigation of climate change? 15 …contributes to the protection of terrestrial ecosystems and biodiversity? 16 … is an inclusive and diverse organisation on every decision-making level? 17 …contributes substantially to global sustainable development? … Table 1: Materiality Analysis Questionnaire EAS Group Sustainability Report 2018_2019 Page 10 of 58 Due to the pilot scope of this analysis, the interviews were conducted in German. The result of the analysis is depicted in Fig. 2. Amongst the most relevant issues selected by external and internal stakeholders as key topic areas for sustainable development of Eurofins Agroscience Services were: Participation of employees and working conditions (SDG 3); and Sustainable use of natural resources (SDG 12). Fig. 2: Material Issues for Eurofins Agroscience Services based on the initial Materiality Analysis In addition, a number of the issues selected and prioritised are linked to either issues, such as: “Gender Equality” (SDG 5) and “Training & Performance Appraisal” (SDG 4), linked to “Participation & Working Conditions”; and “Protection of aquatic & terrestrial ecosystems” (SDGs 13 & 15), “Protection against Climate Change” (SDG 14) and “Use of Renewable Energy” (SDG 7), linked to “Sustainable Use of Resources” As far as additional issues repeatedly mentioned by the interviewees, the following need to be highlighted: “Global Standardization of Labour & Social Conditions” and “Sustainability Reporting & Transparency” Whereas the first issue lies beyond the pilot scope of this report, the Eurofins Group as a globally operating organisation supports the four fundamental principles contained within the International Labour Organisation (ILO) Declaration: • Effective abolition of child labour; • Elimination of discrimination in respect to employment and occupation; • Elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour; • Freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. EAS Group Sustainability Report 2018_2019 Page 11 of 58 These standards are further detailed in policies addressing conditions, e.g. the group’s “Health and Safety Policy” and “Equal Opportunities and Fair Employment Policy” (cf. chapter 4.1). The second issue has been addressed by providing this first sustainability report and EAS’ commitment to update the document on a yearly basis. 3.5 Sustainability Goals As previously explained, the core service of EAS is the generation of data for the characterisation, safety and efficacy assessment of agrochemicals and other chemicals, i.e. the provision of sound data to enable regulatory decision-making in the best interest of sustainable agriculture. Thus, it can be argued that the development of the group’s size (in terms of net sales) and market share can be seen as a key indicator reflecting both the contribution made and economics success. However, the materiality analysis suggests that financial and market share goals need to be complemented to fully capture the key sustainability topics for EAS. For this purpose, a set of eight mid to long-term goals has been defined for the identified two key areas of sustainable development: SDG area Goals Sustainable use of 1. Develop new study designs to evaluate the environmental impact of natural resources farming practices in general and, in particular, agrochemicals use (SDG 12) 2. Support the environmental evaluation of chemicals under REACh 3. Improve the CO2 footprint of EAS business operations Participation of 4. Support employee health employees and 5. Provide a safe work place working conditions 6. Improve employee engagement and talent retention 7. Drive gender equality 8. Keep regular dialogue with employees and their representatives EAS sustainability goals and the corresponding KPIs are described in detail in Chapter 7.2. EAS Group Sustainability Report 2018_2019 Page 12 of 58 4. Social Dimension 4.1 Human Rights & Labour Relations In a decentralised organisation like the Eurofins Group, overarching policies regulate topics from Human Health and Safety, IT Safety, or Employment and Ethical Rules. Each legal entity has to follow and implement these policies in their daily work. Furthermore, local guidelines, policies and standard operating procedures regulate the individual needs and requirements of an operating site in the different countries. On October 24th 2019, the Board of Directors of the Eurofins Group issued a revised version of the Eurofins Group Code of Ethics that “serves as a standing guideline for all people working for, or with, the companies belonging to the Eurofins Group. It is designed to set out a series of ethical conduct principles which support Eurofins’ values of Customer Focus, Quality, Competence & Team Spirit and Integrity. Ethical and compliant behaviour is a core value of our business. Our clients, suppliers, employees and other stakeholders have to be able to rely on absolute integrity from our part. As such, it is nonnegotiable. All our activities rely on and require ethical and compliant conduct of our leaders, employees and partners in all aspects of our companies’ business.” We behave ethically in all our business and financial activities, demonstrating respect towards our customers and our staff, and invest in training and creating good career opportunities. – The Eurofins Group Code of Ethics Policy Other overarching policies: The Eurofins Group Health and Safety Policy The Eurofins Group Equal Opportunities and Fair Employment Policy The Eurofins Group Anti-Bribery Policy The Eurofins Group Modern Slavery Human Trafficking and Child Labour Statement The Eurofins Group Equal Opportunities and Fair Employment Policy The Eurofins Group Privacy Policy The Eurofins Group Ethical Behaviour at Laboratories Policy The Eurofins Group Ethical Behaviour during Audits Inspections and other Offsite Operations Policy The Eurofins Group Whistleblowing Guidelines The Group Code of Ethics are enforced along with these key policies and made applicable to all Eurofins Group companies via shareholder resolutions. EAS Group is committed to respecting and fostering human rights. Human rights standards are set out in the Eurofins Group’s Equal Opportunities and Fair Employment Policy, and operating sites follow the local governmental human right laws. Leaders in the EAS Group have to create and influence an environment in which people perform, grow, and enjoy, and to which they also contribute. Our leaders serve as role models and play an important part in promoting this culture at the EAS Group. The leaders’ commitment to this culture is also part of their annual appraisals and will be evaluated. Child and forced labour are strictly prohibited in the Eurofins Group. This prohibition is set out in our binding Eurofins Group Code of Ethics and Values. EAS Group only offers fixed term internships, training programs and seasonal employment. 4.1.1 Commitment to EHS at Work Health and Safety EAS Group has health and safety rules fixed in policies and standard operational procedures. All accidents, hazardous situations or exposures to products must immediately be reported to Management. The EAS group-wide Policy “Protective Measures for Health and Safety” demands that every incident be recorded in an Accident & Incident Report book. This documentation must be known to all employees and remain easily accessible. EAS Group Sustainability Report 2018_2019 Page 13 of 58 Laboratory testing with agrochemicals and other chemicals is covered by standard operational procedures, which must be read, understood and signed by each employee. This includes the handling of each type of testing. Detailed documentation within each study is covered by a defined study plan and in the accompanying raw data. Each person involved in a study is signing their participation. Every study and selected steps of performance, including the final report, are audited on correctness by an independent group called “Quality Assurance”. Handling of test organisms, chemicals and their professional disposal is conducted in agreement with the local laws and is described in standard operating procedures. Chemical waste is collected and disposed of by professional companies. Operating Rules Policy – Work Safety In a policy, the responsibilities and communication cascade are described. A caretaker for occupational safety must be appointed. This function supports management in defining hazardous working conditions or situations, creates safety policies, conducts health and safety briefings and trainings, and conducts regular tours to check for potential hazardous conditions and situations. For each team, one or more first aider (depending on the size) is appointed. To reduce employee exposure to work-related health and safety hazards, personal protective equipment is provided to all employees, e.g. full body clothing, respiratory devices, eye and face protection (see Fig. 3). Example: Occupational Safety organisation at EAS Group Niefern site: Occupational Safety Senior Specialist for Occupational Safety EAS EcoChem / EAS Ecotox First Aider in every team Environmental Ecotox Field Fate Terrestrial Metabolism Lab Environmental Aquatic Lab Chemistry Residue Analysis Fig. 3: Occupational Safety Responsibilities. Example of EAS Group Niefern site. EAS Group Sustainability Report 2018_2019 Page 14 of 58 Hazard evaluation assessments are described in the operational instructions and must contain, for example, a precise definition of the chemical/equipment, possible dangers in handling, danger symbols, first aid measurements, and reporting. One of the indicators of performance concerning labour rights is the company’s sickness absence rate. For further information, please see Appendix 1: Measurements – Health and Safety – 4.1.2 Gender Equality All people are equal before the law and no one may be discriminated against or favoured on the basis of their sex, ancestry, race, home and origin, faith, or religious or political beliefs. Furthermore, nobody may be discriminated against because of their disability. Eurofins Group is highly committed to strengthening equality. Therefore, an Equality Driving Excellence (EDE) initiative was launched at Group level in 2020. The EDE initiative is led by a core global equality team, comprising equality ambassadors nominated in collaboration with the Business Leaders in all countries. Taking action on “Gender Equality” and “Stance Against Racism” has been the EDE’s primary focus for 2020. Furthermore, Eurofins is committed to promoting equal opportunities in employment. Each job applicant will receive equal treatment, regardless of age, disability, gender, race, and nationality. This includes, amongst other things, the recruitment procedure, pay and conditions, training, appraisals, and promotion. For further information, please see Appendix 2: Measurements Gender Equality 4.1.3 People Development Recruitment and promotion The EAS Group has standardised ethical standards and working conditions. New hiring and wages are made according to local laws and regulations. Vacancies are generally advertised to the relevant labour market. Job applicants must not be asked questions that may suggest an intention to discriminate based on sex, ancestry, race, home and origin, faith, or religious or political beliefs. EAS Group ensures that employees are fairly compensated throughout the Group. Our compensation system combines a basic salary with performance-related elements. Adjustments are based on continuous benchmarking and compensation is in excess of the statutory minimum wage. This also applies to part-time employees whose compensation is proportionally aligned with that of a fulltime position. The living wages are adapted annually, in line with changing conditions. We offer our employees flexible and part-time models that provide them with significant scope for organising their working time, thus allowing them to take appropriate care of children and dependents. The positive resonance from our working time models and their flexibility is reflected by, for example, the return rate to the workplace after parental leave being at almost 100%. For most personnel, working hours are recorded on a daily basis. Overtime hours are registered and these are compensated preferably through additional free time or, if this is not possible, then the overtime is paid. Annual appraisals with technicians, scientists and management, according to objectives/targets, are done continuously for the upcoming year. Contracts defining salary and benefits are issued to each employee. The EAS Group pays all recruitment fees, visas, airfare, travel, lodgings and meals for our employees during the recruitment process. Male and female employees at EAS Group receive equal compensation based on qualifications and responsibilities. Employees can join the company either as executives/managers or as technicians/scientists. This allows for the promotion of highly qualified technical staff who may not wish to pursue a management career. The EAS Group offers high-level scientific and/or technical talents extended career opportunities, while allowing them to stay in their chosen profession and continue to add value. Employees in both development streams receive equal treatment in terms of advancement, salary increases and the respect they receive from the company. EAS Group Sustainability Report 2018_2019 Page 15 of 58 Training Program EAS Group is a knowledge-based business line, hence the development of employee competencies and knowledge is key. Trainings are a key measure to achieve this. Training needs are identified through regular appraisals and employees are given access to training to enable them to progress within the organisation. The training comprises technical, scientific, financial or personal development topics. In recognising, engaging and developing our people, we invest in leadership trainings for management as well as emerging leaders of the EAS Group. Those groups are trained in a leader’s programme in co-operation with the Loughborough University, U.K. The programme comprises a personality test and training on self-awareness, financials, leading a team, people skills, and how changes affect employees. The Eurofins Group founded the Eurofins Academy. This Academy has an international team, who established an eLearning platform for efficient knowledge dissemination to all the employees. In 2020, training on the Eurofins Group Code of Ethics, Phishing Awareness Course, and COVID-19 protective measurements have been undertaken. The number of employees who successfully completed training will be reported in future progress reports of the EAS Group. In addition, applicable scientific quality standards (e.g. GLP, GEP) pose training and qualification requirements for the personnel involved in the conduct of studies for which compliance is claimed. The personnel must be adequately qualified, trained and experienced to carry out the functions required to them. To achieve this requirement, a test facility/test site must operate a robust training program for members of staff, supported by comprehensive training records. For field trials, the use of casual employees may be required. These staff members are under the direct supervision of trained staff for the duration of the task, in order to fully understand the work required. Internal training makes up the bulk of trainings with relevant demonstrations/discussions on a group or individual level. It is an ongoing process and staff competencies are reviewed periodically to identify any further training requirements. All training is documented with trainer, attendee, and a short description of what was covered by the training. This is either done on paper or through entries into a GLP training database. We measured the different trainings in units. A training unit can range from an hour up to several days. However, not every training conducted is recorded in a database, but rather they are primarily recorded on paper. Therefore, some entities cannot provide a complete overview of trainings performed in 2018 and 2019. In the future, we will further develop and expand our training catalogue. By 2021, training of all entities should be collected in the training database, which will be extended to all trainings received. For further information, please see Appendix 3: Measurements – Training – EAS Group Sustainability Report 2018_2019 Page 16 of 58 Trainees and Apprentices University students are given the opportunity to participate in form of internship. They participate in most of the activities and gain a good insight into possible future work surroundings. Some sites provide educational training and hire apprentices. Most of the apprentices are taken over after a successfully performance in their final exams. Training-on-job has the advantage that both sides (apprentice and company) get to know each other and their abilities. With this procedure, long-term employment is usually the result. Apprenticeship duration is more than one year, and usually 2-3 years. 2018 EAS EAS Field / EcoChem EAS Chem EAG Lab EAS Ecotox EAS Agrartest / Niefern Hamburg Ulm Niefern Regulatory Stade Trainees 0 3 1 8 0 3 Apprentices 6 0 0 2 2 2019 Trainees 0 4 2 5 1 9 Apprentices 8 0 0 1 1 Table 2: Overview of Trainees and Apprentices at the different EAS sites Harassment Harassment includes any unwanted conduct that creates an intimidating, humiliating, hostile, degrading or offensive work environment for any person, or which violates the dignity of any person. It can be physical, verbal or non-verbal conduct. Bullying can take the form of physical, verbal or non-verbal conduct and may include physical or psychological threats, overbearing and intimidating levels of supervision, or inappropriate derogatory remarks about someone’s performance. If a person feels they are being harassed, bullied or discriminated against, or are witness to this, they can report to the local human resources function. Where one may be afraid of retaliation, it may be appropriate to voice such concerns using the Eurofins Whistleblowing Point of Contact. Please see reference to the Eurofins Group Whistleblowing Guidelines: https://cdnmedia.eurofins.com/corporateeurofins/media/12152995/20200106-v1-eurofins-group-whistleblowing-guidelines-final-26052020.pdf Anti-Corruption The Eurofins Group Anti-Bribery Policy lays out in greater detail the stance towards corruption and bribery set out in the Code of Ethics. It establishes the limitations that every employee must adhere to when interacting with, for example, customers and government officials around the world. It provides information about anti-bribery laws in order to avoid inadvertent violations. Every employee working for a Eurofins company deserves the same basic level of protection against non-compliant behaviour and should follow the same basic norms and standards, irrespective of where they are working. The Whistleblowing Point of Contact is accessible for all within the Eurofins Intranet and the Eurofins Group’s website, following a link called Whistleblowing. The annual performance appraisal includes both a Self-Assessment and an Assessment by the Assessor, which serves to evaluate the integrity of the assessed leader, as well as in their function in the Group. By 2021, all EAS Group employees will have undergone a training on identifying and reporting harassment through the Eurofins Academy. EAS Group Sustainability Report 2018_2019 Page 17 of 58 4.1.4 Co-operation with Employees & their Representatives A constructive dialogue and co-operation with employees are key for a productive working relationship, and representation is welcome. This can be via formal employee councils (e.g. in our Ulm and Hamburg laboratories) with mandates as per work constitution law, or via informal confidants (“Vertrauensleute”). The latter is the case for the Niefern site (Chemistry, Ecotox and Regulatory). Despite the less formalised setting, appropriate employee representation is taken seriously: Elections for group members take place every two years and are organised by the current group of confidants. Each confidant is trained in communication, mediation and bullying prevention. The staff can contact confidants personally, by phone, by email, or anonymously by post. In 2018 and 2019, the Group was contacted approximately 6-10 times per year. Regular meetings with the managing directors allow to issues to be brought to the table and shared, and a common understanding to be established. In future, we will record the contacts and classify them by topics e.g. feedback from exit interviews, mediation, dialogue with management, etc. The committee is the contact for all employees and management in any matter related to individual needs or the working community. They accompany individuals, if requested, in personnel interviews, and assist in case of conflicts between employees or employee(s) and management. Possible protocols are kept strictly confidential, only accessible to confidants. 4.2 Community Relations 4.2.1 Testing Facilities as Honest Brokers between Registrants and Public/Authorities EAS is a group of independent testing facilities whose data are only of value if recognised by scientists and the competent regulatory authorities. In this context, a test facility’s GLP or GEP certificate represents its license to operate. At each testing facility, a Quality Assurance unit conducts systematic checks for correctness and compliance with applicable guidelines. Deviations from study plans (independent of the reason why) are addressed within the context of studies and are reported. Regular audits by government GLP inspectors reassure the reliability of the studies performed. At the same time, EAS Group is a private Contract Research Organisation operating in a competitive marketplace. This creates a healthy incentive for quality and timeliness of study conduct and reporting. It also incentivises efficiency while keeping the requirements of GLP and GEP. As a consequence, EAS Group’s role between registrant and authorities/public creates an incentive to provide accurate and reliable testing results of high quality and on time, combined with a high level of responsiveness. This means acting as an independent “honest broker” between the different groups that have an interest in the assessment of an agrochemical. EAS Group Sustainability Report 2018_2019 Page 18 of 58 4.2.2 Scientific Community We see ourselves as a leading scientific practitioner and as such are an active participant in the relevant scientific community. Our experts maintain individual memberships in, and EAS Group has corporate partnerships with, a number of scientific associations. For example, we are a member of the SETAC Global Partners Program and the ICPPR’s Bee Protection Group. One of our department leaders was on the Board of Directors of the SETAC GLB (German Language Branch) for six years and was the President of this branch in 2018. In 2017, our Valencia laboratory organised the venue for the third International Symposium of the ICP-PR Bee Protection Group. We regularly attend and support numerous scientific conferences. Please refer to section 5.1 for an overview of contribution highlights. The sheer number of tests performed under GLP conditions lead to organisational learning and competence that is of value to the scientific community. Testimony to this are pollinator testing and risk assessment trainings conducted by the Niefern ecotox experts onsite (e.g. 2019 for members of EU and national authorities) and at conferences (e.g. SETAC 2019), with attendees from academia, authorities and agrochemicals industry. These events do not only allow EAS Group to share knowledge, but also allow EAS Group to learn through the feedback the participating experts. 4.2.3 Beekeepers & Farmers For each field trial, EAS Group applies to the local authorities for the permission to perform a study with registered and non-registered plant protection test material, in agreement with the current and local laws. In order to investigate the impact of plant protection products under field conditions, we have longstanding co-operations with local farmers. For our trials, we use large-scale cultivation of the crop Phacelia tanacetifolia. This plant is a very good source of pollen and nectar for honey bees, bumble bees and other pollinators. At least two hectares (ha) each year are used as backup areas without any treatment, and for each trial one third of the field area serves as control. This serves to maintain and improve the biodiversity of the research/study sites. In 2018, 6.2 ha were untreated areas of Phacelia, and in 2019 this was 7.4 ha. By 2025, we aim to set aside 20 ha of untreated areas each year as our contribution to reducing the environmental impact of intensive agriculture. In addition, we have also stocked more than 400 beehives across over 20 locations to support the pollination of various crops. EAS Group Field organisation has launched an initiative to lay out flowering strips within their test facilities as a contribution to stimulating insect biodiversity. The roof coverage of the recently constructed Eurofins Campus in Hamburg is another example for our contribution to Environmental Impact. This was done in collaboration with a consultant for urban species protection, ‘Stadtnaturentwicklung’, Hamburg. One of the focal points of their work is the animal-friendly design of walls, façades and rooves of buildings. For further information, please see Attachment 1: Flowering Areas at EAS Group to support Biodiversity Our commitment towards sustainability is also demonstrated by training beekeepers and farmers on the requirements of pollinators and the need for plant protection product testing. One example comprises the course “Bee testing SETAC 3 Module” by Dr. Marco Candolfi and Dr. Silvio Knäbe European Meeting Helsinki 26 May 2019, 13 May 2018. EAS Group Sustainability Report 2018_2019 Page 19 of 58 5. Environmental Dimension 5.1 Contributing to the Advancement of Regulatory Science In its role as a group of testing facilities for agricultural solutions, EAS Group supports the development and use of environmentally and climate-friendly products, processes and technologies. Based on the continuously increasing demand for “biosolutions” in agriculture, in particular for biopesticides / bioprotectants and biostimulants, the EAS Group is substantially expanding its capacities for regulatory testing and consulting to strive for sustainable agricultural solutions. Our regulatory team is a member of the International Biocontrol Manufacturers Association (IBMA) and participates actively in the “Group for Natural Substances”. In 2020, Eurofins Regulatory supported the Annual Biocontrol Industry Meeting (ABIM) key industry event as Bronze Sponsor. For further information, please see Attachment 4: EAS Regulatory Report on Biologicals 5.1.1 Test System Development & Journal Publications The EAS Group actively contributes to the development and adaptations of validated methods for regulatory testing. Over the past 20 years, the EAS Group has issued 16 scientific publications dealing with the Environmental Impact of modern agricultural practices. The topics range from laboratory to field tests, covering investigations of plant protection products on honey bees and wild bees, calculation of meaningful endpoints to assess pollinator testing, recommendations for a semi-field experimental design, and more. Test System Development: Title of the Master Thesis Co-operation with University Year Standard toxicity testing of in-soil organisms in the laboratory using natural soils and OECD University of Koblenz – Landau 2020 artificial soil Test Method Development to Investigate Ecotoxicological Effects of Chemical Substances On University of Koblenz – Landau 2019 Herbivorous Lepidopteran Larvae Journal Publications: Title of the paper Name of the publication / scientific journal the Yearpaper was published in Honey bee testing in Southern Europe: From the laboratory to the relevant crop in the field Bulletin of Insectology 2003 Coming in from the cold Far Eastern Economic Review 2008 Field studies for the assessment of pesticides with soil mesofauna, in particular enchytraeids, mites and nematodes Soil Organisms 2009 Lethal and sublethal toxic effects of a test chemical (ivermectin) on the yellow dung fly (Scathophaga stercoraria) based on a standardized international ring test Environmental Toxicology and Chemistry 2009 Toxicity testing with the collembolans Folsomia fimetaria and Folsomia candida and the results of a ringtest Danish Environmental Protection Agency 2009 Proposal of the ICPBR Bee Brood Group for testing and assessing potential side effects from the use of plant protection products on honey bee brood Julius-Kühn-Archiv 2010 Results of an international ring test with the dung fly Musca autumnalis in support of a new OECD test guideline Science of The Total Environment 2010 A framework for a European network for a systematic environmental impact assessment of genetically modified organisms (GMO) BioRisk 2012 Occurrence and distribution of earthworms in agricultural landscapes across Europe with regard to testing for responses to plant protection products Journal of Soils and Sediments 2013 Application of predefined doses of neonicotinoid containing dusts in field trials and acute effects on honey bees Bulletin of Insectology 2015 Available methods for the sampling of nectar, pollen, and flowers of different plant species Julius Kühn Archive 2015 Country-specific effects of neonicotinoid pesticides on honey bees and wild bees Science 2017 Which Endpoints Can Be Reliably Assessed in Semi-field Pollinator Species Testing without Estimating False Positive or False Negative? MDD’s and Replicates Issue Journal of Agricultural Science and Technology A 2018 RESULTS OF 2-YEAR RING-TESTING OF A SEMI-FIELD STUDY DESIGN TO INVESTIGATE POTENTIAL IMPACTS OF PESTICIDES ON THE SOLITARY BEES OSMIA BICORNIS (LINNAEUS, 1758) AND OSMIA CORNUTA (LATREILLE, 1805) (HYMENOPTERA, MEGACHILIDAE) AND A PROPOSAL OF A SUITABLE TEST DESIGN Environmental Toxicology and Chemistry 2018 Two new species records of Proprioseiopsis Muma (Acari: Mesostigmata: Phytoseiidae) from Germany Soil Organisms 2019 Celebrating 20 years of SETAC German Language Branch (GLB) Environmental Science Europe 2019 Table 3: Overview of test System Development and Journal Publications of EAS EAS Group Sustainability Report 2018_2019 Page 20 of 58 5.1.2 Conference Contributions & Ring Testing Alongside our daily work, we are strongly involved in the scientific approach to further improving the knowledge and quality of (agro)chemical testing. As a member for many years of The Society of Environmental Toxicology and Chemistry (SETAC), we constantly present the results of our research in poster and oral presentations and we are also providing training courses. Besides SETAC, we have also participated in seven ring tests of laboratory studies with pollinators and aquatic organisms. Those ring tests form the basis of the harmonisation of new guidelines for the registration of new crop protection products (Tab. 4). We have also participated in a European research project on the effects of nanotechnology, called NanoMile. We have investigated the interactions of engineered nanomaterial mechanisms with living systems and the environment. The main goal was to evaluate the applicability of OECD guidelines for testing the ecotoxicological effects on various terrestrial invertebrates (earthworms, springtails, and soil mites) of selected nanoparticles that are currently suspected to have biological effects. Poster/Presentations: Title of the Poster/Presentation Conference Year Feasibility and reliability of assessing generative traits of (non-) crop species for regulatory testing Platform presentation at the 29th SETAC 2019 under greenhouse conditions Europe Annual Meeting, Helsinki A comparison between vegetative and reproductive endpoints for Non-Target Terrestrial Plant Poster presentation at the 29th SETAC 2019 studies with (non-) crop species in greenhouse and field Europe Annual Meeting, Helsinki Development of a test method for hervivorous lepidopteran larvae Platform presentation at the 29th SETAC 2019 Europe Annual Meeting, Helsinki Aporrectodea caliginosa: A long-term laboratory study with different untreated and Copper treated Poster presentation at the 29th SETAC 2019 field soils Europe Annual Meeting, Helsinki Ring Testing: Topic/short description Comments Year Osmia ringtest (acute oral toxicity; Labor) An acute oral ring test will be conducted in June 2018 2018 Bumble bee ringtest (chronic toxicity; Labor) One or two chronic ring test(s) in autumn 2018 (number of replicates can vary) 2018 Glyceria ring test 2018 meeting at SETAC (already GLP studies running inhouse) 2018 Bioaccumulation Hyalella Meeting at SETAC; planned 2018/2019 2018 RFID Homing-Flight ring test Last RFID ringtest 2018 DIN EN ISO 10253 Comparative Test mit Phaeodactylum tricornutum Participation in ring test/ Data submitted 2018 Ring test with the Oribatid mite Oppia nitens (Environment Canada) Ring test completed, draft GL proposals submitted to Environment Canada and ISO, both are commented without major issues and will be finalised within due time 2018 Topic/short description Comments Year Glyceria ring test Finished and reported. Probably another ring test will follow 2020 2019 Bioaccumulation Hyalella Ongoing – Lab test planned for 2019 2019 DIN EN ISO 10253 Vergleichstest mit Phaeodactylum tricornutum Ongoing 2019 ISO/DIN 10872 Determination of the toxic effect of sediment and soil samples Lab test August/September; data to be delivered latest 01.10.2019 on growth, fertility and reproduction of Caenorhabditis elegans (Nematoda) 2019 ISO Soil quality –Test for estimating organic matter decomposition in Lab test starting in September; data to be delivered latest January 2020 contaminated soil in the lab 2019 Table 4: Overview of Presentations and Ring Testing Activities of EAS 5.2 Environmental Protection Measures during Study Conduct The Eurofins Group is committed to ensuring its systems and processes meet the highest environmental standards. A major aspect of our business is accompanied by testing products under real-life farming conditions. This means we have to grow crops as a farmer would do. Contrary to a farmer, we aim to test and identify the profile of the individual products rather than optimising yields per hectare. Therefore, our guiding principle is to reduce farming inputs as much as possible to avoid unwanted environmental impacts caused by rain, wind or soil leaching. EAS Group Sustainability Report 2018_2019 Page 21 of 58 To further advance our testing capabilities and expertise, we are also investing in digital tools to complement field trials based on data generation and real-world evidence models. These approaches are still in their infancy but will – similar to clinical trials – finds their application in daily practise in the near future. 5.3 Resource Usage The EAS Group is continuously investing in efficient laboratory and field equipment. Our laboratories are equipped with state-of-the-art technology. Requirements for new equipment differ naturally between laboratory and field studies. In 2018, the units in the pilot scope invested in the newest machinery, equipment, computer or company cars in the range of 4%-10% (vs 2.5% -8.6% in 2019) of their net capex/revenue. Waste management is performed according to respective regulations. Chemical waste is separately collected, ready-made and treated by an external authorised partner. Energy consumption is monitored at each laboratory individually. The annual balance is based on the evaluation of the energy meters installed. We are allowed to process our wastewater without any further treatment. However, we have installed carbon filters for wastewater treatment at our chemistry labs in Niefern as an internal safety measure to avoid unwanted contamination. We also invest in green energy and are in the process to gradually switching to green energy for our facility operations. For further information, please see Attachment 2: Green Electricity Supplier In 2015/2016, an external energy audit was performed on three EAG Group entities: EAS Field Stade, EAS EcoChem and EAS Ecotox. The aim of the energy audit was to systematically inspect and analyse the energy usage and consumption, as well as to identify energy flows and the potential for energy improvements. For further information, please see Attachment 3: Energy Audit We also aim to equip the lighting system with LED step-by-step in order to optimise our energy consumption. The greenhouse and equipment hall at the site in Niefern already switched the existing system to LEDs. By 2030, we will have increased the share of ‘green electricity’ by 100% by switching to suppliers offering environmentally friendly energy. With regards to pollution, the majority of our contribution is made by our fleet. We have therefore taken the decision to substitute all vehicles below EU 5 by the end of 2020. In addition, a bike-leasing pilot concept was introduced to encourage people to use bicycles for their commute instead of cars. The concept entails a financial participation from the company for each person who leases a bike. The bike can also be used for private purposes. We have also introduced LEAN principles as part of our resource optimisation program. The major focus is to improve workflow, laboratory utilisation and the quality of data assessments. As next steps, we are currently investigating the implementation of a holistic electronic laboratory network. This would not only enable us to reduce paper use significantly, but also to further improve our laboratory operations, which in turn positively impacts the utilisation of energy. The LEAN principle has also been applied towards our sample logistics, where we have established standardised transportation routes covering Europe with centralised bundled shipment of specimens. All shipments are temperature logged, using GLP data loggers, from collection to delivery. Barcode tracking improves visibility to exact specimen and package location. EAS Group Sustainability Report 2018_2019 Page 22 of 58 6. Supplier Relationship The Eurofins Group maintains a central purchasing department for all Eurofins companies to purchase supplies, chemicals, equipment and furniture. A procurement standard has been set up for all of our suppliers. Each purchase order contains a reference to the Supplier Code of Ethics, which is obliged for each supplier. From 2020 onwards, every new framework agreement will include additional Ethical Conduct and Compliance guidelines. See Attachment 5: Eurofins Group Code of Ethics See Attachment 6: General Terms and Conditions of Purchase 7. Outlook: Sustainability as a Journey In line with the understanding of Sustainability as a journey, we see two main directions for advancing towards a more sustainable future at EAS: 1) Rolling out Sustainability beyond the Pilot Scope 2) Making progress with regard to our sustainability goals 7.1 Rolling out Sustainability beyond the Pilot Scope In line with and in addition to applicable law, the Eurofins Group has defined its ethical standards in the Eurofins Group Code of Ethics Policy and related policies. These are rolled out to all legal entities via appropriate shareholder and board resolutions. These policies are a prerequisite for sustainable development, but they are also just the start. Next steps include: A steady training process on the Code of Ethics via the Eurofins Academy to ensure all employees are familiar with our ethical standard; The successive roll-out of the sustainability indicators presented in this report beyond the pilot scope – initially targeting all European operations before building a worldwide database for sustainability; and The integration (and where missing, initiation) of actions to demonstrate that the progress described in this report is achieved regionally and ultimately globally. EAS Group Sustainability Report 2018_2019 Page 23 of 58 7.2 Making Progress with Regard to our Sustainability Goals We want to ensure sustainable development by achieving the sustainability goals outlined in section 3.4 of this report. Based on the insight that only what can be measured can by systematically improved, EAS Group has defined indicators as guiding principle for continuous improvement, the performance level of which is easily quantifiable. They further reflect the most topical areas of sustainability that were previously identified in the Materiality analysis (see 3.3): SDG area Goals Indicators Targets 2023 Sustainable 1. Develop new study 1. Participation in ring tests 1. Participated in 100% use of natural designs to evaluate for new test systems of relevant ring tests; resources the environmental required for new EFSA in addition: scientific (SDG 12) impact of farming agchem guidelines (nonpapers & publicapractices in general target terrestrial plants, soil tions (incl. posters, and, in particular, organisms, non-target presentations at agrochemicals use arthropods, pollinators) conferences) 2. Support the 2. Number of REACh 2. Yet to be defined environmental substances tested based on market evaluation of 3. a) Determine the Carbon analysis and chemicals under Footprint of EAS’ business planning REACh operations in Germany 3. a) Conduct a Carbon 3. Reduce the CO2 b) Share of green Footprint Analysis of footprint of EAS electricity EAS’ operations in business operations c) Vehicle meeting at least Germany EU 5 emission standard by b) Double compared the end of 2020 to 2019 c) 100% Participation of 4. Support employee 4. Sickness absence 4. Keep <5% employees health 5. Absence due to Lost Time 5. Keep <0.1% and working 5. Provide a safe Injury in % of time 6. +1.5 year vs. 2020 conditions workplace 6. Regular employees’ 7. New female leader (SDG 3) 6. Improve employee average job tenure share +/10% of engagement and 7. Female share of newly share in workforce talent retention appointed leaders 8. 100% 7. Drive gender proportional to share in equality workforce 8. Maintain regular 8. % of entities which have dialogue with regular dialogue with employees and their employees and/or representatives employee representatives We look forward to further continue on the path to improved sustainability of our operations and an even greater contribution to sustainable agriculture and chemicals use. EAS Group Sustainability Report 2018_2019 Page 24 of 58 Appendix 1: Measurements – Health and Safety – One of the indicators of working conditions is the company’s sickness absence rate. The Group had a total sickness absence rate of 4.24% in 2019, comparable to a sickness rate of 4.1% in 2018. The sickness rate at the EAS Group lies considerably below the average level, which in Germany is roughly 5%, or 10.9 working days. It is generally assumed that there is a link between working conditions and absence due to sickness. Link: https://www.destatis.de/DE/Themen/Arbeit/Arbeitsmarkt/Qualitaet-Arbeit/Dimension2/krankenstand.html EAS Group Sustainability Report 2018_2019 Page 25 of 58 EAS Group Sustainability Report 2018_2019 Page 26 of 58 In 2018, EAS Ecotox Niefern/DE had a high number of 126 days lost due to injury. This number is based on the injury of one person following a non-work-related accident. However, the absence rate in % due to injury events is considerably below 0.1%. EAS Group Sustainability Report 2018_2019 Page 27 of 58 EAS Group Sustainability Report 2018_2019 Page 28 of 58 The number of days lost due to injuries per number of injury events over all entities decreased slightly from 12 days in 2018 to 11 days in 2019. To ensure this trend continuous in the future, we will continue to implement measures towards optimisation in the area of occupational safety and health. EAS Group Sustainability Report 2018_2019 Page 29 of 58 EAS Group Sustainability Report 2018_2019 Page 30 of 58 Appendix 2: Measurements Gender Equality In 2018, women accounted for 259 out of 519 total employees in the pilot scope, i.e. 50%. 40% of positions with management responsibilities in the pilot groups were held by women. The total management board comprises 55 members, 22 of whom are women. 2019 shows a similar picture. The share of female managers decreased slightly to 36% against a stable share of women in the workforce, at 265 females out of 527 total employees. The total management board comprises 53 members, 19 of whom are women. The share between business units still fluctuates, with no female board members at EAS Chem Hamburg and EAS Regulatory Niefern. In the future, we want to encourage and promote more women into leadership positions, by maintaining the existing good balance and improving it where it is still below the desired level. We believe that equal opportunities should manifest themselves in the gender balance of new leadership placements, which we aim to lie within +/10% of the gender share of the entire workforce. EAS Group Sustainability Report 2018_2019 Page 31 of 58 EAS Group Sustainability Report 2018_2019 Page 32 of 58 Appendix 3: Measurements – Training – Our workforce is among the company’s best assets. The individual professional and personal training and continuing education of our employees play a significant role at EAS Group. This allows us to identify abilities and promote from within the company. Trainings are given in units. A training unit can range from an hour up to several days. As of now, some training records are documented on paper and are not enclosed in the data given below. The final numbers are therefore higher and we will now start to collect all training data electronically. From 2020 onwards, this will be extended to all trainings received. In 2018, 1565 training units have been taken by administration, support, technical/scientific staff, Quality Assurance and management. This results in a mean number of 3.0 training units per employee. In 2019, this increased to 1687 total training units, with 3.2 training units per employee. EAS Group Sustainability Report 2018_2019 Page 33 of 58 EAS Group Sustainability Report 2018_2019 Page 34 of 58 Technical and scientific trainings are the bulk of our training programs. In 2018 Technical staff have been trained in 438 units, which accounts for 28% of the total 1565 training units. In 2019 – Technical staff have been trained in 574 units, which accounts for 34% of the total 1687 training units. In 2018 Scientific staff / Quality Assurance have been trained in 1024 training units, which accounts for 65.4% of the total 1565 training units. In 2019 – Scientific staff / Quality Assurance have been trained in 950 training units, accounting for 56.3% of the total 1687 training units. EAG Laboratories Ulm did not discriminate between technical/scientific personnel. For EAS Regulatory, the main bulk of the trainings were scientific. EAS Group Sustainability Report 2018_2019 Page 35 of 58 EAS Group Sustainability Report 2018_2019 Page 36 of 58 Water– and Electricity consumption Below are the overall water and electricity consumption data for 2018 and 2019. At the moment, we receive our water and energy from local suppliers. One site, EAS Field Stade, switched to ‘green’ energy. For further information, please see Attachment 2: Green Electricity Supplier We aim to increase the percentage of our renewably sourced electricity as soon as it’s practicable to do so. EAS Group Sustainability Report 2018_2019 Page 37 of 58 EAS Group Sustainability Report 2018_2019 Page 38 of 58 EAS Chem Hamburg is located on the Eurofins campus, a site with various Eurofins entities. The campus facility handles all supplies centrally. In addition, EAS Chem moved to a new building on the campus between 2018 and 2019. Therefore, the bulk numbers below are provided by the campus facility. EAS EcoChem and EAS Ecotox are sharing the same building in Niefern. The allocation of water and electricity consumption is presented as a percentage. What can be seen is that water consumption considerably increased in 2019. This is due to the new flow-through construction in the aquatic lab for testing endocrine effects of (agro)chemicals on water organisms. Flow-through systems are used only when required to ensure a scientifically valid assessment of the impact of certain exposure levels of a substance on aquatic organisms (e.g. to ensure targeted exposure when a substance hydrolyses fast). The related studies are performed in the interest of assessing the sustainability of using the tested (agro)chemicals. EAS Regulatory water and energy consumption data are estimated numbers based on percentage allocation to the Niefern premises and business units. The regulatory team have the option to work in the office or from home. EAS Group Sustainability Report 2018_2019 Page 39 of 58 EAS Group Sustainability Report 2018_2019 Page 40 of 58 Attachment 1: Flowering Areas at EAS Group to support Biodiversity EAS Group Sustainability Report 2018_2019 Page 41 of 58 EAS Group Sustainability Report 2018_2019 Page 42 of 58 EAS Group Sustainability Report 2018_2019 Page 43 of 58 EAS Group Sustainability Report 2018_2019 Page 44 of 58 Attachment 2: Green Electricity Supplier EAS Group Sustainability Report 2018_2019 Page 45 of 58 Attachment 3: Energy Audit EAS Group Sustainability Report 2018_2019 Page 46 of 58 EAS Group Sustainability Report 2018_2019 Page 47 of 58 Attachment 4: EAS Regulatory Report on Biologicals EAS Group Sustainability Report 2018_2019 Page 48 of 58 EAS Group Sustainability Report 2018_2019 Page 49 of 58 EAS Group Sustainability Report 2018_2019 Page 50 of 58 Attachment 5: Eurofins Group Code of Ethics EAS Group Sustainability Report 2018_2019 Page 51 of 58 EAS Group Sustainability Report 2018_2019 Page 52 of 58 EAS Group Sustainability Report 2018_2019 Page 53 of 58 EAS Group Sustainability Report 2018_2019 Page 54 of 58 EAS Group Sustainability Report 2018_2019 Page 55 of 58 EAS Group Sustainability Report 2018_2019 Page 56 of 58 EAS Group Sustainability Report 2018_2019 Page 57 of 58 Attachment 6: General Terms and Conditions of Purchase See paragraph 21 Ethical Conduct and Compliance EAS Group Sustainability Report 2018_2019 Page 58 of 58
