BSH Home Appliances Group Communication on progress of the realization of the UN Global Compact’s principles June 2020 The Board’s introduction to the progress report on the UN Global Compact BSH joined the Global Compact in 2004 and played a leading role in drawing up a code of conduct based on the Global Compact for Home Appliances Europe (APPLiA) in 2005. These principles are integrated in BSH’s Business Conduct Guidelines and implemented throughout the Group. Our code of conduct for suppliers is also based on the UN Global Compact and ensures compliance with social and environmental standards in the upstream value chain. Munich, June 6th, 2020 sgd. Uwe Raschke Matthias Ginthum Chief Executive Officer Chief Markets Officer Dr. Gerhard Dambach Dr. Silke Maurer Chief Financial Officer Chief Operating Officer 2 Communication on progress of the realization of the UN Global Compact’s principles The following table indicates the guidelines and management systems that BSH has implemented to support the Global Compact principles relating to human rights, labor standards, environmental protection and the fight against corruption. It also summarizes BSH's specific progress on realizing the Global Compact principles in 2019. Principle Guidelines & system Measures Results Human rights Principle 1: / Business Conduct Guidelines / Written acceptance of BSH Suppliers‘ Code of / Social Compliance Programme Support for human rights / APPLiA Code of Conduct Conduct by suppliers (social and ecological continued for further key suppliers standards based on Global Compact and ILO with work-intensive or Principle 2: / Occupational Health and Safety Declaration), including the responsibility for environmentally relevant production Guidelines Non-complicity in human rights adherence to Human Rights in the entire upprocesses. abuses / BSH Suppliers‘ Code of Conduct stream value chain. / Tracking of measures of suppliers / Since 2013, continuous systematic audits of audited and systematic re-auditing production materials suppliers by external certifiers and derivation of measures. / Since 2019, regular enquiries with suppliers using Cobalt to reveal and take responsibility for Cobalt Sources. 3 Principle Guidelines & system Measures Results Labor standards Principle 3: Upholding freedom / Business Conduct Guidelines / Written acceptance of BSH Suppliers‘ Code of Conduct / Social Compliance Programme of association and collective / APPLiA Code of Conduct by suppliers. continued for further key bargaining / Since 2013, gradually systematic audits of production suppliers with work-intensive or / BSH Suppliers‘ Code of materials suppliers by external certifiers and derivation environmentally relevant Principle 4: Conduct of measures. production processes. Elimination of all forms of / Tracking of measures of forced and compulsory labor suppliers audited and Principle 5: systematic re-auditing. Abolition of child labor Principle 6: / Business Conduct / Diversity Management (emphasis on internationality / Similar to last year’s proportion Guidelines and gender) further developed, diversity KPIs in of female employees (31 Elimination of discrimination strategic goals. percent) and women among / APPLiA Code of Conduct / Annual Girls‘ Day (female students get to know jobs in managers (24 percent). / BSH Suppliers‘ Code of the field of IT, manufacturing, technology and Conduct engineering). / BSH Corporate Principles / Diversity Days (action days with different formats e.g. workshops and keynotes related to diversity). / Since 2013 corporate project “Demographic change in production“ supports a balanced age structure through age and health based working conditions. / Signing of the Diversity Charta. 4 Principle Guidelines & system Measures Results Environmental protection Principle 7: Precautionary / BSH's Environmental Policy / Group project „carbon neutrality“ defining / All 42 production sites of BSH with approach to environmental / Unified standards for planning and measures for the reduction of scope 1, 2 certified environmental management protection building of production plants and 3 emissions. system according to ISO 14001. / ISO 14001 certification of BSH / The operation of a functional environmental / All European production and logistic Principle 8: Promotion of greater factories management system is prerequisite for sites larger than 250 employees, as environmental responsibility supplier accreditation. well as the site Cerkezköy in Turkey / ISO 50001 certification of BSH / Certified quality assurance system for and all production sites in China are factories in EU and Turkey Principle 9: Diffusion of recycling fridges adopted by our disposal certified according to ISO 50001, the / Product Environment Analysis environmentally-friendly service providers in Germany. standard for energy management (PEA) for continuous improvement technologies systems. of environment-related aspects / Development and design of circular during product development business models and products. 5 Principle Guidelines & system Measures Results Anti-corruption Principle 10: Action against / Group Policy Anti-Corruption / External Lawyer of Trust (for employees and Awareness regarding corruption has corruption Gifts & other Benefits externals) and anonymous reporting system risen due to (e.g.): (BSH Trust and Tell System) (for / Business Conduct Guidelines / Worldwide Compliance dialog employees) all over the world. between managers and employees / Governance, Risk and Compliance / Regular Compliance communication and with regard to compliance. approach working tools address i.a. the risk of / Over 64,700 web based Compliance / APPLiA Code of Conduct corruption. trainings and over 16,400 / Risk-based compliance training program for participations in classroom trainings all employees all over the world based on a in 2019; thereof over 11,800 web learning management system and the based trainings and over 3,300 IMPACT Tool. participations in classroom trainings with relevance for corruption / Worldwide Implementation of the IMPACT prevention. Tool. 6
