Communication on Progress-UN Global Compact 2020 CONTENT CEO Massage………………………….………….. 03 Profile and History…………………………………04 Human Right and Labour Right ….……….……….05 Employees and Working Environment……………..06 Bio grow community and Charity work…….......07-09 Environment...……...………...…..………………....10 Anti-Corruption ……..……….………...…….......... 11 Company Details……………….……………………12 CEO Message. « Building a sustainable model for Biogrow » « There will be about 9 billion people to feed by 2050 in the world according to the Food and Agriculture Organization. Behind this problematic lies another issue: what agricultural model and practices will we implement to feed the world’s population? At the origin of Biogrow, was the desire to produce alternatives to current types of substrates that would have lower environmental impacts. We want to contribute to and promote the development of an environmentally responsible agriculture using natural organic substrates. We developed our first production site in Sri Lanka back in 1998 benefiting from the country’s large coconut resources. We experienced new ways to produce and adapted to a different culture. Since 1998, Biogrow’s development has been continuous, increasing its production capacity and volumes (multiplied by 4), gaining new markets and improving its production process. The company’s workforce even grew from about 50 employees in 1998 to about 300 in high season in 2013. Nevertheless, we are now looking for ways to continuously develop our business while limiting our environmental and social impacts. By limiting our energy consumption, promoting responsible farming and a sustainable agricultural production model with less fertilizers and pesticides, improving the wellbeing of our employees and local communities, we want to contribute to the management of more global issues, such as climate change, access to food and the economic and social development of a post-war Sri Lanka. These issues may induce direct impacts on our development, such as decreasing productivity of coconut estates due to climate change strengthening competition or the deterioration of the quality of our raw material supplies. If we do not start to address them correctly, these issues could become risks in the long-term. We decided to develop a corporate social responsibility strategy to promote sustainable development within our business but also to our external partners. We believe that a formalized strategy and the implementation of actions will help us improve our impacts on our local environment while contributing to the management of more global issues. We see sustainable development as an opportunity to develop our company by reducing some of our operational costs (e.g. energy consumption, waste production) and by promoting our responsible behavior towards our stakeholders. It is our responsibility to encourage the development of more sustainable behaviors and corporate culture, and to integrate every employee in this great movement. Our 2017 action plan aims at giving the tools to our managers to reach our targets and to change the company’s impacts. We hope to reach these targets and to have every employee completely involved into this movement. We know the way may get complicated sometimes, but we will do our best to respect our commitments and to reach our objectives. » Bruno Vila, CEO Biogrow Lanka Employees &Working Environment Our labour force is the strength of the company and they are acting a major aspect of the production. More than One hundreds of workers work with us and we never accept the child labors. Having understood the validity of our labours, Bio grow is always try to keep very peaceful, secure, safety and friendly working environment. As a result of that, we have not reported any employee discrepancies in the last year and we are doing machine repairs on time and last year we thought more about workers safety and last year we have not reported any major accident while the production practices. All of the workers are monthly salary workers and we always have done payments on time for them, additionally they are taking benefits package. With an idea of keep growing the friendly work place, annually Bio grow is organizing events such as New Year cultural program, annual cricket match, charity programs and annual batch trip. Bio grow production area premises, Jan 03 2020 Annual Cricket Match,BRC Ground| Madurankuliya Offered Desktop Computer for Malawana Junior School 07th Jan 2020 Environment In the Bio grow factory we mainly focused on our surrounding and always keep very clean nature. To doing that, we always be organized to minimize harmful effects to the environment within our manufacturing practices. Biogrow’s business is based on the growing of coconuts regular supply of coconut husks. Acting on environmental issues, at our production sites and at our supplier’s plantations, contributes to securing the manufacturing of quality products. Bio grow has a role to play in contributing to the protection of the country’s natural resources, environment and bio diversity. Therefore it is of utmost importance that Bio grow limits its impact on the environment, through notably the reduction of energy and water consumption, and the promotion of sustainable agricultural practices. Bio grow Lanka Factory Premises Monthly Cleaning Program We monthly organize cleaning program To keep our environment clean. Always We use environment friendly raw Materials for the production. Anti-Corruptive Work Environment Bio grow, we always pay attention on every aspect to keep anti corruptive environment. In all steps of purchasing raw material we always give the attention to supply quality raw materials under our quality policies and we are not accepting in other corruptive paths. As a result of that previous year, we could have access the customer satisfaction and did not report any complain for our products. As well as all the step of starting to finish product we ensure that all are keeping under an official procedure and all employees have taken used to respect for all the policies of the company. Thanks and Best Regards We are Bio grow Lanka (pvt) Ltd. We hope to develop not only our production but also, customer satisfaction, employee’s satisfaction, environment and working background according to the global compact 10 principles. BIOGROW LANKA (PVT) LTD Hidagollawatta|Kanattewawa|Wariyapola|Sri Lanka Tel: 94(0)37 4698139 Administrative Office (Sri lanka) 311/2 sadasarana Place,Kibulapitiya Road, Kadirana,Negombo Sri Lanka TEL: 94(0)31 4933906 Administrative Office (France) Biogrow Mas De la Febregue 66200 Montescot, France. TEL: 33(0)486373939 Contact@bio-grow.com
