2019 IFU SUSTAINABILITY AND IMPACT REPORT CONTENTS CONTENTS LETTER FROM THE CEO 3 IFU IN BRIEF 4 IFU and IFU managed funds overall 5 SUPPORTING THE GLOBAL GOALS 6 Link between IFU policy commitments and SDG targets 8 Financial inclusion reduces poverty and inequalities 10 Pollution prevention contributes to healthy ecosystems 11 Decent jobs create sustainable economic growth 12 Renewable energy supports climate stability 14 Tax contribution improves social welfare 15 Empowerment of women in the workplace 16 Anti-corruption is key to poverty alleviation 18 Sustainable agriculture creates food security 19 SUSTAINABILITY IN IFU’S INVESTMENT PROCESS 20 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT IN PROJECTS 26 IFU’S STAFF AND PREMISES 28 REPORTING PRINCIPLES 29 About this report This report covers activities in IFU and IFU managed funds, except Danida Sustainable Infrastructure Finance (DSIF), for the financial year 1 January to 31 December 2019. The report serves as our Communication on Progress in implementing the ten principles of the UN Global Compact and supplements the statutory statement in our Annual Report on corporate social responsibility and gender diversity at management level, in accordance with section 99 a and b of the Danish Financial Statements Act. Read about DSIF in our Annual Report 2019. 2 LETTER FROM THE CEO LETTER FROM THE CEO This is IFU’s first stand-alone Sustainability and Impact In general, the figures show that through our investReport where we present the results of our efforts to ments IFU is contributing to developing solid sustainagenerate measurable, beneficial development impacts bility practices and results. alongside financial returns when investing in developing countries. For example, the investments within microfinance are serving 25 million clients, of whom 20 million are We firmly believe that responsible business conduct women, total employment for the active portfolio is adds value to investments and generates development close to 255,000 people, and 82 per cent of the direct impacts. Consequently, our investment strategy is investments have taken initiatives to reduce the risk of guided by the Sustainable Development Goals, the corruption. UN Global Compact principles and the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. Despite the positive results, we acknowledge that there is room for improvement when it comes to the During the years, IFU’s sustainability and impact quality of the data for performance and impact manBy issuing this report we take an dimensions have evolved. From a simple calculation agement at portfolio as well as project level. Moreover, additional step in of expected employment effects to a holistic sustainthe results reveal that we need to further develop our providing transparent and ability approach covering for example climate change, ability to perform active ownership and to advance the accountable health and safety in the workplace, anti-corruption, sustainability performance of projects that do not yet information about IFU’s work on gender issues and tax. meet our sustainability requirements. sustainability and impact creation By issuing this report we take an additional step in In 2019, we launched a new sustainability policy, providing transparent and accountable information which highlights IFU’s commitment to sustainability about IFU’s work on sustainability and impact creation. issues particularly relevant for supporting the SDGs We hope it will increase insight into our work, improve when investing in developing countries. The Sustainathe understanding of IFU’s investment strategy and bility Policy was supplemented by separate policies on demonstrate more clearly how we use our leverage to climate, human rights and gender equality to emphacreate impact sise our commitment to be at the forefront in relation to these global sustainability challenges. The figures in the report are based on the annual sustainability reporting and data collection from our During the year, we also updated our investment projects. In 2019, this process was improved, which strategy to include a more strategic approach to creenabled us to present the information in a more comating development and impact by introducing impact prehensive and detailed form across the portfolio. creation plans for the individual investments. We intensified our support to gender equality by joining the 2X Challenge, which is a joint DFI initiative to identify and support companies that advance opportunities for women. We also made a commitment to end investments in fossil-fuel based power production to the grid in 2020. In a transition period until 2023, investments in hybrid solutions would still be possible. And last but not least, we continued to invest in renewable energy, banks, microfinance and agribusiness companies, all having a solid potential for improving the livelihood of people in the developing countries. We hope that you will find this report interesting. We look forward to your comments and an open dialogue on how IFU can continue to improve our efforts. • Torben Huss, CEO 3 IFU IN BRIEF IFU IN BRIEF IFU is an independent government-owned fund ofIFU has two types of investments: 1) Direct investfering advisory services and risk capital to companies ments in project companies in the form of share capIFU invests directly wishing to set up businesses in developing countries ital and loans; and 2) indirect investments in private in project companies and indirectly in and emerging markets. Investments are made on equity funds, which act as fund managers and invest private equity commercial terms with the dual purpose of creating in projects on behalf of IFU and other partners. These funds, which act as fund managers and measurable, beneficial development impacts alongside funds are breaking the ice for IFU, thereby providing invest in projects financial returns. Apart from IFU’s own capital, IFU is access to attractive/emerging markets, business areon behalf of IFU fund manager of several investment funds based on as/sectors or business models. • public or public-private capital. IFU is normally minority shareholder, which impacts IFU’s leverage. An overview of IFU and IFU managed funds Stated committed capital is the amount at inception of fund. The Investment Fund for Central and Eastern Europe (IØ) was established in 1989 and is currently being winded down. IFU (Equity DKK 0.1bn) The Danish SDG was established in 1967 Investment Fund with the purpose of was established in 2018 with creating economic growth and the purpose of investing in social progress in developing projects in developing countries countries via investments supporting the Sustainable in the private sector. Development Goals. (Equity DKK 4.2bn) (Committed capital DKK 4.9bn) IFU AND IFU MANAGED FUNDS IFU Investment The Danish Climate Partners (IIP) Investment Fund (DCIF) was established in 2012 to was established in 2014 with serve as a co-investor in large the purpose of investing in IFU projects and a tool for climate-related projects in Danish companies to raise developing countries. additional equity funding in (Committed capital a one-stop process. The Danish DKK 1.3bn) (Committed capital Agribusiness Fund (DAF) DKK 0.5bn) was established in 2016 with the purpose of investing in agribusiness projects in developing countries across the value chain from farm to fork. (Committed capital DKK 0.8bn) Read more about the funds in IFU’s Annual Report 2019. 4 IFU IN BRIEF IFU AND IFU MANAGED FUNDS OVERALL During the years, IFU has invested in 1,300 projects in jects are in Africa, 34 per cent in Asia, 11 per cent in more than 100 countries. Total expected investments Latin America and 12 per cent in Eastern Europe, mainin the projects are DKK 210bn, of which IFU has ly Ukraine. The last 5 per cent is investments in global contributed with DKK 23bn in share capital, loans and companies operating in more than one country. • guarantees. Active portfolio at 31 December 2019 In 2019, total contracted investments by IFU and (no. of projects) IFU managed funds amounted to DKK 1.1bn in 25 IFU 170 projects. SDG 8 At year-end, the active portfolio covering all funds DCIF 13 contained 196 projects. More than half of these proDAF 5 jects are greenfield investments. Greenfield investIIP 3 ments are investments in new projects where both IØ 7 management and facilities need to be established, Total 206 whereas brownfield investments are investments in existing companies, which have operated for years. Eliminations* (10) Consolidated total 196 IFU is engaged in investments all over the developing * Ten projects are eliminated due to inter-fund investments, or because they have received financing from more than one fund. world. In the active portfolio, 38 per cent of the proReporting scope IFU’s Sustainability and Impact Report 2019 reporting periods within 2018-2019. Neverthefocuses on IFU’s direct investments in project less, the aggregated data represent a snapshot companies and indirect investments in private of the portfolio’s overall performance in 2019 equity funds, which combined account for IFU’s that is useful for highlighting the achievements significant sustainability impacts. The impacts of and for reviewing where increased attention is IFU’s own activities (offices) are small in comparineeded to improve the sustainability performance son and are covered at the end of the report. and impact creation of IFU’s investments. As IFU continuously contracts new projects and exits terThe Sustainability and Impact Report 2019 is minated projects, the composition of the portfolio based on sustainability reports submitted to IFU. varies from year to year, and thus the portfolio The composition Out of the 196 active projects in IFU’s portfolio, performance is not directly comparable. of IFU’s project portfolio varies 131 projects were required to submit a report. from year to year, The remaining 65 projects are either new projects An important note is that 67 per cent of the and thus the portfolio not yet required to report or inactive projects. portfolio are projects contracted before 2015, performance is when IFU’s sustainability policy was strengthened not directly comparable In total, 88 direct investments and 33 private eqsignificantly. These projects are not required to uity funds have submitted a report in 2019 after meet the same sustainability requirements as end of the financial year. This is 92 per cent of projects contracted in the period 2015-2019, and projects required to report in this reporting period. IFU cannot reopen contracts to add additional The remaining 8 per cent are projects in distress requirements. IFU is pleased to see that some that have not prepared a report, or projects that projects contracted before 2015 are meeting the have reported in a not applicable format. new requirements, but not all, and this explains the portfolio performance on some parameters. As the projects have different financial years, the reported performance data cover different 5 SUPPORTING THE GLOBAL GOALS SUPPORTING THE GLOBAL GOALS The 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are and mitigation, and secondly, the establishment and a universal call to action set by the United Nations active promotion of positive development impact. to end poverty, protect the planet and ensure that all As an example, compliance with international labour people enjoy peace and prosperity. IFU contributes to standards also ensures that our project companies the SDGs by promoting private sector investments, contribute to SDG 8 on decent work, and a project which support sustainable development in its three reducing GHG emissions will also support SDG 13 and dimensions – economic, social and environmental – in the goals of the Paris Climate Agreement. a balanced and integrated manner. IFU has developed a comprehensive framework for Since the beginning of IFU more than 50 years ago, planning, monitoring and following up on sustainabilIFU's ambition it has been a requirement that all investments create ity issues and impact in our project companies. This is to create impact and are commercially viable. During the framework will continuously be elaborated in order to sustainable changes and solutions, years, the sustainability and impact dimensions have further improve our contribution to the SDGs. which will last evolved. From a simple calculation of expected emafter ifu has exited ployment effects to a holistic sustainability approach When assessing the positive and negative impact covering climate change, human rights, anti-corruption, of an investment, the context should be taken into gender issues and tax, among other things. account. This includes the social, economic and environmental conditions and the current state of the As an active investor it is IFU’s ambition to create challenges the project is seeking to influence. Consesustainable changes and solutions in the project, quently, individual projects have different sustainability which will last after IFU has exited. IFU is therefore requirements and impact plans. From 2020, impact committed to the SDG agenda, and the SDGs are used creation plans for individual investments have been as a framework to position, communicate and conduct introduced. This entails that targets and indicators IFU’s sustainability and impact efforts. related to specific SDG targets are agreed for each investment and subsequently reported on. The results Sustainability and impact issues are integrated parts coming out of this reporting will be included in future of the investment process, from initial screening sustainability and impact reporting. through due diligence analysis, binding agreements on implementation, action plans and annual reporting Several elements of IFU’s overall sustainability from project companies. Read more about this process approach are still under development, and unfortuon page 20. nately there is not yet a global standard for impact measurement and reporting among DFIs. Yet in 2019, During screening, investments are assessed against IFU signed IFC’s Operating Principles for Impact our exclusion list, which defines which sectors we Management. These principles now provide a piece should not invest in. An ex-ante analysis is also of the framework to our overall impact management undertaken of the potential impacts covering how the ambition and will become subject to regular independinvestment company contributes to both positive deent verification. velopment effects as well as potential negative ones. These are subsequently tracked during the time IFU In addition, IFU is currently exploring how we can set is involved in the project. The methodology is further portfolio impact targets and proactively steer our indescribed on page 7. For all eligible projects, E&S vestments towards higher impact by focussing on the risks that need attention are then included in the due SDGs they can most significantly contribute to within diligence process, and an Environmental and Social our three priority sectors of climate, agribusiness and Action Plan (ESAP) is developed and monitored. Focus financial institutions. We are also investigating the has now shifted to developing plans for mitigating ESG possibilities for undertaking strategic impact assessrisks and optimizing impact. ments. • We have learnt that integrating sustainability issues has two sides. Firstly, it covers E&S risk identification 6 SUPPORTING THE GLOBAL GOALS Results, outcome and impact In this report, the term impact covers development IFU’s main input is capital, but input from IFU also effects in a broader sense, but in development evaluincludes advisory services and sustainability reation terminology, impact only refers more narrowly quirements to ensure that the project has policies, to the intended or unintended, positive or negative processes and the competences to address identified long-term effects, such as reduced poverty, improved shortcomings in relation to sustainability issues and wellbeing and health as well as economic growth. ensure continuous improvement of the impact and These high-level effects can normally not be attributed sustainability performance. to a single investment, and it is therefore difficult to provide robust documentation for a company’s contriActivities are the projects’ business operations, for exbution to the sustainable development goals. ample a wind farm’s production of renewable energy, and other commercial activities as well as initiatives to However, when analyzing the effects as part of a deliver on the impact goals. results chain, it is possible to explain how an individual company may contribute to the overall development Outputs are tangible immediate products, services and agenda. If monitoring data is collected along the practices that result from the activities undertaken by results chain, this can support the impact justification the project. They can be sector-specific, for example and indicate whether the investment is leading to the renewable energy generation or increased availability expected results, even though it is often only possible of microfinance loans, or they can be general outputs, to collect data at output level and below. Testing the like direct job creation and tax payments. Outputs outcome and impact hypotheses is normally best unmay lead to both sector-specific and general outcomes dertaken through an impact study combining quantitathat are short to medium-term changes, or effects, on tive and qualitative methods. individual stakeholders or the environment. Input Activities Output Outcome Impact Capital, advisory Business Products, Short-term Long-term services, sustainoperations and services and effects on effects on ability requireinitiatives to practices that individuals or society or the ments and deliver on result from the environment environment other input impact goals the activities 7 SUPPORTING THE GLOBAL GOALS LINK BETWEEN IFU POLICY COMMITMENTS AND SDG TARGETS This table provides an overview of IFU policy commitments in the Sustainability Policy, 2019, in support of the SDG agenda and the SDG targets that IFU’s investments contribute to the achievement of. Listed are also some of the key performance indicators (KPIs) that IFU used to measure and assess the positive and negative development impacts in 2019. IFU will continue to set up more commitments and align the indicators with the SDG targets and improve the data collection to strengthen the reporting on the development impact of IFU’s investments. IFU commitments from Sustainability SDG SDG targets relevant to IFU IFU reported KPIs in 2019 Policy (2019) in support of SDGs Investing in financial institutions with 1.1 Eradicate extreme poverty. • Total investment in microfinance funds and a clear strategy and track record of 1.4 Ensure that all men and women have institutions. providing better access to quality equal rights to economic resources. • Share of microfinance loans to women. financial services to all women, including female entrepreneurs. Invest in sustainable and resilient 2.3 Double the agricultural • Share of agribusiness projects that support agriculture and forestry and striving to productivity and incomes of smallholder farmers. protect biodiversity. small-scale food producers. 2.4 Ensure sustainable food production systems and implement resilient agricultural practices. Supporting companies to demonstrate 3.7 Ensure universal access to sexual • Share of direct investments that have taken a commitment to healthy lives, including and reproductive health-care initiatives to promote health and reproductive issues related to women’s health and services. health activities. sexual and reproductive health. No specific commitment yet. 4.3 Ensure equal access to affordable No suitable indicators yet. and quality technical, vocational and tertiary education. 4.4 Substantially increase the number of youth and adults who have relevant skills, including technical and vocational skills. Supporting companies to address 5.1 End all forms of discrimination • Share of female employees in direct investments. and demonstrate a commitment to against all women and girls. • Share of women in leading positions in direct empowerment of women related to e.g. 5.5 Ensure women’s full and effective investments. leadership, pay equity, workplace participation and equal opportunities benefits, workforce participation and for leadership. workplace environment. No specific commitment yet. 6.1 Achieve universal and equitable No suitable indicators yet. access to safe and affordable drinking water for all. Increasing the share of climate-relevant 7.1 Ensure universal access to affordable, • Installed capacity of renewable energy sources projects like renewable energy, energy reliable and modern energy services. and expected GHG savings during lifetime. efficiency and climate adaptation to at 7.2 Increase the share of renewable • Share of direct investments that have measures least 40 per cent of IFU’s portfolio by energy in the global energy mix. to reduce energy consumption. 2030. 7.3 Double the global rate of improvement in energy efficiency. Supporting and promoting decent work, 8.2 Achieve higher levels of economic • Total number of direct employees in all investcovering working conditions and terms productivity through diversification, ments and the share of female employees. of employment, collective dismissals, technological upgrading and • Share of direct investments with a high level of gender equality, privacy, occupational innovation. domestic purchase of goods and services health and safety, grievance mechanisms 8.5 Achieve full and productive • Share of direct investments that have taken and worker accommodation. employment and decent work initiatives to promote equal opportunities. for all. • Share of direct investments that had accidents 8.8 Protect labour rights and involving workers. promote safe and secure working • Share of employees below the age of 25 in environments. direct investments. 8 SUPPORTING THE GLOBAL GOALS IFU commitments from Sustainability SDG SDG targets relevant to IFU IFU reported KPIs in 2019 Policy (2019) in support of SDGs No specific commitment yet. 9.2 Promote inclusive and sustainable No suitable indicators yet. industrialization and significantly raise industry’s share of employment and gross domestic product. Respecting that all human beings are 10.2 Empower and promote the social, No suitable indicators yet. equally entitled to human rights without economic and political discrimination. inclusion of all. No specific commitment yet. 11.1 Ensure access for all to adequate, No suitable indicators yet. safe and affordable housing. Supporting and promoting a preventive 12.2 Achieve the sustainable • Share of direct investments that have an and precautionary approach to environmanagement and efficient use of environmental management plan in place to mental challenges. Ensuring that local natural resources. manage and monitor the environmental stakeholders are not exposed to un12.3 Reduce food losses along performance. healthy environments, and that they production and supply chains. have access to and benefit from bio12.4 Achieve the environmentally sound diversity and ecosystem services. management of chemicals and all wastes and significantly reduce their release to air, water and soil. 12.5 Reduce waste generation through prevention, reduction, recycling and reuse. Mobilising climate-relevant private 13.a Mobilise capital to address the • Number of contracted climate investments. investments to support developing needs of developing countries in countries’ transformation to low-carbon the context of meaningful and climate-resilient pathways by mitigation actions. leveraging substantial financing to mitigation and adaptation projects. No specific commitment yet. Not applicable yet. No suitable indicators yet. Striving to protect biodiversity and 15.2 Promote the implementation No suitable indicators yet. invest in sustainable and resilient of sustainable management of agriculture and forestry. forests. 15.5 Take action to reduce the degradation of natural habitats and halt the loss of biodiversity. Maintaining a zero-tolerance policy 16.5 Reduce corruption and bribery • Share of direct investments that have taken regarding corruption, including bribery, in all their forms. initiatives to reduce the risk of corruption. fraud and facilitation payment as well as avoiding money laundering. Ensuring proper payment of taxes 17.1  Strengthen domestic resource • Total tax contribution from investments to host countries. mobilization to improve domestic per continent. capacity for tax and other revenue collection. 17.17 Encourage and promote effective public, public-private and civil society partnerships. 9 SUPPORTING THE GLOBAL GOALS FINANCIAL INCLUSION REDUCES POVERTY AND INEQUALITIES The challenge LinkED to SDG 1 Ending poverty is the first and ultimate goal, and eradicating IFU’s investments contribute to the achievement of: poverty is an indispensable requirement for sustainable development. Financial inclusion is important for reducing poverty and inequalities, but in most developing countries, access to financial services is sporadic. This is not least the case in rural areas, and it hampers the ability for people to invest in and grow their business. Only 21 per cent of firms in Sub-Saharan Africa have a line of credit, and 67 per cent of the adult population in the region is unbanked. Activities and results To improve access to capital, IFU had an active portfolio of better options for managing their own lives and becoming eight microfinance funds and institutions in Africa, Asia and financially independent. Latin America at year-end 2019. IFU’s total contracted investments in these eight projects are more than DKK 600 million. IFU has also engaged in financing local banks in developing countries. The focus is on supporting banks targeting small It is IFU’s ambition to integrate a gender lens when making and medium-sized local companies, which can develop and decisions in its investment processes and to demonstrate that grow their business through loan financing. Investing in banks this approach will reap business returns in addition to social enables IFU to better service the local business community returns. In 2019, the investments had a total of 25 million in developing countries compared to direct investments in clients, of whom 20 million are women. These investments individual small companies. • contribute to redress power imbalances and give women Creating local development through microfinance IFU is part of the public-private partnership Nordic Microfinance Initiative (NMI) together with the public development finance institution Norfund and several Norwegian and Danish private investors and pension funds like KLP and PBU. NMI invests in medium-sized microfinance institutions with a commercial foundation, professionally operated and with focus on achieving a social mission and creating social impact. One of the borrowers is Suhasini Marimuthu, a 33year old woman from India, who has had a small shop for 6 years. Through a loan from Dvara KGFS financial services, financed by NMI, she has been able to ensure a steady increase in income and the variety of products she sells. Her priority to customer satisfaction has given her a stable customer base, and recently she received a micro-entreprise loan to attain her goal, namely to get a permanent shed for her shop. She can already see that it was a well-thought-out decision as her profit is increasing steadily. 10 SUPPORTING THE GLOBAL GOALS Pollution prevention contributes to healthy ecosystems The challenge LinkED to SDG 12 Worldwide material consumption has expanded rapidly, IFU’s investments contribute to the achievement of: and action is needed to ensure that current material needs do not lead to the over-extraction of resources or to the degradation of environmental resources. This includes improving resource efficiency, reducing waste and preventing pollution of air, water and soil. Activities and results IFU strives to prevent and minimise the environmental imare available in most of the world, IFU encourages projects pacts related to its investments, and thereby ensure that local to adopt the best available technologies where financially communities are not exposed to unhealthy environments. and technically viable. • As pollution prevention methods and cleaner technologies Monitoring environmental performance IFU requires all direct investments to take the necessary steps to avoid or minimize pollution of the surrounding environment and establish an environmental management plan to continually monitor the environmental performance in accordance with environmental requirements from IFU and/or local authorities. In 2019, 49 per cent of the direct investments reported that they have an environmental management plan in place. Most of the project companies without an environmental management plan are investments in sectors where the environmental impacts are limited, while some are investments contracted before 2015, when the management plan was not a requirement. The table below shows focus areas included in projects’ environmental management plans. An important note is that the relevance of an environmental focus area depends on the sector, and this portfolio overview does not show if each project has the right focus areas included in their plan. This question is a part of IFU’s dialogue on action plans with each project. However, focus areas in most environmental management plans are consumption of water and energy as well as waste management. Furthermore, 39 per cent have reported that their environmental management efforts have included training of the employees. Focus areas in environmental management plan (per cent*) 43 Waste management 41 Water consumption 39 Energy consumption 32 Energy efficiency 32 Noise 32 Hazardous substances 31 Dust 26 Resource efficiency 26 Light 24 CO2 emissions 19 Air emissions (like SOx, NOx) 14 Biodiversity conservation 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 *Per cent of the 88 direct investments that have submitted a report in 2019 11 SUPPORTING THE GLOBAL GOALS Decent jobs create sustainable economic growth The challenge LinkED to SDG 8 Productive employment and decent work are key eleIFU’s investments contribute to the achievement of: ments to creating positive development impacts, because it provides opportunities for people to escape poverty and improve their standard of living, which in turn helps make countries more stable economically and socially. The International Labour Organization (ILO) has noted that 190 million jobs are needed to address current levels of unemployment, and that a further 340 million jobs will need to be created by 2030. Activities and results In 2019, close to 255,000 people were employed in the IFU’s direct investments also support developing economies projects included in IFU’s active portfolio. Over 125,000 are through transfer of technology and competence building. employed in Asia and close to 80,000 in Africa. In addition, Modern technology enables project companies to develop almost 50,000 people are employed in companies in Latin more advanced and cost-efficient products and services, America, Europe and in the global companies. The share of making the developing countries more competitive. Comfemale employees is more than 30 per cent. pany-sponsored employee training contributes to boost the general level of education, making people more employable. In addition, every direct job created is estimated to generate one to two additional jobs for instance in local supply chains In many developing countries, unemployment among young or with service companies. In the 2019 status reports from people is high. However, provided with the necessary skills IFU’s direct investments, 34 per cent of the projects stated and opportunities, young people can be a driving force for that the domestic purchase of goods and services accounts local development. Therefore, IFU encourages the project for more than 80 per cent of the total expenditure costs, companies to engage and empower youth by providing jobs, thereby contributing to maintaining or creating new local adapted training and mentorship programmes. In 2019, 20 jobs and growth. per cent of the workers in the project companies were below the age of 25. Going forward, IFU will strengthen the efforts In many developing countries, having a job does not guarantee to ensure that projects include the younger generation in the a decent living. In addition to creating jobs, IFU supports labour market. • and promotes decent work. This means that all workers must have an employment contract specifying the terms of employment, including reasonable wages and working hours, and migrant workers must have adequate housing and living conditions. IFU’s requirements for decent work also include occupational health and safety initiatives that effectively prevent and protect workers against health and safety risks in the workplace. Furthermore, the project must respect workers’ right to privacy, freedom of association and collective bargaining, and promote equal opportunities and prevent discrimination. 12 SUPPORTING THE GLOBAL GOALS Promoting equal opportunities and preventing discrimination IFU requires all investments to adhere to the core ILO conventions on non-discrimination. This means that direct investments must take measures to prevent and address harassment, intimidation, and/or exploitation, especially in regard to women, as well as base the employment relationship on the principle of equal opportunity and fair treatment. The project company may choose the initiatives most suitable within their business and local context. In 2019, 69 per cent of the direct investments reported that they had taken initiatives to promote equal opportunities and prevent discrimination. The table below shows what kind of initiatives have been taken and the share of project companies who have taken such initiatives. The most common initiative implemented is setting up a policy ensuring unbiased and transparent criteria for hiring, wages, promotion, training, discipline, retirement and termination. Going forward, IFU will strengthen the dialogue with the remaining 31 per cent of the project companies to improve their performance. Initiatives to promote equal opportunities and prevent discrimination (per cent*) 55 Non-discrimination policy 50 Non-discriminatory employment advertisements 49 Informing workers of their obligations 39 Training of all hiring managers 39 Employment opportunities for persons with disabilities 38 Not asking job applicants for private information 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 *Per cent of the 88 direct investments that have submitted a report in 2019 Preventing accidents ILO conventions on occupational health and safety provide IFU’s framework for creating safe and healthy work facilities and taking the necessary precautions to protect the workers from work-related risks and predictable dangers in the workplace. In 2019, 36 per cent of the direct investments reported that they had had accidents involving workers. The total number of accidents were 380. Three of these accidents were fatal, and the two companies involved have investigated the accidents and implemented measures to prevent similar accidents in the future. However, every accident is one too many, and IFU closely follows up on each project company’s initiatives to reduce the number of accidents and ensures that all project companies have the necessary precautionary measures in place relevant for the sector in question. The table below shows what kind of measures have been taken and the share of project companies who have taken such initiatives. The most common measures taken by the direct investments to reduce the risk of future accidents are safety training of the employees and having safety procedures in place. Since only a few project companies are non-manufacturing, IFU finds that the figures are not satisfactory, especially on fire drills and PPE. Measures to reduce the risk of future accidents (per cent*) 90 Training 82 Safety procedures in place 74 Workplace equipment in proper condition 67 Emergency response system/plan 65 Provision of personal protective equipment (PPE) 60 Fire drills 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 *Per cent of the 88 direct investments that have submitted a report in 2019 13 SUPPORTING THE GLOBAL GOALS Renewable energy supports climate stability The challenge LinkED to SDG 7 AND 13 Access to modern, affordable and clean energy is one of IFU’s investments contribute to the achievement of: the big challenges in developing countries for both people and businesses. In Sub-Saharan Africa alone, around 50 per cent on average do not have access to electricity and 40 per cent of businesses report that access to energy is a major operational constraint. At the same time, many developing countries are the ones facing the most severe consequences of climate change, affecting livelihoods, private sector development and economic growth. Consequently, the need for investments in clean energy in general and especially in renewable energy in developing countries is high. Activities and results In recent years, IFU has increased its investments in wind IFU assesses the climate impacts of its investments by caland solar projects in several developing countries like Kenya, culating the GHG emissions they cause and by identifying Pakistan, Egypt and Mongolia. climate change-resilient technologies and adaptation measures to be put in place as part of the investment. In 2019, IFU contracted four climate investments; three new investments and one additional financing for phase two of Projects are required to take all necessary measures to ensure an ongoing project. Excluding one platform investment in a that the project is energy efficient, thereby reducing contricompany working globally, where calculation is not yet posbutions to global warming to a minimum. The project should sible, the investments will install renewable energy capacity over time work towards a level in line with best practice within of 336 megawatt, and are expected to produce more than its sector or set a goal of reducing its CO2 emissions. During 1,000 GWh per annum when fully operational. In total, the appraisal, IFU estimates the absolute carbon emissions and projects are expected to represent GHG savings of approxsavings of the project. The estimations are calculated by an imately 9,500,000t CO2e during their lifetime. independent consultant. In total, IFU’s current portfolio includes renewable energy Projects emitting more than 25,000 tonnes of CO2 equivalent projects with an overall capacity of 1,160 megawatts distribannually are required to monitor and report on emissions to uted on 680 megawatts in wind power and 480 megawatts IFU. The information on emissions will be used to discuss in solar power. how to reduce the emissions in terms of choice of technology, introduction of mitigation measures, etc. From 2020, IFU will no longer make new investments in fossil fuel-based power production to the grid. IFU can, however, In 2019, 59 per cent of the direct investments reported in a transition period until 2023, invest in transitional hybrid that they have measures to reduce energy consumption. technologies, e.g. gas, in combination with renewables for Examples of measures include installation of energy-efficient power production, if strong development impact criteria are production equipment and solar panels, use of LED light met. Aligned with the Paris Agreement such criteria could bulbs and motion sensors to switch off lights and energy be that the investment is in a low-income country, and it is saving awareness campaigns and training of employees. • in accordance with the country’s national long-term energy plans, and that it meets an acute energy need or secures broader access to energy. 14 SUPPORTING THE GLOBAL GOALS Financing the green transition To reduce CO2 emissions and improve access to energy in developing countries, IFU invested DKK 170 million in JCM Power in 2019. The global platform is highly skilled in developing, structuring and operating large energy projects, which is a missing competence that prevents many solid renewable energy projects from receiving commercial financing and consequently from being realized. JCM Power is engaged in several renewable energy projects in e.g. Pakistan, Malawi and Cameroon. The aim of the investment is to contribute to install 800 megawatt of wind and solar energy in developing countries. Tax contribution improves social welfare The challenge LinkED to SDG 17 The SDGs can only be realised with a strong commitment IFU’s investments contribute to the achievement of: to global partnership and cooperation. This includes tackling tax evasion and supporting tax collection. Every year, African countries lose billions in taxes, in amounts proposed to surpass foreign development aid. The lack of tax revenue has a negative impact, starting with non-existent transport infrastructure, missing schools and hospitals and non-functioning public service. Activities and results All IFU’s projects depend on effective public, public-private Corporate tax per continent (in DKK 1,000) and civil society partnerships. In most projects, collaboration with the local authorities is important for achieving license Africa 1,207,406 to operate, and IFU sees proper payment of taxes to host Europa 73,667 countries as an important part of creating development Asia 1,167,695 impact when making investments. Global 629,594 Latin America 56,343 IFU projects must respect local tax laws and pay taxes where they have their economic activity. For 2019, IFU has informaTotal 3,134,704 tion on taxes from 146 direct investments and funds. Total Note: Tax information regarding 16 projects under establishment, reported annual corporate taxes from these investments 19 inactive projects, 4 PDP projects and 11 projects where reporting is missing/unavailable has been excluded. amount to approximately DKK 3.1bn. These figures do not include taxes paid by employees and VAT. • 15 SUPPORTING THE GLOBAL GOALS Empowerment of women in the workplace The challenge LinkED to SDG 3 and 5 Gender inequalities are still deep-rooted in many societies. IFU’s investments contribute to the achievement of: Women experience lack of access to decent work and face occupational segregation and gender wage gaps. In many places, they have limited access to basic education and health care and are victims of violence and discrimination. However, women play an important role in the economy of the developing countries, and their integration in the labour market and in the private sector has a significant impact on the livelihood of families. Activities and results IFU believes that opportunities exist to create value in comIn 2019, 23 per cent of the employees in direct investments panies and communities by integrating gender equality in were women. 19 per cent of the projects have reported that company leadership and corporate culture as well as in the share of women in leading positions is more than 40 per workplace policies and health initiatives. By promoting gender cent. However, in nearly half of the projects, the share of equality and women’s empowerment in the private sector, IFU women in leading positions is less than 10 per cent. contributes to unlocking business opportunities for female entrepreneurs and advance women as business leaders, To further step up the effort to support gender equality, IFU employees and consumers. has joined the 2X Challenge launched by the development finance institutions of the G7 countries in 2018. The aim Based on the SEAF (Small Enterprise Assistance Funds) is to advance opportunities for women through enterprise Gender Equality tool, IFU applied and developed a Gender support, leadership and career progression, quality employEquality Scorecard (GES) in 2019 to assess women’s ecoment and products, as well as services that enhance women’s nomic empowerment and gender equality. The scorecard economic participation. Since 2019, altogether 12 finance helps companies initiate internal dialogue on how to approach institutions have taken part in identifying eligible businesses gender equality, set goals and track progress. The scorecard that are committed to one or more of these areas. The target is structured around six issues related to equal pay, workis to achieve a total of USD three billion in commitments to force participation, leadership, benefits and professional finance projects by the end of 2020. • development, women-powered value chains and workplace environment. Workplace environment includes initiatives that improve women’s health and sexual and reproductive health. Four IFU projects have tested the scorecard, and based on the test results, it will be adjusted and rolled out to relevant companies in 2020. The tests showed that the scorecard inspires conversation and reflection at senior management level and also highlighted the importance of salary transparency to promote equal pay. 16 SUPPORTING THE GLOBAL GOALS Promoting health and reproductive health IFU encourages projects to address and promote health and reproductive health for all employees. This includes providing flexibility at work for women to relieve the double burden of managing work and family demands concurrently and ensuring women’s health in the workplace. In 2019, 67 per cent of the direct investments reported that they had taken initiatives to promote health and reproductive health. The table below shows what kind of initiatives have been taken and the share of project companies who have taken such initiatives. The most common initiatives include offering health insurance for employees as well as providing health check-ups and time off for medical care. It is satisfying that so many project companies follow IFU’s recommendations, creating both opportunities for women and business benefits, e.g. that almost half the projects provide flexible working hours for young mothers returning to work. Initiatives to promote health and reproductive health (per cent*) 51 Health insurance 50 Time off for medical care 48 Health check-ups 42 Flexible working hours for young mothers 36 Nutritious meals 33 Access to a health clinic 28 Access to free sanitary pads and condoms 28 Support at life-threatening diseases 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 *Per cent of the 88 direct investments that have submitted a report in 2019 Advancing opportunities for women In 2019, IFU disbursed a loan of EUR 10 million to United Exports in South Africa supporting the extension and upgrading of its blueberry production. During the high picking season, United Exports employs more than 5,000 people, of whom nearly 90 per cent of the seasonal and more than 50 per cent of the permanent workers are women. The high number of women employees qualifies United Exports to become part of the 2X Challenge, and against that backdrop, IFU and United Exports have signed a memorandum of understanding reflecting United Exports’ commitment to women’s economic empowerment. United Exports has launched several initiatives for both seasonal and permanent staff, including health awareness days, a mobile clinic service and counselling on issues like marital or parental problems and substance addiction. 17 SUPPORTING THE GLOBAL GOALS Anti-corruption is key to poverty alleviation The challenge LinkED to SDG 16 Corruption is one of the greatest barriers to sustainable IFU’s investments contribute to the achievement of: development with a disproportionate impact on developing countries, and combating corruption is a key element to poverty alleviation. According to the UN, corruption is costing the global economy USD 3.6 trillion every year. Activities and results IFU is maintaining a zero-tolerance policy regarding corrupstand against corruption. In addition, IFU requires that projects tion, including bribery, fraud and facilitation payment. All assess the risk of corruption, establish an anti-corruption projects must comply with any anti-corruption legislation in culture, and make their anti-corruption commitment known the country in which they operate and take a clear, written to business partners. • Reducing the risk of corruption IFU requires direct investments to implement anti-corruption procedures and controls in accordance with international principles and standards. The project may choose the initiatives most suitable within their business and local context. In 2019, 82 per cent of the direct investments reported that they had taken initiatives to reduce the risk of corruption. 50 per cent of the direct investments have an anti-corruption policy, 40 per cent have a code of conduct for business partners, and 60 per cent have trained their employees in anti-corruption. With regard to the funds, 86 per cent reported that they have a written stand against corruption. Going forward, IFU will work to ensure that all projects take a written stand in the form of an anti-corruption policy and conduct anti-corruption training of their employees. Furthermore, IFU will encourage projects to include a clause on anti-corruption in the contracts with their suppliers. Initiatives to reduce the risk of corruption (per cent*) 60 Training of employees 50 Anti-corruption policy 41 Awareness-raising towards suppliers 40 Avoid facilitation payment 40 Code of conduct for business partners 36 Establish an anti-corruption culture 24 Clause in contract with suppliers 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 *Per cent of the 88 direct investments that have submitted a report in 2019 18 SUPPORTING THE GLOBAL GOALS Sustainable agriculture creates food security The challenge LinkED to SDG 2 and 12 Hunger and malnutrition remain a barrier to development IFU’s investments contribute to the achievement of: in many countries, and investments in agribusiness are crucial for creating economic growth and social progress. Food waste is a serious global problem. Every year, one third of total global food production is wasted. In developing countries, one of the main reasons for food waste is insufficient and ineffective storage and transport facilities. Activities and results IFU has during the years been investing in agribusiness and smallholders therefore play a critical role in addressing projects along the whole value chain from farm to fork. At the challenges of food security, poverty and climate change. year-end 2019, the active agribusiness portfolio included 52 projects at a total of DKK 2bn in contracted investments. IFU’s investments in improving and upgrading agribusiness infrastructure have the potential to reduce food waste and 37 per cent of these agribusiness projects have reported that undernourishment and increase farmers’ income. • they support smallholder farmers. In Africa and Asia, smallholder farmers produce the majority of the food consumed, Supporting smallholder development IFU has invested in a pan-African agricultural fund, the Silverlands Fund, which focuses on primary agriculture and associated processing. In Tanzania, Silverlands has established a cropping and livestock operation aiming at developing and expanding markets for local small-scale farmers. This includes training, purchase of local crops and selling quality feed and day-old chicken for local breeding. To facilitate market access and improve the outcome of the small-scale farmers, Silverlands has supported the set-up of Agricultural Marketing Co-operative Societies (AMCOS), and IFU has supported the AMCOS by offering a training grant of DKK 1 million. The training is based on Conservation Agriculture, which is a sustainable agriculture production system comprising a set of farming practices adapted to the requirements of crops and local conditions of each region. The farming and soil management techniques protect the soil from erosion and degradation, improve its quality and biodiversity, and contribute to the preservation of natural resources, water and air, while optimizing yields. Since 2018, more than 8000 farmers have participated in the training, of which half are women. 19 SUSTAINABILITY IN IFU’S INVESTMENT PROCESS SUSTAINABILITY IN IFU’S INVESTMENT PROCESS Managing environmental and social (E&S) risks and to the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human impacts is an integral part of IFU’s investment process Rights. for both direct investments and investments in funds and financial institutions. The foundation is IFU’s IFU's sustainability policy and approach to investsustainability policy that sets out IFU’s commitment to ments is based on the international development invest in sustainable development and to contribute to agenda, Agenda 2030, and its three core components: the realisation of the Sustainable Development Goals • the Sustainable Development Goals (2015), (SDGs). • the UNFCCC Paris Declaration (2015) and The Sustainability Policy sets out IFU’s • the Addis Ababa Action Agenda on Finance for commitment to New sustainability policies Development (2015) invest in sustainable development and In February 2019, IFU’s board of directors approved an to contribute to updated sustainability policy highlighting sustainability Since 2017, the UN Guiding Principles on Business the realisation of the SDGs issues that IFU considers particularly relevant in order and Human Rights (UNGP) have been part of the legal for investments to contribute to the SDGs. basis for IFU’s operations, cf. section 9 of the Danish Act on International Development Cooperation. The policy specifies that IFU applies an exclusion list, which includes 12 types of production and activities Furthermore, the policy has annexes with specific susthat IFU does not finance. These 12 have been adopttainability requirements for IFU’s direct investments ed by all the European DFIs, which are members of the in the form of equity and loans to project companies, European Development Finance Institutions (EDFI). as well as investments in private equity funds and The full list is annexed in IFU's sustainability policy. financial institutions. The policy includes more elaborate references to key During 2019, IFU has also developed and launched international standards and frameworks relevant for supplementary policies on climate, human rights private sector investments and a clear commitment and gender equality. These policies are part of IFU’s Sustainability policy framework ifu's sustainability policy, 2019 Environmental Social policies: Governance policies: policies: • Human Rights Policy, • Corporate Governance • Climate Policy, 2019 2019 Policy, 2016 • Animal Welfare Policy, • Gender Equality Policy, • Anti-Corruption Policy, 2015 2019 2015 • Tax Policy, 2018 IFU’s sustainability policy framework consists of a sustainability policy and seven underlying policies. All policies are available at www.ifu.dk. 20 SUSTAINABILITY IN IFU’S INVESTMENT PROCESS sustainability policy framework with seven underlying scoping of IFU’s due diligence of investments are the policies that specify IFU’s commitments and further IFC Environmental and Social Performance Standards explain how IFU implements responsible business con(2012), which are based on a number of international duct measures in relation to global sustainability chalcore conventions, declarations and agreements. lenges. All IFU’s policies are based upon and aligned with international UN, ILO and OECD conventions, In all direct investments, the sustainability perfordeclarations, agreements and principles for sustainamance is assessed using the UN Global Compact Self ble development. Assessment Tool co-developed by IFU. For high-risk projects (A and B+), IFU ensures that an EnvironmenThe extensive process of preparing the new policies tal and Social Impact Assessment (ESIA) is conducted has included public hearings and dialogue meetings where required by authorities, and IFU initiates an with Danish civil society organisations and other Environmental and Social Due Diligence against the external stakeholders, who have provided valuable IFC Performance Standards and the related IFC Eninput. Furthermore, the policies have been discussed vironmental, Health, & Safety (EHS) Guidelines. The with IFU’s Sustainability Advisory Board, which has EHS Guidelines contain sector-specific performance provided constructive feedback in the drafting of the levels and measures that are generally considered to policies. be achievable in new facilities at reasonable costs by existing technology. IFU wishes to ensure implementaCategorisation of risks tion of the IFC Performance Standards and EHS GuideDuring appraisal, IFU assesses and approves investlines in all high-risk direct investments and requires ments according to a gradually increased engagement fund investments to do the same. level passing several approval stages. The first phase is a screening where IFU identifies project-related susFor the less critical projects (B and C), it may be tainability risks and impacts to be assessed during the relevant to apply other international standards like ISO due diligence phase, and categorises projects in terms 14001, OHSAS 18001 and SA 8000. Agribusiness of environmental and social risk. IFU uses the risk projects are required to use Danish standards regarding IFU wishes categories A, B+, B and C that are defined and used animal welfare and slurry management as a baseline. to ensure implementation by all European Development Finance Institutions (EDof the IFC FIs). Category A projects are projects with significant Performance Standards and potential adverse environmental or social impacts or EHS Guidelines risks, e.g. large wind farms and cement manufacturing. Contrary to this, category C projects are projects International commitments with minimal or no adverse social or environmental IFU’s policies are based upon and aligned impacts or risks, e.g. offices or IT development comwith the following international conventions, panies. Around 23 per cent of the active portfolio are declarations, agreements and principles for high-risk investments (A and B+ projects). sustainable development: IFU also evaluates the project sponsor’s track record, • UN Sustainable Development Goals commitment and capability to manage sustainability • UNFCCC Paris Declaration issues. This is especially relevant for greenfield pro• Addis Ababa Action Agenda on Finance jects where project management is yet to be estabfor Development lished. • UN Global Compact • UN Guiding Principles on Business and Applying international standards Human Rights (UNGPs) Based on the E&S categorisation, the due diligence • OECD Guidelines for Multinational phase includes a comprehensive assessment of Enterprises sustainability risks, impacts and mitigation measures • Rio Declaration on Environment and related to the specific project. Development • Paris Agreement on Climate Change IFU requires project companies to follow internation• UN Convention Against Corruption al standards and principles in addition to complying • UN Principles for Responsible Investment with national regulations. In order to operationalize (UNPRI) the management of sustainability issues in accord• Climate Action in Financial Institutions ance with international principles and set minimum requirements, the primary standards that guide the 21 SUSTAINABILITY IN IFU’S INVESTMENT PROCESS The purpose of these assessments is to identify vide transparent sustainability information about its potential gaps in the current performance or planned investments. measures in the project, and indicate which improvements are necessary to meet the requirements of IFU’s In 2019, 88 of 95 direct investments required to report sustainability policy and the relevant sustainability submitted an annual sustainability report to IFU. Two standards over time. of the remaining projects have reported in a not applicable format, whereas five projects are in distress and IFU exercises active ownership and In addition, IFU conducts site visits to identify areas have not prepared a report in this reporting period. uses its leverage that require further attention. For some high-risk On top of the 95 projects, 12 new projects are not to initiate improvement of projects, site visits include stakeholder identification required to report yet. the sustainability and engagement. performance of projects IFU has invested in six financial institutions. Two of In greenfield projects with a construction phase, IFU these have submitted an annual sustainability report also focuses on special risk and impact during conto IFU in 2019. The remaining four are new investstruction. This could include occupational health and ments not yet required to report. safety risks, issues related to land ownership and land use as well as impacts on the local community. Out of 44 fund investments, 33 submitted an annual sustainability report in 2019. Seven of the remaining Exercising active ownership investments are new fund investments not yet reBefore the investment is approved, IFU ensures quired to report, one has been exempted from reportcommitment to a written sustainability action plan ing, and three did not report in the reporting period. describing the measures to be implemented within an agreed time frame to meet the requirements of IFU’s Providing tools and training for projects sustainability policy and the relevant sustainability IFU has developed a variety of tools to support the standards. Both the sustainability action plan and the projects in their sustainability efforts. These include a impact creation plan act as tools for IFU’s ongoing Sustainable Investments Handbook that explains how management and monitoring of the sustainability IFU’s sustainability requirements should be interpreted performance of the project. and can be implemented to ensure that sustainability is an integrated part of the strategic and daily operaIn 2019, 31 per cent of the direct investments reporttion of a project company. ed that they have a current action plan. The main reasons for not having a plan are that previous plans have In 2019, the handbook was updated to reflect the been fulfilled or that the investments were contracted commitments and approach in IFU’s new sustainability before 2015, when action plans were not as explicit policy. The handbook applies to all direct investments, and formally implemented as today. however, funds and financial institutions may also use the handbook in their dialogue with their portfolio Throughout the investment period, IFU exercises companies and clients. active ownership and uses its leverage to initiate improvement of the sustainability performance of the In 2018, IFU established a Sustainability Facility for project. However, IFU is normally minority shareholder IFU project companies to promote sustainability and thus does not have the opportunity to exercise aspects. In 2019, the Sustainability Facility supported management control. IFU’s investment professionals two projects on gender equality, a HIV/AIDS project have the overall responsibility for ensuring that the and a project on implementation of an Environmental sustainability requirements are met, and typically and Social Management System. they participate on the board of directors of the direct investments. In 2019, IFU was board member or Resolving grievances regarding investments observer in 62% per cent of the total direct investIFU has a grievance mechanism through which exterments portfolio. IFU’s Sustainability Unit assists the nal stakeholders can report alleged breaches of IFU’s investment professionals and provides them with tools sustainability policy. This includes grievances from inand training. dividuals and communities affected by an IFU project. In 2019, the grievance mechanism was reviewed and Projects are required to prepare an annual sustainabilupdated in light of the Danish Anti-Money Laundering ity report to be discussed and approved by their board Act, section 35, that requires financial institutions of directors. The report serves as an important tool for to set up an externally administered whistleblower the annual stocktaking of the project’s sustainability mechanism. performance and development impacts. The annual reports must be submitted to IFU and are essential for Grievance reports will be received through a web porIFU’s ability to perform active ownership and protal established in collaboration with an external provid22 SUSTAINABILITY IN IFU’S INVESTMENT PROCESS Sustainability in the investment process • First gate impact screening • Identification of project-related sustainability risks and impact Screening • Pre-assessment of potential adverse impacts on human rights • Evaluation of projects' sustainability awareness, capability and track record • Categorisation of projects according to environmental and social risk level • Assessment of impact aligned with SDGs for all projects • UN Global Compact Self-Assessment for alle projects DUE • Environmental and Social Impact Assessment (ESIA) for high-risk projects DILIGENCE • Complementary assessment of severe adverse human rights impacts • Site visit, including stakeholder identification and engagement for high-risk projects • Binding commitment to IFU's sustainability requirements and to sustainability action plan and impact creation plan APPROVAL • Ongoing monitoring of sustainability performance • Follow-up on sustainability action plan and impact creation plan ACTIVE • Annual sustainability status report, including impact reporting OWNERSHIP IFU’s investment process is aligned with the standards adopted by the European Development Finance Institutions (EDFIs) and will therefore be applied in a similar way when co-financing among EDFIs occurs. er, who will assist IFU in administrating the reports. work Denmark, Transparency International Denmark, IFU will investigate the grievances and seek to resolve The Tax Dialogue, the Danish Ethical Trading Initiative any breaches of IFU’s policy. Measures may include (DIEH) and the DFI Gender Finance Collaborative. third-party investigations, negotiated settlements, contractual remedies and considering the future In addition, IFU has its own Sustainability Advisory relationship with the breaching parties. Furthermore, Board with members appointed in their personal IFU HAS a grievance mechanism through IFU will whenever justified use its leverage to seek to capacity, each representing issues of particular imwhich external ensure access to remedy for affected individuals and portance to IFU: human rights, environment, developstakeholders can report communities and/or notify the appropriate authorities. ment research and policy. The advisory board meets concerns regularly to discuss and advise on key issues. Main In 2019, IFU received two grievances regarding its topics discussed in 2019 were related to IFU’s new investments. One grievance concerned land use and sustainability policies. is not resolved yet. The other concerned governance issues in a project company and was rejected by IFU. At the end of 2019, IFU’s Sustainability Advisory Board members included: Stakeholder engagement and partnerships IFU participates in several fora to keep up to date with • Lars Engberg-Pedersen, Senior Researcher, DIIS stakeholder expectations and the international devel• Nanna Callisen Bang, Deputy Director & Head of opments within sustainability and responsible business Programme, Tuborgfondet conduct. IFU is a member of European Development • John Nordbo, Climate Advocacy, CARE Finance Institutions (EDFI), UN Global Compact Net23 SUSTAINABILITY IN IFU’S INVESTMENT PROCESS • Allan Lerberg Jørgensen, Lead Sustainability human rights for relevant rightsholders related to the Advisor, Social Impact, A.P. Moller Maersk project. The assessment takes into account country • Malene Østergaard, Director, Ethics & Human and project risks like projects in fragile states, projects Rights, Danfoss in countries with no guarantee of workers’ rights, • Gitte Dyrhagen Husager, Head of Private Sector projects in countries with high risk of corruption and Engagement, Danish Church Aid projects involving a number of risk aspects such as • Mads Bugge Madsen, Director, Ulandssekretariatet land take, use of migrant workers, location in water, • Jacqueline Bryld, International Director, scarce areas or handling of personal data, etc. Sex & Samfund IFU considers If this screening shows that there is a risk of severe adrespect for human In order to maintain an open dialogue about stakeverse human rights impacts, IFU will assess to what exrights to be a minimum standard holder concerns and ensure quick response to public tent these impacts are covered by the IFC Performance applied in all its initiatives, IFU meets with civil society organisations Standards. To support the assessment, IFU has mapped operations twice a year. In 2019, IFU’s new policies were on the the link between the IFC Performance Standards and agenda. the human rights and developed a human rights due diligence matrix. The outcome of this due diligence is Strengthened human rights due diligence either additional mitigation measures to those includAs a state-owned institution IFU has a special responed to comply with the IFC Performance Standards or sibility and duty to protect human rights as a separate and more thorough human rights impact described in the International Bill of Human Rights. assessment of the potential severe adverse impacts. IFU considers respect for human rights to be a minimum standard applied in all its operations, and In 2019, IFU carried out a pilot test of the human expects its employees and its projects to actively rights due diligence process and conducted ten encourage those involved in their business activities assessments with the use of the human rights due dilito adopt the same or similar standards. In 2019, IFU gence matrix. None resulted in a need for a separate strengthened its human rights due diligence process human rights impact assessment, while two resulted for direct investments as an integral part of the investin additional mitigations measures. • ment process. In the screening phase, IFU conducts a pre-investment screening of potential adverse impacts on The IFC Performance Standards (PS) PS1: Assessment and Management of PS1 concerns management of environmental and Environmental and Social Risks and Impacts social performance throughout the life of the project, and it applies to all projects. It establishes the PS2: Labour and Working Conditions importance of integrated assessment to identify the environmental and social impacts, risks and opportunities of projects; effective community engagement PS3: Resource Efficiency and Pollution Prevention through disclosure of project-related information, and consultation with local communities on matters that directly affect them. PS4: Community Health, Safety, and Security PS5: Land Acquisition and Involuntary Resettlement PS2-8 describe potential environmental and social risks and impacts that require particular attention and that may apply depending on project circumstances PS6: Biodiversity Conservation and Sustainable and the identified environmental and social impacts Management of Living Natural Resources and risks. These standards establish objectives and requirements to avoid, minimise, and where residual imPS7: Indigenous Peoples pacts remain, to compensate for risks and impacts to workers, affected communities and the environment. They address a number of crosscutting topics such as PS8: Cultural Heritage climate change, gender, human rights and water. 24 SUSTAINABILITY IN IFU’S INVESTMENT PROCESS The link between IFC Performance Standards and human rights The figure shows the link between IFC Performance es) only lead to human rights impacts when affecting the Standards (PS) and human rights, and the rights of most right-holders, through impacts on the right to health (PS4) relevance to IFU projects. and the right to adequate standards of living (PS5). In the figure, these indirect impacts are indicated with shaded Most relevant for IFU within PS1 (Assessment and Mancolours. Impacts on biodiversity that do not affect the agement of Environmental and Social Risks and Impacts) livelihood or other ecosystem services of communities do is the right to life as aspects of emergency preparedness not necessarily translate into a human rights impact. This and response. Other relevant rights covered by PS1 are the could be the case for e.g. impacts on birds and bats from right to non-discrimination and the right to public particwindfarms. ipation related to stakeholder engagement and access to grievance mechanism. PS7 (Indigenous People) and PS8 (Cultural Heritage) are covered by indigenous people’s rights and cultural rights, The right to decent work covers all human rights related respectively. to working conditions, e.g. right to work, right to enjoy just and favourable conditions of work, right to form and While most of the human rights are an integral part of join trade unions and the right to strike, etc., which are all IFC PS, two specific human rights risks are not covered covered by PS2 (Labour and Working Conditions). sufficiently. One is human rights risks in the supply chain, which needs specific attention related to impacts on all Rights covered by PS4 (Community Health, Safety and Sehuman rights. The other is the right to privacy that is curity) include the right to health and the right to security. particularly relevant for companies handling significant For PS5 (Land Acquisition and Involuntary Resettlement) amounts of personal data, such as private banking, microthe right to adequate standard of living is of most relefinance, health providers and Information and Communivance to IFU projects. cation Technology (ICT). The right to privacy also relates to companies’ surveillance, workers personal information Environmental impacts under PS3 (Resource Efficiency and kept by the company and personal information of commuPollution Prevention) and PS6 (Biodiversity Conservation nity members collected by the company in relation to e.g. and Sustainable Management of Living Natural Resourcland acquisition and resettlement. UAL RISK ASSESSM TEXT ENT CON Cultural Right to Rights Life Indigenous Right to NonPeoples Rights discrimination PS 8 Right to PS 7 PS 1 Adequate Right to Public Standard Participation of Living PS 6 Right to PS 5 Right to Adequate PS 2 Decent Standard Work of Living PS 4 PS 3 Right to Right to Security Family Life Right to Right to Health Health 25 SUStainability management in projects SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT IN PROJECTS IFU encourages all projects to work strategically with ensures continuous improvement of the sustainability sustainability and formally anchor the activities in the performance. business plans and daily practices, and projects are required to adopt a written sustainability policy and For direct investments, the management system is establish an Environmental and Social Management an indicator of the projects’ ability to manage their System (ESMS). As IFU each year contracts tens of specific adverse impacts. When investing in funds As IFU each year contracts tens projects there will always be new projects that do not or financial institutions, IFU focuses on the funds’ or of projects there meet the requirements yet, but are in the process of institutions’ ability to employ a management system will always be new projects that do implementing them. that effectively addresses sustainability risks related to not meet the their portfolio companies and clients. requirements yet Policy commitments IFU views the sustainability policy as a key perfor42 per cent of the direct investments have an Environmance indicator that states the level of sustainability mental and Social Management System, while 80 per ambition and offers clear evidence of the project’s cent of the funds have implemented a management sustainability commitment. 65 per cent of the direct system. 89 per cent of funds contractually bind their investments have a written sustainability policy, while portfolio companies to comply with the policy or in95 per cent of the funds have a policy or investment vestment code, assess ESG aspects of the investments code, which includes sustainability commitments. and monitor the sustainability performance of the Direct investments without a written policy are either portfolio companies. projects contracted before 2015, when this was not a requirement, or projects (20 per cent) that are in the Direct investments without a management system are process of preparing a policy. The same goes for funds either projects contracted before 2015, when this was without a policy or investment code. All six financial not a requirement, or projects (20 per cent) that are in institutions have a sustainability policy. the process of implementing a system. As many new projects are greenfield investments, the establishment Furthermore, IFU requires microfinance institutions of the management system will await the construc(MFIs) to endorse the Client Protection Principles to tion and management of the company/the facilities. ensure prudent, transparent and respectful treatment of clients. This includes appropriate product design All projects are required to appoint a person with the and delivery, prevention of over-in-debtedness, transoverall responsibility for sustainability at operational parency, responsible pricing, fair and respectful treatlevel and ensure that the person is suitably trained ment of clients, privacy of client data and mechanisms and have appropriate knowledge of sustainability for complaint resolution. All the MFIs have endorsed issues related to the project. 81 per cent of the direct the Client Protection Principles. investments have a dedicated person responsible for sustainability, while this applies to 84 per cent of the Processes in place funds. The management system ensures that the project continually identifies and assesses all significant susIFU can still improve how sustainability requirements tainability risks and impacts, addresses any identified are made explicit and how IFU follows up and has a shortcomings in relation to sustainability issues and dialogue with projects that do not meet the require26 SUStainability management in projects ments. Going forward, IFU will work to ensure that all Supply chain management projects meet the management requirement, which is IFU requires project companies to promote sustainemphasised in the new sustainability policy. ability issues in interaction with their suppliers and business partners. The projects may choose the Grievance mechanism initiatives most suitable within their business and local The projects are also required to establish a grievance context, but IFU recommends them to prepare a code mechanism for receiving, processing and settling of conduct listing the sustainability principles and IFU requires project companies complaints by individuals and communities. This standards that the suppliers are expected to meet. to promote includes providing clear and easily accessible informasustainability issues in interaction tion on how complaints can be submitted, what kind In 2019, 40 per cent of the direct investments reportwith their suppliers of complaints can be reported, and how complaints ed that they had taken initiatives to place sustainaand business partners are processed and resolved. Furthermore, the projects bility requirements on suppliers. The most common must ensure access to remedy for the affected persons initiative is to include sustainability issues in the and/or notify the appropriate authorities. business contract with suppliers. 49 per cent of the direct investments have a grievance This is an area where IFU finds that there is room for mechanism for external stakeholders. In 2019, 11 per improvement, and project companies in general should cent of the project companies reported that they had use their leverage to promote sustainable supply received complaints. Grievance mechanisms are in chains. • place in 70 per cent of funds. This is expected to increase in the coming years, as it is a new requirement in IFU’s sustainability policy. Supply chain management Initiatives to place sustainability requirement on suppliers (per cent*) 27 Sustainability issues in supplier contracts 16 Code of conduct for suppliers 16 Monitoring performance of suppliers 7 External audit of suppliers 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 *Per cent of the 88 direct investments that have submitted a report in 2019 27 IFU’S STAFF AND PREMISES IFU’S STAFF AND PREMISES The sustainability impacts of IFU’s own activities are feedback for own development, will continue to be a small compared to the impacts of IFU’s investments top priority for IFU’s learning culture. and thereby less material. The sustainability Gender composition impacts of IFU’s own activities are small During 2019, the average staff amounted to 88 fullIFU’s policy and objectives for the gender composition compared to the time employees (FTE). 81 per cent of the staff was of the board and leadership positions in IFU follow the impacts of IFU’s investments and employed in Copenhagen and 19 per cent across Afguidelines of the Danish Business Authority, Section thereby less rica, Asia, Latin America and Eastern Europe. Twenty 11 (2) of the Danish Gender Equality Act and Section material different nationalities are represented among IFU’s 99 b of the Danish Financial Statements Acts. employees. IFU’s board of directors consists of up to ten members and is appointed by the minister for development HR statistics 2019* cooperation. To have a balanced composition on the Full-time employees 88 board of directors, the objective is to have representaFemale employees 43% tion of at least one third of each gender. Currently, the Average age of employees 44 years board consists of seven members and one observer. Average seniority 9 years Five are male (71 per cent), and two are female (29 per cent). Observers are not included as per the Employee turnover 13.4% guidelines from the Danish Business Authority. Retention (five years of seniority or more) 49.5% New people on-boarded 16 The objective for the gender composition of leadership *Excluding students and others on hourly wage positions at IFU is the same as the above. IFU did not meet the objective in 2019, given a 68/32 per cent split between males and females end of 2019. It is Learning culture IFU’s policy to increase the share of the under-repreTo successfully execute IFU’s strategy based on cresented gender in leadership positions. ating impact and return on investments, IFU’s staff is key. IFU is a global knowledge organisation, and the Environment, health and safety ability to deliver results relies on teamwork, knowledge IFU strives to continuously limit energy consumption sharing and on-going organisational learning and develon IFU’s premises, apply energy-efficient solutions, opment. IFU has a mandatory onboarding programme minimise water consumption and increase recycling of for all employees that includes anti-corruption training. waste. IFU also includes environmental considerations in purchasing of goods and services. Furthermore, In 2019, IFU’s learning culture was further enforced to environmental as well as health and safety considsustain an organisation where values, processes and erations are reflected in the terms and conditions of practices encourage individuals and the organisation to contractors working at IFU’s premises. IFU has a joint increase knowledge, competences and performance. management and employee committee that discusses work-related issues, including health and safety. IFU During the year, special focus has been on feedback, also conducts workplace assessments (APV) on a because ongoing constructive dialogue within and regular basis. • across teams, offices and people working in different parts of the world is important for sharing knowledge and improving performance. Engaging in and giving constructive feedback to colleagues as well as seeking 28 REPORTING PRINCIPLES REPORTING PRINCIPLES This report covers the relevant and significant susFunds use an IFU Word template to submit their tainability issues and development impact creation annual sustainability reports to IFU. Funds are also for the financial year 1 January 2019 to 31 December allowed to use a template provided by another in2019. It gives IFU’s stakeholders an overview of IFU’s vestment partner when co-financing with other EDFIs performance in these areas, complementing our occurs. This makes direct comparison of data more Annual Report. difficult. The report focuses on IFU’s investments, which As the projects have different financial years, the account for IFU’s significant sustainability impacts. reported performance data cover different reporting The impacts of IFU’s own activities are considered to periods within 2018-2019. Thus, the aggregated data be small in comparison, and only a few key figures on represent a snapshot of the portfolio’s overall perforIFU’s staff and premises are included in the report. mance, but not the exact performance in 2019. The report is based on sustainability reports submitAs IFU continuously contracts new projects and exits ted to IFU in 2019 by 88 direct investments, includterminated projects, the composition of the portfoing one microfinance institution and 33 private equity lio varies from year to year, and thus the portfolio funds together with the annual financial reports after performance is not directly comparable. • the end of the financial year. This is 88 per cent of the 137 projects required to report in this reporting period. The remaining projects are either inactive or new projects not yet required to report. The direct investments are obliged to use an online reporting template with fixed questions and answer options, e.g. standardised tick boxes. This template was introduced in 2019 to align the sustainability reports and enable aggregation of more data. However, procedures for gathering data in the projects will always be of varying quality, and IFU will continue to adjust the indicators and questions in the template to improve the answers and the data accuracy. 29 IFU Denmark Fredericiagade 27 1310 Copenhagen K www.ifu.dk ifu@ifu.dk +45 33 63 75 00 CVR no 23598612 Cover photo from Lake Turkana Wind Power in Kenya Other photos by Ernst Tobisch, NMI, JCM Power, United Exports (photo: Alfred Lor), Silverlands Fund (photo: Julia Wakeling).
