S TA R B U C K S 2 0 1 9 G LO B A L SOCIAL I M PAC T REPORT MESSAGE FROM KEVIN JOHNSON Dear Starbucks partners, customers and stakeholders: As we provide our 19th annual update on our global social impact activity, we also sit at a significant time in history that’s requiring major changes to our business around the world as quickly and dynamically as possible to meet the needs of our partners, customers and communities during the COVID-19 pandemic. Starbucks partners are showing how resilient they are in ways no one dreamed about a year ago. They’re upping the ante every day on what our company represents: Using the ritual of connecting over coffee to uplift the everyday experience and drive deeper human connection. Each one of us at Starbucks is forever changed from this pandemic, as are the communities we serve. It has underscored how important serving our customers and communities is to us, and it’s Chicago brought new perspective and resonance to the ability Starbucks has to make the world a better place. This time is historic in an We also invested in the future of greener cups, packaging and additional way, as many of our communities are coming together retail, foreshadowing a much larger aspiration we announced to protest racial injustice and highlight the vast improvement in January 2020. We invested heavily in supporting coffee necessary in the way society treats people of color. Clearly, current communities, including dispersing a $20 million Emergency Farmer events are showing us that executing our global social impact Relief Fund to support smallholder farmers in Central America agenda successfully is now more important than ever. experiencing the effects of low global coffee prices. As a testament to our increasing commitment to our people and INVESTING IN PEOPLE AND THE PLANET planet priorities, we were proud late last year to hire our first global chief officer of sustainability, Michael Kobori; our first global Decades ago, Starbucks developed an agenda of global social chief officer of inclusion and diversity, Nzinga Shaw; and our first impact priorities. In broad strokes, our investments have centered global chief officer of ethics and compliance, Tyson Avery. around balancing our role as a for-profit company with the betterment of people and the planet. Now in mid-2020, the world has changed, the needs are That means we invest in people – especially our partners, so even greater, and we continue they in turn can support people in the communities we serve. to thoughtfully examine how It also means we recognize healthy human lives depend on Starbucks can most responsibly healthy ecosystems, so we work to better the health of our and constructively serve our natural resources. As a result, we now have a long-term aspiration communities and our planet to be a resource positive company – storing more carbon than going forward. we emit, providing more clean freshwater than we use, and eliminating waste. The crisis we are navigating has underscored that our world We can be proud of our Global Social Impact progress in fiscal Jakarta, Indonesia is small, and we need to take year 2019. We continued working to put partners first and create care of it and each other. We understand the interdependency of a culture where everyone is welcome, including conducting a the health of humanity and the health of the planet. We embrace first-time, third-party Civil Rights Assessment that we continue diverse voices participating in these conversations, so we can hear to consider and implement. We worked to strengthen the varying points of view to make the best decisions. We feel the communities where Starbucks partners live and work, expanding threat of greater economic disparity in the future, as COVID-19 is innovative grants, investments and community service models. often impacting socioeconomically disadvantaged communities more than others. Continued on next page © 2020 Starbucks Coffee Company. All rights reserved. 2019 Starbucks Global Social Impact Report | 2 MESSAGE FROM KEVIN JOHNSON From the onset of the pandemic, we have moved swiftly to take for the community to gather means our stores have often served actions to address our people and planet priorities. We’ve acted not only as a place for human connection, where everyone can to address urgent needs related to COVID-19 as detailed and feel welcome, but also as a beacon of hope and resilience during updated here. As an example, Starbucks has committed to a crisis – whether that’s the aftermath of an earthquake, hurricane first-of-its-kind $10 million emergency relief fund for partners in or a wildfire, or now as we re-open and strive to provide some both company-operated and licensed retail store markets around normalcy in the midst of the global pandemic. the world. As always, Starbucks partners In the U.S. and Canada, we were able to provide temporary are the best champions of how benefits for partners, more support for food banks and free coffee to serve their own communities. for first responders and frontline healthcare workers. Starbucks We’re finding success when partners are innovating in other timely, locally meaningful ways. we gain insights from the field, Our partners in Asia have led the way in organizing food and coffee provide resources and tools donations to hospitals, nonprofits, local police and health officials, to help inform local decisions, and other frontline workers. And our partners around the world and enable partners to take have echoed those demonstrations of gratitude. actions that are locally relevant. Just as this approach applies During the pandemic, we’ve had to pause on allowing reusable to navigating the day-to-day cups. But we continue our commitment to shift to more reusable COVID-19 situation as it varies packaging as well as more fully recyclable and compostable in markets around the world, it packaging, ensuring we also prioritize health and safety. This also applies to defining relevant requires innovation from our own experts as well as many other community service activities Seattle alliances. and guiding The Starbucks Foundation’s approach to addressing local communities’ needs. And it applies to our teams in our nine Farmer Support Centers in coffee-growing regions worldwide as they serve the needs of coffee farmers and their communities. Because of our partners’ inspiring daily actions, I’m more optimistic than ever that we can overcome this global challenge and emerge with deeper perspective about the role we should be playing as a for-profit enterprise that also has a great deal of power to make positive global social impact. As Starbucks approaches its 50th anniversary in 2021, I hold those thoughts in my mind every day – that as we evolve our business in major ways, we must stay true to our heritage and what we stand Hacienda Alsacia Coffee Farm, Costa Rica for: People positive, planet positive and profit positive, working as partners to create a different kind of company for the next Meanwhile, The Starbucks Foundation continues to invest 50 years. millions of dollars to support a variety of organizations, extending emergency assistance to those in need while also helping to build a path towards recovery and resilience. THIS IS WHO WE ARE Kevin Johnson, president and ceo Making a positive social impact runs deep at Starbucks. Since the beginning, our purpose has gone beyond profit. We believe in the pursuit of doing good. The idea of Starbucks being a Third Place © 2020 Starbucks Coffee Company. All rights reserved. 2019 Starbucks Global Social Impact Report | 3 F O R U S, T H E P U R S U I T O F P R O F I T I S C O N S I S T E N T W I T H TH E PURSUIT O F DOING GOOD At Starbucks we stand for being people positive, planet positive and profit positive, living our Mission and Values while working together as partners to build a different kind of company. Our annual global social impact reporting focuses on three areas: leading in sustainability, creating meaningful opportunities, and strengthening our communities. These are areas critical to our business, and where we know we can have notable impact. This summary serves as transparent acknowledgment of our efforts in fiscal year 2019, including what we have achieved to Seattle date, where we’re falling short, and what is still to come. We hope you will continue to join us on our journey. OUR MISSION To inspire and nurture the human spirit – one person, one cup and one neighborhood at a time. Hacienda Alsacia Coffee Farm, Costa Rica Daegu, South Korea New York Jonesboro, Ga. © 2020 Starbucks Coffee Company. All rights reserved. 2019 Starbucks Global Social Impact Report | 4 LEAD I N G I N S USTAI NABILITY Expanding on our history in sustainability and progress in building a more sustainable future for coffee, we announced in January of 2020 a multi-decade aspiration to be a resource-positive company, giving more than it takes from the planet. The announcement included science-based preliminary target reductions of carbon, water and waste by 2030. Informed by an environmental baseline report it outlined five strategies to move forward, such as shifting away from single-use to reusable packaging, and finding better ways to manage our waste. We’ll share new commitments in the spring of 2021 as we celebrate Starbucks 50th anniversary. COFFEE & TEA FY19 PROGRESS 99% E T H I C A L LY S O U R C E D C O F F E E 160K+ FARME R S TR AIN E D Goal: 100% ethically sourced coffee Goal: Train 200,000 farmers by the end of 2020 For the fifth year in a row in FY19, more than 99% of our coffee Our Global Agronomy Center and Farmer Support Center at was verified as ethically sourced under C.A.F.E. Practices. Although Hacienda Alsacia in Costa Rica and our eight other Farmer Support we are constantly striving for 100%, the last 1% is where some Centers around the world provide open-source training and of our most important work happens, bringing on new farmers other resources to coffee farmers. In FY19 alone, we trained nearly and cooperatives to help ensure the long-term future of coffee. 88,000 farmers. We continue to work as part of the Sustainable Coffee Challenge to make coffee the world’s first sustainable agricultural product and improve the lives of at least one million people in coffee communities around the world. $ 46M INVE S TE D IN FARME R LOAN S $ 20M IN FY19 EMERGENCY RELIEF FUNDS 40M TREES DISTRIBUTED SINCE 2015 Goal: Invest $50 million in farmer loans by the end of 2020 Goal: Provide 100 million coffee trees to farmers by 2025 As of June 2020, we have invested more than $49 million in the Starbucks Global Farmer Fund to support farmers. This comes in Starbucks has donated coffee trees over the past four years to addition to relief funds, such as the $20 million we dispersed in farmers in Mexico, Guatemala and El Salvador. These climateFY19 to many of our smallholder farmers in Central America who resilient trees replace ones that are declining in productivity due experienced the effects of low global coffee prices. to age and disease, such as coffee leaf rust, and help improve the quality and yields of their harvests. As of June 2020, the next 10 million are being distributed, with close monitoring of potential complications related to COVID-19. 66K+ WOME N IMPAC TE D S IN CE 2018 99% E T H I C A L LY S O U R C E D T E A * Goal: Empower at least 250,000 women and families in coffee, tea and cocoa growing communities globally by 2025 Goal: 100% ethically sourced tea Through 18 grants totaling more than $5 million since 2018, The We continue to work toward our goal of 100% ethically sourced Starbucks Foundation is supporting women and families in tea, making significant progress from 95% in FY18 to 99% in FY19 coffeeand tea-growing communities across Africa, Asia and by sourcing tea from farms that have been certified through Latin America in many ways, including leadership skills, incomeRainforest Alliance, UTZ, or Fair Trade. generating activities and healthier homes. * As purchased by Starbucks global tea sourcing team. © 2020 Starbucks Coffee Company. All rights reserved. 2019 Starbucks Global Social Impact Report | 5 LEAD I N G I N S USTAI NABILITY G R E E N E R C U P S & PA C KA G I N G FY19 PROGRESS 12 M A J O R C I T I E S R E C YC L I N G S TA R B U C K S C U P S 10% P O S TC O N S U M E R F I B E R TRIALING OF NEW CUP TECHNOLOGIES Goal: 20% recycled content in our hot cups by 2022 Goal: Double the recyclability of our cups from 2016-2022; Starbucks hot cups currently contain 10% post-consumer fiber develop 100% compostable and recyclable hot cups by 2022 (PCF), and we are working to double the recycled content to 20% In 2016, 24% of Starbucks stores in the U.S. and Canada accepted as well as reduce the environmental impacts of sourcing virgin our hot cups for recycling; in 2019, this number increased to 25%. wood paper fiber we source. Work accelerated in 2019, as the NextGen Consortium, of which Starbucks is a co-founder, identified 12 winning cup technologies of the NextGen Cup Challenge. In-store market testing began in the spring of 2020 with a cup that is industrially compostable as well as 2.8% R E U S A B I L I T Y R AT E I N MEASURED MARKETS recyclable in markets that accept hot cups. We continue to research Goal: Double the use of reusable cups from 2016-2022 and test cup liner solutions that will make our cup easier to recycle In 2019 we implemented new ways to track reusable cup usage, and compost, while also working with the Consortium to improve and we tracked a 2.8% reusability rate in company-operated recycling and composting infrastructure. In Europe, Starbucks stores in the U.S., Canada, Japan, and EMEA. This meant that launched a £1 million Cup Fund supporting ambitious recycling customers received a discount for bringing their own cup or used projects in conjunction with the environmental charity Hubbub. a ceramic mug offered in store, saving more than 105 million Starbucks cups currently are accepted for recycling in Amsterdam; disposable cups. China is not yet included in this metric, with a Boston; Chattanooga; Dallas; Denver; London; Louisville; New York; tracking program now in development there. In Europe, Starbucks San Francisco; Seattle; Vancouver; Washington, DC; and many conducted the first ever airport reusable cup trial at London’s smaller cities. Gatwick Airport. We continue to conduct research and evolve our strategy to encourage customer adoption of reusables. CO NTI N U E D R O LLO UT O F S TR AW LE S S LI D S A N D S U S TA I N A B L E M AT E R I A L S T R AW S Goal: Eliminate single-use plastic straws globally by the end of 2020 In 2019 Starbucks continued the expansion of lightweight strawless lids for cold beverages, as well as rollout of alternative material straws. By the end of calendar year 2020, we anticipate that all company-owned stores and the majority of licensees will have eliminated single-use plastic straws. However, regulatory and manufacturing challenges in light of COVID-19 threaten the ability to fully roll out a new sustainable material straw in the U.S. and Canada by the end of 2020, with a new anticipated goal date of spring 2021. Starbucks will continue to provide straws to customers who need or request them in our stores. © 2020 Starbucks Coffee Company. All rights reserved. 2019 Starbucks Global Social Impact Report | 6 LEAD I N G I N S USTAI NABILITY G R E E N E R R E TA I L FY19 PROGRESS 741 S T O R E S G L O B A L LY T H A T R E F L E C T T H E GREENER STORES FR AMEWORK 72% O F G L O B A L O P E R AT I O N S P O W E R E D B Y R E N E WA B LE E N E R GY Goal: Build and operate 10,000 greener stores globally by 2025 Goal: Invest in 100% renewable energy to power global operations globally by the end of 2020 Starbucks has built more than 1,600 LEED®-certified stores around the world, and in early FY20, the Shanghai Roastery set Starbucks purchases enough renewable energy to power 100% a new benchmark in green retail as the first in mainland China’s of its company-operated stores in the U.S., Canada and the UK. food retail industry to be certified LEED Platinum. Now in Worldwide in FY19, 72% of Starbucks operations were powered partnership with the World Wildlife Fund and in collaboration by renewables. This is down from 77% in FY18, driven in part with other nongovernmental organizations, we’re going beyond by a transition away from company-owned renewable energyLEED, expanding the scope and breadth of our greener stores powered markets in EMEA, as well as an increase in stores in commitment with an open-source Greener Stores framework for markets where Starbucks is still building a path toward renewable design, construction and operation. energy, such as China and Japan. As we work to buy more renewable energy, we also continue to invest in solar and wind farms, with 2019 highlights being 14,800 G RE E NE R APRO N PARTNE R S investments in a large wind farm in Illinois and solar farms in Texas. Goal: Empower 10,000 partners to be sustainability champions by the end of 2020 In FY19, we surpassed our goal and as of April 2020 have more than 26,000 Starbucks partners enrolled in the Greener Apron sustainability training program through Starbucks Global Academy. Seattle Wharton, Tex. Seattle © 2020 Starbucks Coffee Company. All rights reserved. 2019 Starbucks Global Social Impact Report | 7 CREATI NG MEANI NGFUL OPPORT UNITIES Since our founding, Starbucks has a long legacy of putting our partners first and creating a culture where everyone is welcome. In 2019, we published a Civil Rights Assessment in which Covington & Burling LLP evaluated our ongoing efforts related to diversity, equity and inclusion and how they support our mission and values. We continue to track annually against this assessment, reviewing its recommendations as we plan. Our equity and inclusion activity is updated regularly here. Among partners, our approach is to create meaningful opportunities by investing in their health, well-being, and overall success, all while working to advance a culture of equity and inclusion. This means ensuring that leadership demonstrates commitment and accountability to inclusion and diversity. It means building collective understanding among all partners, and cultivating a more inclusive workplace, where partners feel valued and a sense of belonging. It means building and sustaining a highly engaged, high-performing, and diverse workforce at all levels. And it means ensuring equal opportunity, pay equity, and proactive workplace resolutions. PA R T N E R S FY19 PROGRESS 3,200+ DIPLOMAS, WITH 14,000+ PARTI C IPANT S N E W U.S. A N D C A N A D A M E N T A L H E A LT H I N I T I A T I V E A N D F A M I LY S U P P O R T B E N E F I T S Goal: Graduate 25,000 Starbucks partners from Arizona State Goal: Continued leadership in innovative, relevant benefits for University (ASU) by the end of 2025 fulland part-time retail employees Starbucks College Achievement Plan is helping partners complete Starbucks continues to pioneer innovative benefits for our fulltheir education through Arizona State University (ASU) online. and part-time partners in the U.S., and internationally, we continue We are proud to continue to lead in this area, providing 100% to customize our compensation packages to remain competitive tuition reimbursement to partners that work an average of 20 and responsive to partner feedback. hours a week or more. As of June 2020, more than 4,500 partners have earned first-time bachelor’s degrees since the program was The new mental health initiative announced to U.S. and Canadian announced in 2014. partners in FY19, with further rollout in early FY20, includes efforts to break the stigma around mental health needs, connect partners We also continue to expand the Starbucks Global Academy, a to quality care that meet their specific needs, and provide ongoing globally accessible platform created in partnership with ASU for training to 12,000 store managers and field leaders. In FY19 we Starbucks partners as well as customers, community members, also announced new reimbursement for uncovered surrogacy and and learners around the world that delivers world-class learning intrauterine insemination in the U.S. and Canada. content and eliminates barriers to high quality education. Yuba City, Calif. © 2020 Starbucks Coffee Company. All rights reserved. 2019 Starbucks Global Social Impact Report | 8 CREATI NG MEANI NGFUL OPPORT UNITIES PA R T N E R S FY19 PROGRESS 100% P A Y E Q U I T Y I N T H E U.S. 42% WOMEN IN SENIOR LEADERSHIP 100% G E N D E R E Q U I T Y I N PAY I N C A N A D A AND CHINA 17% PEOPLE OF COLOR IN SENIOR LEADERSHIP Goal: 100% global gender pay equity in U.S. and companyGoal: At the senior leadership level, 50% women and a 50% owned markets increase in representation by people of color since 2015 Our pay equity achievements to date were reached in FY18 and In addition to our goals related to staff leaders, our board is maintained with continued rigor in FY19. We continue to work currently comprised of 38% women, four of whom are members toward global pay equity. In 2019 the median pay for women of minority groups. Starbucks first Global Chief Inclusion & globally was 98.3% of the median for men, while in the U.S., the Diversity Officer, Nzinga Shaw, was hired in November 2019. median pay ratio was 100% for women and 100% for people of In an Update to Starbucks Civil Rights Assessment the company color. has set new representation goals for the first time across all roles, including, at minimum, a goal of 40% people of color and 55% In the U.S., Starbucks and 25 other U.S. employers in the Employers women in all retail roles, and 50% women and 30% people of color for Pay Equity consortium agreed in 2019 to work with a shared set for all enterprise roles, by 2025. of Pay Equity Principles. We have established U.S. best practices supporting these principles. Going forward we will establish global ~175K AP AN RT IT-NBEIRASS PTARRATI NI CI INPGA TSIINNGC EI N2 0 1 8 best practices as well. Goal: Cultivation of inclusion and diversity awareness Following Starbucks Civil Rights Assessment in January of 2019, we have implemented several recommendations and continue to review them as we plan. In FY19, we published principles on upholding the third place and rolled out new resources for partners including To Be Welcoming, a 15-course online curriculum designed to address bias through understanding the human experience; the course is also available to customers. Jonesboro, Ga. © 2020 Starbucks Coffee Company. All rights reserved. 2019 Starbucks Global Social Impact Report | 9 CREATI NG MEANI NGFUL OPPORT UNITIES COMMUNITIES FY19 PROGRESS 61,000+ OPP ORTUNIT Y YOUTH HIRE D $ 7.5B SPENT WITH DIVERSE SUPPLIERS SINCE 2000 Goal: Hire 100,000 Opportunity Youth by the end of 2020 Goal: Stimulate economic development in the communities Starbucks serves while delivering high-quality products and These hiring commitments are intended to welcome new partners services from communities that may experience barriers to employment. The FY19 status for Opportunity Youth is a decrease from the FY18 Starbucks Supplier Diversity and Inclusion program drives status due to an identified technical error. inclusion of qualified women-, minority-, people with disabilities-, veteran-, LGBTQand small (8(a) and HUBZone)-owned suppliers throughout our supply chain. To continue these efforts, ~28,000 V E T E R A N S A N D M I L I TA R Y SPOUSES HIRED we will focus on suppliers of all sizes and will include mentorship components to assist suppliers in developing to a point where Goal: Hire 25,000 veterans and military spouses by 2025 they can succeed as a Starbucks supplier. We met our military hiring goal six years early, with a new goal set to hire 5,000 veterans and military spouses annually. More detail on our military commitment is here. ~2,100 REFUGEES HIRED Goal: Hire 10,000 refugees globally by 2022 We continue to collaborate with other employers to share best practices and build partnerships with refugee-serving organizations. Starbucks EMEA has hired refugees in 12 countries across the region in partnership with local non-governmental organizations. New York Dallas Crestview, Fla. © 2020 Starbucks Coffee Company. All rights reserved. 2019 Starbucks Global Social Impact Report | 10 STRE NGTH ENI NG OUR COMMUNITIES At Starbucks we take actions to strengthen our communities by listening, supporting, investing and uplifting in meaningful ways – whether that’s the neighborhoods that host our stores, or the regions that grow our coffee. In late FY19 at Starbucks Leadership Experience, we rolled out new resources and tools to empower 12,000 store leaders in the U.S. and Canada to serve their communities in ways that align to Starbucks global social impact priorities and are also locally relevant. We’ve seen success from this especially during the COVID-19 pandemic, with examples tracked here. COMMUNITY SUPPORT FY19 PROGRESS 16 COMMUNITY STORES 20M+ M E A L S D O N AT E D I N T H E U.S. , W I T H ~6 0 % O F E L I G I B L E S T O R E S P A R T I C I P AT I N G Goal: Open Community Stores in 15 diverse, low to medium Goal: Rescue 100% of food available to donate in all U.S. income urban communities in the U.S. by the end of 2020 company-operated stores We’ve invested globally in 16 Community Stores, 14 in the U.S., one Starbucks FoodShare program in the U.S., which launched in 2016 in South Korea, and one in Thailand, which provide extra services in partnership with Feeding America, packages eligible unsold and resources specific to their communities. In the U.S. in FY19, food and provides meals to food banks and mobile pantries. As of new stores opened in Dallas, Birmingham, Ala. and Jonesboro, Ga., June 2020, we’ve now donated more than 25 million meals, with with an expanded commitment in early 2020 to operate 100 of recent spikes as food bank needs increase. We continue to learn them by 2025. from the many logistical challenges of ongoing perishable food delivery as we increase the scale of this program. Internationally, similar programs exist in several markets, including 65 M I L I T A R Y F A M I LY S T O R E S I N T H E U.S. a FoodShare launch in Canada in FY19 and food waste programs in 13 countries across EMEA. Our Military Family Stores create a welcoming space to bring active duty military and their spouses together with their communities. 3 S I G N I N G S T O R E S G L O B A L LY Our Signing Stores are designed to provide employment opportunities for deaf and hard of hearing people and drive greater connection within that community. 1,500+ COFFEE WITH A COP EVENTS IN S TA R B U C K S S T O R E S S I N C E 2 0 17 Goal: Promote dialogue, empathy and stronger neighborhoods through by building relationships with law enforcement and first responders Building trusted relationships with law enforcement is an important part of sustaining a welcoming and safe environment in its stores. Starbucks has continued to build relationships and trust with law enforcement through alliances with national San Antonio organizations as well as interactive Coffee with a Cop events. © 2020 Starbucks Coffee Company. All rights reserved. 2019 Starbucks Global Social Impact Report | 11 STRE NGTH ENI NG OUR COMMUNITIES T H E S TA R B U C K S F O U N D AT I O N FY19 PROGRESS SERVICE FELLOWS PROGR AM LAUNCH ~ $16M IN GRANTS Goal: Test an innovative community service model Goal: Strengthen local communities After a successful test in FY19, we expanded The Starbucks Foundation Service Fellows program, in which 100 Starbucks The Starbucks Foundation provided nearly $16 million in grants in hourly store partners in 20 cities work 20 hours in their store each FY19, including: week while spending another 20 hours with a local nonprofit. • $1M toward disaster relief The program is catalytic in communities that need support and • Nearly 500 Neighborhood Grants in the U.S. and Canada provides an opportunity for Starbucks partners to build local totaling more than $700K nonprofit capacity and further serve their communities. • 63 Opportunity for All Grants totaling $1.4M • $ 2M generated during holiday giving to 8 nonprofit organizations • Origin grants as detailed on page 5 Internationally, The Starbucks Foundation invested in programs that promote opportunity, from refugee employment programs in Europe to youth-focused grants in partnership with the Alsea Foundation across multiple Latin American markets. In the U.S., The Starbucks Foundation has a partnership with the American Red Cross supporting disaster preparedness, response and recovery in the U.S. Responses in FY19 included those to Hurricane Dorian and mass shootings in El Paso and Dayton. The Starbucks Foundation’s Neighborhood Grants help build sustained local impact and inspire increased partner volunteerism with nonprofit organizations that work in our communities. This program was launched in FY19, inviting hundreds of store managers to nominate local nonprofit organizations that are meaningful in their communities. Similarly, The Starbucks Foundation awarded Greener Apron grants to multiple environmental organizations submitted by Greener Aproncertified partners. The Starbucks Foundation’s Opportunity for All Grants help Santa Cruz, Calif. support organizations creating pathways to lifelong opportunity and programs, which create job and training opportunities for people who may face barriers. The Starbucks Foundation celebrated the holiday season by matching customer donations to eight nonprofit partners through the Match the Magic campaign. © 2020 Starbucks Coffee Company. All rights reserved. 2019 Starbucks Global Social Impact Report | 12 ABOU T TH IS REPORT SCOPE I N F O R M AT I O N I N T E G R I T Y Our Global Social Impact report for fiscal 2019 focuses on the Starbucks management is responsible for the preparation and goals in our three key social impact areas: leading in sustainability, integrity of the information reported for fiscal 2019. Through a creating meaningful opportunities and strengthening our system of internal controls, including a comprehensive verification communities. We’ve also included links to information and process involving internal subject matter experts, we believe resources publicly available at stories.starbucks.com and this information accurately represents our global responsibility starbucks.com regarding financial, corporate governance work, activities and performance results for the fiscal year. External workplace and diversity policies and performance, because these verification over specified metrics is provided by Moss Adams LLP. commitments are directly tied to our business. Starbucks is committed to United Nations Sustainable F O R WA R D L O O K I N G S TAT E M E N T S Development Goals and uses these goals as a lens for our social Our reporting on global responsibility for fiscal 2019 includes impact programs and collaborations with others. Based on our forward-looking statements about the company’s business and stakeholder engagement efforts, we also believe these areas are its future business plans, initiatives, goals and objectives. These important to our customers, our partners, non-governmental forward-looking statements are based on currently available organizations (NGOs) and investors. operating, financial and competitive information and are subject to a number of significant risks uncertainties. Actual future results REPORTING YEAR may differ materially depending on a variety of factors including impact of COVID-19 on our business operations; regulatory Starbucks fiscal year 2019 (October 1, 2018 through September 29, measures or voluntary actions that may be put in place as a result 2019), unless otherwise noted. of COVID-19, coffee, dairy and other raw material prices and availability; successful execution of the company’s blueprint for CURRENCY growth and other strategies; cost reduction and other initiatives; and other risks detailed in the company’s filings with the Securities All references to currency are in U.S. dollars, unless otherwise and Exchange Commission, including the “Risk Factors” section noted. of Starbucks Annual Report Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 29, 2019 and Starbucks Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended March 29, 2020. The company PREVIOUS REPORTS assumes no obligation to update any of these forward-looking statements. Starbucks has produced an annual global social impact report since 2001. Previous annual reports are available on our website. We also submit performance and data to key industry-recognized S TAY U P -T O D AT E reports such as the Dow Jones Sustainability Index and the Carbon Disclosure Project annual carbon emissions report. Follow @starbucksnews on Twitter for the latest information. © 2020 Starbucks Coffee Company. All rights reserved. 2019 Starbucks Global Social Impact Report | 13
