UN GLOBAL IMPACT 2020 UN GLOBAL IMPACT Implats’ 2020 Communication on Progress on the UN Global Compact The United Nations Global Compact is a voluntary global initiative that addresses human rights, labour, environmental and corruption issues through a commitment to ten principles derived from authoritative sources of international law, such as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the core declarations of the International Labour Organisation, the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development, and the United Nations Convention against Corruption. Implats became a signatory to the UN Global Compact in July 2008. The following table provides a brief overview of our implementation of the ten principles. More detailed information is available throughout our Environment, Social and Governance Report (ESG) 2020. Global Compact Principle Brief COP statement Reference in Implats’ ESG report 1. Businesses Our commitment to human rights is described in our A general overview of our approach to should support human rights policy (https://www.implats.co.za/pdf/ human rights is provided in our review and respect the sustainable-key-development-documents/humanon Respecting Human Rights on page protection of rights-policy-statement.pdf), which commits us to fully 24 of our ESG Report 2020 international comply with applicable legislation in the regions in which (https://www.implats.co.za/ human rights we operate, as well as to implementing the human rights reports/2020/implats-esg-2020.pdf) within their principles in the United Nations Global Compact. sphere of Employees are trained on human rights as part of our influence. compulsory induction process. Specific provision is made for human rights related issues in our formal agreements with employee union representatives. All our contractors are expected to abide by our human rights policy, practices, standards and the laws of the countries in which we operate. An independently managed channel is available to anonymously report any unfair practices and violations of human rights. We have also established a responsible sourcing policy (https://www.implats.co. za/pdf/sustainable-key-development-documents/ platinum-and-palladium-responsible-sourcingpolicy-20200703.PDF) to ensure that our suppliers of platinum and palladium do not among other things infringe on human rights in their operations. We continue to align our security practices with the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights. There were no allegations related to the abuse of human rights in the year under review. 2. Businesses We strive to uphold this principle through our focus on A general overview of our approach to should make ensuring compliance with all applicable legislation and by human rights is provided in our review sure their own encouraging implementation of the company human rights on Respecting Human Rights on page corporations are policy and code of ethics (https://www.implats.co.za/ 24 of our ESG Report 2020 not complicit in pdf/sustainable-key-development-documents/ (https://www.implats.co.za/ human rights implats-code-of-ethics-2019.pdf). We recognise areas reports/2020/implats-esg-2020.pdf) abuses. where the potential for complicity in human rights abuses may arise, particularly amongst those vested with managing security and public order issues. To mitigate this risk, we are implementing the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights. We will be using this framework to guide and train our security contingent. IMPLATS 1 UN GLOBAL IMPACT 2020 UN GLOBAL IMPACT Global Compact Principle Brief COP statement Reference in Implats’ ESG report 3. Businesses We recognise the right of employees to collective Details on our labour relations activities should uphold bargaining and freedom of association in accordance with are provided in our review of Employee freedom of all relevant local labour legislation, and we strive to provide Relations on page 58 to 60 of our association and an environment that fosters open, honest and effective ESG Report 2020 the effective relations between management, employees and elected (https://www.implats.co.za/ recognition of union representatives. We monitor labour relations in our reports/2020/implats-esg-2020.pdf) the right to operations; monthly labour relations reports are submitted collective from our operations to the executive committee and bargaining. escalated to the board when necessary. 4. Businesses All our labour is sourced from the open labour market, Details on our labour relations activities should uphold and all employees are provided with contracts in are provided in our review of Employee the elimination accordance with local labour legislation; they are free to Relations on page 58 to 60 of our of all forms of resign at any time in accordance with legal processes. ESG Report 2020 forced and (https://www.implats.co.za/ compulsory reports/2020/implats-esg-2020.pdf) labour. 5. Businesses Implats does not make use of child labour in any of its A general overview of our approach to should uphold the operations. We monitor and ensure our compliance with human rights is provided in our review effective abolition the labour legislation in the countries within which we on Respecting Human Rights on page of child labour. operate. We have not detected any significant risks 24 of our ESG Report 2020 pertaining to the use of child labour in our associates (https://www.implats.co.za/ or supply chain. reports/2020/implats-esg-2020.pdf) 6. Businesses We strive to eliminate discrimination in all forms A review of our employment equity should uphold throughout our workforce, and are committed to performance and our initiatives on this the elimination of promoting employment equity and diversity. Our issue is provided Diversity and Inclusion discrimination performance with respect to workforce diversity and section on page 62 of our ESG in respect of inclusion is outlined in more detail in our ESG report. Report 2020 employment (https://www.implats.co.za/ and occupation. reports/2020/implats-esg-2020.pdf) 7. Businesses Our environmental policy commits the Group to running A review of our environmental should support our exploration, mining, processing and refining performance and our initiatives on this a precautionary operations in an environmentally responsible manner and issue is provided in the Mitigating approach to to ensuring the wellbeing of our stakeholders. We Environmental Impacts section on environmental integrate environmental management into all aspects of page 89 to 111 of our ESG challenges. the business with the aim of achieving world-class Report 2020 environmental performance in a sustainable manner. This (https://www.implats.co.za/ contribution is further enhanced by the role that PGM reports/2020/implats-esg-2020.pdf) metals play in the move to a greener economy. The extent to which we have adopted a precautionary approach to managing environmental challenges is reviewed in our sustainability report. IMPLATS UN GLOBAL IMPACT 2020 2 UN GLOBAL IMPACT Global Compact Principle Brief COP statement Reference in Implats’ ESG report 8. Businesses Initiatives aimed at promoting environmental responsibility A review of our environmental should are outlined in our ESG Report 2020. These include performance and our initiatives on this undertake programmes relating to: optimising energy usage; issue is provided in the Mitigating initiatives to promoting sustainable water use; reducing our Environmental Impacts section on promote greater atmospheric emissions; responding to risks and page 89 to 111 of our ESG environmental opportunities brought about by climate change; ensuring Report 2020 responsibility. effective land management and promoting biodiversity; (https://www.implats.co.za/ managing our waste streams; and striving to reduce reports/2020/implats-esg-2020.pdf) environmental incidents. 9. Businesses Implats has invested in targeted fuel cell development in A review of our environmental should South Africa in collaboration with government performance and our initiatives on this encourage the and academic institutions to help promote local issue is provided in the Mitigating development technology development as well as develop local skills and Environmental Impacts section on and diffusion of fuel cell manufacturing and deployment. The Group is also page 89 to 111 of our ESG environmentally developing a decarbonisation and energy strategy. Our Report 2020 friendly current focus is on developing opportunities to replace (https://www.implats.co.za/ technologies. diesel with hydro-fuel technology and using solar reports/2020/implats-esg-2020.pdf) photovoltaic (PV) cells to generate electricity. We are also pursuing various initiatives to minimise our water usage and waste generation. 10. Businesses Implats has a zero tolerance stance on fraud and A general overview of our approach to should work corruption. We require our employees, business partners, addressing corruption is provided in our against contractors and associates to conduct themselves in review on upholding ethics and integrity corruption in accordance with the Implats code of ethics and our fraud on page 22 to 24 of our ESG all its forms, policy (https://www.implats.co.za/pdf/sustainable-keyReport 2020 including development-documents/fraud-and-corruption-policy(https://www.implats.co.za/ extortion and new.pdf). Our ethics policy outlines conflicts of interest, reports/2020/implats-esg-2020.pdf) bribery. the prevention of dissemination of Company information, the acceptance of donations and gifts, and the protection of the intellectual property and patent rights of the Company. The policy outlines the disciplinary action (including dismissal or prosecution) that will be taken in the event of any contravention. An independently managed “whistleblowing” toll-free helpline is in place to facilitate the confidential reporting of alleged fraud and corruption. IMPLATS 3 UN GLOBAL IMPACT 2020
