For the year ended January 31, 2020 Make home the happiest place in the world. People are born to be happy. People can help others find happiness, too. At Sekisui House, we embrace that truth in everything we do. Our extensive track record in the housing sector, where we have built more homes than any other company across the globe, speaks for itself: we have the ability—and responsibility—to make home the happiest place in the world. We strive to help people find happiness, be it enriching families’ lives through housebuilding projects and services or connecting people across the globe through business and procurement efforts. In pursuing that aim, we look forward to finding solutions to social issues and making the world we inhabit a better, more sustainable place. 01 Sekisui House Sustainability Report 2020 Sekisui House Sustainability Report 2020 02 Scope of Business & Business Model Scope of Business & Business Model Scope of Business Other Other businesses (exterior business, etc.) Custom detached houses businesses 6.2% (148.9) 16.2% (390.9) Overseas business Rental housing Built-to-order FY2019 business Overseas 16.1% (389.8) Consolidated Sales 17.0% (410.6) business by Segment Development Urban redevelopment 5.5% (131.9) Condominiums 2,415.1 Remodeling Supplied (billion yen) housing business 4.3% (103.9) 6.3% (152.7) business Houses for sale Real estate management fees 6.3% (151.2) 22.1% (534.8) Business Model Our management foundation comprises our ESG into our Development Business, which contributes to high(environmental, social, and governance) initiatives as well as quality urban development. Through these businesses and our value chain and core competence. By engaging in close our future investments, we have formulated a sustainable collaboration across our group, we are establishing a business value creation process. Going forward, we will establish an model that creates value for our many stakeholders. While international business model similar to the one we operate our built-to-order housing business has established a solid in Japan by expanding our built-to-order business globally. foundation with a strong customer base by providing valuable, The Sekisui House Group has set its sights on developing as high-quality residences and buildings, our supplied housing a global enterprise that provides contentment by integrating business has developed renovation businesses and other tangible and intangible products and services capable of enterprises. We invest the profits earned by these businesses driving sustainable growth. Making home the happiest place in the world Tangible and intangible products and services Safety & security/comfort/environmental performance/ health/connection/learning Building a Supplied solid housing customer collaborati business oup on Gr base expansion Domestic International Business Business Built-to-order Built-to-order business business Supplied Supplied Development Development housing housing business business business business Six pillars supporting Providing houses and organic growth Investment building of for future value profits Core competencies ESG as a management foundation 03 Sekisui House Sustainability Report 2020 Contents Ⅰ. ESG Initiatives / Vision & Policy Message from Management S Contributing to Health, Longevity and Wealth ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ 33 A company highly responsive to the effects of climate change on future S Pursuing Customer Satisfaction through Our Value Chain ・・・・ 37 generations and society in general S Promoting Diversity・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ 43 Toshinori Abe Chairman & Representative Director ・・・・・・・・・ 05 S Workstyle Reforms ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ 45 Providing happiness as a global S Human Resource Development ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ 47 partner committed to creating value S Respect for Human Rights ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ 49 for the next 30 years Yoshihiro Nakai S Contributing to Society・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ 51 President & Representative Director ・・・・・・・・・・ 07 Group Overview ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ 09 G Strengthening Our Corporate Governance System ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ 55 Our Vision for 2050 ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ 11 G Compliance and Risk Management ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ 57 Risks and Opportunities ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ 13 G Occupational Health and Safety Management ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ 58 Sustainability Vision 2050・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ 15 Main ESG Themes・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ 17 E S G International Business and ESG Management ・・・・・・・・ 59 Ⅱ. ESG Implementation: Main ESG Themes Ⅲ. ESG Management CSR Policies and the ESG Management Framework ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ 63 Summary of Initiatives ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ 64 Ⅳ. ESG and Other Data ESG & Main Indicators ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ 65 E Decarbonized Society ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ 19 Material Balance (Environmental Impact) ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ 67 E Society in Which Humans and Nature Coexist ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ 25 FY2019 Accolades and Achievements ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ 69 E Circular Economy ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ 29 Independent Third-Party Assurance Report・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ 71 E Eco-First Promise ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ 32 Editorial Policy Summary of Information Communicated This report is published with the objective to spread awareness about the Sekisui House Group’s efforts to create a sustainable Financial information Non-financial information society. We also seek to communicate with various stakeholders ・Release of financial results and improve the quality of our activities through it. We refer to the ・Management plan briefing following for identifying and editing the contents of the reports. ・Expert dialogue Dialogue ・Conference call with analysts and • Environmental report: The Environmental Reporting Guidelines ・Stakeholder meeting institutional investors 2018 published by the Ministry of the Environment ・General meeting of shareholders • CSR report: Guidance on Social Responsibility ISO 26000 Moreover, this report and our website comply with the GRI Core Standards by including general disclosures (those whose publication ・Integrated Report ・Sustainability is required to ensure compliance with the Core Standards) as well A report that integrates Report as the material disclosures required under the standards. ・Securities Report important financial and Reports non-financial information As for initiatives related to the novel coronavirus, this report ・Business Report does not address the effects nor does it outline a specific response ・TCFD Report to the virus. [Content of Report and Applicable Scope] This report covers Sekisui House, Ltd. and 276 consolidated subsidiaries. • Period covered: FY2019 (February 1, 2019 to January 31, 2020) WEB Note: Some activities undertaken in FY2020 are covered in this report. Information for ESG Information • Date of publication: This report is published annually in Japanese Shareholders & Investors in May and in English in July. Sekisui House Sustainability Report 2020 04 Message from Management Toshinori Abe Chairman & Representative Director A company highly responsive to the effects of climate change on future generations and society in general The Sekisui House Group is committed to mapping a path forward. different from what we had imagined. In addition to focusing our The role and mission of housing in efforts on implementing antivirus measures, I believe that we need addressing social issues to engage in a fundamental rethink of our entire approach to To those who lost family and friends to COVID-19, the novel housing, our relationships with our customers, and all that we do. coronavirus, we extend our deepest sympathies and most sincere For years, much discussion has centered on the economic condolences. To the many individuals whose lives were severely ripple effect resulting from housing construction. Furthermore, disrupted by the disease and to everyone suffering hardship due when we consider disaster preparedness initiatives such as the to the spread of the infection, we offer our thoughts and support. adoption of seismic resistance measures and their relationship with We would also like to express our gratitude to the medical human life and our health, it is clear that the mission and scope of professionals and first responders who are providing care under the housing industry should expand in many respects. such difficult conditions, as well as those who are working under The value of housing is said to lie in its role in underpinning challenging circumstances to maintain the supply of essential human contentment, which in turn leads to improved national goods. welfare as well as a stronger economy. The construction of highRest assured that the Sekisui House Group places the quality housing contributes to the safety, security, and happiness highest priority on the safety of its customers, business partners, of the populace and represents essential social capital; it must stakeholders, and employees. Working in cooperation with public not be impeded by taxation or economic trends. Now more than health officials and local governments, we are implementing ever, the need exists for national policies focused on accelerating all necessary countermeasures to minimize the spread of the the development of quality housing that will maintain its value for infection. posterity. For the world of politics and the global economy, of which At the same time, housing is very closely related to climate, Japan is a part, the dawning of 2020 was expected to mark a and every nation on earth is gaining a growing awareness of major turning point in the very structure of society itself. In the climate change. As the Paris Agreement comes into effect and midst of this situation, however, the world suddenly fell under provides a long-term scenario for establishing a decarbonized the threat of the novel coronavirus. How this continuing peril society, the Sekisui House Group in 2018 was among the first to will ultimately affect our lives and our economies going forward support a proposal by the Task Force on Climate-related Financial cannot be anticipated with any degree of certitude. Society has Disclosure (TCFD) to disclose its financial impact on climate had to respond with new approaches, such as changing social change. In December 2019, we issued a TCFD Report that exposed interactions due to requests to practice social distancing as part of the risks and opportunities together with our financial information. the measures to prevent the spread of infection. At the same time, This put us at the top of the 141 non-financial companies on the however, we must take urgent measures to protect against largelist of participating domestic companies and institutions. scale natural disasters and the impacts of climate change that are At Sekisui House, which places sustainability at the core of occurring frequently in various parts of the world. Clearly, 2020 its management approach, we introduced our Environmental has marked a turning point, but the nature of the change is quite Future Plan in 1999; in 2008, we declared our 2050 Vision aiming 05 Sekisui House Sustainability Report 2020 for zero carbon dioxide emissions attributable to our housing sophisticated and are playing a more varied role in our lives. throughout its lifecycle. Specifically, we registered concrete Sekisui House, which has been researching barrier-free designs initiatives to guide our transformation into a decarbonization and applying them since the 1970s, is currently promoting Smart business. In 2017, we became a member of RE100, a global Universal Design, our unique effort to drive the evolution of this corporate leadership commitment to shift the energy we consume field with greater consideration given to comfort that resonates in our business to 100% renewable electricity sources. Currently, with all five senses. SumStock, a distribution system for existing 87% of our new detached houses are rated as ZEH (Net Zero housing stock led by the Sekisui House Group, is a related initiative Energy House), bringing the cumulative total to 51,793 houses that holds the key to transforming housing toward the emergence and placing us at the top of the world’s ZEH providers. As a of a society focused on maintaining quality housing stock. pioneer in environmental management, we are driven to continue taking on challenges to realize the decarbonization ideal, as a Message from Management house is a structure with a long lifespan with which the residents Solving social issues and achieving goals maintain a close relationship. Our singular mission is to grow Sekisui House celebrates its 60th anniversary with positive our business soundly and continue to increase our profitability. financial performance and is grateful to all who helped make At Sekisui House, a housing company with the world’s largest this possible. This milestone is the result of the significant customer base, we are determined to implement further measures structural reforms we implemented on our 50th anniversary, as a company most sensitive to climate change, a risk that could a time marked by the very challenging economic environment threaten our business continuity. resulting from the global financial crisis of that time. One of the Two years ago, I participated in the 24th Conference of the main pillars of that initiative was our effort to strengthen group Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate collaboration. Eliminating barriers within our group enabled us Change (COP24) held in Katowice, Poland. There, I was able to to strengthen our organizational reforms and our renovation observe the state of progress in renewable power generation business. In February 2020, Sekiwa Real Estate was reorganized in various countries, and I came to realize that Japan has fallen as Sekisui House Real Estate under SEKISUI HOUSE noie, which Vision and Goals behind in this regard. This state of affairs eventually become was established as Sekisui House’s second brand for selling new widely recognized when it was reported that Japan had been houses of wood construction. given the satirical “Fossil of the Day” award at COP25 last year. Through the diversified strengths of the entire group as a Japan, a member of the global community, has a role to play whole and its cohesiveness and comprehensive strength, we have and responsibilities to meet in the critical housing industry. The expanded our multifaceted points of contact with society with Sekisui House Group shares a sense of crisis with concerned a focus on our housing-related businesses. Furthermore, we are citizens around the world and seeks to further raise Japan’s strengthening our collaborative efforts in order to further integrate environmental awareness through our approach to housing our group. As a result, our social responsibility is becoming more development. In an effort to contribute to the emergence of a demanding and the scope of our responsibility is expanding. Environmental decarbonized way of life, we will continue focusing on the Sekisui House Group is entering a new era. Our 5th Mid-term development of new technologies and value propositions. Management Plan incorporates a policy of strengthening our core business while taking on the challenge of developing new businesses. In 2018, we further expanded the governance The housing industry’s increasing focus on reforms that we launched with six items. In 2020, we launched safety and security and implemented a total of 17 initiatives, including seven that E It has now been 25 years since the Great Hanshin-Awaji included a significant review of the executive compensation Earthquake, and next year will mark 10 years since the Great East system; the formulation of standards and procedures for hiring Japan Earthquake, which I myself experienced while on a business and dismissing management executives; and improvements to trip to the city of Sendai. We need to remember our experiences the independence of the board of directors. We intend to further of these disasters and value the lessons we learned from them. improve our governance reforms as we proceed in a steady and We are all aware that natural disasters can occur anywhere gradual manner so that the various institutional reforms we have at any time, and Japan has gained a critical awareness of disaster introduced are well reflected in our organizational reforms. We Social preparedness. The seismic performance of new houses has will continue to focus on fostering an organizational culture that S improved dramatically, as demonstrated by the SHEQAS seismic cuts across both the top management and business management absorption system that Sekisui House developed. However, the levels as we strengthen our group governance structure inside and critical issue is that about nine million homes in Japan still do outside Japan. not meet the new seismic resistance standard, which is defined The task of a corporate leader is to pursue profits, to nurture as reinforcement sufficient to resist collapse even at a seismic the next generation of leaders, and to enrich employees and intensity of 6 to 7. Resolving this issue through improvements society. Their task also entails the creation of an environment in remains an important social issue and a major challenge for the which our employees can work comfortably in the exciting and Governance housing industry. vibrant workplace promoted by the Sekisui House Group. By Looking at the energy saving standards for homes, data multiplying these initiatives, we will develop as a good corporate reveal that nearly half of all houses, or about 22 million of the citizen capable of earning the trust of all stakeholders. This is my houses in Japan, have not yet reached the standard. Improving ideal. G the energy-efficiency of houses is now considered an urgent issue The mindset required for this effort is to focus not “for me” at the national level. Apart from the energy-efficiency aspect, we but “for you.” I talk to our employees on a regular basis, and I must not overlook how much thermal insulation and airtightness emphasize that the “for you” mindset is necessary if we are to contribute to the quality of life and health of the people living in achieve the sustainable development goals or SDGs, which are the house. Recently, a growing focus has been placed on health universal. Solutions to social issues cannot be achieved by a single problems such as heat stroke in the summer and thermal shock company, and collaboration among companies and society is sparked by sudden temperature differences in houses during the essential. Companies are not self-centered, and as a company on cold winter months. “Cool in summer and warm in winter” is a which society depends, we must implement our solutions with phrase reflecting the growing awareness of the importance of empathy for others. The corporate philosophy of the Sekisui House efficient cooling and heating for maintaining home comfort. This, Group mirrors the meaning of “love of humanity”—in short, we along with improved seismic resistance, is now recognized as a develop homes and environments that are rich in their human fundamental issue for ensuring high-quality housing stock and a aspect. We will do what we can do humbly and honestly, and the good living environment. entire group will continue to meet challenges with a unified spirit Housing and the housing industry alike are becoming more and a broad outlook on the world. Sekisui House Sustainability Report 2020 06 Message from Management Yoshihiro Nakai President & Representative Director Providing happiness as a global partner committed to creating value for the next 30 years NEXT SEKISUI HOUSE is beginning to meet the challenge of pursuing a righteous cause with a sense of mission. Embarking on a new challenge: The housing industry is closely intertwined with many of the issues confronting society today. Sekisui House has Making home the happiest place in the world been meeting the challenge of devising solutions to social Our 4th Mid-term Management Plan, committed to a policy issues as we have dealt with every one of our customers over of underpinning our housing-related businesses beyond our 60 years of history. Looking back on our history with 2020, entered its final year in 2019. Notably, we succeeded in the perspective of addressing our social mission, our first achieving record highs in both sales and operating income as phase was to establish the basic housing performance that a result. In addition to implementing a strategy of high added provides residents with safety and security. In other words, value in our domestic business that included promotion of it has been 30 years since we first identified the function the Net Zero Energy House (ZEH) and regional marketing of housing as a form of shelter that protects our lives and strategies for rental housing, we posted steady growth in assets. We also responded to the national policy of providing our international business that contributed significantly to a certain target level of housing. Our second phase was our business performance. Moreover, this year represented a the 30-year period during which we pursued comfort and period of preparation for the mission and the new challenges environmental performance and sought to create humanwe have mapped out for the next 30 years. centered housing and living environments. In 1990, we Our company will mark its 60th anniversary in the year opened the Comprehensive Housing R&D Institute to conduct 2020, during a time when the world is suffering the impact research and development in terms of both tangible and of the novel coronavirus. For its part, the Sekisui House Group intangible elements. We have helped to create industrywill continue its business operations while maintaining close leading living environments noted for their comfort through cooperation with government departments and other relevant a focus on universal design, the eco-friendly Airkis air quality organizations. At the same time, we will give top priority specification, the Gohon no ki (“five trees”) project, and to the safety of our customers, employees, and everyone environmental technologies such as high-performance involved on our construction sites and elsewhere as we do thermal insulation that inspired our “Green First” strategy. our utmost to instigate countermeasures against the spread The third phase is represented by the 30-year period leading of the virus. up to 2050; through this initiative, the Sekisui House Group In March 2020, we announced our 5th Mid-term has launched its new 30-year Vision. With the global vision Management Plan as well as our new 30-year Vision. Our of making home the happiest place in the world, we aim group, which identifies our upcoming phase as “NEXT SEKISUI to become a global company that integrates tangible and HOUSE,” has developed a growth strategy that focuses on intangible products and services with a focus on housing. our housing segment under our 5th Mid-term Management Plan. Our goal is to further strengthen our core business while developing new businesses. We are pursuing our business objectives with a policy of “meeting the challenge.” 07 Sekisui House Sustainability Report 2020 frequent power outages that occur in some regions, the ZEH Combining tangible and intangible products specification attracted great interest. As a consequence, I feel and services that contribute to contentment that good potential exists for our international business there. The Platform House Concept is an important initiative intended Of course, we will also promote our SDG initiatives from this to achieve our vision. We introduced this concept a year ago perspective. As a global company specializing in housing, I am at the Consumer Electronics Show (CES) 2019, one of the confident Sekisui House technology will become the de facto electronics industry’s largest trade shows, held in Las Vegas, standard in the world. By transplanting the environmental, U.S.A. Because we feel that happiness is an intangible asset disaster preparedness, and construction technologies developed over the long term, we factor it into the health, connection, by Sekisui House to other countries, we can contribute to the and learning aspects we incorporate into our houses to assist happiness of people around the world. Message from Management in engendering happiness. Our first effort in this project was the construction of the world’s first HED-Net (In-Home Early Detection Network), a network that responds quickly to incidents Becoming a leading company of acute illness at home. In fact, responding to such instances in ESG management has become an urgent issue these days; HED-Net responds by Through its focus on sustainable growth, the Sekisui detecting an abnormal physical condition through non-contact House Group aims to become a leading company in ESG sensors that can report an emergency without causing stress management. For example, under our environmental to the resident. This safety confirmation and early response initiatives, we have achieved a ZEH ratio of 87% for newly built system can consistently issue reports and provide guidance to houses. By utilizing the technical expertise we have gained emergency services. This innovation was also presented at CES in constructing a cumulative total of 51,793 such buildings, 2020 held in January. One such acute illness is stroke, which we are promoting rental housing, condominiums, and nonstrikes about 290,000 people annually in Japan. The data shows residential buildings built to ZEH standards. Furthermore, we Vision and Goals that 79% of strokes occur in the home. If we also consider have expanded into the field of remodeling and renovation, the prevalence of heart disease, drowning, and falls, a total of as reflected in our Idokoro Dan-netsu renovation service that about 70,000 people die in their homes in Japan each year. The suggests ways to raise the comfort level of existing detached introduction and widespread adoption of HED-Net would enable houses to the ZEH level. Contributing to the emergence of early detection and emergency response to the onset of an acute a low-carbon lifestyle and a comfortable living environment illness or accident at home. In addition, trial calculations indicate for our customers is an important aspect of managing for a that, when HED-Net is combined with the Platform House decarbonization business. Moreover, Sekisui House Owner Concept, the potential for reducing social costs such as medical Denki, our business that purchases surplus electricity from costs, nursing care costs, and lost labor costs is about 20%, or 1.9 solar power generators in order to power business operations Environmental trillion yen. Expectations for this innovation are thus quite high. within the group, received more applications than expected. If In addition, we believe this could reduce the number of people we continue with the purchase of so-called post-FIT electricity who require nursing care or who take medical leave. Clearly, this at this pace, we may be ahead of schedule in reaching our project offers new value for Japan, a developed country with a RE100 objective: obtaining 100% of the electricity required mature and aging population. By fusing tangible and intangible for business operations from renewable sources. products and services, we aim to become a partner in the In order to realize our global vision of making home E generation of contentment in an era of centenarians while also the happiest place in the world, I believe it is necessary to maintaining close contact with homeowners. make Sekisui House the happiest company in the world. In order to become a “kids first company” that supports the healthy growth of the children who will lead the next Sekisui House Technology: Becoming the generation, one of our initiatives is Ikumen Leave, a childcare world’s de facto standard leave system for male employees extending over a period If we take a global perspective, we can see that issues such of at least one month. Within its first year of operation, this Social as climate change and the changing economic environment program achieved 100% uptake. In addition to giving male S are having a profound impact. As a provider of high-quality employees the opportunity to make new discoveries through housing in Japan, we can make a significant contribution to greater participation in childcare and housework, the program issues such as housing shortages and supply-demand gaps. inspired comments such as “my work was able to be shared, Moreover, we offer environmental technologies and address and I improved my awareness of time management” and, “I the basic performance of houses capable of withstanding improved communication in the workplace.” We expect this natural disasters. program to lead to further reform of our work style. Today, we aim to achieve sustainable growth through our Recently, employee diversity has been promoted as a Governance international business by promoting the three businesses that management strategy, and one of our personnel policies, we are currently operating in Japan: our development business, Promotion of the Active Participation of Women, has brought our built-to-order housing business, and our supplied housing solid results. The number of female managers and women in business. In order to advance our business overall, we believe leadership roles is increasing. We plan to continue training G it is essential that we address the salient social issues in the while focusing on the promotion of women to managerial various countries and regions in which we operate. For example, positions as we actively recruit women to sales and technical in the United States, the seasonal climate varies considerably by positions. We will further promote health management by region, and natural disasters such as earthquakes and hurricanes introducing IT and other advanced technologies for our health present a variety of housing challenges that must be addressed. initiatives targeting all employees. At Sekisui House Group, We believe that the technologies and expertise we have our corporate philosophy is focused on the concept of “love developed at Sekisui House can be useful in solving these issues. of humanity.” Guided by this corporate philosophy, we will all In the U.S.A., the chowa concept home uses Sekisui House’s remain engaged in promoting innovation and communication. SHAWOOD wooden housing system, which was presented at We have already launched an innovation competition the opening of CES 2020. When I introduced our company, the internally that has given rise to many new ideas. To be clear, first thing that surprised visitors was the high level of seismic innovation is the challenge and mission of the Sekisui House performance and the technical advances demonstrated by Group. Driven by a commitment to active communication, our houses. In fact, during the Hanshin-Awaji Earthquake and we have all adopted a common goal and have pledged to the Great East Japan Earthquake, not a single Sekisui House continue creating and providing value to our customers and collapsed or suffered severe damage. In addition, in light of the society at large for the next 30 years. Sekisui House Sustainability Report 2020 08 Group Overview Promoting sustainable management through our Four In keeping with our corporate philosophy of “love of humanity,” the Sekisui House Group creates value by responding to social change and to shifting demand. Our Sustainability Vision, which we adopted in 2005 and which comprises our Four Key Values and 13 Guidelines, continues to serve as the basis of our approach to value creation. At the root of this is the mindset and the roles we have demonstrated throughout our 60 years of history. These include promoting lifelong contentment, protecting the life and property of our customers, protecting the global environment, and conserving the ecosystem. These are beliefs we continue to support. Corporate Philosophy Four Key Values and 13 Guidelines (fundamentally, “love of humanity”) At the core of the Sekisui House Group’s corporate philosophy is a In 2005, we announced our Sustainable Vision targeting balanced love of humanity: recognizing the irreplaceable value in each and management based on four key values that focus on sustainability as the every person, we maintain a fervent hope for the wellbeing of others cornerstone of our management. In 2006, we formulated 13 guidelines and a sense of joy in others’ joy, doing whatever we do in good faith as guiding principles based on these four key values. and a spirit of service. This philosophy took root in 1989 with the unanimous approval of every group employee. Energy Longevity Our stance Resources Truth and trust Comfort Chemical substances Environmental Homeowner value value Prosperity Ecosystems Our Sustainability fundamental philosophy: Love of Knowledge and Coexistence humanity technology Economic Social and co-prosperity value value Regional Relationships Our objective Our business focus economy with local culture Superior quality Comfortable housing and leading technology and ecologically sound Fair profits and Human resource social sharing development communities The Era of the Environment, Comfort and The Era of Safety and Security Sustainability We have created a unique system not offered by our competitors; it As a company that provides housing, we adopted a major strategy encompasses direct contracts and responsible construction, as well as focused on the environment. In 1999, we became the first in the a commitment to safe and secure housing noted for its quality and industry to introduce an Environmental Future Plan. In 2005, with our high performance. In 1989, we formulated the concept of “lifelong commitment to restoring the global ecosystem to its original balance, housing” so that all could look forward to lives of comfort and we established a clear vision of a society in which all can live contentment. These ideas formed the underpinnings of our corporate comfortably in the sustainable society of the future. We publicized philosophy of “love of humanity” and represent the basis of our this position as the foundation of our business operations. current focus on contentment. Actions taken by Sekisui House In response to the national policy of securing sufficient During this era, the Sekisui House Group In pursuit of housing comfort, housing during the period of high economic growth, we made a great leap forward by working we developed the concept of contributed to the modernization of housing in Japan. to enhance intangible elements while 1999 universal design as well as We helped to establish the basic performance of housing. driving the technological evolution. Announced the structures to control vibration. Environmental Future Plan. 1960 1980 1990 2000 1979 1982 2001 Conducted the Launched the PSH-21 1989 1990 1996 Launched the Gohon no ki indigenous housing industry’s (passive solar house) Formulated a The Comprehensive Launched the Centrage model, a first ∑ landscaping project. 1960 first full-scale utilizing natural corporate Housing R&D in the housing industry to provide Began uniform use of Fc0 and E0 Sekisui House vibration experiments. energy. philosophy. Institute is multi-layered high-performance heat materials in finishing materials for established. established. insulating glass as a standard component. interiors as a countermeasure for sick building syndrome. PhaseⅠ: Safety and Security PhaseⅡ: Comfort 09 Sekisui House Sustainability Report 2020 Key Values under our philosophy of “Love of Humanity” Four Key Values, 13 Guidelines and the SDGs (Direct and indirect contributions through our businesses) The Sekisui House Group declared its Sustainability Vision 10 years before the United Nations adopted its sustainable development goals, or SDGs. The SDGs were adopted in 2015 as common objectives of the international community in terms of maintaining the health of society, the economy, Message from Management and the environment. Since establishing its Four Key Values and 13 Guidelines in its Sustainability Vision, our group has taken a direct approach to pioneering and implementing sustainability. Many expect that, going forward, social issues will become more complex and increasingly global in nature. To address these issues, we are placing ever greater emphasis on implementing the SDGs and targeting “Society 5.0,” which is a vision of an optimized future society utilizing the Internet of Things (IoT) and artificial intelligence (AI). We remain committed to enhancing our corporate value and contributing to the achievement of the SDGs through our business with diligence and a spirit of innovation. Energy Longevity Vision and Goals Resources Comfort Chemical substances Environmental Homeowner Ecosystems value Prosperity value Sustainability Knowledge Environmental and Coexistence and Economic technology value Social value co-prosperity Regional economy Relationships with local culture Fair profits and social sharing Human resource development E The sizes of the pictographs conceptually represent the degree of relation to our group’s four key values. Social S Contributing to 100 Years of Contentment For 60 years, Sekisui House has been cultivating “love of humanity” as well as our Sustainable Vision comprising our Four Key Values and 13 Guidelines complemented by the SDGs. Through our new value of serving as a “partner in promoting contentment in the era of the centenarian,” we are addressing new challenges with a focus on health and happiness. Governance 2018 2008 We are committed to environmental 2015 Joined the TCFD declaration. Made the Eco-First Promise. considerations and are leading Japan and the Signatory to the Global Received accreditation for SBT Initiative. G Cooperated in the world in environmental technologies. We have Alliance for Buildings and Began implementation of paid construction of a Zero focused on the need to create a sustainable Construction at COP21. childcare leaves system for men. Emissions House for the society and have formulated a vision for Paris Agreement Started research on “houses where Toyako Summit in Hokkaido. contributing to the emergence of such a society. Compliance Declaration. happiness grows the longer you live Announced the 2050 Vision. there.” 2005 2010 2015 2020 2050 2005 2009 2010 2013 2019 Announced the Sustainable Launched the Green Commemorated Launched the Green First ZERO Sekisui House becomes 2020 Vision. First model of 50th anniversary. model that promotes the first non-financial The NEXT SEKISUI HOUSE Formulated the Urban eco-friendly homes. Achieved the energy-neutral housing. company in Japan to 30-year Vision is Development Charter. milestone of issue a TCFD Report. announced. 2 million home. Phase Ⅲ: The Era of the Contented Centenarian Sekisui House Sustainability Report 2020 10 Our Vision for 2050 Maximizing the contentment of our customers, employees, Forecasting the future has become a difficult undertaking, as climate change, technological innovation, and demographic changes are significantly transforming the economic environment in which we operate. In order to ensure steady progress toward 2050, the target year of our long-term vision, the Sekisui House Group has formulated a 30-year vision we call “NEXT SEKISUI HOUSE.” With our global commitment to making home the happiest place in the world, we are implementing initiatives to maximize the contentment of our customers, employees, and communities as a global enterprise offering integrated and housingcentered tangible and intangible products and services. NEXT SEKISUI HOUSE 30-year Vision Sekisui House Global Vision Climate change, Demographic change Making home ecosystem conservation & resource recycling the happiest place in the world Services Fusion Tangible Intangible products products Becoming a global company that offers integrated housing-centered tangible and intangible products Initiatives to support greater contentment and services • Becoming a partner in contentment while building a close relationship with homeowners. • Suggesting how to boost happiness by recognizing the value as of intangible assets such as health, connection, and learning. Sekisui House Technology: Becoming a leading company Becoming the world’s de facto standard in ESG management • Proprietary technologies developed in Japan that • Leading the world with Net Zero Energy Houses. contribute to safety and security, such as robust Contributing to the world through the RE100 resistance to earthquakes, fires, and impacts. initiative. • Proprietary technologies that contribute to • Adopting diversity as a growth driver. comfort, such as thermal insulation, universal • Focusing on innovation & communication. design, and technologies to provide healthier indoor air. Societal and economic change Technological innovation We spread Sekisui House We contribute to the emergence Technology worldwide by of a sustainable society by providing high-quality houses promoting ESG strategies such that combine safety, security, as a decarbonized society, and comfort. improving our sociability and personnel strategies, and governance reform. 11 Sekisui House Sustainability Report 2020 and communities 2050 Message from Management Our Vision for 2050 Maximizing the contentment of our customers, employees, and communities Vision and Goals Customer contentment Employee contentment Social contentment • Energy efficiency • Energy efficiency • Minimizing disasters caused by climate Environmental • Exterior enhancement • RE100 initiative change • Securing energy (Renewable energy for business use) • Prevention of global warming • RE100 (purchase of surplus power) • Greening by enhancing exteriors • Enhancement of local communities Environmental • Contributing to health, connection and • Health management • Regional revitalization learning • Diversity • A society committed to disaster • Universal design • Flexibility in work styles response and mitigation • Comfortable, safe and secure homes • A market of high-quality housing stock Social • Human resource development and community development • Respect for human rights • Respect for human rights • Disaster-resistant housing • Diversity E • An affluent way of life with consideration for the elderly • A company with integrity trusted by its • A fair and equitable corporate culture • A company trusted by society Governance customers • A workplace culture in which employees • An equitable and fair society can work safely and with peace of mind Social • Innovation & communication S Our Vision for Society Decarbonized society Society in which humans and nature coexist Governance Circular economy Society of health and longevity Diverse society G Sekisui House Sustainability Report 2020 12 Risks and Opportunities Risks and Opportunities for 2050 As societal circumstances change at an accelerated pace, corporate operations are also exposed to various evident and potential impacts. In order to create value with a business, it is not enough to make a plan based on the current forecast. With a focus on sustainability, the Sekisui House Group analyzes mediumand long-term trends that may affect value creation, identifies risk factors, and positions itself for opportunities through future business development. This is then reflected in our strategic planning over the medium and long terms. Risks and opportunities from the perspective of global megatrends related to the environment, society and the economy ESG Megatrends Next 30 Years Business Environment for the Housing and Construction Industries Ongoing temperature rise Ongoing climate change Climate change Increase in abnormal weather events Environmental Acceleration of the decarbonization trend Mainstreaming of decarbonization housing Change in the ecosystem due to Changes in vegetation range and adaptation range climate change and loss of biodiversity of plants for afforestation Ecosystem conservation Increasing numbers of regions with a Increase in regional differences in water resources lack of fresh water Resource depletion and changing selection in natural Ongoing natural resource depletion resources Resource recycling Increasing awareness of the need to Increasing development and spread of innovative reduce plastic usage materials and recycling technologies Increase in housing demand in emerging and Growing world population housing-deficient countries Increased numbers of countries with Increase in ratio of elderly customers and employees, aging populations and changing requirements for living environments Demographic change Growing influx of immigrants and Increase in customers and employees immigrating migrant workers around the world from other countries Population decline in Japan due to the Change in social capital as the market shrinks in size declining birthrate and demand for buildings decreases Society and economy Ongoing urbanization Ongoing depopulation in local regions Ongoing transition from ownership to Expansion of the real estate rental market usage Increasing disparity between the rich Shrinkage of the middle class and growing and poor and widening income differentiation of the market disparity among households Societal and economical Shrinking of the gender pay gap Ongoing outsourcing of housework change Diversification of working styles Increasing employee needs for diverse working styles Increasing localization of core competencies and Acceleration of corporate globalization local partnerships Increasing diversification of personal Growing numbers of customers and employees who values value the environment and sociability Increasing utilization of big data and Major transformations in financial markets through the speed of information and financial technology and ongoing corporate Technological innovation communications technologies collaboration on technology Increasing opportunities for using Increasing numbers of customers and employees advanced medical care returning after recovering from illnesses 13 Sekisui House Sustainability Report 2020 Message from Management • Our response to TCFD • Important ESG themes and material items The TCFD (Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures) recommends that The essential themes related to ESG adhere to the GRI Guidelines (G4) companies issue climate-related financial disclosures in an effective manner in order and reflect important issues related to the environment, society and to encourage investors to make appropriate investment decisions. In December 2019, the economy. Sekisui House published a TCFD Report dedicated to disclosing information on its → For material items, please refer to our website. response to the risks of climate change. Risks Opportunities Main ESG Themes Increasing need for living environments resistant Living difficulties caused by extreme heat to extreme heat Decreased productivity at production and Increasing competition for comfortable Vision and Goals construction sites due to extreme heat workplaces Decarbonized society Increasing severity of natural disasters Growing need for durable housing Introduction of carbon taxes Increasing competitiveness of decarbonization businesses Increasing need for tree planting and other During construction, growing demand for ecosystem conservation initiatives consideration of local ecosystems and changing vegetation Growing awareness of material certification and Society in which humans ease of procurement and nature coexist Increasing requirements for buildings and facilities Increasing need for housing designed for water to be designed for water conservation conservation Environmental Increasingly stringent recycling regulations Increasing competitiveness among resource-recycling businesses Circular economy Growing cost of processing fossil fuel-derived plastic waste E Expanding market potential. Compliance and risk Growing country risk and likelihood of labor Demand for housing construction technologies management; Pursuing shortages at construction sites that reduce construction labor requirements and customer satisfaction shorten the construction period through our value chain A growing shortage of construction, nursing care, Increasing competitiveness of housing and Contributing to health, and health care workers as health and safety needs workplaces with consideration for the health of longevity and wealth; increase with the aging of the population the elderly, and increasing need for support for Human resources Social nursing care and health care businesses development Growing numbers of people with unstable housing Growing demand for workplaces that accept diverse Promoting diversity; circumstances, and increased cost of communication workers who invigorate housing and labor markets Respect for human rights S A decline in the number of housing starts, a Contributing to health, decrease in the occupancy rate of managed Ongoing trends toward high-quality housing, longevity and wealth; properties, and an increasingly serious problem urban migration, and compact cities Pursuing customer satisfaction with vacant houses through our value chain Increasingly intense competition in cities Growing need for regional revitalization Fewer business serving property owners Rising need for good rental housing Governance Pursuing customer satisfaction through our Increasingly intense business competition for the Increasing need to provide housing brands by value chain; wealthy, and the emergence of low-cost housing target and range Respect for human rights; Contributing to society Expanding demand for childcare and educational G Inadequate numbers of workers available for working facilities, and expansion of markets related to at home, including child-care and nursing care housework (childcare, nursing care, etc.) Increasing competitiveness in workplaces with Workstyle reforms; Human Increased employee turnover when needs are not met high employee satisfaction resource development Contributing to health, Increasing disagreement with local requirements for Use of proprietary technologies to solve social longevity and wealth; Respect employment and business practices issues for human rights; Contributing to society; Promoting diversity Growing risks to environmental reputation and Growing need for housing that contributes to Contributing to health, longevity social reputation sustainability and wealth; Contributing to society Increasing social demand for customer Increase in technologies that contribute to Strengthening our corporate management and other security measures sustainability governance system Increasing need for familiarity with medical Enhanced competitiveness of housing and Occupational health and technology workplaces focused on health and safety safety management Sekisui House Sustainability Report 2020 14 Sustainability Vision 2050 Initiatives Targeting 2050 In 2008, the Sekisui House Group announced Vision 2050 with the aim of eliminating CO2 emissions attributable to housing. As a result, we quickly shifted our management focus to decarbonization. In FY2016, during a time of changing demographics and rapid technological innovation, we released Sustainability Vision 2050, our long-term vision for 2050 that prepares for future environmental changes across a wider range of business domains. In FY2017, we announced mid-term initiatives for 2030 in order to publicize our progress to stakeholders who are interested in the group’s achievement of long-term value. In FY2019, we further clarified our society-centered goals by dividing them into two aspects: a diverse society and an advanced, healthy and long-lived society. Sustainability Vision 2050 Our Goals 2050 Challenge Objectives Leading the Way to a Zero CO2 Emissions within the Housing Decarbonized Society Lifecycle Climate change attributed to global warming is As a leading company in housing products, we will eliminate beginning to have a visible impact on our lifestyles. CO2 emissions from the entire housing lifecycle, from the Secure, high-quality lifestyles will realize a purchase of materials to manufacturing, sales, occupancy and sustainable society that is not dependent on fossil demolition, including renewable energy usage. fuels or constrained by energy problems. Leading the Way to Society in Maximizing Ecosystem Networks through Which Humans and Nature Coexist Business Rich natural networks contribute to the protection We will procure 100% FairWood products to realize Zero of biodiversity and alleviate climate change, Deforestation, which is linked to the destruction of ecosystems. contributing not only to the protection of We also aim to become Japan’s number one corporation in ecosystem services that support our lifestyles, but terms of urban greening contributions, intelligently utilizing also to improving the quality of people’s lifestyles green infrastructure functions such as ecosystem conservation, and strengthening connections between people. disaster prevention/reduction and comfort through green We will maximize this network function to realize housing construction and community development. coexistence between humans and nature. Leading the Way to a Circular Expanding Zero Emissions Initiatives Economy within the Housing Lifecycle Amid increasing demand for resources and energy To cultivate housing as a quality asset, the Sekisui House Group in line with the growing world population, we will provides remodeling and renovation services that are matched work toward a circular economy that uses recycled to living styles and societal changes. To deal with the waste resources sustainably without depending only on generated from these activities, we will expand our natural resources, through technological and industry-leading zero emissions initiatives to realize zero economic system innovations to enable all people emissions at the social infrastructure level through industry to live a stable lifestyle. alliances. Leading the Way to an Advanced, Contributing to Health and Longevity Healthy and Long-lived Society through Housing Development We committed ourselves to providing safe, secure, We will contribute to the development of high-quality social and healthy housing according to guidelines for assets by establishing a rich living environment and local creating abundant housing focused on people and communities that can continue to live in safety, security, and the environment and to solving regional issues at comfort. We will develop the intangible assets of health, the global level. As a developed country with a connection and learning while creating houses that contribute mature and aging population, we aim to contribute to a long-lived society. In the process, we aim to eliminate to a society in which everyone can live in good domestic accidents in the houses we provide by employing our health with pride. advanced technologies. Leading the Way to a Diverse Contributing to a Society in which All can Society Demonstrate Their Individual Abilities We aim to create a sustainable society by driving We will provide opportunities and create an environment in innovation while allowing diverse individuals from which diverse groups of people can make the most of their around the world to have a positive impact on one individuality. Through innovation and communication, we are other. creating value in society in diverse ways. 15 Sekisui House Sustainability Report 2020 Measures Message from Management Main Actions Taken 2030 Goals for ESG Achieving SBT Goals • Announced the Eco-First Promise (2008) E Environmental With the goal of achieving zero CO2 emissions throughout the • Launched the Green First model of eco-friendly homes housing lifecycle, we aim to reduce emissions by 50% for Vision and Goals (2009) Scope 1 & 2 and 45% for Scope 3 (category 11: Housing) • Launched Net Zero Energy House Green First ZERO (2013) compared to FY2013 (SBT goal). Also, as a RE100 member • Paris Agreement Compliance Declaration (2015) company, we will ensure that 50% of the electric power • Joined RE100 international initiative (2017) consumed by our business activities is from renewable energy sources. • TCFD Report published (2019) Leading the Mainstreaming of Biodiversity E Environmental Regarding the number of trees planted under the Gohon no ki Environmental indigenous landscaping project, which proposes the planting • Launched Gohon no ki indigenous landscaping project of mainly native tree species in consideration of local (2001) ecosystems, we will maintain the pace of planting 1,000,000 …Total number of trees planted: 16.11 million (2019) trees each year and promote further expansion of urban • Formulated Wood Procurement Guidelines (2007) greening while also aiming for 100% procurement of sustainable FairWood fair lumber products for use in all standard Sekisui House homes. E Recycling Business System Development • Initiated the Zero Emissions Project (2000) Acceleration E Environmental • Achieved zero waste emissions at all our factories (2002) We will expand the targeted scope of the Wide-Area Certification Social • Achieved zero waste at each stage of production, System, a special system of the Waste Management and Public including new home construction, and after-sales Cleansing Law, which Sekisui House was first to acquire in our maintenance to remodeling (2005–2007) industry, while enhancing support for housing stock-related S • Transitioned to a next-generation system compatible with businesses. At the same time, we will accelerate the use of IT big data utilization (2017) technologies, increase the accuracy of waste recovery management and electronic management systems mainly using cloud computing and promote efficient and smooth management. • Built Japan’s first model house for people with disabilities Creating Value with Respect to Social Issues (1981) We aim to continue playing the role of a housing provider in Governance • Defined lifelong housing as the ideal for Sekisui housing the interests of an advanced, healthy, and long-lived society. In construction (1989) particular, we will contribute to the contentment of S Social • Established Sekisui House Universal Design (2002) centenarians by focusing on intangible assets such as health, • Instituted Smart Universal Design in pursuit of comfort as connection and learning, as well as tangible assets such as well as safety, security and ease of use (2010) structures, interiors and environment-friendly products. In G short, we are helping to build homes that add to health and • Launched the Airkis high-quality indoor air system (2011) longevity. • Began research on happy living (2018) • Introduced the Platform House concept (2019) • Announced Human Resource Sustainability (2006) Sustainable Growth Through Diversity & • Launched Sekisui House Women's College, a training program for promising female management candidates Inclusion (2014) As a leading company committed to ESG principles, we are S Social implementing management that can make the most of the • Initiated Diversity Exchange events (events for employees unique abilities of all individuals including women, people with with disabilities; 2015) disabilities, the elderly, foreign nationals, and members of the • Formulated a health management policy (2018) LGBT community. We are raising awareness of and promoting • Introduced the Ikumen Leave program (2018) diversity by publicly disclosing the results and challenges of our • Introduced the Heterosexual Common-law Marriage and management initiatives. Same Sex Partnership Personnel Registration System (2019) Sekisui House Sustainability Report 2020 16 Main ESG Themes Aiming to be a leading company in ESG management, The Sekisui House Group has formulated Sustainability Vision 2050 as a long-term goal reflecting our efforts in relation to ESG (Environmental, Social, Governance) management. Among the initiatives we have adopted to achieve our long-term vision, we have identified 13 key themes under the ESG trend as goals to be achieved during the period between 2020 and 2022. These correspond with the 17 goals of the SDGs (sustainable development goals) adopted by the United Nations, and we are making daily progress to contribute to the emergence of a sustainable society. Activity Report Main ESG Themes Main Corresponding SDGs E Environmental Decarbonized society Society in which humans and nature coexist Circular economy Contributing to health, longevity and wealth Pursuing customer satisfaction through our value chain Promoting diversity S Social Workstyle reforms Human resource development Respect for human rights Contributing to society Strengthening our corporate governance G Governance system Compliance and risk management Occupational health and safety management 17 Sekisui House Sustainability Report 2020 and creating a sustainable society Message from Management ESG Incorporated in the 5th Mid-term Key Indicators (FY2022 Target Values) Reference Management Plan (FY2020–2022) (For details, see pages 65–66) Environmental: Introducing Initiatives ・Green First ZERO ZEH rate: 90% Contributing to a Decarbonized Society ・CO2 emissions reduction rate in business operations: 34% ・CO2 emissions reduction rate for new housing: 43% Page 19– Strengthening and Expanding our Net-Zero Energy House (ZEH) initiative ・Post-FIT power purchasing rate: 15% Vision and Goals • Enhancing resilience • Promoting and expanding the net-zero energy ・Sustainable wood procurement rate: 96% Page 25– initiative for target buildings ・Ecosystem-friendly tree planting: 19 million planted Promoting RE100 under Sekisui House Owner Denki • Purchasing post-FIT power from homeowners and ・Waste generation rate (new construction): 5.2% using the electricity for the group’s business purposes ・Waste recycling rate (new construction): 100% Page 29– Global Leader in ESG management ・Waste recycling rate (remodeling): 90% or higher Social: Improving Sociability and Our Human Resource Strategy Environmental Page 33– Establishing a human resources pipeline that ・Customer satisfaction rate: 95% or higher strategically trains the next generation of ・SDG procurement adoption rate: 90% managers and leaders ・SDG procurement score: 88.0 points Page 37– Recruiting and hiring individuals with a diverse array of skills for new fields of business E • Expanding hiring channels for new graduates: ・Female managers: 260 ・Full-time female employee rate: 28.0% year-round hiring and other strategies ・Hiring rate for new female graduates: 42.0% Promoting diversity: Creating a workplace that ・Number of female directors (non-consolidated basis): 1 or more Page 43– encourages employees to demonstrate a diversity of skills ・Employment rate of persons with disabilities (non-consolidated • Promoting the active participation of women basis): 2.61% • Supporting the active participation of diverse personnel ・Take-up rate for male childcare leave (non-consolidated Social Workstyle reform: Creating dynamic growth basis): 100% Page 45– through the use of intangible assets ・Annual paid leave take-up rate: 60% S • Continuing with the full implementation of male ・Average monthly working hours per person: 164 childcare leave for a minimum of one month • Providing support to encourage a balance between ・Total cumulative number of workers who have acquired work and childcare, nursing care, or medical treatment Page 47– major qualifications required for employment: 22,900 • Promoting teleworking • Promoting management of good health ・Governance awareness survey score Governance Addressing social issues: Contributing to the Work culture that prohibits abuse of power imbalances: Page 49– emergence of a society that maximizes customer 83.0 points value and adheres to the SDGs • Supporting a long-lived society, regional revitalization, child education, and collaboration among industry, government, ・Sign-up rate for Sekisui House Matching Program: 40% Page 51G and academia through business and social initiatives ・Governance awareness survey score Governance: Implementing Reforms Workplace culture: 83.0 points Page 55– For top management Compliance: 87.0 points Employee satisfaction: 83.0 points • Reforming the corporate governance system and strengthening effectiveness • Enhancing information disclosure and dialogue with ・Serious violations of laws and voluntary norms: 0 Page 57 stakeholders For business operations management • Improving the integrity of operations management ・Frequency rate of accidents in construction department • Strengthening the group governance system resulting in lost worktime: 2.13 Page 58 ・Frequency rate of occupational illnesses in the construction department: 0.31 Sekisui House Sustainability Report 2020 18 Decarbonized Society E Contributing to the emergence of a decarbonized society in 2050 Enhancing Utilizing Utilizing energy renewable ren newable ENVIRONMENTAL efficiency energy e CO2＝0 Main ESG Themes ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ Decarbonized Society Basic concept We encourage the adoption of ZEH and ZEB* to reduce CO2 emissions in the dwelling and usage phases of houses and buildings; these phases account for the largest proportion of CO2 emissions in the entire industry. At the same time, we are working to reduce CO2 emissions throughout the value chain, which includes promoting energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy sources in our business operations. Our goal, as reflected in the IPCC Special Report, is to contribute to the emergence of a decarbonized society by 2050. * Net-zero energy houses and net-zero energy buildings aim to achieve an annual balance of primary energy of plus or minus zero while providing a comfortable indoor environment by generating power and focusing on energy efficiency. Approach We were quick to introduce ZEH Green First ZERO products for new detached houses placed on the market. We are leading the ZEH transition in the housing industry by constructing Japan’s first ZEH rental units and condominiums. We also launched Sekisui House Owner Denki, which aims to achieve RE100* by purchasing 1 * 2 *3 surplus electricity from post-FIT homeowners. Having obtained SBT certification , we are implementing decarbonization efforts. *1 An initiative to obtain sufficient renewable energy to offset all the electricity consumed by a business *2 A reference to the expiration of 10-year (or 20-year) contracts for purchase of renewable power by an electric power company under a feed-in tariff (FIT) framework *3 Certification of greenhouse gas reduction plans based on scientific data 2050 Vision Declared compliance 50% electricity supply 100% electricity supply Decarbonization with the Paris Joined RE100 for business from for business from Declaration Agreement renewable energy renewable energy Decarbonization: Achieve zero CO2 2008 2009 2013 2015 2017 2018 2030 2040 2050 emissions in housing lifecycle Launched models Launched net-zero *1 Scope 1: CO2 emissions from fuel Scope 1&2* : 50% reduction 1 Acquired SBT consumption that reduce CO2 energy housing certification Scope 3* : 45% reduction 2 Scope 2: CO2 emissions from by over 50% (ZEH) TCFD support (as compared to 2013) purchased electricity and heat *2 Scope 3: CO2 emissions indirectly emitted by companies through the 2019: ZEH 87% Cumulative number of ZEH constructed: 51,793 supply chain Sekisui House value chain CO2 emission reduction plan and progress (All reduction rates are relative to FY2013 levels) 900 800 700 151 CO2 emissions (10,000 tonnes) 28% 600 reduction 202 36% reduction 500 198 196 Scope 3 190 (excludes time 400 of residence) 151 26% increase 617 300 446 Scope 3 Scope 3 200 394 382 361 (at time of residence) (at time of residence) 42% reduction 339 45% reduction 100 Scope 1, 2 Scope 1, 2 Decarbonization 17 15 14 13 12 27% reduction 50% reduction 8 0 0 2013 2016 2017 2018 2019 2030 2050 (FY) 19 Sekisui House Sustainability Report 2020 Action policies ① Expand net-zero energy housing (ZEH) Ratio of new detached houses classified as Green First ZERO ▶ 90% by 2022 Activity report Message from Management 87% of our new detached houses are ZEH, for a For this reason, we have developed a proprietary tilecumulative total of 51,793 units. shaped solar panel that allows for the installation of many Our Green First ZERO (ZEH) homes demonstrate a high level panels on a roof with a complicated shape. In addition, the of comfort, economy, and environment-friendly design. In panels are inconspicuously integrated with the existing roof tiles, FY2019, 87% of our detached houses were ZEH. As a result, so the exterior appearance of the building and the surroundings we reached our FY2020 target of 80%* ahead of schedule. 1 are considered in the installation. In addition, in threeand fourThis result is far higher than the ZEH ratio of 13%* achieved 2 story residences, which are increasing in popularity mainly in in Japan in FY2018. Since we launched this initiative in 2013, urban areas, columns are used to provide direct support for we have attained a cumulative total of 51,793 ZEH units (as the roof. Moreover, because solar panels are required for ZEH of March 31, 2020), which represents the highest total in the conversions, we have developed large roofs that provide the industry in Japan. necessary support regardless of the building configuration. Vision and Goals We have implemented various initiatives to promote By solving such difficult challenges with technology and the benefits of ZEH, including tours and regular seminars at by highlighting the various benefits of ZEH design to our exhibition halls and at our Sumai-no-Yume-Kojo Centers. By customers, we are continuing to promote adoption of the developing the necessary technologies, we have provided ZEH standards through our Green First ZERO initiative with the solutions in cases where barriers to ZEH conversion exist. goal of reaching a ZEH ratio of 90%. For example, ZEH standards require the installation of high*1 ZEH diffusion target required for ZEH builder registration at the capacity solar panels, but securing the required capacity Sustainable open Innovation Initiative (SII). Registrants were required to with general large-format panels is difficult on roofs with set a target of at least 50% by 2020; we adopted a target of 80%. complicated shapes due to the circumstances of the site or the *2 Result published at the Net-Zero Energy House Support Project Survey Presentation 2019 building design. Environmental Greater comfort E Conventional Green Green First ZERO First model Comfort Comfortable living—now and always 3 homeowner benefits Social EcoEconomy friendly Both the open Economical Living in lifestyle harmony with balcony space and the nature installation of highS capacity solar panels are made possible Greater economic Greater with columns that advantages eco-friendliness support the large roof on the second floor. Green First ZERO homes provide a high level of comfort, economy, and environment-friendly design. Green First ZERO model Growth in the number of Green First ZERO (ZEH) homes Governance We aim to build zero energy houses by improving insulation and installing （％） energy-saving equipment, in addition to using photovoltaic systems and (Number of homes) G other advanced energy-generating equipment. 100 75,000 87 76 79 80 71 74 60,000 ❶ Energy savings ❷ Energy generation 51,793 62 Reduced energy use Home generation 44,247 60 45,000 49 35,881 ❷ PV system for Electricity ❶ Advanced, energy-saving energy generation supplied by 28,195 heat insulation system power company 40 30,000 20,253 ❶ Air conditioning and lighting equipment ● High-quality ❷ Energy generation 20 12,741 15,000 ● HEMS air system Storage cell Managing 6,103 Ene-Farm energy used in ● Storage cells everyday life 0 0 ● EV outlet EV-PHV 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) ● Integrated system capable of resisting, controlling, ● Floor heating using hot water Ratio of detached ZEH homes Cumulative number of detached ZEH homes and isolating vibrations from earthquakes ❶ Saved energy ＋ ❷ Generated energy ≒ Energy 0 Sekisui House Sustainability Report 2020 20 Decarbonized Society Our Sha Maison ZEH rental housing offers 447 units in Energy-derived CO2 emissions Breakdown of CO2 emissions 58 buildings. breakdown by sector in the residential sector About 30% of the CO2 emissions attributable to the residential Energy conversion Multi-unit housing sector complexes sector are emitted from multi-unit housing complexes, and rental 8% (For sale) housing accounts for a large portion of this. Clearly, the conversion 8% Transportation Multi-unit of rental housing to ZEH standards is an essential aspect of the sector Industrial housing sector complexes trend toward decarbonization. By utilizing the expertise we gained 18% 35% (For rent) through the construction of detached houses, we managed to Residential 23% Detached complete our first rental housing units in January 2018 in which all sector housing 16% Commercial residential units are fully ZEH.* This project, under our Sha Maison sector 69% rental house brand, was constructed in Kanazawa Japan. Since 23% then, we have been increasing the number of ZEH rental units From the Draft Japanese Proposal Estimates from the 2018 Housing and Land (Global Warming Prevention Headquarters) Statistical Survey (Ministry of Internal Affairs across Japan, from Hokkaido to Kyushu. and Communications) and the 2018 Residential Sector CO2 Emissions Statistical Survey (Ministry Two types of ZEH standards apply to multi-unit housing of the Environment) complexes: ZEH-M, which applies the net-zero energy standard to the entire residential building, including common that comes from knowing that electricity will continue to be areas; and ZEH, which applies the net-zero energy standard to supplied in the event of a disaster. When those living in ZEH the individual housing units, in the same manner as detached units voice their high praise of the results, we are confident housing.* While the ZEH-M standard substantially reduces CO2 that demand for ZEH residential units will rise, leading to an emissions from the entire residential complex, the individual increase in the number of ZEH residential units in the market, units do not have to meet the ZEH standard on their own. We thus helping to address the climate change issue. place significant emphasis on highlighting the benefits of our In fiscal 2019, we supplied 58 ZEH-M buildings and 447 rental housing to prospective tenants, and we are working to ZEH dwelling units for a cumulative total of 103 buildings and popularize ZEH-M, which satisfies all ZEH requirements. ZEH 691 dwelling units. residential units offer the many benefits of the ZEH standard, We will continue to strive to popularize ZEH rental such as the comfort provided by high levels of thermal housing, which offers value to tenants, building owners, and insulation, reduced utility costs, and the sense of security the environment. Illustration of ZEH multi-unit residence ZEH-M ZEH-M ZEH ZEH Residential Residential unit unit residential residential unit unit Common Common area area ZEH ZEH Residential Residential residential residential unit unit unit unit A multi-unit housing complex that aims to A multi-unit housing complex that aims to achieve a net balance of annual primary achieve a net balance of annual primary energy consumption for the entire building, energy consumption for each unit in the including common areas entire building, including common areas. * For a multi-unit housing complex, four types of ZEH standards are defined depending on the difference in energy efficiency. ZEH is the most effective standard, as it is capable of reducing primary energy consumption by 100% in balance. In contrast, Nearly ZEH represents a 75% reduction in CO2 emissions, ZEH Ready represents a 50% reduction, and ZEH Oriented represents a 20% reduction. In addition, ZEH-M and ZEH differ in their definitions of evaluation targets, which are “residential building” for the former and “dwelling units” for the latter. [Based on the definition of ZEH for multi-unit housing revised on March 2019 by the Sha Maison ZEH rental housing in Hiroshima Agency for Natural Resources and Energy.] (All units are ZEH.) Highlights Sekisui House ZEH structures are disaster-resilient. In recent years, a series of large-scale natural disasters have sparked interest ① Secure living space in the potential of housing to offer safety and security. Sekisui House When a typhoon or powerful earthquake provides secure living spaces even in the event of a disaster due to their high (seismic intensity of 6 or more) strikes resistance to earthquakes. We also offer facilities for storing food as well as potable and non-potable water. Similarly, ZEH structures demonstrate their Scan to view a video strength in providing the energy needed to maintain the independence of of the concept of residents in the event of a disaster. disaster-resilient Should a disaster result in a power outage, residents of ZEH structures housing. have access to electricity on sunny days thanks to the solar power generation ② Secure supplies systems installed. Moreover, residences provided with fuel cells have access ③ Energy of water and food to hot water, as they can generate power even in the rain and at night. security 3–5 days’ supply Similarly, those structures equipped with storage batteries store accumulated Sufficient for 1 week power over time, allowing for residents to live independently for longer to several months periods. In the future, we will continue to promote ZEH structures offering comfort, economy, and environment-friendly features while strengthening and publicizing our disaster-resilient designs. 21 Sekisui House Sustainability Report 2020 Construction of a super-high-rise ZEH condominium We are also promoting condominiums built to ZEH standards. In February 2019, we completed construction of Grande Maison Kakuouzan Kikuzakacho in Nagoya. This is Japan’s first condominium complex to meet the ZEH standard. It has been considered difficult to build multi-unit housing complexes to ZEH standards because of the small rooftop area available for installation of solar panels compared relative to Message from Management the large number of housing units in the structure. This is a low-rise condominium with only 12 units, however, so it offers sufficient rooftop area. On the other hand, with respect to high-rise condominiums on which solar panel installation is difficult, Japan has defined and promoted the ZEH Oriented standard, which provides for as much energy-efficiency as possible without the installation of solar panels. For this reason, in fiscal 2019, we broke ground on Grande Maison Uemachidai Grande Maison Kakuouzan Kikuzakacho in Nagoya, a low-rise condominium The Tower PJ in Osaka City. This is a 36-story super-highcomplex (All units are ZEH.) rise multi-unit condominium complex in which all dwelling units meet the ZEH Oriented standard. In order to improve Vision and Goals energy efficiency, we have equipped all units with highefficiency air conditioners as well as fuel cells that generate electricity for hot-water supply. One appeal of super-high-rise condominiums is the view from the large windows; however, increasing the area given over to windows, which have inferior thermal insulation performance compared to walls, is a disadvantage when attempting to meet the ZEH standards. However, we have achieved comfort levels equivalent to ZEH while also offering the views available with large windows by specifying high-performance vacuum double-glazed windows Environmental and by providing additional thermal insulation in each unit. In fact, the insulation levels exceed the energy-efficiency standards of Hokkaido in chilly Northern Japan. We will continue to promote ZEH standards with consideration for the unique added value they offer for E condominium dwellers. Social S High-performance vacuum double-glazed windows are used throughout. (Illustration) Grande Maison Uemachidai The Tower PJ in Osaka City (All units are ZEH Oriented.) Governance Net-zero energy standards for commercial buildings ZEB, like ZEH, is a net-zero energy building standard that the government is encouraging the construction industry to adopt. The buildings targeted for ZEB have a variety of uses, G and a unique ZEB design is required for each application. Sekisui House is focused on promoting ZEB designs employing the Flexible β System, a highly insulated structural skeleton similar to that used in detached houses and Sha Maison rental housing. Utilizing the technology and expertise we gained in the ZEH field, we offer ZEBs that incorporate innovations inspired by energy simulations for business buildings, energy consumption surveys, and questionnaires of facility users. To date, we have a track record of constructing office buildings, nursing facilities, and childcare facilities to the ZEB standard. The ZEB childcare facility is a bright and comfortable space with large, well-insulated windows. Sekisui House Sustainability Report 2020 22 Decarbonized Society Action policies ② Strengthen energy-saving and energy-generation proposals for remodeling and renovation ▶ Implementing Idokoro Dan-netsu renovation Promoting renovation of existing homes to net-zero energy standards Activity report Proposing “Family Suite Renovation” for our existing conventional concept of a living room, dining room, and housing kitchen. By reinforcing the structure of our existing lightweight Under the slogan “Comfortable living—now and always,” steel-framed housing, we can renovate partitioned rooms into our group operates remodeling and renovation businesses larger living rooms. In addition, by simultaneously introducing that contribute to the safety, security, and comfort of our the warming concept of Idokoro Dan-netsu by upgrading customers. thermal insulation in the living room, dining room, and kitchen In September 2019, Sekisui House Remodeling Group, area and by installing equipment offering greater comfort, we a specialized subsidiary of Sekisui House, launched three can help to reduce CO2 emissions while enabling families to remodeling companies* involved in what we call the lifestyle live in greater warmth and comfort. design business, which encourages families to spend their * Sekisui House Remodeling East, Ltd., Sekisui House Remodeling Central, time together with greater excitement by going beyond the Ltd., and Sekisui House Remodeling West, Ltd. Thanks to enhanced thermal insulation and more Bathroom heating Cutting heat loss with insulating Insulation of doors and windows Multi-split air conditioner for small spaces comfortable equipment, the Idokoro Dan-netsu partitions concept is an excellent way to enjoy roomy and more comfortable living spaces. Under the Idokoro Dan-netsu concept, we can provide greater Dressing room Insulation of heater the floor comfort to residents by installing additional thermal insulation and remodeling with a focus on the living spaces and in keeping with the desired lifestyles. By combining the newly developed RF Support Beam Insulation of Floor heating System with the Idokoro Dan-netsu concept, thermal the ceiling insulation is upgraded for greater efficiency with emphasis on the living room, dining room, and kitchen spaces. Moreover, the Cocotas multi-split air conditioner is installed for utility areas such as corridors in order to reduce the temperature differences between each room. When undertaking a remodeling project, the Sekisui House Group accurately Idokoro Dan-netsu Component List (Selected according to customer needs.) determines in advance the current state of thermal insulation : Upgraded thermal insulation and other circumstances based on the history of each dwelling : Installation of equipment unit. By appropriately combining our proprietary thermal providing greater comfort insulation and renovation materials, we undertake renovations in a short period of time to exacting specifications even in houses more than 20 years old while enhancing comfort, economy, and environmental considerations. Details of Idokoro Dan-netsu Premium Ceiling insulation (attic space) Wall insulation We improve thermal insulation by We improve insulation adding insulating material on top of performance by adding superior the existing insulation or by replacing it insulation panels to existing walls with upgraded insulation. or replacing them with a base frame with new insulation. Window insulation Underfloor insulation We upgrade the weather resistance of We improve the floor insulation the windows by mounting a window by adding thermal insulation on the interior of the existing window from below the floor without or by dismantling the existing sash and allowing any gaps, or by replacing replacing it with a new one. it with a new floor base (which incorporates thermal insulation). 23 Sekisui House Sustainability Report 2020 Action policies ③ Reduce CO2 emissions in business activities of the Sekisui House Group Adopting renewable energy ▶ 50% by 2030, 100% by 2040 (under RE100) Activity report Message from Management We established Sekisui House Owner Denki to In October 2017, the Sekisui House Group joined the purchase post-FIT power from homeowners for use in Japanese construction industry’s first RE100 initiative. We powering the company’s business operations. committed to sourcing 50% of the electricity used in our In November 2019, we launched Sekisui House Owner Denki, business operations from renewable energy suppliers by 2030, a system by which surplus power from solar power generators with renewables rising to 100% by 2040. For this reason, the is purchased from homeowners and is used to power the electricity purchased at Sekisui House Owner Denki is used for business operations of our group. business operations. Electricity companies began purchasing surplus electricity As of March 31, 2020, about 47% of homeowners from solar power systems at a fixed price in 2009. Under the eligible for post-FIT electricity sales have joined Sekisui House feed-in tariff (FIT) system, the power purchase period (10 Owner Denki. Vision and Goals years) for residential solar power (less than 10 kW) has expired. * Applicable when no other incidental conditions apply, such as the This system allows our company to satisfy homeowners by designation of the power company purchasing the electric power or the purchasing this post-FIT power at the industry’s highest rate* requirement that storage batteries be installed of 11 yen/kWh. Total annual capacity of photovoltaic systems installed Sekisui House Group’s annual operating by Sekisui House electricity needs Approximately 700 GWh Approximately 120 GWh Environmental Office Factory Model home House with photovoltaic system E Purchase at ¥11/kWh Achieve RE100 Excess electricity from Effective use of electricity photovoltaic systems for corporate activities Social S Year-on-year reduction in CO2 emissions from of 3.8%) thanks to ongoing practices such as distribution of commercial vehicles by 1,160 tonnes (3.8%) safe driving notebooks, DVD teaching materials, and sticker The Sekisui House Group’s 12,000 commercial vehicles production. are equipped with telematics* devices. We encourage safe Since the introduction of telematics devices for vehicles and eco-friendly driving practices by promoting routine in 2011, our efforts have earned high praise. Notably, Governance improvement activities at our business sites and through we received the Minister of the Environment’s FY2018 company-wide, long-term improvement initiatives that utilize Commendation for Global Warming Prevention Activity driving data such as instances of rapid acceleration or braking. (Implementation of Countermeasures Category). Our group held safe driving training sessions more than 400 * Telematics is a system that provides information on vehicle operation, G times during the year, resulting in a year-on-year reduction such as usage and fuel consumption, as well as dangerous driving, such in CO2 emissions of 1,160 tonnes (representing a decrease as sudden acceleration or deceleration, using devices fitted in the vehicles and communication terminals. The structure of telematics Sends email notification for dangerous driving Verification of Sends vehicle effectiveness using data operation data over communication Provides information networks of operation control Consulting In-vehicle device System server Telematics website Leasing company Sekisui House Sustainability Report 2020 24 Society in Which Humans and Nature Coexist E Building a sustainable ecosystem network through our business operations ENVIRONMENTAL Ecosystem-friendly Ecosystem m-friendly Sustainable aina Susta able wood planting plan nting procurement pro ocuurement Main ESG Themes ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ Society in Which Humans and Nature Coexist Basic concept Striving to maximize ecosystem networks through our business based on sustainable use of natural capital As an “ecosystem service,” biodiversity helps to support life and is closely related to commercial activity in terms of raw material procurement. As a housing manufacturer that has constructed a cumulative total of 2.46 million dwellings, the Sekisui House Group consumes 300,000 cubic meters of wood annually. At the same time, we plant about one million trees nationwide every year, which makes us one of the largest landscaping companies in Japan. Due to these characteristics of our business and our influence through our suppliers, we promote tree planting as part of our business to contribute to the conservation of local ecosystems. Moreover, we seek to procure sustainable lumber and preserve forests that will lead to conservation of global biodiversity. Action policies ① Promoting eco-friendly horticulture as the largest gardening and landscaping company in Japan Gohon no ki project ▶ Cumulative number of trees planted by FY2022: 19 million Activity report With 1.09 million trees planted annually, we believe urban tree planting and the Gohon no ki project are growing in importance. Recent extreme weather events that are believed to be associated with climate change make people’s lives more Garden Garden difficult; moreover, they can damage ecosystems. Satoyama Satoyama Forest Forest In light of the decrease in green space due to urbanization Town in many parts of the world, effective greening not only supports Garden Park ecological conservation but also creates leisure spaces necessary for family life while revitalizing the area. Functional greening design supports healthy lives in various ways while also storing rainwater and reducing flood damage. Satoyama However, from the perspective of ecosystem conservation, network some of the horticultural and exotic trees commonly used for greening are difficult for local birds and insects to utilize. As well, those not suited to the Japanese climate often have low In 2019, with the cooperation of specialist researchers, we insect resistance. scrutinized the plant list we had compiled with the assistance of Therefore, since 2001, the Sekisui House Group has been environmental NGOs, local plant grower networks, and our infocused on gardening and landscaping practices that actively house tree doctors. This list reflected a large amount of data on incorporate native species likely to be accessible to local wildlife. flora and fauna in order to meet market needs. It has since been Specifically, we have implemented our Gohon no ki (or updated significantly with the addition of suitable tree species. five trees) indigenous landscaping project under the slogan As a result of this activity, we planted 1.09 million trees in “Three are for birds and two are for butterflies.” We are now FY2019, including those planted under the Gohon no ki project. promoting this initiative nationwide to help establish a Satoyama The cumulative number of planted trees since the start of the network that supports habitats for flora and fauna in household project in 2001 has reached 16.11 million. gardens while enriching the ecosystem. 25 Sekisui House Sustainability Report 2020 Enhancing communication through tree identification appeal of a property through the years. As a result, we have panels developed what we call the Five Environmental Premiums After completing development of a system providing detailed to enhance these landscapes from various perspectives: planting data for each residence, we have promoted the ① Harmony with the city’s appearance, ② Preservation and adoption of communication tools that allow homeowners to restoration of the natural environment, ③ Consideration of enjoy growing plants with greater interest after delivery. environmental impact, ④ Design for comfort and ⑤ Design In June 2018, we updated our tree identification panels. that contributes to safety and security. Each of these items has These are popular for their smartphoneits own rigorous evaluation criteria, including quantification accessible QR codes, which allow one to and visualization to contribute to a pleasant living Message from Management easily pull up garden data throughout the environment. These items encompass the site, the surrounding four seasons. The available information environment, and the building itself. We further tightened includes tips on plant flowering, fruiting, these standards in fiscal 2019 and supplied 1,691 Sha Maison and autumn leaves as well as pruning Gardens buildings containing 16,623 dwelling units, which information. The adoption rate has expanded represents 46% of the target. We intend to increase this to to about 80% nationwide, with a total of 70% of Sha Maison Gardens complexes within three years. 310,000 ID panels issued to date. Scan the QR code at right to view some of the actual tree planting information. You can also listen to the songs of wild Vision and Goals birds who are attracted to these trees. Attractive greening for rental properties For rental properties where profitability is emphasized, treeplanting is commonly disregarded as just another additional cost. However, at Sekisui House, we are actively developing properties that showcase landscape design. We have branded these properties Sha Maison Gardens in the belief that Environmental beautification over time resulting from proper landscaping improves the asset value as well as the attractiveness and Residential building in Tokyo combining condominiums and rental units with a variety of greenery E Action policies ② Procuring sustainable lumber following extensive due diligence ▶ Building a sustainable society through proper lumber procurement Promoting the practices of the FairWood initiative Social S Activity report Exercising due diligence with relation to procurement materials regarding the tracking process in order to improve Wood is an essential renewable resource, and we consume sustainability. In addition, in an effort to disclose the state of about 300,000 cubic meters of wood annually for house progress, we demonstrate thorough due diligence with regard construction. However, illegal logging and the pressure to to base materials, interior finishing materials, and equipment. Governance convert agricultural land to oil palm production have led to deterioration of the conservation function of the forest ecosystem, disruption to the lives of local residents, and 【Due Diligence Practices】 interference in sustainable forest management. Moreover, because of the complexity of distribution channels, the need Information ① Initial risk assessment G to ensure the traceability of wood has become an extremely gathering ・Washington Convention Tree species at risk important issue. In response to this situation, we have been ・IUCN Red List, etc. encouraging our suppliers to exercise due diligence by Logging country/ ・Extent of illegal logging regional risk ・Corruption index, etc. thoroughly monitoring and researching the traceability of the Risk lumber we purchase. assessment ② Detailed risk assessment With respect to due diligence, many companies limit the If the probability of risk in the initial scope of their surveys by excluding medium-density fiberboard evaluation is high, we will contact (MDF), as it is not subject to legality review under Japan’s upstream suppliers and collect information on the local forest management situation Clean Wood Act. However, in order to pursue the goal of Risk and logging situation to determine the risk Zero Deforestation, which is an international requirement, mitigation of operational illegality. we believe that manufacturers can play an important measures ・NGO information, document confirmation, role by providing advice to suppliers of wood building site visits, etc. Sekisui House Sustainability Report 2020 26 Society in Which Humans and Nature Coexist Mechanism and progress of sustainable wood Through these activities, we are seeking to achieve Zero procurement: Rank S and Rank A wood ratio of 95% Deforestation, thus halting the destruction of forests that In terms of procurement, we have adopted 10 policies under leads to destruction of the ecosystem. our Wood Procurement Guidelines that take into consideration In fiscal 2019, we were able to achieve our management legality, the health of the ecosystems of the felling areas, and target of a 95% ratio for Rank S and Rank A lumber. Although the lifestyles of the residents of the logging areas. Since 2006, we do not set targets for use of certified materials alone in we have been conducting annual surveys on the procurement consideration of the healthy development of community status of about 50 suppliers of wood building materials, forestry, 66% of all our wood building materials, including receiving reports on the legality of the procured lumber, those used for interior installation, and 93% of structural the place of production, and attributes, quantifying them wood we use, are FSC/PEFC certified (including certified according to guidelines, and managing their progress. In fiscal processed wood). The ratio of certified products itself has 2019, we were able to proceed with confirmation of a new been declining due to an increase in the adoption of domestic tropical peat forest during the survey. structural materials that undergo little certification even For projects with insufficient assurance of traceability, we though they are sourced with sustainable forest management exercise thorough due diligence by visiting local production methods. sites, conducting surveys, and confirming facts on the ground. Wood product procurement 10 Wood Procurement Guidelines ranking Source wood products from areas with relatively low risk of illegal logging. Depending on their total score, Source wood products from areas without sensitive ecosystems. procured wood products are classified into four ranks, from high to low: S, Do not source wood products from areas where local ecosystems are seriously damaged due to large-scale logging of natural forests. A, B, and C. Minimally acceptable scores are set for Guidelines ① and ④, Do not use endangered species for wood products. as we place a high priority on these Minimize CO2 emissions when producing, processing, and transporting wood products. two items. When logging wood products, avoid conflict with local communities and refrain from unfair labor practices. Total score Source wood products from areas of controlled logging, so as not to exceed the rate of forest regeneration. Rank (maximum 43 points) Source wood products from domestic forests where well-planned forest management is in place to conserve ecosystems. 34 and above S Source wood products from plantation forests that are managed so as to promote conservation and ecosystem 26 to 34 A development. 17 to 26 B Use recyclable wood building materials. Below 17 C 【Results of FTY2019 Survey】 FairWood procurement volume and rank breakdown (10,000 m3) Percentage of wood products by region Other*4 2% 50 Recycled wood 9% Domestic wood 17% 40 32.0 South America 0.2% 4% 30.3 29.9 29.3 28.8 East Asia*1 8% 4% 2% 2% 2% North America 16% 30 3% 22% 4% 14% 6% 15% 4% 18% 3% 15% South Pacific*3 11% 288,000 20 m3 Europe 37% 71% 79% 77% 76% 81% North Pacific*2 0.3% 10 0 *1 East Asia (excluding Japan) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) *2 North Pacific (Russia, etc.) *3 South Pacific (Indonesia, Malaysia, etc.) *4 Africa and others Rank S Rank A Rank B Rank C (Beginning this year, we are also independently disclosing recycled materials made from domestic lumber and wood waste.) The first housing provided under SGEC Forest work necessary to verify that at least 70% of the wood used in Certification Japan construction was certified in Japan, and that other wood-derived With the recent increase in environmental awareness among materials were obtained from appropriately managed forests, consumers, growing numbers of homebuyers are showing including paper products such as wallpaper and fusuma paper. A interest in certified housing. confirmation effort was undertaken to ensure that this material Japan has a centuries-long history of forestry and was derived from appropriately lumber use. SGEC Forest Certification Japan is a domestic managed forests. We were able forest certification system that determines whether wood is to gain knowledge and expertise sustainably and properly managed. Reciprocal recognition regarding forest certified houses has been granted with the PEFC Council, global alliance of through our efforts to obtain national forest certification systems. detailed information from all In 2019, we built Japan’s first private home recognized suppliers; this included tree under SGEC/PEFC Project CoC Whole House Certification. species, production areas, We collaborated in the construction of the house with Mori and whether local NGOs had for Forest Certification Company (a company under Masako indicated any issues. We are Mori, Director, and located in Suita, Japan), a joint venture considering using this experience company that promotes the spread and adoption of SGEC/ to provide new choices in the PEFC certification. At the time of certification, we performed all housing we offer in the future. Internal structure of SGEC certified housing 27 Sekisui House Sustainability Report 2020 Expert assessment of our initiatives Eco-friendly gardening and landscaping activities Practicing urban ecology through the Gohon no ki indigenous landscaping project Message from Management Initiatives intended to protect the natural environment, which be at least 20.9 billion, and the number of trees in the forests are highlighted in the SDGs, are attracting attention. From the and green areas remaining in urban areas, where 70% of the standpoint of scientists studying biodiversity and ecosystems, it is population of Japan is concentrated, is 39.05 million tall trees important to witness the actual effectiveness of various actions. as well as small shrubs. Thus, the number of urban trees is only In the case of private enterprises in particular, initiatives targeting 58.88 million. Therefore, the large number of trees being planted achievement of the SDGs are not sustainable in themselves if it in residential gardens under the Gohon no ki project will be an is not clear how much a particular initiative contributes to the outstanding achievement in terms of the natural regeneration of achievement of a conservation goal, or how efforts related to the city. The planting of garden trees will also have the effect of the initiative will contribute to improved corporate value. strengthening the carbon dioxide sequestering function of the The Gohon no ki indigenous landscaping project adopted city, which contributes to the mitigation of climate change. by Sekisui House recommends the selection of residential garden The ecological design of residential gardens under the trees under the belief that “with native trees in Japan, three Gohon no ki indigenous landscaping concept is not limited to Vision and Goals trees are for birds and two are for butterflies.” In other words, enriching people’s living spaces through their functionality in the Gohon no ki project is based on a commitment to conserve terms of scenery and healing. The gardens that people love may and restore local biodiversity, and its effectiveness can be be very small, but garden trees provide space for the growth quantified from the perspective of Goal 15 of the SDGs, which is of a variety of organisms, and each garden functions as a link focused on maintaining the health of the land. in a network to regenerate urban ecosystem services. This has According to the big data biodiversity analysis by Kubota the potential to regenerate the practice of urban ecology. The Laboratory, the Gohon no ki garden tree proposal covers planting of garden trees under the Gohon 30–45% of the woody species that grow naturally in Japanese no ki project may represent one solution to prefectures. The high coverage of tree species diversity from our global environmental challenges. the planting of garden trees is noted for its effect on the Environmental regeneration and conservation of the biological communities that form the foundation of terrestrial ecosystems. It is worth noting that a cumulative total of more than 16 million trees have been Professor Yasuhiro Kubota planted since 2001 under the Gohon no ki project. According Faculty of Science to our analysis, the number of trees in Japan is estimated to University of the Ryukyus E Sustainable wood procurement as promoted under the FairWood initiative Social Global adoption of due diligence and the FairWood initiative for wood procurement In 2008, a law was enacted in the United States to eliminate illegal the world, the certification system itself is considered a visible lumber from the market. Since then, the EU and other countries tool for countering deforestation. However, in the case of S and regions have followed suit, and in the past 10 years, the idea Sekisui House, the final goal is not simply to utilize certified of supply chain management of the wood supply has been rapidly materials; the company is practicing responsible procurement gaining ground. The common denominator in this trend is the from the perspective of identifying potential risks through due exercise of due diligence. An increasing number of companies diligence and by investing in the future of the planet. Examples are practicing due diligence, which encompasses ESG factors, include branding of domestic lumber as part of the evaluation of with respect to their wood purchases in terms of (1) collecting community forest lumber that supports domestic producers; and information, (2) implementing risk assessments, and (3) practicing small-scale agroforestry that encounters high hurdles to obtaining Governance risk mitigation to identify risks of illegality. certification. Due diligence is not originally uniform. Optimizing As an expert who has been monitoring these trends for and creating original products is one of the most effective options about 15 years, the most distinctive feature of Sekisui House’s for individual companies while at the same time serving as an FairWood procurement initiative is that it positions due diligence element of differentiation from others. G as an investment in the world and in the future of the planet. By Ecologically rich natural tropical forests that regulate climate recognizing its responsibilities as a major manufacturer and its and temperature are rapidly disappearing, but the Japanese lumber influence on suppliers, and by proactively analyzing and responding industry and consumers alike still do not seem to have responded to ESG risks that are highly relevant to the company, Sekisui House by exhibiting any sense of crisis. In the future, we hope not only to clearly aims to contribute to the emergence of a sustainable society expand our efforts within the company, but also to raise awareness as a whole. Among the 10 indicators of FairWood procurement, it of the idea of investing in the future of the is only natural to comply with “legality” in addition to the need for planet through the construction industry ecological conservation, CO2 reduction at home and abroad, and and peripheral industries with the support consideration of the social welfare of local residents; consequently, of consumers and suppliers. the company has accumulated a substantial procurement record. In the exercise of due diligence, increasing the proportion of Dr. Mari Momii certified materials is often identified as one goal. As conversion Forestry Issues Consultant The Royal Institute of International Affairs of forest land to agricultural land is rapidly progressing around (Chatham House) Sekisui House Sustainability Report 2020 28 Circular Economy E Optimizing the entire lifecycle and improving resource efficiency ENVIRONMENTAL Effectivee zero Improving Imp pro oving the emissions emissi i ions quality littty of recycling qualit Main ESG Themes ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ Circular Economy Basic concept We will optimize the use of resources at production, construction and all other stages while supporting the creation of a circular economy through recycling-oriented businesses throughout the product lifecycle. Under the SDGs, Goal 12 requires that companies ensure sustainable production and consumption patterns in order to stabilize the lives of all as demand for resources and energy increases along with the growth in the global population. It is essential that companies work to optimize the entire lifecycle of their products and improve resource efficiency. The housing industry is expected to develop and popularize recycling technologies while also promoting services and support in line with social trends. The objective is to increase the value of housing stock available in society. Action policies ① Achieving zero emissions throughout the product lifecycle ▶ throughout the production, construction, and maintenance phases Continuing and expanding our 100% zero emissions initiative Effective zero emissions Activity report Expanding zero emissions in an ongoing effort to the range and accuracy of zero emissions in the field, later achieve the 100% goal obtaining certifications for new construction sites in 2005, The housing industry consumes a large amount of resources. maintenance in 2006, and renovation in 2007. In 2019, all 17 Industrialized housing systems that produce the basic members of the Sekiwa Construction Group, our subsidiary, structural skeleton in a factory have proven to be effective filed a joint application for the Wide Area Certification System, systems for increasing resource productivity when used which was approved. This was aimed at adopting zero in combination with a built-to-order production system. emissions policies for newly built wooden houses contracted Accordingly, we managed to achieve the zero emissions* by the Sekiwa Construction Group and will further strengthen standard in our plants in 2002. In 2004, we applied under the our group-wide resource recycling system to complete our Wide Area Certification System, a special case of the Waste recycling business. Disposal Law, thus becoming the first in the industry to be * Eliminating industrial waste incineration and waste sent to landfills for so certified. We fully adopted this system as we expanded disposal. Increasing the life of houses through circular business model based on in-group alliances Distribution Recycling in the Design Production Construction Use Maintenance Remodeling and Renovation Demolition lifecycle of houses Sekisui House Sekisui House Remodeling Sekisui House Real Estate Sekisui House Sekiwa Construction / SEKISUI HOUSE noie Non-Sekisui House buildings Sekisui House buildings Sekisui House buildings Sekisui House zero emissions achieved Remodeling Renovation Remodeling Renovation After-sales maintenance Recycling wastes General recycling route usage Virgin materials Parts (building materials) manufacturers, Recycled material usage materials manufacturers Newly built home Achieved construction site Refining companies, etc. (Zero emissions structure) Achieved in FY2006 Achieved in FY2005 Demolition in FY2007 Factories Paper manufacturers Factory production Recycling Centers Cement companies Achieved in FY2002 Intermediate disposal facilities Post-disposal residue Landfill disposal (partial) 29 Sekisui House Sustainability Report 2020 Action policies ② Demonstrating the merits of integration through group collaboration ▶ undertaken on vacated rental housing 100% recycling of waste from repairs Effective zero emissions Activity report Message from Management 100% recycling of waste from repairs undertaken on Sekiwa Real Estate), the brokerage managing the Sha Maison vacated rental housing rental housing we constructed, recycles waste from repairs One of the characteristics of the collection system instituted undertaken on vacated rental housing. under our Wide Area Certification System is the use of our Waste disposal flow through our recycling centers Recycling Centers. Waste generated at new construction sites Delivery of parts to construction site scattered all over the country is collected at the facilities of our Recycling Centers. The waste is sorted at construction Sorted into Manufacturing with about 60 items recycled materials in sites into 27 categories and is then re-sorted into about 60 our factories items (of a total of 80 categories) at our 21 Recycling Centers Factories Recycler nationwide. We manage the recycling of all wastes under our Sorting into 27 categories Vision and Goals control. at new construction sites Recycler In addition to our zero emissions initiative centered Recycling Center Recycler around the lifecycle of our products, we have been promoting zero emissions since the introduction of our model business in Transporting of waste the Chubu area. Moreover, Sekisui House Real Estate (formerly Collection base on return trips Action policies ③ Changing the focus of recycling systems from quantity Environmental to quality Improving the quality of recycled products ▶ 90% material recycling rate E Activity report Promoting zero emissions with a material recycling Examples of products resulting from our in-house rate of 83.1% processing of recycled materials Thanks to our zero emissions initiative, the amount of waste We collect scrap plasterboard from new house construction Social generated per building has been reduced by a substantial sites and mix it with crushed eggshells collected from food 60% since FY1999. Following the phase in which we were processing plants. This produces Platama Powder, an athletic able to significantly reduce the amount of waste generated, field marking chalk made from recycled products. S we are currently maintaining that level of waste reduction. However, with the recent global trend toward emphasizing a “circular economy,” it is becoming more important not only to reduce the amount of waste generated, but also to design the entire business around an effort to improve the quality of recycling. Governance In light of this trend, we have been improving our construction methods by incorporating feedback from reviews of our construction methods. We are doing so by utilizing the strengths of our in-house production and direct construction that is not based on the agency method. Platama Powder, an athletic field marking chalk G Moreover, by practicing thorough sorting in order to sort, that poses no risk to human health categorize, and process waste to meet the exact needs of recyclers, we are contributing to a higher quality of recycling. At the same time, we Researching recycling methods for difficult-to-process are conducting research composite materials on our attainment of an In the future, we will enter the phase of promoting the 83.1% recycling rate in recycling of composite materials, which present a challenge for FY2019 with the aim of recyclers, and the development of building materials that can reaching 90% of our zero later be recycled. In 2019, in order to promote research on this emissions goal during the difficult problem, we undertook research and development in production, construction, and collaboration with academia and in conjunction with recyclers maintenance phases. to address the recycling of composite materials. At our recycling centers, plastics alone are sorted into about 20 categories. Sekisui House Sustainability Report 2020 30 Circular Economy Action policies ④ Improving resource efficiency through active adoption of information and communications technology ▶ Introducing a 100% waste measurement system Ensuring circulation traceability through information and communications technology Activity report Ensuring effective use of resources through traceability Waste measurement system incorporating QR codes Securing traceability related to the proper disposal of ① Timely processing is assured because the waste measurement system construction waste is of the utmost importance not only to is accessed through the cloud in conjunction with the residence information database, which arranges and reduces parts and demonstrate responsibility for proper treatment and recycling specifications and centralizes residence information and member of waste, but also for promoting recycling business models information. such as streamlined construction. ② A QR code label is printed according to the scale required for construction. Recognizing this, we have been proactive in introducing ③ Requests for appropriate collection are issued from a smartphone or the information and communications technology, starting with the like according to the waste conditions at the new construction site. trial of a waste measurement system using IC tags in 2007. ④ Collection trucks are dispatched as needed while linked to a map application on the cloud. They are also closely linked to the property Moreover, in 2017 we updated our proprietary information database. Electronic Processing System for waste collection into a ⑤ Label information is read and the weight is registered. cloud-based system in order to respond flexibly to requests ⑥ Various analytical data such as an analysis of the amount of waste from each model is fed back to the business offices, development for enhancement of electronic system functions for waste departments, factories, etc. Close cooperation among departments management. We now operate a waste measurement system contributes to effective environmental initiatives. that utilizes current QR codes. This is an innovative system Branches and Recycling Centers construction sites that accurately monitors the situation at the time of disposal, 2 CLIC 6 aggregates and analyzes data from each building, and K ① Label printing monitors the total disposal amount and the disposal amount ⑩ Analysis and feedback by type of waste in real time. 1 ⑨ Recycling By feeding back the detailed data analyzed in this way for ② 27 categories (up to 80 categories) product development, material design, production processes, 3 ③ Label application and construction processes and the like, it is possible to ④ Recovery plan 4 promote the more effective use of resources. 廃棄物一時保管場所 Database ⑧ Reading and In 2019, the utilization rate of this system was 100% on Measurement a business facility basis. To collection base 5 ⑤ Registration of quantity ⑥ Collection ⑦ Unloading and transportation Action policies ⑤ Plastics Smart initiative ▶ reduction in the use of beverages packaged in PET bottles 100% recovery of plastics at construction sites and significant Plastics Smart initiative Activity report Eliminating the use of more than 370,000 plastic that the number of beverages packaged in PET bottles bottles purchased through in-house vending machines (countable We are pleased to have achieved zero emissions in our amount) was 526,485 in 2018, but only 154,212 in 2019. We business processes, and in fiscal 2019 we recovered 100% have thus achieved a reduction of more than 370,000 bottles, of the plastics used at construction sites, with 18,974 tonnes which represents a reduction of about 70%. (In some cases, recycled annually. beverages packaged in PET bottles are required to combat At the same time, in order to raise awareness of the the risk of heat stroke and other such conditions, so a 100% need to reduce single-use plastics from day-to-day use reduction is not achievable.) among employees, we have been Employees have expressed their opinions regarding this participating in the Plastics Smart campaign, such as the following: “The number of people for Sustainable Oceans Campaign who bring their own bottles and cups has increased, as promoted by Japan’s Ministry of have conversations regarding the problem of plastic waste, the Environment, which calls for which has led to greater environmental awareness among the following: employees.” ① No distribution or use of plastic bottles at internal meetings; According to the PET Bottle Recycling Promotion Council, replace with personal-use bottles or eco-friendly paper a total of 22.7 billion beverages packaged in PET bottles cups. were consumed in Japan in FY2016. Although the reduction ② E limination of beverages packaged in PET bottles from achieved by our efforts is small, we will continue to support vending machines installed in-house. the implementation of the Plastics Smart Campaign with other After one year of implementation, the verified results reveal companies and stakeholders. 31 Sekisui House Sustainability Report 2020 Eco-First Promise E ENVIRONMENTAL Eco-First Promise Sekisui House was certified as an Eco-First Company by the Japanese Minister of the Environment in June 2008 for making three promises (Eco-First Promise)—global warming prevention, ecosystem preservation and resource recycling. We have been conducting environmental activities with a view to fulfilling these promises. In 2012 and 2016, we updated our Eco-First Promise within the broad frameworks of the Message from Management three promises while incorporating changes in social environment and the progress in our initiatives to intensify our efforts. The content of the Eco-First Promise will be updated in 2020. The Eco-First Promise (updated 2016, excerpt) * Scan the QR code at right to view the full text as a PDF file. 1. Proactive reduction of CO2 emissions in the residential sector and business activities 〈Global warming prevention〉 Our promises Major progress in FY2019* 1 ●To aim for over 27% reduction in primary energy consumption in the ZEH* ratio in custom 2 Vision and Goals residential sector, including housing stock, by 2030, corresponding to Japan’s targets (39.3% reduction in CO2 compared to 2013). detached houses ●T o actively introduce energy-saving air conditioners, eco-friendly cars and LED to surpass the target values (10% reduction in CO2 emissions in 2020 in comparison to FY2010) set by the Japan Prefabricated Construction Suppliers 87% and Manufacturers Association for CO2 emissions from business activities of *1 April 1, 2019 to March 31, 2020 the group. *2 Net-zero energy housing Green First ZERO sales promotion 2. Proactive revival of ecosystem network 〈Ecosystem preservation〉 Creating a society that enables a fulﬁlling and comfortable lifestyle through use of sustainable natural capital. Environmental Our promises Major progress in FY2019 ● To actively carry out planting plans (Gohon no ki project) focused on species native to the region to promote landscaping in houses and the community Total number of and aim for planting a total of 15 million trees by 2020, which marks 20 years trees planted 16.11million since the launch of business activities based on the Gohon no ki project. ● To introduce FairWood lumber in cooperation with suppliers and NGOs with a E view to preventing illegal logging and loss of natural ecosystems and making the economies of the production areas independent. The 2020 target was achieved in fiscal 2018. The number of trees planted in fiscal 2019 Promoting the Gohon no ki was 1.09 million project 3. Proactive promotion of resource recycling activities 〈Resource recycling〉 Striving to increase the value of social assets by promoting revitalization of cities and communities and carrying out proposal-type renovation. Social Major progress in FY2019 Our promises S Material recycling rate at the ● To install a new collection system using resource recycling centers and time of production, construction accelerating zero-emission throughout the group. and after-sales maintenance ● To continue with zero-emission (zero landfill, zero waste incineration not involving heat recovery) at the time of production, construction and after-sales maintenance and aim for 90% recycling of materials. 83.1% Separating waste at a resource recycling center Governance Highlights Sekisui House Eco First Park, a site for environmental education: 4th anniversary symposium held to commemorate the opening Sekisui House Eco First Park features symbolic model facilities we have been working on throughout the history of our environmental activities G including three test houses, the Gohon no ki landscaping concept garden Living Garden, and a resource recycling center Resource Wellspring, which achieves zero emissions by separating into as many as 80 categories wastes that are first separated into 27 categories at the construction sites. This park is open to the general public and operates adjacent to the Kanto Factory in Koga, Ibaraki Prefecture. It also serves as a location for environmental education for students ranging from elementary school to university and encourages them to consider what can be done in relation to housing that will benefit the global environment. In November 2019, an environmental symposium attracting 230 participants was held in Tokyo to commemorate the 4th anniversary of the opening of the park. Masako Konishi of WWF Japan gave the keynote speech and reported that the 1.5°C climate reduction target is now the mainstream internationally. In a discussion session by the environmental and sustainability managers of three participating Eco-First companies (Toda Corporation, Lion Co., Ltd., and Sekisui House, Ltd.), it was emphasized that Scan here to all should work together to achieve the apply for a visit Sekisui House Eco First Park Kenichi Ishida, our Managing Officer, 1.5°C climate reduction target. to the facility. introduces our environmental initiatives. Sekisui House Sustainability Report 2020 32 Contributing to Health, Longevity and Wealth S A new value proposition for health, connection and learning SOCIAL HED-Net Promotion of the development Family Suite Model Main ESG Themes ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ Contributing to Health, Longevity and Wealth Basic concept Since its founding, the Sekisui House Group has focused on supplying houses of high quality that are safe, secure, and comfortable. In response to changing times, we have worked to develop construction methods that make homes highly resistant to natural disasters, with a focus on comfort and environmental considerations. Over the coming 30 years, as the era of the 100-year lifespan comes to the fore, in the quest to build “homes for happiness” we aim to apply the emerging fusion of tangible and intangible products and services to social issues. We plan to utilize technical resources developed in Japan, a country with an aging society and a long-lived population. Our aim is to bring these new services to the global marketplace to address social issues and contribute to fuller living. Action policies ① First initiative to build in-home early illness detection network for “houses that support good health” ▶ Development of HED-Net (In-Home Early Detection Network) Supporting Health and Longevity through the Platform House Concept Activity report What is The Platform House Concept? Our global vision at Sekisui House is to make the home the The Platform House Concept happiest place in the world. The Platform House Concept was developed and announced in 2019 based on this vision. The Health Connection Learning concept encompasses systems that will support the health and happiness of residents of the houses we build as we enter the era of 100-year life. Intangible assets for the 100-year life The Platform House will have a range of services installed Collecting and using data through IoT that promote health, connection, and learning—a new Resident data concept that utilizes data from residents to enable active living to and beyond the age of 100. Home Lifestyle Good health, social connection, and opportunities to environment data data learn become intangible assets for residents. Sekisui House aims to develop services that offer and promote these intangibles through business models. Evolution of the house as platform The Platform House Concept proposes the home as not only a place for settling down but as a launchpad for new departures. Vitalized by good health, a sense of connectedness, and the stimulation of learning, residents become motivated to engage in new endeavors to reach their full potential. This launchpad concept is embodied in our use of “platform.” Our first initiative is centered on health—the foundation for “houses that support good health.” This initiative involves offering services that provide medical emergency response, health monitoring over time, and preventative care. President Nakai presents the Platform House Concept at CES 2020 33 Sekisui House Sustainability Report 2020 HED-Net addresses issues in a healthy, long-lived Pilot project to begin in 2020 society To research and develop HED-Net, Sekisui House is partnering The first initiative in the Platform House Concept is the with academic institutions and other corporations with fieldworld’s first in-home early detection network, HED-Net. It specific expertise to build a broad alliance. Patents have is estimated that approximately 70,000 people in Japan die already been obtained for systems to be used in Japan, and each year in their homes from an incident that involves either international patents are pending. a stroke, heart failure, drowning, or a fall or collapse—a far Following proof-of-concept tests at the Platform House greater number of deaths than are due to traffic accidents Lab and verification tests at our testing facility, the system will Message from Management (about 3,500/year). Strokes occur in approximately 290,000 be rolled out in a resident-participation pilot project in 2020, people annually in Japan; 79% of the time they happen at soliciting 30 to 50 households to join. This pilot project will home, and about 150,000 people die at home without help. bring the technologies closer to people in real-life situations When people suffer from a heart attack, 66% of the time it with the aim of full-scale social implementation in the future. occurs at home, while over 5,000 people annually drown at home, often in the bathtub. Falling or collapsing in the home accounts for approximately 3,000 deaths annually. Traffic accident deaths have declined with the advent Furthering the concept by monitoring changes over of airbags, anti-lock braking systems, and other automobile time and in-home prevention safety features. However, little has yet to be done anywhere in Starting with HED-Net’s early detection of a medical the world to combat accidents in the home or to provide early emergency, further development will involve monitoring detection of a medical emergency. In the case of a stroke, a changes over time and in-home prevention. Vision and Goals person needs to get treatment at a hospital within four and It will be possible, for example, to detect apnea syndrome a half hours from the onset of the stroke to prevent death from data acquired on breathing while asleep. Or, sensors or long-term damage. It is clear that how quickly a person installed in the bathroom sink mirror will be able to detect is found holds the key to their treatment and recovery. We high blood pressure or other symptoms monitored over time, began research and development on the HED-Net system to thereby allowing the early discovery of illness through risk address this specific issue. detection. It then becomes possible to develop services that prevent the risk of illness—including exercise, good sleep, and diet services. Beyond health, services can be installed in the areas of social connection and learning, thereby promoting Medical condition detection through non-contact happiness in the home for the era of 100-year life. Environmental sensors eliminates residents’ stress The sensing technologies installed in the home, integrated with the HED-Net system, detect and analyze a resident’s vital data such as heart rate and respiration rate. The key feature of this system is the use of non-contact sensors, which cause E no stress to the resident. If a possible medical emergency is detected, a medical alert is sent immediately to the emergency call center. The operator then calls to confirm whether there is an emergency or not, and if so, dispatches an ambulance. When the paramedics arrive, the resident’s door can be World-first unlocked remotely and locked again afterward. In-Home Early Detection Network Social This is the first system in the world set up to cover every step from vital sign detection to paramedic rescue. It can reduce the social cost (medical/nursing care costs, etc.) from S accidents in the home by as much 1.9 trillion yen. As countries around the world, including Japan and other developed nations, face significant challenges ahead in Detection and Medical alert Safety check Calling an Remote door-lock analysis ambulance control terms of “closet caregivers” for an aging population, there will be a growing need to find ways to cope with the issue. In Japan, strokes account for 18.5% of cases where people start requiring nursing care*. Sekisui House believes that the Governance Non-contact sensors Medical alert sent to Operator calls to Operator swiftly Door is unlocked detect/analyze heart emergency call confirm emergency dispatches an remotely for rate and respiration center ambulance paramedics to enter Platform House Concept can help reduce the number of rate people who need care, as well as the number of workers who leave their positions to care for an elderly family member. * Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare, FY2013 Comprehensive Survey of DEVELOPING AN ALGORITHM G Living Conditions Data obtained with Proprietary Proprietary Identifying contact-less sensors algorithm algorithm abnormalities Judgment Heart rate criteria Abnormality that fit each identified Respiratory resident’s rate lifestyle Sekisui House Sustainability Report 2020 34 Contributing to Health, Longevity and Wealth Highlights Homes for happy living in the era of the 100-year life Exhibiting at CES 2020 The Platform House Concept, First Initiative: The world’s first in-home early illness detection At the CES 2020 site network—HED-Net presented at CES The world’s largest consumer electronics show, CES, was held from January 7 to 10, 2020 in Las Vegas, USA. Sekisui House presented HED-Net, the world’s first in-home early illness detection network, at the show. HED-Net protects people and prevents delays in Working to resolve near-future issues that the treatment world will face If you were at home alone and suffered a stroke or other acute At the press event held on January 7, 2020, President Nakai medical condition, who would find you? explained how the realization of the Platform House Concept If you ever have a stroke, heart attack or accident in your could lower social costs, including medical and nursing care costs, home, the most important thing is to be found quickly. and that such a development could be very useful in solving social At CES 2019, Sekisui House announced the Platform House problems of the near future for a super-aged society like the one Concept as a new project to provide services for promoting in Japan as a model for the world. health, connection, and learning in the home in order to bring Mr. Ishii, the Senior Manager of the Platform House people happiness in an age when they are living to the age of Promotion Department, shared his thoughts on developing 100. HED-Net is the first extension to the plan, announced a year services for residents who “are concerned primarily with living as later. they always have, which is why we insist on contactless sensors that can pick up readings and analyze data in a stress-free way without infringing on residents’ privacy.” “This is a long-term, 30-year plan. Over the next three decades we will be working to refine the concept and implementation of homes for happy living in the era of the 100-year life,” said the president. The idea of a plan to bring about happiness through the home environment drew great interest at the show. Approximately 6,600 people visited the Sekisui House booth over the four days of the show, sharing such opinions as: “I think the homeowner can be happy and feel safe and protected, which is great!” and “This may be just a future scenario, but it would be great if it could be possible right now!” Sekisui House will continue to conduct pilot tests and pursue research and innovation using advanced technologies in the effort to bring the Platform House Concept into widespread use. Sekisui House exhibition booth President Nakai presenting HED-Net Actual system demonstration An attentive audience hearing about the world-first system 35 Sekisui House Sustainability Report 2020 Action policies ② Happiness research to produce abundance ▶ Diffusion and promotion of the Family Suite model The fusion of structural technology development and happiness research Activity report Message from Management Happiness research leads to development of the Further research on houses where happiness grows Family Suite model the longer you live there The Family Suite model, brought to market in October 2018, is In August 2018, we opened the Human Life R&D Institute to the product of Sekisui House’s research into technologies and pursue the happiness research that started with research to services for happiness, developed and deployed in structural develop the Family Suite model. Sekisui House thus became areas to support happy living. The Family Suite model the first Japanese company to study happiness. In building proposes a new kind of living space that departs from the homes, it is vital to consider changes in the homeowner’s conventional “LDK” (living-dining-kitchen) concept to enable life and lifestyle over time. With a broad view of the human families to spend a rewarding time together in whatever way lifespan reaching 100 years, we refocused on the importance they choose. of building homes that take an extended timeline into full According to Sekisui House’s research survey on consideration. Vision and Goals happiness, families with parents and children highly value The Human Life R&D Institute has been pursuing research the time they spend all together in the “family hearth.” Even in a wide range of areas related to home living based on the though everyone is spending a long time together in the living theme of “houses where happiness grows the longer you room, each person is doing their own thing and relaxing in live there.” Attention is being focused on research themes their own way. When you have one large, undivided living that involve happiness, such as the intangibles of health and room space, everyone can maintain a comfortable distance familial bonds, in addition to the ongoing research themes of from one another while feeling each other’s presence. This safety, security, and comfort. The goal is to use the research creates a sense of togetherness that makes a family feel results in designing “happy houses” that promote a sense happy. It is the concept behind the Family Suite model, and a of well-being and allow its residents to experience greater key takeaway from the happiness research. happiness the longer they live in their home. Environmental In April 2019, we started offering this Family Suite model In 2019, we adopted the principles learned through the to customers irrespective of the type of construction (steel research in new offerings such as Family Suite Renovation or wood frame) or interior/exterior design variations. The work on existing houses and the Regnum Court model houses concept is to provide a broad range of choice leading to more that propose a new style of comfortable urban living. relaxed lifestyles for families by creating a spacious living room Kobayashi-sanchi is a model house in Sekisui House’s E area that includes an extended area under the eaves. The Sumai-no-Yume-Kojo Center in the Kanto region. The model design promotes happiness in the form of connecting with house includes new ideas for the use of space by families with one another, living in one’s own style, and maintaining good a baby derived from happiness research related to design for health. kids, such as a bedroom that promotes good sleep for parents Since its launch, the design concept has won accolades and child, and baby-care-friendly water areas in the home. among a great many happy homeowners who appreciate that family communication can be maintained as everyone Social naturally gravitates to the living room because it is so pleasant there. S Concept diagram for “houses where happiness grows the longer you live there” Governance Motivation Process Creating Happiness Propagating for building for building our homes that increases housing value our homes our homes the longer you live there G Large living room: about 50 m2 in a total house space of 100–135 m2 Sekisui House Sustainability Report 2020 36 Pursuing Customer Satisfaction through Our Value Chain S Maximizing customer value through the value chain SOCIAL Applying big Sharing data d with data daata suppliers supppliers Main ESG Themes ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ Pursuing Customer Satisfaction through Our Value Chain Basic concept People these days are seeking new and different types of value in a house while housing companies are similarly looking for new ways to provide optimal value to customers. Being able to see the big picture in a complex business is necessary for maximizing customer value through the value chain. The key to accomplishing this is in the industry-leading “big data” we have been able to gather through diverse channels. The analysis of such data allows us to anticipate both customer needs and shifts in social trends. Making use of the data throughout the group and sharing it with our suppliers leads to high levels of productivity and top-drawer performance, quality, and after-sales services; it also helps to build a market in which a house is a good social asset. Five action policies ❶ Creating safety, security, comfort, and health by integrating tangible (technological ❷ Meticulous material procurement supply chain management for development) and intangible elements Tangible elements refer to the top-quality products and technologies As interest in ESG investment rises, we are promoting highly sustainable we have developed over half a century that ensure safety, security procurement and other practices, and working to create long-term and comfort. We also pursue research on happiness—an intangible benefits for both our company and its suppliers, as well as strengthening element—aiming to generate new value in such areas as health, our collaborative relationships. connection, and learning. ❸ Enhancing production and distribution quality and improving operational efficiency ❹ Strengthening our workmanship and maximizing our construction capabilities We combine small lot, multi-variant, and built-to-order types of In producing high-precision structural components in our factories, we production while maintaining efficient systems, and we are increasingly rely on our strengths—our more than 8,000 construction technicians, automating our production lines and utilizing AI and IoT to supply highplus the close coordination we are able to achieve with Sekisui House precision structural components. We are also setting up an on-premises Group companies and our partner building contractors (the Sekisui logistics visualization system and working to achieve high efficiency and House Association). We are also actively engaged in maintaining and high quality in the shipment loading process. ensuring quality workmanship. ❺ Providing long-term support for customer lifestyles and maintaining and improving housing property value Customer satisfaction level 95.9% We offer asset management and maintenance optimized to individual customers. We provide repairs and equipment renewals, as well as Satisfaction has remained over 95% since FY2010. remodeling for improved comfort and convenience. In addition, we are Note: Based on answers collated from a questionnaire one year stepping up renovations that involve significant alterations and changes after moving in, counting the top 3 of 7 choices—very of purpose. satisfied/satisfied/somewhat satisfied ① Before building housing ② Until the housing is completed ③ For lasting safety, security and comfort Due to the characteristics of community-based projects, We create freely designed housing that responds to We extend the life of our housing by enriching after-sales we endeavor to ensure open communication with the customer needs by making full use of the advantages of support, aiming to maintain and increase housing value community and to understand changes in lifestyle needs industrialized housing to secure structural safety and by through remodeling and renovation. and make home building more open to society. utilizing our highly precise responsible construction system. We emphasize collaboration and The dedicated staff at our Customer Research We promote research and development Supply cooperation with our high-quality suppliers After-sales Service Centers who support our and concerning both tangible and intangible to secure the vast amount of structural customers make up 10% of all our chains support development elements that reflects valuable customer components that we use for our housing. employees. opinions and new social needs. We carry out built-to-order production We offer an initial 30-year warranty for We collect the opinions of visitors to using high-quality and highly precise Long-term structural framework and any parts used Production Model initiatives such as model homes that original structural components at our warranty to prevent rainwater leakage to ensure homes take advantage of regional factories. that our customers have a lifelong home. and tours characteristics, construction site tours We ensure the stability of our highly held in cooperation with owners, and We are intensifying our efforts to precise construction through our Remodeling create long-term, high-quality assets hands-on centers. construction systems, human resource Construction and and make effective use of resources as development and collaboration with one renovations well as responding to a wide range of of Sekisui House Group’s strongest ション customer needs. assets, the Sekisui House Association. 37 Sekisui House Sustainability Report 2020 Action policies ① Creating safety, security, comfort, and health by integrating tangible (technological development) and intangible elements Flexible ß System employed for greater design freedom ▶ Expanded choice for urban houses Activity report Message from Management Construction method to resolve urban architectural Regnum Court issues New Ideas for an urban house Since the company’s founding, Sekisui House has been creating The Regnum Court brand was released in October 2019— high-quality housing that offers safety, security, and comfort threeand four-story steel-frame detached houses for urban through the use of advanced technologies developed through settings designed using Sekisui House’s Flexible ß System. R&D initiatives addressing both tangible and intangible elements. This system eliminates the through pillars to provide greater In 2017 we developed the Flexible ß System using all of our freedom in designing the layout of each floor, the size and design and technological strengths as a new method for building position of windows, etc. A variety of wall and window design threeand four-story houses to meet a wide range of urban possibilities can provide a sense of openness while protecting architectural needs. privacy under a range of unique conditions. A bright, large Vision and Goals The Flexible ß System employs heavy-gauge steel for the living space can be created with large openings to bring light, columns and beams of a structure to greatly increase design breezes, and greenery into the interior space. The residents freedom and the ability to create spatial solutions. The system can feel nature as part of the enjoyment of their lifestyle and can now be used for detached houses, rental housing, dualpursuit of their interests. These new choices are attractive even use commercial/residential buildings, and houses designed for to people who might prefer living in a tower condominium. the elderly, as well as nursery schools, hotels, hospitals, public Our original super-insulating resin-aluminum composite sash facilities, and other non-residential buildings. (SAJ sash) provides higher performance than ordinary resinTo accompany technological development, one pursuit in aluminum composite window sash, while the entire house the area of intangibles is our happiness research. We conduct itself is highly insulated and compliant with Japan’s Net Zero research on topics related to the feeling of being fortunate, Energy House (ZEH) standards. Environmental including good health and connection to family. Sekisui House Backing the emergence of Regnum Court is Sekisui has established unique strengths through this integration of House’s happiness research. The concepts used in Regnum tangible technologies and intangible feelings. (which means “kingdom” in Latin) grew out of this research as One result of such endeavors has been new ideas for a ideas for an affluent population and people who take special non-housing business area of Sekisui House—building nursery care in designing their living environment. The completion E schools. In areas with growing demand and not enough facilities, of a well-designed house on a land site that offers one-of-awe built nursery schools, four of which won the Kids Design kind views in which you have family connection and can enjoy Award from a METI-affiliated NPO. We have been able to apply getting together with friends—that kind of place we see as a our expertise in building houses to childcare facilities, thereby kingdom, which is the basis upon which Regnum Court was supporting children’s developed. healthy upbringing and facilitating the working Social lives of childcare S workers, parents, and guardians. In addition, the openexterior designs help to integrate the nursery schools into their communities. Governance Exterior of Nursery Room Berry Bear Fukagawafuyuki in Koto-ku, Tokyo G Regnum Court’s large living area integrates interior and exterior for a restful, open feeling Inside same nursery school (2018 Kids Design Award) Excellence Award Light pours in, while an atrium protected by an outer wall plus terraces (Minister of State for Measures for Declining Birthrate Award) connect the large living space to the outdoors Sekisui House Sustainability Report 2020 38 Pursuing Customer Satisfaction through Our Value Chain Action policies ② Meticulous supply chain management for material procurement New form of CSR evaluation ▶ From CSR procurement ahead to SDG-based procurement Activity report From reviewing CSR evaluations to SDG-based Monitoring and due diligence to verify evaluations (sustainable) procurement We conduct monitoring of suppliers flagged by the results To encourage our suppliers in their socially responsible of the CSR evaluation through on-site interviews (to provide efforts, we carried out CSR evaluations using a check-sheet advice on evaluation standards and how to meet the method in FY2017 and FY2018. In FY2018 we established standards). In FY2019 we conducted such on-site interviews CSR Procurement Guidelines and required suppliers to submit for three suppliers. a consent form to ensure that they agreed with the intent Another area of increasing importance to us is related to of the guidelines in an effort to reappraise and establish our climate change—reducing CO2 emissions in the production sustainable procurement strategy going forward. processes within the supply chain. We are therefore using Following our signing of the United Nations Global the SAQ and other tools in a steady effort to achieve those Compact in 2018, Sekisui House joined the Supply Chain reductions. Working Group of the Global Compact Network Japan Additionally, as a construction company that uses a (GCNJ). In FY2019, we switched from using an in-house CSR high volume of lumber, we recognize the particular need for assessment check sheet to carrying out evaluations based on rigorous participation in the procurement of large trees where the standards set forth in the more comprehensive GCNJ Selfinfringement risks are high, so we conduct due diligence Assessment Questionnaire (GCNJ SAQ*). The questionnaire targeting approximately 50 companies that are major wood has nine categories of procurement standards with items material suppliers. As necessary, we also conduct on-site not covered by the previously used check sheet, including inspections of logging areas at overseas producers upstream corporate governance and supply chain questions. from our suppliers. (For further information, see page 26.) In February 2020, we reorganized the former Materials Department into the Procurement Department, and significantly changed the organizational structure involved in How supplier evaluation works production and procurement. Through such actions, we are making the shift from procurement methods of the past to an active participation in CSR the supply chain (SDG-based procurement) to work toward evaluation Verify building a sustainable society. Reevaluate evaluation * SAQ: The Self-Assessment Questionnaire is a self-diagnosis tool that a company uses for analyzing its actions. Supplier Monitoring / GCNJ SAQ themes and topics (from CSR Procurement Guidelines) Due diligence subcommittee Theme Topic on wood Compliance with laws and regulations; Establishment of a CSR Extend/Promote Corporate promotion system; Establishment of internal controls; Establishment 1 of a business continuity planning (BCP) system; Establishment of a governance whistle-blower system; Dispatch of CSR-related information inside and outside the company Basic attitude; Respect for human rights and prohibition of 2 Human rights discrimination; Avoidance of complicity in (or contribution to) human CSR supplier subcommittee seminars held to extend rights abuses; Respect for indigenous peoples and local communities and promote SDG procurement Basic attitude; Prohibition of discrimination in the workplace; Provision of equal opportunities to employees regarding human In the construction industry, which has so many small and resources development; Prohibition of inhumane treatment; Payment 3 Labor of fair wages; Fair application of working hours; Prohibition of forced medium-sized suppliers, we realize that building a sustainable labor; Prohibition of child labor; Respect for the religious traditions and customs of the country of operation; Recognition of and respect supply chain involves more than simply a one-way evaluation for freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining; of adherence to guidelines. It is indispensable to educate Proper management of employee safety and health Basic attitude; Management of chemical substances; Control and suppliers and provide advice. reduction of waste water, sludge and air emissions; Sustainable and For that purpose, in 2018 we set up a CSR supplier efficient utilization of resources (energy, water, raw materials, etc.); 4 Environment Reduction of GHG (greenhouse gases); Identification, management, subcommittee under the CSR committee to conduct training reduction, and responsible disposal or recycling of waste; Initiatives on the importance of ESG related to biodiversity Basic attitude; Establishment of appropriate relationships with management and related governments and public officials in countries where business activities matters. We obtain the are conducted; Prevention of the giving and receiving of improper advantages with customers and trade partners; Prevention of agreement of suppliers to Fair business competition law violations; Rejection of relationships with antisocial 5 practices forces/organizations; Prevention of unauthorized use of intellectual ensure the effectiveness of property and of illegal reproduction of copyrighted works; Services the SAQ in supporting a for responding to complaints from outside the company and for consultations; Prohibition of insider trading; Prohibition of acts with sustainable supply chain. In conflicting interests; Import and export control FY2019 training seminars Quality and Basic attitude; Ensuring product and service quality and safety; 6 safety Appropriate response to product and service accidents and the were expanded to the circulation of defective goods partner companies of Information Basic attitude; Defense against attacks on computer networks; 7 security Protection of personal data and privacy; Prevention of misuse of our factories in addition Supplier subcommittee seminar held to confidential information to approximately 150 promote understanding of CSR efforts Basic attitude; Use of raw materials not involved in conflict or crime 8 Supply chain (initiatives against conflict minerals) suppliers. and SDG procurement Local Initiatives to reduce negative effects on local communities; Initiatives 9 communities with local communities toward sustainable development 39 Sekisui House Sustainability Report 2020 Action policies ③ Enhancing production and distribution quality and improving operational efficiency Utilizing AI, IoT and big data ▶ Improved production efficiency and reformed workstyles Activity report Message from Management Semi-automating combined processes to boost Boosting production efficiency with AI technology production efficiency On the production line of our Bellburn ceramic exterior wall Sekisui House commits resources to making labor-saving panels we introduced a quality management system that improvements to our facilities in order to boost productivity employs image-processing-specific AI technology. The system while maintaining high quality. We had already improved the enables the management of conforming output in real time, processes that combine multiple building components at the which has resulted in higher production efficiency, better quality factory in advance to improve work efficiency at construction management, and reduced inventory. sites, but in 2019 we began looking into building semiWe have also introduced a smart system that makes automated lines. We are making significant improvements to excellent use of IoT, big data, and AI in the steel beam labor-intensive processes such as combining wall frameworks production lines of our ß System, a construction method for Vision and Goals with exterior walls and window sashes, for example, or threeto four-story steel-frame houses. This smart system makes attaching metal fittings to columns and beams to build a it possible to automate adjustments to our production volume wood-frame house. and work scheduling that previously required the expertise of We continue to automate all of our Japan-based factories supervisors. The system has also increased operational efficiency and have already introduced a total of 540 robots to perform and contributed to power savings. handling, welding, and other functions. We are also rolling out smart systems that take advantage of AI, IoT, and big data. We plan to utilize the data obtained from these facility improvements to further expand our semi-automated lines. Environmental In-factory logistics visualization system improved by sharing component flow information At our Shizuoka Factory we built the “Jobca” logistics visualization system, which has improved efficiency, quality, and response timeliness of loading work from manufacturing E to shipping. Prior to implementation of the system, paper was used to confirm information—numbers of components manufactured at the factory and components supplied to the AI-based quality management system for Bellburn earthenware factory, or compiled data on delivered product by type. The wall panels introduction of a more streamlined system that employs PCs, iPads, and 2D barcodes that leverage IoT tech has greatly lightened the load for workers and reduced losses, while Strengthened production of original exterior-wall Social enabling high-efficiency, high-quality loading work. components S In addition, the utilization of cumulative data has sped Dyne Concrete, a component of our highest quality lightweight up the Plan-Do-Check-Act cycle, which has contributed to steel-frame “IS Series” two-story housing product and the significant reductions in truck waiting times at factories. As Bellburn ceramic exterior walls on our SHAWOOD wooda result, a number of improvements were made—about 170 frame detached homes are original exterior-wall components person-hours per month cut, the number of trucks waiting produced by Sekisui House. These components are unique in over two hours at a factory cut to zero, 90% of errors in that they are beautifully designed as well as water resistant, loading eliminated, more jobs standardized to allow anyone weather resistant, and highly durable. We are planning to Governance to do them, and overtime hours reduced. The system is now incorporate AI and other cutting-edge technologies, automate starting to be implemented in other factories. the production line, and strengthen system development to further boost manufacturing yield and improve quality. Before Jobca: information shared on ledgers After Jobca: paperless G Isolated ß beams Isolated Manufacturing Frames ß beams columns Frames columns Improving the work environment at production factories Ledger Shipment We carry out essential health and safety management at each copying management cards Logistics Jobca Logistics 2–3 times per day 100 per day center database center of our factories in an effort to prevent accidents or health problems that might occur during work operations. We FAX work to assure the safety and health of our employees, and Loading endeavor to create a comfortable work environment, facilitate smooth work, and improve productivity. Health and Safety Committee meetings are held once a month, along with Improvement of component flow information sharing through Jobca quarterly Production Department Health and Safety Promotion Council meetings, at all factories, to share information regarding the current condition of each factory, specific areas for improvement, and our vision for the future. Sekisui House Sustainability Report 2020 40 Pursuing Customer Satisfaction through Our Value Chain Action policies ④ Strengthening our workmanship and maximizing our construction capabilities ▶ resources, systems, and people Improving on-site productivity through physical Diverse strengths as a group Activity report Cooperation with the Sekisui House Association The Sekisui House Association, made up of the 17 Sekiwa Construction companies and partner building contractors, cooperates with Sekisui House business offices to pursue a range of initiatives including efforts to improve construction quality, implement safety measures, beautify work sites, foster human resources, and improve work environments. In 2019 Japan was hit by several natural disasters, including torrential rains in northern Kyushu in August, ß Thermal Insulation Material Search App, AS Balcony, a “physical resources” Typhoon Faxai (No. 15) in September, Typhoon Hagibis a “systems and people” solution solution (No. 19) in October, and subsequent heavy rainfall events. After such natural disasters, we are able to take advantage of our Japan-wide network to assist with restoration and Technical training center opened in Hanoi to prepare reconstruction work by having local Sekisui House Association for hiring skilled workers from Vietnam branches send large numbers of technicians to the disasterIn preparation for an anticipated shortage of labor in stricken area as needed. We are responding to the increasing construction, at Sekisui House we are promoting measures demand for construction by working to ensure ongoing, that include rebuilding our construction worker database and reliable workmanship and using our group network to the getting recruitment support from partner building contractors. fullest. Also, to further ensure our construction capabilities, we have begun a full-scale effort to take on technical trainees from Vietnam based on a policy of promoting diversity. In Working to improve work site productivity November 2019 we became the first housing manufacturer One in three construction industry workers in Japan is 55 in Japan to establish a technical training center in another years of age or older, and ages are rising overall. The total country with our facility in Hanoi. Explanatory meetings for number of construction workers is on the decline, and how families, training fees, and other expenses are all covered by to get and train new workers, and how to improve retention Sekisui House and a supportive atmosphere is created so that rates are key issues for the industry as a whole. technical trainees can come to Japan without any concerns. The same decline is happening within the Sekisui Prior to coming to Japan, the trainees learn Sekisui House’s House Group, so we are working to ensure ongoing, construction methods (foundation, exterior frame, interior reliable construction management by strengthening both finishing) and the company’s philosophy so that they can start our technologies and our alliances with partner building training when they arrive in Japan without any problems. contractors, while also taking steps to make the most of our We also provide active support to Sekiwa Construction existing construction capabilities. We have launched two sets and our partner building contractors who take on the trainees. of working groups—one to focus on solutions employing By 2022 we plan to employ close to 300 Vietnamese workers. physical resources and the other to focus on solutions involving systems and people—to improve productivity and reduce person-hours. We have organized a Technical Directors’ Council, Construction Management Committee, and Work Site Productivity Improvement Working Group, consisting of technical deputy directors representing locations around the country, the head office, and factories. These bodies are identifying and exploring areas for productivity improvement, such as the AS Balcony, which leads to labor savings in construction by employing an integrated aluminum floor for waterproof construction, and the “ß Thermal Insulation Material Search App” that speeds up searches for Technical training center in Hanoi, Vietnam (exterior) construction materials using an iPad. In August 2019 we established the House Association– Sekiwa Construction Factory and Construction Committee to discuss, review, and provide feedback in response to construction site improvement requests submitted by the Sekisui House Association and Sekiwa Construction. Our slogan for these work site productivity improvement efforts is: “Let’s work as a team to steadily increase the number of houses that can be built annually.” These efforts, which pool the resources of the entire company, are leading to reliable and proper construction of houses for our customers. Exterior frame building exercise in Hanoi, Vietnam 41 Sekisui House Sustainability Report 2020 Action policies ⑤ Providing long-term support for customer lifestyles and maintaining and improving housing property value ▶ building a market for quality housing stock Support and renovation based Ensuring customer satisfaction and on advanced technologies Activity report Message from Management Enhancing our initial 30-year warranty program, U-trus advantage of our unique U-trus System to extend warranties System, and housing history information database Ie-Log in 10-year intervals. Sekisui House offers an initial 30-year warranty program We also operate Ie-Log, a database that shares digital (for contracts signed starting April 1, 2018) that covers the information concerning the various building components structural framework and any parts used to prevent rainwater of each property and other data. This is based on the Longleakage. This program provides 20 years of warranty on Life Quality Housing Certification Program in Japan, which top of the 10-year defect liability period required under the aims to build up a stock of high-quality housing that can be Housing Quality Assurance Act. In addition, all other parts used in the long term. Group companies utilize the historical are under warranty for a specified period of time. Even after data accumulated through Ie-Log to propose remodeling and the warranty period has expired, homeowners can take renovations. Vision and Goals Highlights Promoting SumStock together as a group SumStock is a new circulation system aimed at invigorating the market for high-quality Renovation upon existing housing stock. It is run by the Provision of Quality Housing Stock Association, moving in Sekisui House a general incorporated association comprised of 10 major housing manufacturers owners Consultation including Sekisui House, and is chaired by Sekisui’s current chairman, Toshinori Abe. to sell house Periodic SumStock The circulation system is an integrated system for its members that covers all steps inspections Appraisals/Mediation Regular checks from value appraisal to certification through to resale. The Sekisui House Group is also using Ie-Log, our proprietary housing history database to actively promote SumStock Customer Service Centers Sekisui House Real Sekisui House Environmental proposals. Our Customer Service Centers and group Sales Estate companies Remodeling companies information companies work together to further expand the number of houses in the SumStock system. E Smart Inspection system allows remote appraisals Family Suite Renovation During periodic inspections, high-resolution images are New living proposals for existing houses supplied by a drone, underfloor inspection robot, and attic Our Family Suite concept for newly built houses proposed a inspection robotic camera. The images are uploaded to the new mode of living. Family Suite Renovation is a system begun cloud and dedicated staff on standby at our office support in September 2019 that is adapted for existing houses. Many desk can quickly determine if any defects exist. This new of the existing houses we have built use a lightweight steel type of inspection system for detached homes that we have frame. Our newly developed RF Support Beam System allows Social dubbed “Smart Inspection,” went online in August 2019. It structural columns S will be rolled out at 29 Customer Service Centers across the to be removed to country one by one. renovate a house by The equipment can easily be controlled remotely by converting compactly smartphone or tablet from any location. Because an inspector partitioned areas into does not have to climb to a dangerous height or crawl under a large living room floors, the system improves the work environment for our space. In so doing, employees. This means that inspection work can be done by the asset value of the Governance women or seniors, expanding work opportunities in a way house is maintained that will help mitigate the construction industry problem of and improved. labor shortages and an aging workforce. RF Support Beam structure illustration G Life Step System gives back to customers With the aim of extending the longevity of a house by providing extended after-sales support, we have been able to increase our contact with a large number of owners, and this leads to the building of a solid client base. Including renovation work done since February 2019, for Semi-automatically controlled drone every interaction with the Sekisui House Group, a homeowner earns a number of “steps” and is issued “Life Step System tickets” that can be used, when a certain number are accumulated, for renovation discounts or in other ways. Conducting an inspection using a robotic camera designed for attic inspection Underfloor inspection robot Sekisui House Sustainability Report 2020 42 Promoting Diversity S Enabling abilities and diverse workstyles SOCIAL Promoting women’s Work–Life Worrk–Life participation Balance Balance Main ESG Themes ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ Promoting Diversity Basic concept Sekisui House embraces diversity in the workplace and aims to establish a work environment that enables everyone to reach their full potential. Efforts toward this end began in 2006 with a basic personnel policy that guides the company toward human resource sustainability, consisting of three pillars: promoting the participation of women; utilizing diverse personnel; and promoting diverse workstyles and work-life balance. We are constantly working to put in place mechanisms that help create an environment in which employees and the company can work together to achieve sustainable growth. Action policies ① Building a system that encourages women’s participation in a broad range of areas ▶ FY2022: 260 women in managerial positions Management training and career development support Activity report Implementing consistent measures to specifically position. The program is currently in its sixth term, and already promote women’s participation 51 of the female graduates have been promoted to managerial At Sekisui House, women started to be actively employed in sales positions. The result has been a significant increase in women positions in 2005. Today, we have 310 women in sales positions in managerial positions (section manager or higher)—to 206 in nationwide. We also have a specific policy of training young FY2019 from 15 in FY2006. This means that the targets set for women and helping them to get established and promoting FY2020 based on the Act on Promotion of Women’s Participation women to branch manager positions. This is carried out through and Advancement in the Workplace were reached a year ahead of regular training sessions for women and working group seminars. schedule. In addition to three female officers (one outside director, Since 2007 we have been holding an annual nationwide Women’s one outside auditor, and one executive officer) Sekisui House has Sales Representative Conference that provides motivation, helps brought a more diverse perspective to management by promoting build skills, and provides an excellent opportunity for networking. more women to senior manager positions. A Women’s Sales Support Committee, comprised of women with a strong sales record who are capable of leading a younger generation of women, works with the heads of training at sales administration headquarters to hold regular workshops in each area. The committee has also designed a one-to-one mentoring system that gives women a chance to consult with another woman to get advice on any matters that may trouble them. The system was implemented in August 2019. For women in technical positions, not only training specialists, Women’s Sales Representative we offer role models and networking opportunities through Conference meetings like the Conference for Women as Technical Personnel. Systematic efforts are also being made to encourage more women to move into on-site supervisor positions. The Female On-site Winner of METI’s New Diversity Management Supervisor Support Program and the Working During Pregnancy Selection 100 for Guide are among several efforts being rolled out to create an enterprises environment that is easy for women to work in. These include the designing of hand tools especially for women and maternity Selected as a Nadeshiko Brand by METI and the uniforms for engineering employees. TSE as an outstanding Sekisui House Women’s College is a program to develop TSE-listed enterprise female leaders that was established in 2014. Its aim is to train that encourages promising female management candidates. Every year, 20 women women’s success in the workplace are selected to study in the two-year program, which offers women Maternity uniforms for systematic and effective preparation for taking on a managerial engineering employees 43 Sekisui House Sustainability Report 2020 Diversity Month written by top management* on our internal website, the Since 2016, every June has been designated “Diversity president wrote about the importance of discussing diversity Month,” during which active discussions are held at and the expectations he has for innovation arising from that workplaces to promote a deeper understanding of diversity effort, thereby raising awareness among employees even and inclusion. In 2019, discussions were held on “surface-level further. (visible) diversity” and “depth-level (invisible) diversity,” and * A tool for communication between top management and employees that each employee was encouraged to identify and state a small is written by four representative directors to share their thoughts and action they could begin to take that day. Also, on the blog business philosophy. Message from Management Highlights I have developed an interior proposal system and used my expertise and connections to train young coordinators Since joining the company, I have been involved in developing and revising the Sekisui House Interior Coordination System (SHIC), which assists interior coordinators in making high-level proposals that exceed certain standards regardless of their skill or experience level. I have also been involved in work system revisions and workstyle reforms that affect our 400-plus interior coordinators nationwide. At the same time, I have tried to create opportunities for interior coordinators to get training and to network with one another, which helps to improve their skills and build motivation. I am grateful to the many people who have lent me their support, both inside and outside the company, Kazumi Maehara and I consider the experience I have gained and connections I have developed as an interior coordinator—a job Senior Manager Planning & Design Department so closely linked to lifestyles—to be truly valuable assets. Interior Promotion Group Vision and Goals Looking ahead, I want to focus on training specialists and creating proposals worthy of our vision of Joined the company in 1990. Ms. Maehara “making home the happiest place in the world.” I want to include the perspective of business being done supervises the interior design of exhibition outside of Japan and wish to encourage the active participation of a diverse range of people in this work.” halls and develops training systems for interior coordinators. She is also involved in international business operations and has been in her current position since 2017. Action policies ② Utilizing diverse personnel and allowing everyone to reach their full potential Environmental ▶ Becoming an industry leader on LGBT efforts Encouraging understanding of sexual minorities Promoting the participation of employees with disabilities ▶ Newly established Promotion of Employment of Persons with Disabilities Office E Activity report Education and policy-setting begin on gender and and continue to put in place measures that allow members of the sexual diversity LGBT community to work with greater peace of mind. Sekisui House strives to create a corporate culture that encourages all employees to accept one another no matter their orientation Social so that everyone may reach their full potential and we may build a S society in which everyone can feel secure and free to work in their Sekisui House has own way. Our Corporate Ethics Guidelines state that we must not participated every year since engage in any form of unreasonable discrimination based on sexual 2017 in Japan’s biggest orientation or gender identity. LGBT event, Tokyo Rainbow In September 2019 a new system was established for Pride. We host a booth and join in the parade, declaring registering one’s partner in a common law or same-sex marriage to society our corporate under company rules as part of our employee welfare system. The Governance stance as an ally (supporter) system went into effect in November last year, and a consultation for the LGBT community. desk to assist employees with questions. In 2014, long before this system was established, we had been conducting human relations training and participating in Enabling employees with disabilities to take on G outside events to develop and promote understanding of LGBT greater roles at work issues. In 2019 we created and distributed As a company, we strive to live up to the ideal of providing lifelong a pamphlet on how to approach gender housing. Our aim is to employ at least one person with a disability at and sexual diversity in order to promote every worksite, and we consider the hiring of people with disabilities to awareness and acceptance among our be a social mission. employees. We also became the first We hold events that give employees with disabilities the chance to housing manufacturer to be awarded a exchange ideas with their superiors; we have also established the Career gold rating—the highest ranking—for Challenge System—a framework that makes it easier for employees two years in a row, 2018 and 2019, on with disabilities to transition from regional positions to career-track the PRIDE Index, created by work with positions with the potential for promotions. In these and other ways Pride, a Japan-based organization, which we are proactively working to improve the workplace environment and evaluates and ranks corporate efforts to enable employees with disabilities to take on greater roles. support inclusiveness for LGBT employees A pamphlet distributed to all In February 2020, we set up the Promotion of Employment and other sexual minorities. In such ways employees to encourage reflection of Persons with Disabilities Office, a new section in the Personnel we have set a clear course as a company on gender and sexual diversity Department. Sekisui House Sustainability Report 2020 44 Workstyle Reforms S Smart work and health-building assisted by IT SOCIAL Male childcare Health leave management Main ESG Themes ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ Workstyle Reforms Basic concept Workstyle reforms to stimulate innovation are essential for a company to grow sustainably in times of diversifying life values. Such reforms include reassessing work-life balance in an era of 100-year lifespans and efforts to secure a proper workforce when the population is aging and in decline due to dropping birth rates. Based on the key phrase “innovation & communication,” we are taking steps to promote good health management and create a workplace environment that allows every employee to work with peace of mind and reach their full potential. We have also created a support system that allows individuals to work while taking care of a child or an elderly person, or getting treatment themselves for a medical condition. These are workstyle reforms that go beyond past efforts to stimulate innovation. Action policies ① Paid childcare leave for men (“Ikumen Leave”) to create a new norm for society ▶ 100% of eligible male employees take a month or more of childcare leave Start of Ikumen Leave system Activity report All eligible male employees take parental leave for at We will continue to gather feedback from employees who least one month take Ikumen Leave and study how men’s sharing of childcare and As a company that promotes Kids-First initiatives, in September household duties encourages women in their career development 2018 Sekisui House launched a special childcare-leave program and impacts workstyle reform efforts. When the results are in to encourage male employees with a child or children under the and analyses completed, we plan to make the results public to age of three to take at least one month off work to focus on encourage widespread application in society at large. childcare (dubbed “Ikumen Leave”). For both male and female employees, leave is paid for the first month, which can be divided into as many as four stretches of time to adapt as needed to one’s individual circumstances. Since the program went into effect, the company has made a concerted effort to encourage all eligible male employees to take advantage of the system. In the year from February 1, 2019 to January 31, 2020, a total of 415 male employees with a child or children under the age of three took advantage of the paid leave system—100% of the eligible individuals. As Japan’s rate of male parental leave stays flat, Sekisui House not only has a policy of male parental leave, but educates through forums and encourages the full use of the system This Family Meeting Sheet can be downloaded from our website through tools and various incentives. We make available on our website a “family meeting sheet” that facilitates a dialogue between partners on such issues as determining when to take the leave and what tasks each person will take care of in the home during the period of leave. Ikumen Forum 2019 was held on September 19 to discuss how the promotion of male parental leave can help build a better society. Sekisui House then designated this day of the calendar, “Think About Childcare Leave Day.” We conducted a nationwide survey on childcare leave and released the results as the Ikumen White Paper 2019 (based on data from 9,400 fathers Logo for and mothers in their 20s to 50s across 47 prefectures). The Ikumen White Paper 2019 “Think About Childcare Leave Day” 45 Sekisui House Sustainability Report 2020 Highlights Dialogue between the ambassador of Sweden, world-leading country in male parental leave, and Sekisui House President The idea for the Ikumen Leave system originated four months before the system was put into place when President Nakai visited Sweden for matters related to investor relations. Walking in the parks and on the streets there, he was astonished to find that most baby strollers were being pushed by men. President Nakai related the story to the Swedish Embassy, and this led to a dialogue on the topic in January 2020 with Swedish Ambassador to Japan Pereric Högberg. The two sat down to discuss the encouragement of male employees to take childcare leave and workstyles that promoted happiness. Ambassador Högberg spoke about how the Swedish government had spent 60 years working to Message from Management change the culture in Sweden to prepare for the current parental leave system, and that the system succeeded because it is built on the premise of the entire family living a happy and enjoyable life. Japan has a male childcare leave-taking ratio of less than 10%, which is very low, and many obstacles still remain in trying to raise that number, but the Sekisui House Group will continue to promote Ikumen Leave to encourage male childcare leave to become the new norm for Japanese society. Swedish Ambassador Högberg and President Nakai Action policies ② Becoming a company at which all employees can work and lead vibrant lives ▶ Opportunities provided for improving mental and physical health Support for better health Vision and Goals and medical treatment Activity report Promoting health management now offers an original app, Sekisui House FIT, to record one’s To become the world’s happiest company, our employees must steps as a way to become more aware of daily exercise and to all be able to lead healthy, vibrant, and fulfilling lives both on the have fun competing with other employees and departments. The job and at home. Understanding that good health management participation rate in the Walking Challenge among employees will contribute to the growth and sustainability increased from an initial 52% of employees Environmental of the company, we have established health management policies to 73% in January 2020, and the average and are working to reduce overtime hours, encourage more number of steps taken by participants has employees to take paid leave, and promote better employee increased by about 400 steps. A survey of health overall. Sound physical health and mental health are participants revealed that 60% feel that both vital to active, effective work. Aiming to deepen awareness they have “become more aware of staying of health on those two fronts, especially the mental side, we healthy than before” and 44% feel that E conduct training programs for managers and employees in their their “communication with others at the second and third years. We also organize regular meetings of the company has increased.” Such results will An original app to CSR Committee, which includes four representative directors, lead to greater health awareness and a more record steps other internal representatives, and two experts from outside the engaged workplace atmosphere. company. Under the CSR Committee is the Social Improvement Committee, a group that focuses on the health management component, taking measures to encourage exercise, utilizing AI-assisted health risk analysis and genetic testing Social health checkup results for improving lifestyle habits, and service launched S establishing separate areas for smoking while discouraging In February 2020 we introduced AI technology to analyze and people from smoking, for example. In fiscal 2020, based on the predict health risks from health checkup results. Laboratory company’s efforts to address local health issues and promote data was extrapolated three years ahead for each employee, the health initiatives of the Nippon Kenko Kaigi (Japan Health and simulations are used to show how changes in a person’s Council), we have been certified as a “White 500” corporation by lifestyle habits could affect their health indicator readings. Also, the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, commended for our a service for periodic genetic testing was launched with voluntary good health management practices. We plan to continue building participation to ascertain one’s risk level for a number of diseases Governance good mental and physical health through progressive action to associated with lifestyle habits, aimed at improving those habits foster a happy approach to life in the era of 100-year life. and avoiding illness. The Sekisui House Group’s “happiness” health management G Health management policy Support system for living with cancer or infertility The fundamental philosophy at the treatments while working ① Management philosophy/policies heart of the Sekisui House Group is In 2019, Sekisui House introduced a support system that makes a “love of humanity.” In addition to cultivating systems and workplace it possible to work while managing an illness or while getting ② Organizational structure climates that help employees ﬁnd outpatient treatments for a medical condition. For employees fuller happiness through physical undergoing treatment for cancer or infertility, we have instituted ③ System / measure ④ Evaluation / and mental health, we embrace that core ideal by promoting workstyle implementation improvement a system that allows for shorter working hours, staggered hours, reforms and strive to be a company or working from home to allow the employee to work and get where employees take the initiative ⑤ Legal compliance / risk management treatment at the same time. The system now allows employees in forming healthy lifestyles. to take accrued annual leave in half-day units, previously only allowed for a minimum of three consecutive days off. It is also Start of a Walking Challenge possible to choose to take three days off per week (with work In February 2019 we began a Walking Challenge, an initiative days and hours dependent on the diagnosis of the attending aimed at promoting health through lots of walking. The company physician). Sekisui House Sustainability Report 2020 46 Human Resource Development S Innovation & Communication SOCIAL Fostering independent thinking Main ESG Themes ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ Human Resource Development Basic concept At the Sekisui House Group, we put significant energy into optimizing our personnel systems and helping employees to develop their skills. Our focus is on fostering independent thinking—we want employees who are able to innovate and communicate. Our in-house educational systems are designed uniquely for both management and player ranks, and we conduct training systematically to enable all employees to reach their full potential and help us fulfill our role a sustainable company that contributes to society. Action policies ① Promoting reforms through a Human Resources Development Office ▶ Working to implement management strategy Fostering the next generation of business leaders Activity report Systematically discovering, handpicking and fostering management employs a business strategy. the best talent Of the many issues it addresses, a central focus of Our new Human Resources Development Office, which was the Human Resources Development Office is to establish a established within the Personnel Department on February pipeline for individuals with a talent for business, training 1, 2019, systematically trains and selects personnel for them systematically to take on roles as the next generation of advancement, creating mediumand long-term HR portfolios business leaders. to implement the group’s management strategies. The office Following after the launch of Sekisui House Management was established with the mission of developing human Training in 2018, we launched the SHINE! Challenge Program resources strategically from an HR perspective with a clear in 2019 to help train young leaders. view toward the future, in much the same way as top Personnel training and leadership selection structure HR pipeline for training the next generation of business leaders Executives Implement MBO* Oriented to innovation Executive officer To contribute to the company by providing new Selection and training General manager value to customers, using a systematic approach that Assessment General manager gives rise to organizational innovation candidate Managers/leaders Selection and training Branch manager Factory manager/Head office Creative with change senior manager Branch manager/ The ability to initiate change Sekisui House Factory manager to be an industry leader Management Training Head office senior * Management By Objectives rather than needing to catch manager candidate up to change Management level Next-generation branch manager or managerial candidate selection/training Sekisui House Management Training Responsive to change Managerial promotion assessment The ability to respond to Regular employees change with problem-solving Training Expand scope of responsibility / develop new business, etc. skills and new ideas as the business climate undergoes SHINE! Challenge Program Young talent change (Under the age of 35) Discover and foster candidates to SHINE! Challenge Program be business leaders Sekisui House Innovators and Entrepreneurs Challenge Program 47 Sekisui House Sustainability Report 2020 Action policies ② Discover talent with high potential early and train them Selective training at each level ▶ For branch manager candidates and young employees Activity report Message from Management First Sekisui House Management Training completed the chance to learn what it takes to be a business leader. The Personnel Department (and Human Resources The program has invited young people who have started up Development Office) are systematically training future leaders venture businesses in the Tohoku region as part of earthquake at each level—candidates for the positions of general manager and tsunami recovery efforts to speak about their work and and executive officer, candidates for branch managers, and designers working in a global setting to discuss the future of young leader candidates. housing. The Sekisui House Management Training held in We plan to expand the program to cover additional November 2018 had 35 participants. The program’s objective employee levels in the effort to establish a company-wide is to train and select candidates to become the next generation pipeline for business talent. of branch managers in the Sekisui House Group. Through this training, participants have remarked that their connections at Vision and Goals the company had expanded and they had become able to see issues now from a management perspective. The first training session will end in June 2020 and a second session will start thereafter. The Sekisui House Management Training program emphasizes learning how to expand one’s conceptual thinking and boundaries as a human being. Participants get a broader education in liberal arts (including medicine and philosophy), plus exposure to new fields of knowledge such as innovation and digital transformation (DX). They learn Environmental financial accounting, engage in concept work, and expand their knowledge in many areas, all of which eventually plays a part in branch management strategy. First implementation of the SHINE! Challenge Program E Introducing “microlearning” to train young people in detached home sales At the Sekisui House player level, training for young people in the area of sales of detached homes previously lasted three months. Now, with the implementation of microlearning (video-based study using any device), the training program Social has been extended to three years and we have just entered S the second year. This system allows each employee to watch videos at a time and place of their choosing, and to report back to their superiors on what they learned as part of a feedback process. Much less time is spent gathered together for training than previously, and we hope that this promotes Lecture on behavioral economics in the first Sekisui House Management more efficient learning. Training Governance Activating senior personnel Start of the SHINE! Challenge Program We are carrying out recurrent (continuing) education as part SHINE stands for “Sekisui House Innovators and of the company’s efforts to further train and utilize personnel Entrepreneurs.” This program, begun in October 2019, is G of a higher age. We started providing middle-career training designed for training young employees (30 to 35 years of to personnel at the age of 45 or over six years ago. We offer age) who show leadership potential. The goal of the program seminars on pensions for those who reach the age of 60, and is to discover, train, and foster talented individuals early on other types of education, and plan to take further measures to to produce strong candidates for leading the business into give employees the motivation to work late into their career. the future. The first implementation of the program has 15 participants. The focus of the training is on the Sekisui House vision for the future of its business and planning for how to achieve that vision. Participants gain the business knowledge they need and a heightened perspective by learning action planning, which teaches them how to explore issues they set themselves and how to take action on them. The program invites people from outside the company in to provide stimulation and Sekisui House Sustainability Report 2020 48 Respect for Human Rights S Respect for the human rights of all stakeholders SOCIAL Implementing a Consideration Consideraation for human rights policy stakeholders stakehoolders Main ESG Themes ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ Respect for Human Rights Basic concept All employees in the Sekisui House Group, by properly understanding and implementing the group’s corporate philosophy, which is rooted in a fundamental love of humanity, meet their responsibility to respect human rights through their actions. To ensure respect for the human rights of all stakeholders in our business activities, we are working to establish a corporate culture that strictly prevents discrimination, harassment, and infringements of human rights based on compliance with international rules on human rights such as the United Nations’ Universal Declaration of Human Rights and a thorough understanding of the SDGs and the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact. Highlights Drafting of a Human Rights Policy ▶ Declaration of policy as a global enterprise For all stakeholders, from a human rights standpoint Fulfilling our responsibility to respect human Code of Conduct and Sekisui House Group Corporate Ethics rights by practicing love of humanity Guidelines. The Sekisui House Group addresses a range of human Recognizing that further group efforts will be needed in rights issues, including those pertaining to the inclusion of our global activities to fulfill our social responsibility, in April women, non-Japanese nationals, people with disabilities in 2020 we drafted the Sekisui House Human Rights Policy. We the workplace, and systemic Buraku discrimination based on declare this policy to all stakeholders involved in or affected ancestry. Following the principles of the SDGs, in October by our business activities as our group employees work to 2019 we partially revised the Sekisui House Group Corporate expand their efforts to ensure respect for human rights. Sekisui House Group Human Rights Policy (excerpt) The Sekisui House Group believes that its mission is to principle of our corporate philosophy. provide safe, secure, and healthy housing and services, Based on our corporate philosophy and code of aiming to contribute to a sustainable society. conduct, the Sekisui House Group human rights policy In order to achieve our vision of making home the complements and clarifies our respect for human rights, happiest place in the world, we strongly wish to create which is one of the principles outlined in our corporate happiness for all stakeholders through our various code of conduct. businesses. We express our commitment to fulfill the Note: Download the PDF to read the entire responsibility of ensuring respect for human rights by policy using this QR code. practicing love of humanity, which is a fundamental This policy applies to:  All officers and employees of the Sekisui House Group. We also expect our business partners, including building contractor partners and suppliers, to understand and support this policy. Supervising responsibility: The Board of Directors of Sekisui House, Ltd. shall supervise compliance with this policy and its implementation. Sections: Respect for internationally recognized standards; Implementation of human rights due diligence; Diversity initiatives; Dialogues with stakeholders; Grievance mechanisms (complaint reporting, consultation, protection); and Disclosure (reporting) 49 Sekisui House Sustainability Report 2020 Action policies ① Implementation of human rights due diligence ▶ Improving the human rights due diligence process (PDCA) Awareness raising, resolution, prevention of recurrence Activity report Message from Management Toward a harassment-free workplace The hotline serves as a valuable resource to help make To create a welcoming, comfortable workplace environment the workplace at all group companies an environment in for all employees of group companies and to raise awareness which all employees can flourish and grow as individuals, free of human rights issues, annual “human relations training” of harassment or any other infringement of human rights. programs are held with work leaders serving as facilitators. In addition, the Sekisui House Group has established a sexual and power harassment hotline, which operates out of the head office. The hotline offers consultations on all types of harassment—particularly sexual harassment and power harassment—as well as on human rights matters, and takes input on how to optimize working environments for people Human relations program with disabilities, among its many functions. Vision and Goals for all employees Fiscal 2019 human rights due diligence process (PDCA) record (for employees) ❶ Human Relations ❷ Human relations training ❸ Sexual and power harassment hotline ❹ Policies on addressing concerns Promotion Committee identified via consultations and ● For all group employees ● Serves as a consultation resource for grievance mechanisms ● All work leaders who act as all group employees ● Headed by the President (161 consultations, 90 concerning ● Protect every person seeking a consultation at the national level facilitators are given guidance harassment) ● Hold a meeting or meetings as necessary ● Lay out training ● Required for all promotion committee members ● Consultation desks are staffed by one that bring together the person seeking the policies/plans and human Environmental (managerial personnel, etc.) at man and one woman (approximately consultation with others involved in the rights measures for the 700 people in total, group-wide) who incident, including the person who has entire group every organization (6 hours/year) and all other employees provide consultation support and taken the action about which the (3 hours/year) undergo skills training on an annual consultation has been sought, and ensure basis that the resolution of each issue and the enforcement of personnel policies adhere to the principles of fairness and neutrality E ❼ Training plans ❻ Risk assessment ❺ Identifying problems and issues ● Develop human relations ● After review of preventive measures ● Analyze internal cases, consultations, training texts for the next fiscal and identification of high-priority and trends year human rights risks by the risk ● Analyze trends in scores on human ● Plan skills training for assessment committee, reflect results rights-related topics in the annual consultation personnel for the in priority issues for the next year employee governance awareness next fiscal year ● Conduct harassment prevention survey to bring about better, more programs at all group companies open working environments Social (for all managerial leaders) (See table below for scores) S Trends in Governance Awareness Survey scores (on human rights-related topics) FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Anti-sexual harassment culture 84.5 83.5 85.1 85.0 Anti-power harassment culture 78.1 77.5 79.2 79.7 Anti-discriminatory culture 84.9 84.3 85.5 85.8 Note: T he figures in the table are averages calculated with scores of 100 points for Strongly agree, 75 points for Agree, Governance 50 points for Neither agree nor disagree, 25 points for Disagree, and 0 points for Strongly disagree. Action policies ② Efforts to respect human rights in the supply chain G ▶ education to ensure smooth integration of foreign workers Identifying priority issues in A focus on human rights even in procurement plus procurement and construction Activity report Addressing human rights and labor in supplier Robust human rights support through technical evaluations training center in Vietnam We purchase materials through a supply chain based on To bring in workers from other countries to work at our our CSR Procurement Guidelines*. We conduct in-house construction sites in Japan and ensure that they can start work evaluations on human rights and labor in advance for all smoothly after arriving in Japan, we established a technical suppliers, convert the results into scores for evaluation, and training center* in Hanoi, Vietnam, as part of a foreign worker conduct visits for monitoring and to raise awareness. system we are building that respects human rights. * For more details, please see page 39. * For more details, please see page 41. Sekisui House Sustainability Report 2020 50 Contributing to Society S Four policies Training the next Environmental generation awareness SOCIAL Housing culture Support of areas and improvement people affected by disasters Main ESG Themes ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ Contributing to Society Basic concept Love of humanity is the key component of our Our four policies and types of activities corporate philosophy and the basis for our many Support of areas and Training the Environmental Housing culture efforts to benefit society. The group carries out many next generation awareness improvement people affected by disasters community-oriented activities that adhere to these four ● Educational support in collaboration ● Cooperation with NPOs and NGOs pillars: training the next generation, environmental with educational institutions ● Support of resident activities awareness, housing culture improvement, and support (Kids First) ● Volunteer activities by employees ● Contributing to society through for areas and people affected by disasters. Our efforts environmental projects (Eco First) ● Corporate patronage of the arts and culture include educational support in collaboration with ● Regional revitalization ● Emergency support educational institutions (Kids First), contributing to society through environmental projects (Eco First), Fundamental corporate philosophy of love of humanity regional revitalization, cooperation with NPOs and NGOs, and corporate patronage of the arts and culture. Action policies ① Travel ideas and a new hotel business for regional revitalization to generate prosperity ▶ Hotels to open in 15 locations/6 prefectures; later nationwide Trip Base Michi-no-eki Station Project Activity report Proposing an entirely new experience-based travel style method, taking advantage of our strength in modular housebuilding. Sekisui House has partnered with Marriott International on the Trip Base Michi-no-eki Station Project, a project for regional revitalization, Positive community response upon announcement of working in collaboration with local governments around Japan to project utilize the system of roadside rest stations called “Michi-no-eki” to A number of different organizations have responded positively to the propose a style of travel that encourages exploration of lesser-known news of this regional revitalization project. In November 2019, we destinations to discover their unique charms. In the first stage of the sent the head of the Trip Base project to speak about the collaborative project, 15 roadside hotels will be built in six prefectures, offering effort to sophomores and juniors at Toyonaka Senior High School, a total of approximately 1,000 rooms, scheduled to open in late Nose Branch, as an external lecturer. 2020 and thereafter. In the second stage/first phase (from 2021 on), The tourism industry expects to see further diversification in hotels will be built in another six prefectures, then in an additional both domestic and overseas travel in the years to come. We will 13 prefectures in the second stage/second phase (from 2022 on). continue working on initiatives like this one that contribute to regional The concept of the project is to provide access to hidden gems across revitalization through a new style of travel. Japan. Visitors will get access to local culture, customs, handicrafts, and cuisine showcased by local communities and local tourism operators working together on the project. The aim is to raise the satisfaction of travelers by putting them in close touch with local people in remote areas to explore by bicycle, motorcycle or car, a trip enabled by the availability of hotels adjacent to the popular Michi-no-eki roadside stations that exist across the country. Comfortable yet simple roadside hotels The hotel business will be run by Marriott International under its “Fairfield by Marriott” brand, the first such arrangement in Japan. The roadside hotels will have the high usability Marriott is known for, and will be built under contract by Sekisui House. They will be simple but spacious and comfortable, and built using our ß system construction New travel style: the roadside hotel 51 Sekisui House Sustainability Report 2020 Action policies ② Supporting initiatives that help bring sustainability to society ▶ Matching Program to 40% Seeking to increase participation in the Sekisui House Matching employee donations Activity report Message from Management Sekisui House Matching Program for matching Screening and grants employee donations Desired amount withheld from salaries Contributes the Since FY2006, we have been implementing the Sekisui House Employees for donations Sekisui matching amount as House Matching Program (currently joined by 25% of employees), under (Participation in the grants program is voluntary.) which the company matches employee donations to NPOs and other organizations engaged in resolving social issues. Program for joint donations with employees This system enables employees to have an amount of their Sekisui House Matching Program Association choice (1 unit = 100 yen) withheld from their salaries for donations, Children’s Fund Eco-Fund Housing Community Fund Momo-Kaki Orphans Fund Program and Sekisui House matches the donations and contributes an Grants for activities Grants for Supports urban Economic that contribute to ecosystem development and assistance for equal amount in the form of grants. We have established four the healthy growth conservation and activities for the children orphaned of the next other global regional community by the Great East funds: The Sekisui House Children’s Fund, the Sekisui House Ecogeneration environmental Japan Earthquake protection activities Vision and Goals Fund, the Housing Community Fund and the Momo-Kaki Orphans Administrative Fund Program. An administrative board comprised of employee board Six board members, auditors, and external advisors engage in screening. Secretariat: CSR Department representatives selects the organizations to support. Grants Application Screening and grants In fiscal 2020, ¥38.33 million from our Children’s Fund, Grant recipient Volunteer organizations, NPOs, educational Grant recipient Eco-Fund, and Housing Community Fund was donated to 37 organizations institutions and others organizations Grants for program Grants for organizational Momo-Kaki organizations. Over the 10-year period from 2011 to 2020, the implementation development Orphans Fund Momo-Kaki Orphans Fund Program donated a cumulative total of ¥122.17 million to the Momo-Kaki Disaster Support Fund newly established Orphans Fund (Chairman: Architect Tadao Ando), which provides economic support Disaster Support Fund newly established Environmental for children orphaned by the Great East Japan Earthquake. Up to now, more than In January 2020, the 10-year donation period for the Momo¥400 million has been donated to 354 Kaki Orphans Fund Program came to an end and the fund organizations by these four funds. was dissolved. In its place, a new fund was set up to kick off in FY2020—the Disaster Support Fund. This fund supports non-profits and other organizations that E go to areas hit by a disaster immediately to assist people and help the area to recover quickly. As a housing manufacturer, by starting a fund to support recovery from a disaster, we intend to help resolve housing shortages immediately after a disaster, which can quickly become a social issue, by assisting in the rebuilding of homes and providing recovery funds to the Social Globe Jungle, NPO NPO Midorinodam Kitasagami Recipient of grants from Children’s Fund Recipient of grants from Eco-Fund disaster-hit area, plus other support efforts. S Action policies ③ “Kids First” efforts in collaboration with educational institutions ▶ of the future and creating them Programming education for Providing opportunities for learning about houses elementary school students Governance Activity report Elementary school programming education supported given the chance to take ideas from what they learn to design and build G by three ministries “a house of the future” of their own design based on themes such as “the Starting in FY2020, programming education in elementary schools eco-friendly home” or “the happy smiles home,” using cardboard boxes became compulsory. Three national government bodies—MEXT, METI, or a virtual space on a computer. and the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications—designated Cooperation with children’s programming education is a way for September 2019 as Programming Education Promotion Month in Sekisui House to contribute to Future Studies, with the aim of fostering talent that will be able to help society and is part of our efforts solve social issues using advanced technology. Sekisui House is the only to achieve the sustainable company in the housing and construction industry to be a participating development goals. Looking and cooperating firm in this educational initiative. We have held a special ahead, as a company that lesson entitled “Everyone’s House! Houses of the Future!” for over 300 promotes Kids-First initiatives, children from six elementary schools to learn about advanced technology we are happy to support in housing at our Sumai-no-Yume-Kojo Centers and other locations programming education in around Japan. In these lessons, children are able to see and experience elementary schools. the structure of a house, how it is designed to withstand natural disasters, An employee giving kids a lesson at Sekisui House Eco First Park and what features make life more comfortable in a house. They are then in Koga, Ibaraki Prefecture Sekisui House Sustainability Report 2020 52 Contributing to Society Action policies ④ The SDGs put into practice everywhere through solid coordination with local governments ▶ Seeking cooperation with 10 prefectures to meet the SDGs Comprehensive cooperation agreement signed with Osaka Pref. Activity report Comprehensive cooperation agreement signed with Primary Efforts Osaka Prefecture Creating and supporting opportunities for children to have new experiences using In June 2019, Sekisui House signed a comprehensive agreement our company's facilities including Shin-Satoyama and Tenku Art Museum at the Umeda Sky Building, Sumufumulab and the Dialog in the Dark: House of Dialog with the prefecture to collaborate on 21 issues in seven areas collaborative program at Grand Front Osaka including: children, social welfare and health, workstyle reforms, Hosting of seminars on the topics of women’s participation, workstyle reforms, the environment, hiring/small and medium-sized enterprise and health management promotion, disaster mitigation and crime prevention, and Cooperation with the Osaka prefectural government on its Net-Zero Energy House government PR. Based on this agreement, we are pursuing (ZEH) promotion and education project by offering overnight stays at a ZEH collaborations in a wide range of domains, such as creating Sales and PR for “Made in Osaka” branded products at the Umeda Sky Building Cooperation to promote government information using our corporate media and opportunities for children to have new experiences and setting the Umeda Sky Building up sales corners for certified “Made in Osaka” branded products. Hosting of classes on the Michi-no-eki Station Project for regional revitalization to The agreement will facilitate an expansion of our ongoing support prefectural high schools collaborative activities in working with Osaka Prefecture to achieve the targets set in the SDGs through our businesses. We plan to collaborate and cooperate not only with Osaka Prefecture but with local governments nationwide to help local communities flourish and promote their unique charms. Signing ceremony Children from Osaka Prefecture Michi-no-eki Station Project class led (Center: Osaka governor Yoshimura with our chairman) invited to see the Sumufubulab by Sekisui House employee Action policies ⑤ Efforts as an Eco-First Company ▶ Environmental education for children who are the future To fulfill our three promises Activity report School visits for three programs of environmental The Shin-Satoyama initiative and “Wall of Hope” for education contact with plants and living creatures As a government-approved Eco-First Company, we are On the north side of the Umeda Sky Building in Osaka, we committed to three promises: reducing CO2 emissions, have built Shin-Satoyama (about 8,000 m2), emulating a restoring ecosystem networks, and recycling resources. Based traditional biotope consisting of a wooded area, bamboo on these promises, we offer three elementary school-visit forest, rice terrace, vegetable farm, and tea garden in one programs that include small area based on our Gohon no ki indigenous landscaping quizzes and experiments. concept—three trees for birds and two for butterflies. In 2013, These classes and other the giant live-greenery “Wall of Hope” monument created by events provide children architect Tadao Ando was completed on the east side of the with experiential building. A wide variety of plants has been growing on the education to teach the green wall over the years, attracting other living creatures and importance of saving creating a space where office workers and the public can feel energy in everyday life, the ecosystem at play. preserving ecosystems, Every year we collaborate with local elementary schools and utilizing resources and kindergartens to give children a chance to plant rice and School visit class for teaching about house effectively. try other agricultural activities at Shin-Satoyama. This use insulation of the biotope provides a valuable experience of nature for children who grow up in the city. The Sekisui House Eco First Park At the Sekisui House Eco First Park in Ibaraki’s Koga City, visitors learn about our environmental activities, which are based on the three Eco-First promises. Visitors also have fun learning about the many ways in which houses can help protect the global environment. Elementary school students planting Shin-Satoyama and the Wall of Hope rice at the Shin-Satoyama viewed from the west side 53 Sekisui House Sustainability Report 2020 Action policies ⑥ Points for the emergence of new housing culture and art culture ▶ Expanding awareness and enhancing life Providing a space for dialogue and a sensing experience Activity report Message from Management House of Dialog, a collaborative program with Koji Kinutani Tenku Art Museum Dialogue in the Dark (DID) We opened the Koji Kinutani Tenku Art Museum in Umeda Sky We have been periodically organizing the House of Dialog Building (West Tower 27F), where our headquarters is located, to program at Sumufumulab (Grand Front Osaka), our base for exhibit the artworks of world famous western-style painter and disseminating ideas. In 2013, we established the House of Japan’s top classic fresco painter, Koji Kinutani. Since its opening Dialog, a one-of-a-kind program that explores the theme of in 2016, the museum has received large numbers of visitors, from house and family. Participants are guided in groups through both around Japan and other countries. In 2019 the number of different settings in absolute darkness by visually impaired visitors annually reached approximately 100,000. The museum guides. They learn the importance of dialogue and experience has the world’s first 3D visual system that allows the viewer the richness of the senses other than vision. The program to seemingly enter the world of the painting, in addition to has been very popular, and has been attended by more than displaying numerous colorful frescos and mixed-media paintings Vision and Goals 21,000 people to date. and sculptures by Kinutani. Under our concept of lifelong housing, through research In 2019, special exhibitions were held at the museum that on smart universal design and more, we will continue to included a three-year anniversary exhibition. The fresco-painting provide platforms for people workshop is a unique program that puts people in touch with one to experience this form of of humanity’s oldest painting techniques, the fresco, a program communication through DID. We that won the Kids Design Award—a METI-supported program. also hope to expand the reach of such valuable experiences for society for us to foster a revival Environmental of relationships, a recognition for diversity, and in people, greater attunement to their non-visual senses. E Koji Kinutani provides a guided tour to Fresco-painting workshop museum experts from around the world Action policies ⑦ Post-disaster restoration and reconstruction Social ▶ Fulfilling the responsibility of a company that protects life Checking damage status and supporting victims S Activity report Post-disaster restoration efforts, including after The Tohoku Factory immediately sent backup supplies, and shared the typhoons in 2019 work of visiting homeowners or calling to confirm their safety. In 2019, Japan was hit by two powerful tropical cyclones, including Governance Typhoon Faxai (No. 15) and Typhoon Hagibis (No. 19). The Sekisui House Reconstruction support with the help of new hires in head office was in contact with the task force of each headquarters Miyazaki, Kumamoto and Hiroshima in the affected areas to provide nationwide support. The company’s Every year since the Great East Japan Earthquake in 2011 we have experience of torrential rains in western Japan the previous year were carried out reconstruction support activities using newly hired utilized in the reconstruction efforts. The General Affairs Department employees. The purpose of these efforts is to provide support in line G of the head office managed hotel rooms and rental cars centrally for with the needs of people in the affected areas as well as to give our employees who went to volunteer at the affected areas. We also newly new employees practice in thinking and acting in accordance with developed an online house data management tool to facilitate support the corporate philosophy and code of conduct, and to help deepen provided by employees. their understanding of the true import of the housing business. In In Chiba Prefecture, which was hard-hit by Typhoon No. 15, phone 2019 we had 460 employees participate in these efforts, for a total calls came in regarding 1,800 cases on the first day. The CS Promoting of 3,481 employees over an eight-year period. Department focused on setting up a system to receive those calls, and had staff on the ground contact or visit homeowners to confirm their safety. In about three days, the damage status for all affected owners had been confirmed and an initial restoration effort was conducted for approximately 300 homes. Typhoon No. 19 caused large-scale water damage in Iwaki, Fukushima Prefecture. The Construction Department of the head office handled the initial response, arranging necessities for homeowners. Windbreak wall installation on A moment of silence at the site temporary housing where a home was lost Sekisui House Sustainability Report 2020 54 Strengthening Our Corporate Governance System G Improving corporate value through governance reform GOVERNANCE Strengthening Strength hening Building a resilient reesilient our governance management managemen nt base structure structture Main ESG Themes ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ Strengthening Our Corporate Governance System Basic concept Positioning 2018 as the “first year of governance reform,” we have steadily implemented each of these measures in an At the Sekisui House Group, we have established a corporate effort to establish a foundation of resilient management for governance system, grounded in our corporate philosophy long-term and sustainable growth in corporate value. We of love of humanity, committed to timely and trustworthy have adopted the concept of “integrity”—signifying a sincere management. Moreover, we have published our Policy on and high-spirited sense of ethics—as our guiding principle for Corporate Governance to inform our stakeholders of our addressing governance reform. This resonates with “love of approach and framework. humanity,” our core philosophy, and with “truth and trust,” the stance encapsulated in our corporate philosophy. While prioritizing integrity in all our corporate operations, we are Scan the QR code at right to view a PDF file of our policies. promoting reforms aimed at transforming us into a leading ESG management company. Results of our initiatives Initiatives to strengthen the system One of the characteristics of the Sekisui House Group’s communication and stimulate the growth of each and every governance reform is to strengthen the effectiveness of employee by promoting initiatives that combine innovation governance and ensure sustainable corporate growth. and communication. In order to achieve this, it is essential that we revitalize Major initiatives since 2018 We have steadily implemented the following measures, including six items aimed at strengthening our corporate governance system. ① Introduction of mandatory retirement at age 70 for ⑪ Revision of the directors’ term of appointment to one year representative directors from two ② Appointment of female outside officers ⑫ Abolition of the advisor/advisory system (one female outside director and one female outside corporate ⑬ Fundamental revision of the executive compensation auditor) system [items 9) and 10) above and clarification of the basic ③ Assurance of transparent and vigorous Board of Directors compensation policy, review of the remuneration composition meetings ratio, setting of appropriate compensation levels, etc.] (Ensuring separation between the Chairman of the Board of ⑭ Introduction of stock ownership guidelines (while serving as Directors and the Convenor) a director, mandatory holding of the company’s stock in an ④ Establishment of the Management Meeting amount equivalent to a certain standard for each position on a (eight times in 2018, 10 times in 2019) mark-to-market basis) ⑤ Clarification of departments under control of directors ⑮ Adoption of a stock compensation refund (Mars Clawback) (institutional reform undertaken in April 2018) clause (establishment of a clause clarifying the return all or part ⑥ Evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board of Directors of stock compensation before vesting if certain circumstances (annually, in questionnaire format) occur) ⑦ Assurance of independence and strengthening of internal ⑯ Formulation of selection and dismissal criteria and procedures monitoring of chief managers of general affairs in sales for senior management executives (ongoing deliberations by administration headquarters and branches the Personnel Affairs and Remuneration Committee regarding (Implementation of training for chief managers of general basic policies and procedures regarding appointment of affairs and reviews of affiliations and the personnel evaluation internal directors, and succession plans for representative process) directors, etc.) ⑧ Enhancing the integrity of branch managers ⑰ Increased independence of the Board of Directors (increasing (Launch of Sekisui House Management Training, a training and the number of outside directors by one and increasing the selection program for future branch managers) ratio of outside directors to board members by one-third [four ⑨ Introduction of a restricted stock compensation plan outside directors/12 directors]) ⑩ Abolition of the bonus system for outside directors 55 Sekisui House Sustainability Report 2020 Action policies Direction of reforms after 2020 Promoting a two-pronged approach to governance reform through top management and business management Message from Management Since 2018, our efforts to reform the governance of the In our 5th Mid-term Management Plan, we have Sekisui House Group have been achieving steady progress. In stated that we aim to become a leading company in ESG order to strengthen our governance system further, we are management. We are also looking to leverage the strengths promptly implementing specific measures such as ensuring of the group to pursue international expansion. Against this transparent and vigorous Board of Directors’ meetings and background, in order to further enhance the effectiveness of appointing female outside directors. At the Ordinary General corporate governance from 2020, we will take a two-pronged Meeting of Shareholders held in April 2020, we undertook approach to governance reform through top management and a significant review of the executive compensation system, business management, and we will foster an organizational which emphasizes objectivity, transparency, and accountability culture that thrives through innovation and communication. to stakeholders; improved the ratio of outside directors on the Board of Directors; and shortened the term of office of directors. Note: Corporate governance is described in greater detail in Vision and Goals Integrated Report 2020, issued separately. Scan the QR code at right to view a PDF file. 1. Reform at the top management level 2. Reform at the business management level At the Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders held in The strength of the Sekisui House Group—encompassing April 2020, we increased the number of outside directors by our sales headquarters, branch offices, factories, and group one, thus bringing the ratio of outside directors on the Board companies inside and outside Japan—lies in the fact that we view of Directors to one-third. The main purpose of this project is business issues from the customer’s perspective. Going forward, to strengthen the management oversight function, but an we will also promote governance reforms at the business Environmental alternate aim is to introduce a long-term management vision management level in order to further enhance our capabilities at and instill management innovation through collaboration the worksite. and “co-creation” with outside directors while encouraging Throughout the period of our 5th Mid-term Management relationships of fair and sound tension. Plan, we will clarify our human resource requirements and During the period of the 5th Mid-term Management Plan improve and strengthen our training system, foster business E beginning in 2020, we will strengthen the effectiveness of the management noted for high integrity, and institute a governance Personnel Affairs and Remuneration Committee, review the system based on mutual trust. In addition, in order to build a role of the Management Meeting, review the grand design of governance system that maximizes management synergies for the governance system centered on reform of the executive the entire group, we will clarify the authority and responsibility officer system, and implement the PDCA cycle utilizing reviews of the parent company and subsidiaries; establish networks and and external knowledge from a third-party perspective. We a reporting line between the management departments of the will implement governance reform at the top management parent company and subsidiaries; strengthen the development level by enhancing information disclosure and by engaging in and appropriate placement of governance personnel; and Social a dialogue with stakeholders. encourage cooperation among corporate auditors of the parent S company and its subsidiaries. (1) Reform of the corporate governance system and enhancement of its effectiveness (1) Further enhancing the integrity of management We are promoting management innovation through collaboration Implementing governance based on mutual trust with management (“co-creation”) with outside officers while encouraging committed to upholding a high level of integrity. relationships of fair and sound tension. ①C  larification of personnel requirements for business management ① Review of the grand design of the governance system and establishment and strengthening of training systems i Strengthening the effectiveness of the Personnel Affairs ② E xpanding the scope of training in Integrity Management (head Governance and Remuneration Committee by reviewing the structure office staff and executives of group companies) (chairperson/composition) (2) S trengthening the group governance system ii Reviewing the role of the Management Committee in the Fostering mutual trust among group companies through our Business Execution System corporate philosophy. iii Reforming the Executive Officer System and Development of ①B  uild a governance system to maximize synergies in group G Candidates for senior management management ② Implementation of the PDCA cycle based on third-party reviews i Clarifying the authority and responsibilities of the and external knowledge parent company and subsidiaries and reflecting them in i Regular monitoring of the effectiveness of the Board of organizational structure Directors by a third party ii Building a network between the management departments ii Enhancing our response to the corporate governance code of the parent company and subsidiaries and establishing a and improving SR activities based on reviews from evaluation reporting system bodies ② S trengthening the training and proper allocation of personnel (2) Enhancing information disclosure and dialogue with for governance stakeholders i Strengthening the development of personnel for governance Earning the trust of stakeholders through fair and honest (recruitment of members of society/personnel exchanges information disclosure between groups) (integrity + experience/knowledge + ability i Publication of an Integrated Report and disclosure of our to execute) Corporate Story ii Appropriate allocation of personnel for governance, including ii Further enhancing dialogue opportunities with institutional subsidiaries outside Japan investors and individual shareholders ③C  ollaboration between auditors of the parent company and its subsidiaries Sekisui House Sustainability Report 2020 56 Compliance and Risk Management G Thorough implementation and promotion of compliance with our corporate social responsibility GOVERNANCE Promoting Promotting Strengthening Strengthenning risk compliance compliaance management managemen nt system Main ESG Themes ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ Compliance and Risk Management Basic concept The Sekisui House Group considers compliance to encompass more than legal compliance alone; it must also incorporate our corporate social responsibility. Moreover, since any lack of employee awareness of compliance is a matter of corporate risk, we consider compliance and risk to be two sides of the same coin. We regard them as essential management issues that must always be addressed and we remain committed to this view. Promoting compliance The Risk Management Committee, an advisory body to the Ethics Guidelines to list common items with which officers Board of Directors, and the Governance Committee, which and employees must comply in order to undertake corporate has been under the auspices of the CSR Committee since operations at each group company. We undertake revisions as 2017, implement the PDCA cycle while working to improve appropriate from the perspective of changing social conditions issues related to compliance. We have also established and group management. a Management Committee to deliberate on important Every October during our annual Compliance with investment projects before resolutions and request the Corporate Ethics Check, all executives and employees submit a approval of the Board of Directors to promote compliance and Pledge Regarding Compliance with the Essentials of Corporate risk management. Ethics. Moreover, we formulated the Sekisui House Corporate Note: The full Sekisui House Corporate Ethics Guidelines are available on our website. Scan the QR code at right to view a PDF file of our policies. Legal compliance status There was no major violation of laws or voluntary standards in • There were no legal or regulatory infractions or penalties the relevant fiscal year. paid related to the provision and use of our products and • No disciplinary action or dismissal took place against any services. There were also no infractions of health and safetyemployee for non-compliance of the anti-corruption policy. related regulations or voluntary standards. To the best of our knowledge, no cost was incurred on • There were no substantiated petitions for redress related to penalties, surcharges or settlement related to corruption. customer privacy infringements or customer data loss. • There were no major infractions of environmental laws or • The group faced no legal action, substantial fines or punitive regulations. There were no accidental spills or other incidents measures in connection with violations of laws or regulations impacting the environment surrounding our factories. related to competition and monopolistic practices. Internal Reporting System (available 24 hours a day, 365 days a year) The Sekisui House Group has established an Internal behavior in the group to the company itself or to outside Reporting System that allows employees and other officers lawyers. This system complies with the Whistleblower and employees of companies with whom we have ongoing Protection Act. business relationships to report illegal or inappropriate Note: More details are available on our website. https://2c.sekisuihouse.jp/ypy8 Risk management system enhancement Responsibility for risk management at the Sekisui House to the Board of Directors, strengthens management by Group is undertaken by the various departments assigned to collecting and verifying the status of development of the this task with initiatives conducted according to work duties risk management system in each department of the group; within technical department and administrative department receives reports in the event an instance of risk arises; and manager meetings. We have established divisions that cover verifies recurrence prevention measures. multiple head office departments to clarify the responsibilities We have also put in place a Business Continuity Plan to and authorities of directors and executive officers. deal with the occurrence of large-scale natural disasters and The Risk Management Committee, an advisory body epidemics of infectious disease. 57 Sekisui House Sustainability Report 2020 Occupational Health and Safety Management G Ensuring occupational health and safety GOVERNANCE Maintaining Discouraging Discoouraging awareness of of excessive excessivve working health and nd safety an saffety hours h Message from Management Main ESG Themes ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ Occupational Health and Safety Management At the Sekisui House Group, nothing is more important than the health and safety of employees, subcontractors, and everyone else who plays a role in the group’s business activities. If a worker-related accident ever occurs in the administrative, production, or construction departments, we provide the relevant details to the Health and Safety Committee and incorporate the corresponding information into its PDCA cycle for improving workplace Vision and Goals health and safety. Accidents resulting in lost worktime and Occupational accidents in FY2019 occupational-illness frequency rates • The number of cases of heat stroke decreased from the previous fiscal year due to initiatives such as the adoption The frequency of accidents and occupational illnesses of work clothes incorporating electric fans (“air conditioned resulting in lost worktime in fiscal 2019 increased compared clothing”) and recommendations for “cool breeze” products to the previous fiscal year, excluding the occupational illness contributing to improved work environments. frequency rate of the Production Department and Construction • Toppling of heavy machinery and items falling from high Department. By thoroughly analyzing and sharing data, we locations also affects third parties such as neighboring Environmental will take steps to raise awareness of health and safety, prevent residents and passers-by. We will continue to thoroughly unsafe behaviors, and minimize the excessive working hours investigate the cause of each incident and implement that can contribute to accidents and illnesses. measures to prevent a recurrence. Accidents resulting in lost worktime and occupational-illness Initiatives for FY2020 E frequency rates (Total of one or more days of lost worktime) In order to reduce occupational accidents, we are introducing Frequency rate of Frequency rate of preventive measures by implementing various safety measures accidents resulting in Department lost worktime occupational illnesses at all sites and preventing accidents involving members of the FY2018 FY2019 FY2018 FY2019 public (property damage and personal injury) as a basic policy of Administrative department 0.19 0.42 0.03 0.07 our FY2020 Company-wide Construction Health and Safety Plan. (employees)* This plan is outlined below. Social Employees* 0.00 0.45 0.00 0.00 Production • We will devote more attention to measures to prevent department Subcontractors 0.00 0.27 0.00 0.00 serious life-threatening accidents as we continue to focus on S Construction department eliminating fatal accidents. 2.42 2.92 0.63 0.43 (subcontractors only) • Since falls and cuts/punctures remain common, we remain * On a non-consolidated basis (Sekisui House only) dedicated to implementing comprehensive safety measures, ensuring their adoption, and establishing an accident One particular factor contributing to an increase in lost worktime prevention system. accidents in the Construction Department is the apparently • To address accidents involving members of the public, we static number of accidents involving falls and cuts/punctures. will devise measures against previous accidents in order to Governance Notably, more than 40% of falls are from stepladders, and most prevent the occurrence of similar accidents. of these can be attributed to unsafe behaviors. We will therefore promote training focused on methodical work procedures and elimination of unsafe behaviors. G The number of contractor fatalities due to industrial accidents in the Construction Department over the past three years was 2 in FY2017, 0 in FY2018, and 0 in FY2019. Occupational health and safety activities at worksites At the Sekisui House Group, ensuring the occupational health and safety of all of our construction employees is an important social responsibility and one of our key focus areas as a business. We organize and implement a variety of activities to make sure that our construction employees are as safe and Poster of slogan secure as possible on the job. for FY2020 Sekisui House Sustainability Report 2020 58 E ENVIRONMENTAL S SOCIAL G GOVERNANCE International Business and ESG Management Sekisui House Technology: Becoming the world’s de facto standard At Sekisui House, we have been contributing to the resolution of social issues throughout the 60 years since our founding, all the while providing housing that meets the needs of the times. We are providing solutions by sharing the Sekisui House technology we have developed during our history. These include technologies focused on safety and security, such as resistance to earthquakes, fires and impacts, and technologies focused on comfort, such as thermal insulation, universal design and devices for maintaining indoor air quality. In this way, as we contribute to the emergence of a sustainable society, we are also meeting the preferences of ESG management around the world. United States Applying Sekisui House technology: E S Adopting ZEH standards across the U.S.A. E Responding to the various natural disasters from California that can occur in large land areas California is an environmentally advanced state that has been In the U.S.A., demand for housing is projected to grow over the proactively adopting environmental regulations. Reductions in coming decades, with balanced population growth expected greenhouse gas emissions have been legislated, and legislation across all ages. Due to the large land area of the United States, requiring new homes to be equipped with photovoltaic panels different regions focus on different issues. In recent years, was introduced in 2020, marking the first time such a policy has problems associated with climate change, such as the shifting been adopted in the United States. Our subsidiary, Woodside paths of hurricanes, have become apparent. In addition, the Homes, is strengthening the development of environmentWest Coast of North America is exposed to a high risk of friendly and lifestyle-oriented products to promote zero net earthquakes as well as frequent power outages in light of the energy housing (or ZNE, the industry term in the U.S.A.) in line numerous major earthquakes that have struck the region in the with revisions to the state’s environmental and energy-efficiency past. While traditional wooden houses represent the mainstream standards for buildings. We are providing ZEH housing as a for dwellings, houses constructed with high resistance to foothold for popularizing this innovation in the United States, earthquakes, fires and impacts are required to minimize the and we are planning to introduce environment-friendly urban devastating effects of natural disasters and global warming. developments in the future. Challenge Response • Strong demand for housing due • Acquisition of Woodside Homes to high population growth and expanded collaboration • A population motivated to fight efforts global warming due to possibly • Transplanting of Sekisui House related occurrences, such as technology shifting paths of hurricane • Construction of SHAWOOD, • A high risk of powerful which is built to ZEH standard earthquakes along the West and features high seismic Coast of North America resistance • A need for ongoing maintenance • Introduced Bellburn ceramic wall of building exteriors product ZNE housing in California Development projects focused on biodiversity E Canyon Falls, a community development project in Texas, was developed with a view to preserving biodiversity; specifically, it is focused on protecting the habitat of post oak trees, some of which are 120 to 150 years old. It is considered difficult to preserve post oak trees when developing the surrounding land, as this tree species is known for its delicate roots. However, the post oak trees in this area have continued to grow even after the development was completed. At the end of 2018, Canyon Falls was presented with the Tree of the Year Award from the town of Flower Mound in Texas. Interior of the SHAWOOD concept home, built to ZEH standard and with high seismic resistance (see page 60) 59 Sekisui House Sustainability Report 2020 Highlights The first SHAWOOD concept home in the U.S.A. was unveiled at E S IBS 2020. In January 2020, we participated as the first Japanese house builder to exhibit at the International Builders’ Show (IBS), the largest U.S. trade fair for housing, held in Las Vegas.* In addition to hosting an exhibit at our booth, we constructed a SHAWOOD concept home (an original wooden house design of Sekisui House) in the Summerlin area of western Las Vegas and opened it to the public. This marked the debut of the SHAWOOD house in the United States, and interest was very high. This also represented a valuable opportunity for us to convey our commitment to making a better society through housing. The SHAWOOD brand, an initiative intended to resolve housing issues The SHAWOOD Concept House is a structure built to the ZEH (Net-Zero Energy House) standard that offers high earthquake resistance and photovoltaic power generation capability with storage batteries. It is constructed with fireproof and low-maintenance Bellburn ceramic exterior wall material. This concept home earned high praise from participants, as it demonstrated a path to resolving some of the social issues facing the United States. It was designed to address the issues of life balance, connection with nature, symbiosis, and the design seeks harmony between Eastern and Western living customs, the concepts of indoors and outdoors, and a balance between technology and privacy. Displays of our original building materials attracted attention at our By showcasing these technologies in the United exhibition booth. States, we seek to provide helpful solutions. We will Highlights of the SHAWOOD Concept Home continue to promote the adoption of the SHAWOOD Beauty Strength Functionality concept in the United States, incorporating sales methods that offer health and a choice of lifestyles. * Our research of various display materials suggests we were the first Japanese housebuilder to exhibit at IBS, an annual housing fair that attracts more than 85,000 participants involved in the construction industry as well as institutional investors from around the world. Our concept home was an actual real-life exhibit presented by one selected company. We constructed it in collaboration with Woodside Homes. ・Bellburn ・Structural laminated ・Net-Zero Energy ・Clear view design wood House standard ・Broad horizontal ・M  etal joint ・S mart UD roof design construction ・F resh interior air ・E arthquake resistance Concept home constructed in the Summerlin area of western Las Vegas Sekisui House Sustainability Report 2020 60 Australia Offering eco-friendly housing in E S Challenge Response preparation for growth in housing • Strong demand for housing due • Constructed an Australian to population growth version of the SHAWOOD demand • Much room for quality factory near Sydney. Australian Government statistics suggest that significant improvements in the existing • Established a repetitive housing market production system for highpopulation growth is expected in the future, and we • Soaring electricity bills resulting quality building materials. expect increased demand for sustainable housing. We have from liberalization of the • Constructed Shinka House, a electricity market ZEH-compliant pilot house. established a SHAWOOD factory in the suburbs of Sydney and have introduced a repetitive production system for high-quality building materials. Furthermore, we have constructed Shinka House, a ZEH-compliant pilot house equipped with solar power generation and storage batteries, in The Hermitage, a residential housing development on the outskirts of Sydney. In addition to offering an environment-friendly lifestyle that reduces energy consumption, it serves as a platform for promoting the improved quality of housing that we provide to our customers. The Central Park Project, recognized as E the world’s tallest skyscraper Shinka House, a SHAWOOD model based on ZEH specifications Construction of Central Park, a development complex in central Sydney, has been under way since 2011 with our joint venture partner, Frasers Centrepoint Limited. The concept of Human resource development aimed at S “environment-friendly development” has been thoroughly global expansion of our domestic business implemented here; for example, a large reflector is used In Australia, we assist local employees and industry groups to direct natural light to the lower part of the building in in understanding our corporate philosophy by inviting them order to reduce the power consumption needed for daytime to Sumai-no-Yume-Kojo Centers, Nattoku Kobo Studio lighting. In addition, by adjusting indoor temperatures with (Home Amenities Experience Studio), and Sekisui House Eco the largest green wall in the Southern Hemisphere, the project First Park in Japan. The Gohon no ki indigenous landscaping reduces CO2 emissions. It also introduces eco-friendly water project (highlighted on page 25) has been incorporated at reuse facilities. With exterior features such as greenery on each project, and the Satoyama concept has been adopted the walls, a garden on the 29th floor, and a huge reflector, in various parts of our local projects, both of which have the condominium earned the world-famous architectural been well received by local customers. Similar initiatives are award known as Best Tall Building Worldwide in 2014 from being undertaken in each country in which we operate, and the Council on Tall Buildings and Urban Habitat (CTBUH). participants who visit these facilities retain and bring back Moreover, in 2019, at the CTBUH Awards, this project received what they have learned in Japan, adapt it to their cultures and the world’s highest award for Urban Habitat District/Master climates, and implement it. Plan Scale, as both the building and surface development were evaluated as “best in the world” in both name and reality. We have received various other awards recognizing our achievements in improving local security, and we received the highest evaluation under the Australian Environmental Standards. West Village site planned according to the Gohon no ki project and Satoyama concept Promoting diversity initiatives in other S countries Our Australian subsidiary promotes diversity, with females filling 50% of the employee positions and about 6% of the managerial positions. The company has also instituted an extensive promotion system for managers that focuses on individual abilities. In addition, in order to support the social advancement of women and the development of the next generation, West Village has partnered with the Property Council, a real estate industry group, to explain our initiatives in Australia and introduce local high school students to the town development Aerial gardens, impressive green walls, and reflectors to take and housing development field. This program, known as advantage of natural light “Girls in Property,” is contributing to the promotion of female participation in the male-dominated real estate development field and the construction industry. 61 Sekisui House Sustainability Report 2020 United Kingdom Our full-scale entry into the UK E S Challenge Response housing market is contributing • A shortage of 4 million houses • Establishment of a joint venture • A need for quality housing with the government agency solutions to housing challenges. to replace stone and brick Homes England and the real structures estate company Urban Splash In May 2019, we undertook our full-scale entry into the UK • Launch of in-house production • Mandatory implementation of housing market in partnership with Homes England, a UK ZEH (Zero Carbon) as of 2025 of high-quality modular housing government agency, and Urban Splash, an integrated real • Production of environmentfriendly housing including zero estate company. The chronic housing shortage in the UK carbon incorporating energyhas become a social issue, resulting in a shortage of about efficient technology four million houses. In addition, the traditional stone-and-brick construction methods used for local houses are associated with challenges in terms of productivity, construction time, and quality, and a high-quality housing alternative is demanded. We believe we can contribute solutions to these issues by High-quality, highemploying our high-quality, short-schedule industrialized performance townhouses in New housing technology. Notably, the UK government aims to Islington decarbonize by 2050; from our experience with ZEH gained from our track record in Japan, we are confident we can help to solve the environmental problems facing the UK. Introducing the Gohon no ki project in E residential developments In housing developments in the UK, which are incorporating Singapore the perspective of biodiversity conservation, we are undertaking research to incorporate biodiversity conservation efforts such as Adapting “slow living” to the local E S the Gohon no ki indigenous landscaping project in these sites. culture The One Holland Village Project—undertaken with our joint business partners Far East Organization and Sino Group— China is an integrated complex incorporating dwellings, serviced apartments, commercial facilities, and offices. The residential Creating living spaces constructed to a high E building, a comfortable space of our own design, adopts the standard to accommodate both the homeowner’s concept of “slow living” and aims to provide residents with a perspective and the health of the environment calm and peaceful living space. The Singapore version of slow We are developing townhouse and condominium projects under living incorporates three specific themes: Balcony Life (balcony the Sekisui House Yuqin brands in the cities of Taicang, Suzhou, and space with consideration for privacy and a linkage between Wuxi on the outskirts of Shanghai and in the northeastern city of the interior and exterior); Storage (easy-to-use storage spaces Shenyang. The Taicang I Project (Taicang Yuqin Garden) earned high where they are needed); and Flexibility (design for variability). praise for its residence-perspective manufacturing and environmental One Holland Village was also conceived as considerations, garnering the 2019 Gold Award of the Tien-yow an environment-friendly development with Jeme Civil Engineering Prize in the Excellence Housing Category (China plans for greenery and a regional heating Civil Engineering Society; and cooling system that exceeds regulatory equivalent to grand prize of requirements throughout the project. We the Architectural Institute of will continue to create value in Singapore Japan). In China, which emits by sharing our ideas on sustainability large amounts of CO2, we and contributing to local communities in The One Holland will continue to make use of concert with our local partners. Village Development environmental technologies tailored to the perspective of Taicang Yuqin Garden, highly regarded the homeowner. as an environment-friendly building Common to All Countries Strengthening governance through close G Activities of the International Auditing G collaboration with Japan Office and establishment of our To maintain close communication, our head office in Japan International Whistleblowing System and various departments hold separate meetings twice We are working to strengthen governance at local subsidiaries in monthly with our local subsidiaries in each country. Since each country through a focus on the activities of the International April 2020, we have been conducting base management Auditing Office, which was established in April 2019. In June 2020, training mainly for management groups selected from each we established an International Whistleblowing System with thirdcountry. We are also strengthening governance by clearly party law firms as a point of contact, in addition to maintaining our communicating our corporate philosophy and management in-house reporting system at our local subsidiaries in the U.S.A., policy in each country and promoting mutual understanding. Australia, the UK, and Singapore (excluding Woodside Homes). If the law firm receives a report from an employee of a local subsidiary, the report is communicated directly to the head office to ensure the system operates as intended, ensuring its effectiveness. Sekisui House Sustainability Report 2020 62 ESG Management CSR Policies and the ESG Management Framework Positioning ESG management as a foundation of company operations, in line with its corporate philosophy and CSR policies, the Sekisui House Group pursues its goal of becoming a leading company in ESG management through its everyday business activities. The group’s concrete action plans take shape through the efforts of the CSR Committee and its three subordinate ESG committees. The CSR Committee includes four representative directors from within the company organization and two outside experts (outside members) to enrich the relevant initiatives from a diversity of perspectives. Corporate philosophy and CSR policies The framework for the CSR Committee and promoting ESG management At the core of the Sekisui House Group’s corporate philosophy is a love of humanity: a fervent hope for the wellbeing of The Sekisui House Group regularly convenes its CSR others and a sense of joy in others’ joy, doing whatever we Committee to determine and promote policies and discuss do in good faith and a spirit of service. That philosophy took whether CSR initiatives responding to the trend toward root in 1989 with the unanimous approval of every group ESG management are in line with common sense and the employee. Striving to ensure the wellbeing of all of our expectations of society, and whether social issues are being stakeholders—customers, employees, and shareholders— resolved through our business operations. we pursue a CSR policy that focuses on maximizing customer Members of the CSR Committee are chosen through satisfaction (CS), employee satisfaction (ES), and shareholder a resolution of the Board of Directors. The Chairman and satisfaction (SS) in harmony with our corporate philosophy. Representative Director serves as the Chair, and the Vice Chairman as well as the President and Representative Director serve as Vice Chairs. To support the internal committee Corporate philosophy Our stance members, we have added two external experts: Katsuhiko Our fundamental philosophy, a Truth and trust Kokubu, Professor and Vice President of the Graduate School love of humanity, means doing of Business Administration, Kobe University; and Hidemi whatever we do in good faith and a spirit of service. Recognizing the Our Tomita, Director of Lloyd’s Register Japan K. K. irreplaceable value in each and every fundamental philosophy Moreover, three ESG committees operate under the person, we maintain a fervent hope Love of umbrella of the CSR Committee to develop action policies, for the wellbeing of others and a humanity sense of joy in others’ joy. promote initiatives, and help efforts take root under the chairmanship of the Representative Directors and the Senior Our objective Our business focus Managing Officer. Furthermore, we have established CSR Superior quality and Comfortable housing and subcommittees in each department to raise awareness of our leading technology ecologically sound communities efforts at all our business locations. In order to implement our activities in cooperation with the managers of these business locations, we also assign CSR Promotion Committees at all our business sites to link ESG management to the actions of each employee. ESG management promotion structure Board of Directors 3 ESG committees CSR Department Subcommittee CSR Committee CSR Sekisui House Real Estate Subcommittee CSR Sekisui House Remodeling Subcommittee Creation of E Environmental Committee CSR Sekiwa Construction Subcommittee “four values” • Prevent global warming • Protect ecosystems CSR Manufacturing Subcommittee • Recycle resources CSR Headquarters Subcommittee (Chairperson) (Secretariat: Environment Improving Department) Chairman CSR Supplier Subcommittee Environmental Homeowner S Social Improvement Committee CSR Sales Subcommittee (Vice Chairperson) Approval Vice Chairman value value Instruction • Improve CS, ES and SS • Human rights Deployment President • Diversity (active participation by women, workstyle innovations) • Health management Sustainability • Social contribution activities (training the next generation, environmental awareness, housing Referral culture improvement, support of areas and Progress Report people affected by disasters) report Economic Social (Secretariat: CSR Department) value value G Governance Committee Approval Proposals • Risk management Recommendations Opinions • Establishment of corporate ethics (Secretariat: (Secretariat: Legal Department & CSR Department) CSR promotion meetings in CSR Department) each area/company 63 Sekisui House Sustainability Report 2020 Summary of Initiatives Environmental management The year 2019 marked a transition in Japan to a new beginning; as the batteries even during power outages. name of the historical era changed from Heisei to Reiwa, we focused We believe our excellent track record our attention on the dawn of a new age in our country. in this area is attributable to customer At the same time, however, we had to accept that the dawn of a appreciation of the added value these new year also brought tremendous damage caused by record-breaking amenities provide. We are promoting rains from powerful typhoons that struck the Boso Peninsula and net-zero energy consumption in rental other parts of Japan. It is suspected that global warming is beginning housing and non-residential buildings as to have a major impact on our lives in the form of abnormal weather well by taking advantage of the expertise events. Clearly, these types of natural disasters can lead to supply we have gained from building detached chain disruptions and other business risks. We have come to realize houses. once again that proactive efforts to address non-financial issues in Regarding ESG investment, which the environmental field, including countermeasures targeting climate evaluates the long-term growth potential change, will significantly support the sustainable growth of companies. of companies, we have become the first Toshiharu Miura Among our measures to fight climate change, we are actively non-financial private enterprise in Japan Chairman of the Environmental Committee promoting the widespread adoption of the ZEH standard, which aims to provide institutional investors with to achieve a zero energy balance in the dwelling phase. In FY2019, the TCFD reports, which provide financial Director and Senior Managing Officer ZEH ratio of newly built detached homes we supplied reached 87%, information and analyze the risks and In Charge of Technology and we were able to achieve our target rate of 80% in FY2020 ahead opportunities posed by climate change. Divisions / Production & of schedule. In addition to the benefits of increased energy efficiency, In fiscal 2020, we will continue Procurement Division the ZEH standard is highly resilient because it provides comfort and to create sustainable value by “making economy and can be powered with solar cells, fuel cells, and storage home the happiest place in the world.” Improvement in sociability With a commitment to “making home the happiest place in the culture; and preventing disaster and world,” we remain focused on addressing social issues through providing disaster relief. In response housing. As a concrete measure to ensure the contentment of our to these policies, the Sekisui House customers, employees, and our communities, we are developing Matching Program, a joint donation technologies that pursue health in addition to safety, security, and system for employees and companies comfort through the fusion of tangible (technologies) and intangible that meet these policies, supports the elements. At the same time, we are maximizing customer satisfaction implementation of programs by nonthroughout the value chain. With regard to employee contentment, profit organizations and functions in we are strengthening initiatives such as promoting diversity, reforming cooperation with our offices. workstyles, and developing human resources in addition to gradually In April of this year, we established developing content for health management. In the summer of 2020, a human rights policy grounded in our we are launching a program of AI-based risk analysis of health checkup corporate philosophy. results and lifestyle improvement simulation programs. Our goal is to As we work toward the emergence raise awareness and improve the health literacy of all our employees. of a sustainable society, we will continue Takashi Uchida In terms of addressing the contentment of our communities, to enhance our corporate value by Chairman of the Social Improvement Committee we are solving social issues such as the declining birthrate and aging meeting the expectations of our various population through proposals such as nursery schools and nursing stakeholders as they expand globally. Executive Vice President and homes; specifically, we are specializing in four policies: nurturing the Representative Director next generation; protecting the environment; improving housing Management of Administration Division Governance ESG investment is now in excess of 3,000 trillion yen and is considered our 60th anniversary in August 2020, a driving force for corporate growth. With regard to the governance we are dedicated to making this year aspect, we have positioned 2018 as the First Year of Governance one in which every Sekisui House Group Reform and have begun implementing steps to strengthen our employee understands and acts on the corporate governance. We have implemented 17 reforms from the essence of our corporate philosophy and top management level to the business management level and are ESG management. continuously working to further improve them. These reforms include In addition to publishing this improving the independence of the Board of Directors and reviewing Sustainability Report, we have decided the term of office of the Representative Director. to issue a new Integrated Report in 2020 Moreover, in order to strengthen the governance system, it is with enhanced information for investors. important to promote the creation of an open workplace culture. The As the individual responsible for the Governance Committee under the CSR Committee promotes a more Investor Relations Division, I will continue open atmosphere in three phases: top-down, up and down from the to increase transparency and the middle, and bottom-up. In addition to promoting the permeation of, timeliness of our information disclosure. Shiro Inagaki and raising awareness of, governance compliance under the slogan Moreover, when designing media, we Chairman of the Governance Committee “Innovation & Communication,” we are nurturing the next generation will strive to reflect the Sekisui House of talented individuals who represent one of the foundations of our Group’s efforts to contribute to the Vice Chairman and growth. emergence of a sustainable society using Representative Director In October 2019, Konoike Construction Co., Ltd. became a a structure that is more conscious of the Management of Investor Relations Division subsidiary; as a result, the number of group employees both inside target audience. and outside Japan has grown to 27,000. As we prepare to celebrate Sekisui House Sustainability Report 2020 64 ESG and Other Data ESG & Main Indicators The Sekisui House Group aims to become a leader in ESG management by setting major non-financial indicators (including KPIs) and implementing the PDCA cycle to improve our initiatives while monitoring our progress. The ESG data presented below is also available on our website with greater detail. https://2c.sekisuihouse.jp/xs9q E Environmental 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2022 Main Themes Indicator Unit Results Results Results Results Target Results Evaluation Targets Targets Green First ZERO ratio*1 % 71% 74% 76% 79% 80% 87% ◎ 88% 90% Rate of CO2 emissions reduction % 8.6% 13.0% 16.0% 21.5% 23% 27.4% ◎ 29% 34% Decarbonized from business operations*2 Society Rate of CO2 emissions reduction % 21.3% 27.7% 36.1% 38.1% 39% 41.6% ◎ 42% 43% from new housing*3 Ratio of post-FIT power % − − − − 1% 1% ○ 6% 15% purchased*4 Sustainable wood procurement % 92.7% 92.6% 91.9% 93.6% 95% 95.3% ○ 95.5% 96% Society in Which ratio*5 Humans and Nature Coexist Eco-friendly tree planting*6 ×1000 11990 13060 14090 15020 16000 16110 ○ 17000 19000 Waste ratio (new construction)*7 % 5.2% 5.6% 5.5% 5.5% − 5.8% − 5.5% 5.2% Waste recycling rate Circular Economy % 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% ○ 100% 100% (new construction)*8 Waste recycling rate 90% 90% 90% % 93.2% 94.0% 95.5% 94.9% 94.3% ◎ (maintenance and remodeling)*9 min. min. min. *1 Ratio of ZEH equivalent houses to all built-to-order houses and condominiums (excluding Hokkaido) *2 Scope 1, 2: 50% reduction (relative to FY2013) in CO2 emissions by FY2030. Excludes Konoike Construction Co., Ltd., which became a group company in October 2019 (described in the boundary of current SBT targets). *3 Scope 3, Category 11: 45% reduction (relative to FY2013) in CO2 emissions for newly built detached houses and low-rise rental housing by FY2030. Excludes Konoike Construction Co., Ltd., which became a group company in October 2019 (described in the boundary of current SBT targets). *4 Percentage of electricity used for business operations (FY2040: 50%, FY2050: 100%) *5 Procurement ratio of Rank S and Rank A wood products (according to Wood Procurement Guidelines) *6 Cumulative number of trees planted under the Gohon no ki project *7 Waste ratio from raw material production and resource inputs for new industrialized housing products *8 Waste recycling rate for new industrialized housing products *9 Waste recycling rate for maintenance and remodeling work FY2019 value chain CO2 emission status (outline of Scope 1, 2, 3)*1 Scope 1 & 2 Scope 1 CO2 emissions associated with fuel consumption 70,574（t-CO2） Scope 2 CO2 emissions associated with purchased electricity and heat 50,808（t-CO2） Total of Scope 1, 2 121,382（t-CO2） Scope 3 Category 11 Use of sold products (dwellings) 3,605,204（t-CO2） Category 1 Purchased goods services (raw materials) 1,538,204（t-CO2） Other categories Product disposal, business waste, upstream transportation, etc.*2 361,547（t-CO2） Total of Scope 3 5,504,955 （t-CO2） Total of Scope 1, 2, 3 5,626,337（t-CO2） *1 Excludes CO2 emissions from Konoike Construction Co., Ltd., which became a group company in October 2019. *2 Category 12, End-of-life treatment of sold products (Product waste): 151,742 t-CO2 Category 2, Capital goods: 50,740 t-CO2 Category 3, Fueland energy-related activities not included in Scope 1 or Scope 2: 14,943 t-CO2 Category 13, Downstream leased assets: 5,569 t-CO2 Category 5, Waste generated in operations (Business waste): 97,508 t-CO2 Category 4, Upstream transportation and distribution (Transport): 31,374 t-CO2 Category 6, Business travel: 7,251 t-CO2 Category 7, Employee commuting: 2,420 t-CO2 65 Sekisui House Sustainability Report 2020 S Social 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2022 Main Themes Indicator Unit Results Results Results Results Target Results Evaluation Targets Targets Contributing to 95% 95% 95% Customer satisfaction*1 ％ 95.2% 95.5% 95.6% 95.8% 95.9% ◎ Health, Longevity and min. min. min. Wealth; SDG procurement coverage % − − 77% 80% 80% 76% △ 85% 90% Pursuing Customer Satisfaction through − − 85.0 86.2 82.2* 86.7 ◎ 87.0 88.0 2 Our Value Chain SDG procurement score Points Number and percentage of female People 114 141 158 176 206 185 ◎ 200 260 managers （％） （2.43%） （2.79%） （2.94%） （3.10%） （3.44%） Percentage and number of full-time % 23.6% 24.2% 25.0% 25.7% 26.4% − − 27.0% 28.0% female employees (people) （4954） （5142） （5431） （5657） （5930） Percentage and number of female % 40.6% 41.6% 40.3% 37.7% 42.0% Promoting Diversity − − 41.6% 42.0% new graduates hired (people) （276） （237） （266） （250） （281） Number of female directors (non1 or 1 or 1 or − − − 1* 1* ○ 3 3 People consolidated basis) more more more Employment rate of persons with % 2.21% 2.20% 2.38% 2.53% 2.55% 2.61% ◎ 2.61% 2.61%* 5 disabilities (non-consolidated basis)*4 Take-up rate for male childcare leave % 23.0% 70.0% 95.0% 100% 100% 100% ○ 100% 100% (non-consolidated basis) Annual paid leave take-up rate and % 32.8% 35.0% 39.7% 42.2% 56.1% Workstyle Reforms − − 57% 60% number of days taken (days) （5.8） （6.2） （7.1） （7.4） （9.8） Monthly average working hours per Hours 171.37 170.02 168.32 170.26 − 168.17 − 166.66 164 person Cumulative number of workers who Human Resource People have acquired major qualifications 18516 19588 20632 21516 − 22176 − 22300 22900 Development (total) required for a position*6 Governance awareness survey score Respect for Human for “Anti-power harassment Points 77.7 78.1 77.5 79.2 − 79.7 − 81.0 83.0 Rights culture”*7 Contributing to Sign-up rate for Sekisui House % 15% 16% 18% 21% 25% 25% ○ 30% 40% Society Matching Program *1 Total ratio of “very satisfied,” “satisfied,” and “somewhat satisfied” responses in the questionnaire after one year *2 Score evaluation criteria changed in 2019. *3 The three female executives comprise one Outside Director, one Outside Auditor and one Executive Officer. *4 Calculation based on the exclusion rate system (construction industry 20%) *5 The statutory requirement for number of employees with disabilities is achieved in the group as a whole. *6 First-class architect, second-class architect, first-class construction management technician, residential land building trader (passed), FP skill test (1st, 2nd, 3rd class) *7 An item of the annual governance awareness survey. Figures in the table are average values calculated as follows: “strongly agree”: 100 points, “mostly agree”: 75 points, “mostly disagree”: 25 points, “strongly disagree”: 0 points. G Governance 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2022 Main Themes Indicator Unit Results Results Results Results Target Results Evaluation Targets Targets Governance awareness survey score Points 77.9 77.6 79.3 79.7 82.6 79.0 △ 82.6 83.0 for “Workplace culture”*1 Strengthening Governance awareness survey score Our Corporate Points 81.3 81.1 82.9 82.7 86.1 81.9 △ 86.1 87.0 for “Compliance”*1 Governance System Governance awareness survey score Points 80.8 80.6 82.0 82.0 82.5 81.5 △ 82.0 83.0 for “Employee satisfaction”*2 Compliance and Risk Number of serious violations of laws Cases 0 0 0 0 0 0 ◎ 0 0 Management and voluntary norms Lost-time accident frequency rate in Occupational − 2.42 2.57 1.89 2.42 2.18 2.92 △ 2.63 2.13 the Construction Department Health and Safety Management Occupational illness frequency rate − 0.14 0.34 0.20 0.63 0.57 0.43 ○ 0.39 0.31 in the Construction Department *1 Items that serve as indicators for the creation of an open workplace culture among all survey items of the annual governance awareness survey. Figures in the table are average values calculated as follows: “strongly agree”: 100 points, “mostly agree”: 75 points, “mostly disagree”: 25 points, “strongly disagree”: 0 points. *2 Average of all items in the governance awareness survey. The calculation method is the same as that stated in footnote 1 above. Sekisui House Sustainability Report 2020 66 Material Balance (Environmental Impact) To make its environmental-conservation activities as effective as possible, the Sekisui House Group monitors and reports on environmental impact at each stage of the housing-product lifecycle—including development and design, raw-material procurement, factory production, transportation, construction, and occupancy—in Japan and overseas. FY2019 environmental impact of corporate activities 966,238 GJ 811,950 GJ 457,591 GJ Energy Energy Energy Electricity 48,472 MWh Electricity 45,610 MWh Gasoline 12,333 kl Natural gas 3,920 thous. m3 Light oil 361 kl LPG 1,982 t Natural gas 484 thous. m3 LNG 1,437 t Propane gas 41 thous. m3 Kerosene 214 kl INPUT Kerosene 25 kl Light oil 64 kl Cold water / hot Gasoline 29 kl water / steam 18,770 GJ 216 thous. m3 621 thous. m3 Water Water Water supply 216 thous. m3 Water supply 143 thous. m3 Industrial-use water 32 thous. m3 Groundwater 446 thous. m3 Business Development Raw-material Factory Transportation activities and design procurement production 53,791 t-CO2 1,538,204 t-CO2 41,498 t-CO2 31,374 t-CO2 CO2 emissions CO2 CO2 emissions CO2 emissions emissions *1 107 t 16,320 t Waste Waste (Recycling rate: 76.4%) (Recycling rate: 100%) OUTPUT Paper 71 t Glass/ceramics 7,575 t Other 36 t Metal 4,484 t *1 Amount of waste from the head office building Sludge 2,050 t Wood 1,447 t Other 764 t Scope 1, 2 Scope 3 Scope 1, 2 Scope 3 Note: All the figures for waste from business activities include valuables. Notes on the data Scope 1 and 2 emission amounts attributable to “construction” and “demolition” include CO2 emissions resulting from construction and demolition by non-Sekisui House Group partner building contractors (applicable to Scope 3). As it is difficult to separate the figures due to housing construction and demolition conditions, the values are included in the calculations for Scope 1 and 2 for the sake of convenience. Development and design (including sales and administration divisions and model homes) Factory production ● Energy and CO2: Energy consumption and CO2 emission at offices and ● Energy and CO2: Energy consumption and CO2 emissions at the five model homes. Offices of Konoike Construction Co., Ltd. have been Sekisui House factories in Japan and Sekisui House Advanced added to the target beginning with the current term (impact on reported Manufacturing (Shenyang) Co., Ltd., and the Ingleburn Manufacturing values is minor). and Quality Control Centre (Australia) ● Waste: The volume of waste generated by the Sekisui House, Ltd. head ● Waste: Waste generated by the five Sekisui House factories in Japan office (including offices of consolidated subsidiaries in the same building) Raw materials Transportation ● CO2: Estimated CO2 emissions associated with the production of materials ● Energy and CO2: Energy consumption and CO2 emissions at specified purchased by factories of Sekisui House Co., Ltd. consignors and Sekisui House Advanced Manufacturing (Shenyang) Co., Ltd. (calculated according to the guidelines provided in the Act on the Rational Use of Energy and version 4.4 of the manual issued by the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry) 67 Sekisui House Sustainability Report 2020 Scope: The subjects of this survey are Sekisui House, Ltd., its major consolidated subsidiaries in Japan (42 companies), and major consolidated subsidiaries overseas (11 companies). Scope 3 CO2 emissions include those attributable to parties outside the Sekisui House Group. Period: The data is for FY2019 (from February 2019 to January 2020). The figures include estimates in cases where final data was unavailable at the time of calculation. Construction energy consumption, CO2 emissions, and construction waste generated by Konoike Construction Co., Ltd., (which became a consolidated subsidiary in October 2019) during October to December 2019 are presented separately below. Sekisui House provides the Below are the figures for 403,743 GJ 197,061 GJ Energy Energy market with eco-friendly energy consumption, water Electricity 12,638 MWh products featuring PV systems consumption, waste, and CO2 Electricity 4,094 MWh Gasoline 6,979 kl and Ene-Farm fuel cells. By emissions resulting from the Light oil 4,133 kl Light oil 1,033 kl supplying detached houses demolition of old buildings Kerosene 35 kl (built to the Green First ZERO: prior to new construction. ZEH standard) aiming for Energy net-zero energy consumption. 20,331 GJ we succeeded in reducing CO2 emissions by 82.7% (relative to Light oil 539 kl detached houses from the 229 thous. m3 Water 1980s). 45 thous. m3 Water Water supply 229 thous. m3 Water supply 45 thous. m3 Konoike Construction Occupancy Demolition Construction Co., Ltd. 25,039 t-CO2 3,605,204 t-CO2 1,394 t-CO2 12,769 t-CO2 CO2 emissions CO2 CO2 emissions CO2 emissions emissions 148,572 t 454,773 t 102,019 t Waste Waste Waste (Recycling rate: 97.4%) (Recycling rate: 96.4%) (Recycling rate: 97.3%) Concrete/ Concrete/ Concrete/ asphalt concrete 24,460 t asphalt concrete 229,596 t asphalt concrete 69,520 t Plastic 18,974 t Wood 101,189 t Sludge 18,134 t Wood 17,713 t Debris 46,417 t Debris 7,219 t Sludge 14,286 t Other 77,571 t Wood 1,557 t Plasterboard 14,064 t Other 5,589 t Debris 12,737 t Other 46,338 t Scope 1, 2 Scope 3 Scope 1, 2 Scope 1, 2 Construction Konoike Construction Co., Ltd. ● Energy and CO2: Estimated energy consumption and CO2 emissions ● Energy and CO2: Energy consumption and CO2 emissions associated with resulting from new construction by 17 Sekiwa Construction companies domestic construction and civil engineering work (excluding demolition-only) and partner building contractors with Konoike Construction Co., Ltd. as the lead manager. The fuel consumption ● Waste: Waste generated via new construction, after-sales maintenance, by construction machinery is calculated from the number of operating days of and remodeling by Sekisui House, Ltd., 17 Sekiwa Construction construction machinery using the Japan Construction Machinery and companies, and three Sekisui House Remodeling companies Construction Association’s loss table for construction machinery. Energy consumption and CO2 emissions are only estimated for small-scale construction work at contracted amounts of less than 100 million yen. Occupancy ● Waste: Amount of waste generated by domestic construction and civil engineering work with Konoike Construction Co., Ltd. as the lead manager. ● CO2: Estimated CO2 emissions during occupancy at detached houses and low-rise rental apartments built from building components shipped from [Remarks] factories (calculated assuming an occupancy period of 60 years for ● We have a framework under which the head office receives reports of any detached housing and 45 years for low-rise rental apartments) violations of environmental laws or regulations at a factory. In FY2019, there were no major violations of greenhouse gas-related laws or regulations (no single case subject to criminal punishment, administrative penalty, or Demolition administrative guidance) nor any serious leaks of chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs). ● Sekisui House recycles all waste resulting from the production of materials purchased by factories. Of that total, the material-recycling rate was 94.9%. ● Energy and CO2: Estimated energy consumption and CO2 emissions ● The water discharged from our factories into rivers meets the water-quality resulting from the use of heavy machinery for demolition by 17 Sekiwa standards specified in Japan’s Water Pollution Control Law and other relevant Construction companies and partner building contractors regulations and agreements. The water from our Tohoku, Kanto, Shizuoka, ● Waste: Waste generated via the demolition of housing and commercial Yamaguchi, and Hyogo factories meets Sekisui House’s in-house standards, buildings by Sekisui House, Ltd. and 17 Sekiwa Construction companies which are stricter than the legal requirements. Sekisui House Sustainability Report 2020 68 FY2019 Accolades and Achievements Environment ● Climate change initiatives and information disclosure January 2020 Included in CDP 2019 Climate Change A List Community building and landscape ● Egota-no-mori Project May 2019 October 2019 The Townscape Award, Urban Space The Green City Awards, Green Business Division, Excellence Award Activities, MLIT Minister’s Prize Organizer: “Cityscape Day” Executive Committee Organizer: Organization for Landscape and Urban Note: Joint entry with the Egota 3-chome District Town Planning Infrastructure Council, the Urban Revitalization Organization, and the Note: Award shared jointly with the Mori Living-In-Lab Council of Medical Corporation Kenkokai General Tokyo Hospital Egota-no-mori, Urban Renaissance Agency, and Kenkokai Tokyo General Hospital ● Townhouse in The Hermitage, Australia ● Shin-Satoyama and the Wall of Hope October 2019 November 2019 HIA NSW Housing Awards Osaka Landscape Awards, Landscape Management Category First Prize for Townhouse/Villa Development The Expo ’90 Foundation (Commemorative Foundation for the International Organizer: Housing Industry Association Garden and Greenery Exposition, Osaka, Japan, 1990) President’s Award Organizer: Osaka Prefecture ● Singapore Integrated Complex Development ● Grande Maison Shin Umeda Tower Watertown & Waterway Point December 2019 October 2019 Osaka Eco-Friendly Architecture Award Housing Category Award Singapore Property Awards 2019 Organizer: Osaka Prefecture and Osaka City Integrated Complex Development, Medium-rise Condominium and Note: Award shared jointly with Takenaka Corporation Retail Categories Organizer: FIABCI Osaka City Housing Design Award Note: Award shared jointly with Frasers Property Limited and Far East Organization Organizer: Osaka City Note: Award shared jointly with Takenaka Corporation ● Kiara November 2019 “Night of the Stars 2019” High-Rise Residential Development of the Year Organizer: NAIOP Note: Award shared jointly with Holland Partner Group Kids Design Awards September 2019 ● Egota-no-mori Project Organizer: NPO Kids Design Association Note: Joint entry with the Egota 3-chome District Town Planning Council, the Urban Revitalization Organization, and the Medical Corporation Kenkokai Tokyo General Hospital (Designs to support comfortable child-rearing) Excellence Award (Minister of State for Gender (Designs contributing to the safety and security of children) Equality Award) ● Wooden horizontal louver handrail ● Ikumen Leave Note: Joint entry with LIXIL Corporation Special Award (Chief Juror’s Special Award) (Designs that develop children’s creativity and shape their future) ● Research on Baby OS ● Fresco-painting workshop at Koji Kinutani (thoughts and behaviors specific to infants Tenku Art Museum under the age of 3) Note: Joint entry with Combi Corporation ● Research into fatigue-fighting study environments Note: Joint entry with Osaka City University, Graduate School of Medicine and RIKEN 69 Sekisui House Sustainability Report 2020 Good Design Award October 2019 Japan Institute of Design Promotion ● House [Family Suite] Good Focus Award (Design of Community Development) ● Condominium (Prime Maison Egota-no-mori, Grande Maison Egota-no-mori) Note: Award shared jointly with Sakakura Associates Architects and Engineers, and Haseko Corporation Good Design Best 100 ● Apartment (Prime Maison Ryogoku) Prime Maison Ryogoku ESG Management ● Sekisui House, Limited February 2020 April 2019 Selected by RobecoSAM as “Silver Class” in the homebuilding category in the RobecoSAM Sustainability Award 2020 Selected as a Competitive IT Strategy Company 2019 Organizer: Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry and the Tokyo Stock Exchange August 2019 Osaka City Women’s Leading Company, Mayor’s Award Grand Prize Selected under the Bronze Class in the General Category and the Silver Class in the Industrial Category (Construction) of the Sustaina ESG Awards 2019 March 2020 Organizer: Sustaina Japan Inc. 2020 Certified Health and Productivity Management Outstanding Organizations September 2019 Certified in the large enterprise category “White 500” Selected by U.S. S&P Dow Jones Indices and Swiss RobecoSAM for Organizer: Japan Ministry of Economy, Trade inclusion in the Dow Jones Sustainability World Indices (DJSI World) and Industry and the Dow Jones Sustainability Asia Pacific Index (DJSI Asia Pacific) ● Disaster Response Kids’ Education Support Project March 2020 Japan Resilience Award Excellence Award Organizer: Association for Resilience Japan Osaka Prefecture Men’s and Women’s Lively Business Operator Awards Note: Award shared jointly with Sankei Shimbun Co., Ltd. and Osaka Gas Co., Ltd. Men’s and Women’s Lively Excellence Award February 2020 October 2019 Corporate Award for Promoting Youth Experience Activities Judging Committee Encouragement Award Gold Award in work with Pride’s “PRIDE Organizer: Japan Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology Index 2019,” a system for evaluating Note: Award shared jointly with Sankei Shimbun Co., Ltd. and Osaka Gas Co., Ltd. companies’ LGBT-related initiatives Organizer: work with Pride ● Koji Kinutani Tenku Art Museum November 2019 June 2019 2019 IT Award, Transformation Segment, IT Encouragement Award Organizer: Japan Institute of Information Technology Certified under “This is MECENAT 2019” Organizer: Association for Corporate Support of the Arts December 2019 Forbes Japan Women Award 2019 Third place in the Corporate Category (more than 1,000 employee class) ● Sustainability Report 2019 Organizer: Forbes Japan February 2020 23rd Environmental Communication Awards January 2020 Selected Hall of Fame Enterprise in the Environmental Report Category Sustainability Site Award 2020 Silver Prize (Excellence Award) Organizer: Ministry of the Environment and the Global Organizer: CSR Communication Association Environmental Forum Sekisui House Sustainability Report 2020 70 Independent Third-Party Assurance Report A third party was engaged to provide assurance on Sekisui House, Ltd.’s Sustainability Report 2020 and to verify that the report provides reliable information on the company’s energy consumption; waste and greenhouse gas emissions volumes; water used in factory production; and social reporting (occupational illnesses and frequency of accidents resulting in lost worktime). The J-SUS symbol indicates that a report has undergone an accreditation review under methodology adopted by the Japanese Association of Assurance Organizations for Sustainability Information. 71 Sekisui House Sustainability Report 2020 Sekisui House Sustainability Report 2020 72 Sekisui House was the first company in the housing industry to be certified as an Eco-First Company by Japan’s Minister of the Environment (MOE). Head Office 1-1-88 Oyodonaka, Kita-ku, Osaka 531-0076, Japan Direct inquiries to: ESG Management Promotion Headquarters Tel: +81-6-6440-3440 Environment Improving Department This document serves as Sekisui House’s report on the status of implementation for the 10 Principles of Tel: +81-6-6440-3374 the UN Global Compact (UNGC), which the group submits to the UN Global Compact Office. Corporate website: https://sekisuihouse.co.jp/english Published July 2020
