Sustainability Report 2019 Contents 5 Letter from the President 7 Importaco 9 Stakeholder Engagement 11 Importaco’s Contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals 13 Development and Continuity 16 Health and Well-Being 20 Sustainable Supply Chain 23 Leadership and Integrity 28 Environmental Sustainability 32 Actions Taken by Importaco to Address the COVID-19 Crisis 35 GRI Content Index Annex Photographs of Nature Paula Prats Development Value We are committed to continuing to develop the company following criteria of long-term growth, generating value for all our stakeholders Sustainability Report 2019 Dear Friends, of 19,984 hectares using agricultural 2019 was a very important year for best practice, and the integration of Importaco – we launched our strategic 190 suppliers into our Food Safety and plan up to 2022, through which we will Quality Programme. put our knowledge of nuts, dried fruit Our production centres are and mineral water to good use. This plan outstanding for their efficiency includes guidelines that will allow us to and specialisation, making them a become a more sustainable, innovative prime example of best practice in and outstanding company, able to meet food safety and quality. In 2019, our the expectations of all our stakeholders. investments reached 31.6 million The high level of professionalism euros, the most important of which shown by the 1,425 people who make up was the 17-million-euro investment our company is what makes it possible into building and equipping the Parc for our products to reach our customers Sagunt sunflower and pumpkin seed and consumers every day. Through their factory. This factory is outstanding hard work and commitment, we manage for its efficiency and specialisation to surpass the highest standards of in the production of sunflower and quality, food safety and sustainability. pumpkin seeds, which will prevent the With this in mind, in 2019 we created the presence of any allergens. Because the REM Project to foster our employees’ factory was created from scratch, it agility and independence. This new has incorporated all the best practices work model will enable us to enhance we have acquired over our years of Importaco’s growth and strengthen the experience. fulfilment of our corporate purpose. We Importaco’s food safety and quality are convinced that the only way to take model is widely recognised for its global full advantage of all the synergies within perspective and reliability. Our IFS and an organisation is to rely on the people BRC certifications, the research we that make it up, and their talents. carry out on food safety, and the ISO Importaco’s main value is in the 17025 accreditation of the laboratories wealth of knowledge held by its at our Technology Centre are all proof professionals, as reflected in our of the professionalism of our model. extensive experience and specialisation Each of these initiatives is carried out to in the nuts and dried fruit industry. With increase the excellence of our products this in mind, we started our integration and protect the health of consumers. project focusing on our products’ Importaco’s digital transformation origin. This enables us to collaborate is boosting the development of with farmers and suppliers in the our business and increasing our integration of food safety, quality and competitiveness. The transformation sustainability criteria into cultivation process we have embarked on will practices and product processing. In increase the efficiency of our processes 2019, we made significant progress in and the quality of the services we this regard by achieving the cultivation offer to our customers. Our plan has 5 been launched with pilot tests in The commitment to the consumer several production centres, and will and to keeping the customer at the be consolidated in the coming years centre demonstrated by the 1,425 with its implementation throughout the people who make up Importaco are business group. the key to achieving our outstanding Sustainability is another pillar of results. The annual turnover for 2019 is our strategic plan. We are therefore the reward for our work, with total sales committed to promoting social reaching 584 million euros, 8% more development and protecting the than the previous year. environment while carrying out our We would like to give our deepest activities. That is why we have made thanks to all the people who take part such great strides in reducing the in our initiatives. We are counting on environmental impact of our business. you to continue building the Importaco Specifically, all the electricity we project. consume comes from renewable sources and, thanks to our energy Toño Pons Casañ efficiency strategy, we have reduced President our energy consumption by 3%, which is equivalent to the energy needed to supply 6,500 homes. In addition, through our circular economy strategy, we recycle all the waste generated in our facilities, and we are working towards making all our packaging recyclable by 2025. 6 Importaco Structure Parent Company Food Natural Drinks Founded in 1940, Importaco is a leading Importaco has a presence in the company in the food and beverage national retail market as a supplier to industry. It specialises in the marketing Mercadona, in the international retail of nuts, dried fruit and mineral water, and market through the Itac brand, and in the is committed to quality, innovation and food service and ingredients markets for sustainability. the agri-food industry through the Itac With an international team of 1,425 Professional brand. people, we develop our business model based around health, and with the aim Natural Drinks: we take care of the origin of satisfying the expectations of our Through its Natural Drinks division, customers during all consumption Importaco is one of the leading companies occasions. To achieve this, Importaco in the distribution of mineral water in has an integrated value chain, a highly Spain, in terms of the volume of products professional team, and highly specialised sold as well as in terms of its presence in production centres. the national retail market. The Natural Drinks division has four Lines of business mineral water bottling companies located Importaco operates within two main lines in the mountains of Sierra de Albarracín, of business: Food and Natural Drinks. At Serra de Tramuntana and Sierra de the company, we develop our business Gredos, as well as in the Penyagolosa activity with a strong commitment to Natural Park. Our brands of mineral water guaranteeing responsible production and are: Agua de Cortes, Agua de Bronchales, consumption. AguaDoy, Font S’Aritja and Font des Teix. Food: more than 80 years of history Importaco in the world Importaco holds a position as the most Importaco, based in Beniparrell (Valencia, specialised company in the dried fruit and Spain), is a European leader in the nut sector, at the forefront of food safety marketing of dried fruit and nuts, and is and quality. Its achievements have shown the third-largest bottled water company in it to be one of the leading food companies Spain. In terms of commercial presence, in Spain, due to its commitment to health the company supplies dried fruit and nuts and sustainability. to 36 different countries. 7 Commercial Presence Africa Algeria, Lebanon and Morocco America Brazil and the United States Japan, Kuwait, Kazakhstan, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Asia Turkey and the United Arab Emirates Belgium, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Czech Republic, Denmark, France, Germany, Greece, Europe Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Lithuania, Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Ukraine and the United Kingdom Oceania French Polynesia Economic and Financial Data (in thousands) Economic value generated (€) 2018 2019 Net sales 538,724 584,561 Operating profit 28,754 29,444 Profit before tax 28,963 29,838 Profit after tax 22,457 22,400 Net worth 143,207 161,545 Investments 29,556 31,657 Economic value distributed (€) 2018 2019 Operating costs 38,234 41,063 Employee wages 49,176 54,163 Finance costs 1,285 1,376 Operational data (in thousands) 2018 2019 Kilos of nuts and dried fruit 86,961 92,481 Litres of mineral water 712,003 723,822 8 Poland Portugal Turkey United States Spain China Argentina Presence of Importaco Argentina Procurement office United States Procurement office China Procurement office Spain Headquarters Technology centre Training school Production centres (12) Offices (9) Organisation’s headquarters Poland Production centre Portugal Office Farms (3) Turkey Production centre Procurement office Stakeholder Engagement Open dialogue with our stakeholders is Materiality analysis fundamental to understanding what their Materiality analysis is a tool that allows expectations are regarding Importaco. us to reflect on the issues that are most We understand “stakeholders” to mean relevant to our stakeholders. In 2019, all those people and institutions that taking advantage of the launch of the are affected by our activity and that, in strategic plan for our dried fruit and nuts turn, can affect the achievement of our business, we re-evaluated our relationship objectives. Long-term relationships with with stakeholders in order to define an our stakeholders are the best way to interaction plan for each of them. We achieve sustainable development. That have also defined the key attributes of is why we open new communication reputation, along with their weight by channels every year, allowing us to stakeholder. communicate our activities in a simple and accessible way. Stakeholder Relations Tools for open dialogue Stakeholder Frequency and transparency Annual convention Annual Expanded Management Committee Six-monthly Executive Committee Weekly Workers Works Council Four-monthly The people who make up Equality Committee Four-monthly Importaco’s staff Internal communications Continuous Health & Safety Committee Quarterly Ethics Committee Occasional Intranet Daily Suppliers PPS suppliers' congress Annual Companies that supply Visits from purchasing, quality Continuous products or services to Importaco and sustainability teams Customers Customer service Daily Companies to which Importaco Crisis Committee On demand supplies its products Meetings with sales and quality teams Continuous Institutions and NGOs Meetings and events Continuous Organisations Importaco Collaboration agreements Continuous collaborates with Shareholders General Shareholders' Meeting Annual People who own shares in Importaco 9 Most Relevant Factors for Our Activity Customer satisfaction Use of materials Food safety and quality Working environment Ethical business Waste control and management Service Sustainable supply chain Competitiveness Agricultural best practice Digital transformation Human rights Innovation Financial sustainability Development, leadership and talent Occupational health and safety Energy efficiency Food waste Healthy products Diversity and equality Responsible use of water Local development 10 Importaco’s Contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals Contributing to sustainable development •  We achieve non-discrimination in our makes it possible to build a fairer society, recruitment and selection processes ensuring that no one is left behind. through the evaluation of the technical With its commitment to building a more profile of candidates. responsible food system, Importaco •  The number of women in middle and contributes to the achievement of the management positions exceeds 35%. Sustainable Development Goals through •  Our equality policy and action numerous initiatives: protocol in the event of gender-based harassment are included in the Group's collective agreements. Availability of nutritious food for all people is essential to achieving a fairer and more An efficient use of water sustainable society: is essential to protect the • Dried fruit and nuts stand planet’s water resources: out for their nutritional value, being a rich source of •  We protect our springs and avoid any protein, fibre, vitamins and kind of contamination. minerals. •  We carry out exhaustive monitoring of •  We collaborate with more than water consumption in our production 300 farmers, integrating agricultural centres. best practice in the cultivation of •  Process water is treated or recovered 20,000 hectares of land. according to its nature. •  Our production sites are certified in •  Process water has been reduced by accordance with IFS Food and BRC 27%, and 14% has been recovered for food safety standards. biogas production. •  We support organisations promoting healthy living through exercise. Importaco contributes to the energy transition through Importaco believes that its commitment to the gender equality is a human consumption of renewable right, forming the foundation energy and to energy efficiency: for a fair and sustainable • 100% of the electricity world: we consume comes from •  Our policies ensure equal pay, with renewable sources, which average salaries of 24,228 euros: has prevented the emission 25,088 for men and 23,222 for women. of 17,771 tonnes of CO2. 11 •  We have reduced our energy •  Over 80% of our purchasing volume consumption by 7% since 2018, which has been verified in accordance with represents 3,143 megawatts/hour. standards on food safety, quality, and •  We have solar energy plants that responsible production. generated 1,144 megawatts/hour in 2019. •  We have an agricultural best practice • Nine production centres have programme to integrate criteria of food implemented energy management safety, quality and sustainability during systems. crop cultivation. •  We maintain a clean label policy that helps us to minimise the use of Our commitment to creating additives, as well as sugar and salt an excellent work environment content. is embodied in programmes to enhance employee experience: Forests are essential •  Our workforce has almost equal resources to ensure food numbers of men and women, consisting safety and ecosystem of 656 men and 769 women. balance: •  We continued to generate employment •  We use cardboard from sustainable through the recruitment of 108 new forests, certified under the FSC system, employees, representing a 4% increase and we have committed to making our in staff. packaging 100% recyclable by 2025. •  We allocated over 490,000 euros •  We recycle and recover 100% of the to training programmes, equating to waste generated at our production sites. 43,036 hours of training per year. •  We work with farmers to integrate •  We have our own collective agreements environmental sustainability criteria that improve working conditions in our that help care for the soil and protect sectors. the environment. •  Every year we train our staff in environmental matters. At Importaco we promote innovation to achieve digital transformation and strengthen The Ethics Programme is our our plans to develop healthy way of contributing to the products: creation of a fairer society, •  We invested more than one million with strong institutions: euros in R&D+i projects. •  We have an Ethical Code, which all • We have a Technology Centre employees receive training on. dedicated to research and knowledge •  We maintain strict anti-corruption development on the subject of nuts and protocols through the prohibition of dried fruit. gifts and the regulation of hospitality. •  We use ISO 17025-accredited analytical •  We have an active complaints channel techniques. to identify cases of non-compliance •  We implement technological planning regarding ethical matters. and control systems in our production •  We extend our ethical commitments process to improve our productivity and to our suppliers through our Code of the quality of our products. Conduct. At Importaco we implement numerous programmes to achieve sustainable consumption and production throughout our value chain: •  We encourage efficient use of resources through our energy efficiency plan and environmental sustainability strategy. 12 Health Well-being Responsible production and consumption Importaco’s strategic lines have been defined to fulfil our purpose: to improve people’s health and well-being while ensuring responsible production and consumption Development and Continuity Strategy and business model is a guide that integrates the principles of Importaco aims to position itself as sustainable development and directs the the industry’s most highly specialised actions of all the people who make up our company in the production and organisation. distribution of dried fruit, nuts and mineral water. Importaco’s strategic lines have Corporate principles been defined to fulfil our corporate purpose: to contribute to improving •  Health and well-being: We contribute people’s health and well-being while to improving our consumers’ health ensuring responsible production and and well-being by supplying top-quality consumption. products that allow them to enjoy a good diet. Lines of the Strategic Plan • Leadership and integrity: People are the foundation of our growth. We place Keeping the customer at the centre our trust in exacting, committed and to achieve sustainable growth thorough people who share our values. Proactive and specialised global quality management • Environmental sustainability: We make responsible and efficient use of Specialised and efficient factories natural resources by seeking a balance Trained and fulfilled professionals between economic development and environmental protection. Operational efficiency through digital transformation • Innovation: We work as a team with Environmental sustainability in relation our stakeholders to develop innovative to energy, water and packaging projects that allow us to stay in tune Innovation in the development with the latest trends and create of healthy products shared value. • Technology: We incorporate technology Our corporate values and principles to transform our organisation and Importaco’s values were defined through products, using it as a tool to respond to group exercises carried out with our the challenges of the future. employees. During this process, we concluded that the values that most • Development and continuity: As a represent our company’s culture are: trust, family business, we maintain our values rigour and participation. and act with a commitment to longBased on these values and our term development and the creation of a corporate purpose, we created the shared project. responsible management model, which includes our corporate principles and commitments. The management model 13 Composition of the Board of Directors Date of last Position in the Name Board position appointment company Juan Antonio Pons Casañ President 2018 Executive Jerónima Casañ Verdeguer Vice-President 2016 Non-executive Bárbara Sancho Costa Vice-President 2018 Non-executive Eva Pons Casañ Secretary 2016 Executive Lucia Pons Sancho Member 2016 Executive Amparo Pons Sancho Member 2016 Executive Elena Pons Casañ Member 2016 Executive Natalia Pons Sancho Member 2016 Executive Fernando Pons Casañ Member 2016 Executive Francisco Pons Sancho Member 2016 Non-executive Organisational structure and strategic plan; monitoring of the 2019 saw the implementation of a new key management indicators; and organisational structure, which was achievement of the investment plan. approved by the Board of Directors in With regard to its composition, women September 2018. This new structure aims represent 70% of its members, and to make everyone more focused on the it has external advisors to ensure market and our customers’ needs, in order excellence in its performance. to meet all their expectations. The main changes to the new · Presence on other governing bodies organisational structure involve the Importaco holds shares in the strengthening of the General Department companies Helados Estiu and Foener, of Quality, Innovation and Environment and is a member of their boards of by integrating the lines of work of the directors. As an institution, Importaco two Group businesses under a single forms part of the boards of EDEM corporate management team, as well Business School and Fundación Étnor, as the creation of the commercial and the Governing Council of AINIA, the operational departments in the dried fruit Board of Directors of the Asociación de and nuts business. Snacks and the Executive Committee of FEDACOVA. Corporate governance Applying the principles of corporate Ethics Programme governance is essential to gaining the Importaco’s Ethics Programme is a tool trust of our stakeholders. That is why at used to integrate ethical criteria into Importaco we have rules and principles business management. This programme that regulate the relations between the consists of an ethical code that sets out different governing and management our commitments to our stakeholders, bodies: the shareholders, the Board of an ethical channel for reporting cases of Directors and the Executive Committee. non-compliance, and an ethics committee to monitor the implementation of the · Governing bodies programme. Importaco’s Board of Directors In terms of its implementation, is governed by the principles of the ethical code includes matters professionalism and transparency. of the utmost importance, such as The most important functions of this our commitment to the fight against body are: approval of Importaco’s corruption and to respect human rights. management model, corporate policies Among the protocols and internal rules we 14 have implemented, the prohibition against which includes protocols for detecting accepting gifts and the evaluation of the risks related to the company’s reputation, risk of money laundering in our value chain as well as management protocols for should be highlighted. protecting Importaco’s image. To communicate the various protocols, internal communications associated Institutional relationships with attendance at events were sent Our relationships with other institutions out in 2019, and the ethical code has allow us to communicate our corporate been disseminated to all staff. The next positioning and support initiatives steps in this project will be the creation aligned with our values. The Institutional of a practical version of the ethical code Relations Programme aims to expand focused on the needs of the production our relationships with stakeholders and areas, and the dissemination of the ethical increase our knowledge of industry channel to the entire workforce. developments. Importaco participates in the following Risk management institutions: AVE (Valencian Business Importaco has numerous programmes to Association), EDEM Business School, manage strategic, operational, technology, AECOC (Spanish Commercial Coding reputational and compliance risks. Risk Association), Asociación de Snacks, detection analysis processes are carried ANEABE (National Association of out in accordance with the analyses Bottled Drinking Water Companies), INC published by entities such as the World (International Nut Council), FEDACOVA Economic Forum, the Intergovernmental (Federation of Food Industries of the Panel on Climate Change and the United Region of Valencia), Spanish Chamber Nations Development Programme. These of Commerce, Fundación Étnor and IEF processes have identified the main (Family Business Institute). risks related to our activities as those associated with food security; operational risks, such as disruptions in the value chain due to external factors; and risks related to environmental sustainability, such as climate change and lack of water resources. In 2019, a reputational risk audit was carried out and a new crisis communication manual was created, 15 Health and Well-Being The way in which we feed ourselves has of 37 people whose backgrounds are changed dramatically in recent years in nutrition, chemistry, pharmacy, food due to globalisation and urbanisation, technology and engineering. In addition, which brings with it a major responsibility 70% of the centre’s staff are women, and to ensure people’s health. Importaco is women occupy 87% of the management committed to protecting the health of our positions. This team collaborates closely consumers through food safety and quality with the quality specialists at Importaco’s programmes, as well as by promoting production centres. In total, around healthy habits. This commitment frames 130 people from 9 different countries all our actions, from the development of work in the Department of Quality, R&D+i new products all the way to customer and Environment. service. Within the activities conducted under this management system, it is important Research applied to food safety to highlight the excellent results that have Ensuring the safety and quality of the food been obtained in the inter-laboratory we produce is the best way of protecting comparison studies carried out to evaluate the health of our consumers. Therefore, our analytical capabilities compared to at Importaco we have developed a those of other laboratories. In addition, programme to apply scientific and new protocols have been implemented technological innovation to food safety, to measure sugars and sorbates, key quality and nutrition plans throughout the components that determine the risk of value chain. products ageing during their useful life. Importaco’s Technology Centre In 2019, a total of 9,009 samples was expanded in 2019, and has seven were analysed in the Technology highly technical laboratories for carrying Centre’s laboratories, 21% more than last out sensory, physical, chemical and year, thanks to Importaco’s increased microbiological analyses. In this regard, investment in human, technological one of our priorities is the incorporation and material resources. In terms of the of new technologies in order to have number of studies, 24,000 analytical tests available methods of analysis that allow were carried out to measure important us to obtain fast and reliable results. With parameters such as mycotoxins, this objective in mind, the laboratories microbiological indicators, pathogenic have the capability to carry out ISO microorganisms and allergens. In addition, 17025-accredited analytical techniques we have analytical laboratories at our to measure levels of aflatoxins B1, B2, G1 production sites to ensure the quality and and G2 in dried fruit and nuts, through safety of our products. the use of high-performance liquid Thanks to Importaco’s professionals chromatography (HPLC). and its investment in different Our Technology Centre’s main value technologies applied to quality, our undoubtedly lies in the professionals products are subjected to exhaustive working there. The centre has a workforce methods of analysis performed in 16 1.6 million 1.8 million euros euros 2018 2019 Investment in Innovation At Importaco we are committed to developing healthy foods that form part of a balanced diet accredited laboratories, ensuring they understanding the consumer, the analysis meet the highest food safety and quality of market trends, and the transformation requirements. of concepts into real-life products. The Another of the lines of research technical capacity of our R&D+i team developed by the Technology Centre’s of professionals allows them to carry specialised team is detection, monitoring out the entire process in full, from the and action in the event of emerging conceptualisation and choice of raw dangers and health alerts. In 2019 we materials to the development of the implemented new methods for the technologies involved in the production detection of viruses and noroviruses: a processes. highly important advance to prevent the Importaco’s innovation processes spread of infectious diseases. include both collaborative innovation with customers as well as disruptive innovation Development of new products for long-term business development. Consumers are increasingly wellCollaborative research processes are informed and open to trying new foods, developed with our customers’ R&D+i leading to the diversification of dietary departments, where the technical capacity habits. At Importaco, these changes we of Importaco’s teams is made available have observed around us inspire us to to customers for the development of develop new products, with the aim of new products. This working methodology providing food that forms part of a healthy, makes it possible to develop ad hoc sustainable and balanced diet. It has products for each customer and to also been shown that healthy foods, such generate synergies between commercial as legumes, dried fruit and nuts, have areas and innovation areas. particularly low environmental impacts. At Importaco we are committed to The development of new products developing healthy foods that form part stems from the consumer: through an of a balanced diet. Therefore, the use of analysis of their needs, expectations, additives and palm oil has been minimised, forms of consumption and unmet along with sugar and salt content, in both demands. Our lines of work include newly developed products and during the the application of neuroscience to reformulation of our standard products. 17 As a result, the number of new healthier standards, and have programmes in place options we have launched has increased to reduce process variability, achieve by 78%. In total, 22 new products were process optimisation and eliminate launched in 2019, 18 in the dried fruit and product defects. nut business, and 4 in the natural drinks In 2019, the most outstanding projects business. in the area of operational quality were the installation of sensors to measure Specialisation of the entire chain essential quality characteristics and for Collaboration with all stakeholders in data acquisition, the specialisation of the value chain is essential to achieving quality professionals in sensory analysis, an outstanding product that meets and the implementation of new protocols consumer expectations. Importaco has a to prevent cross-contamination. The specialisation model that links emotions processes for selecting raw materials and with technical parameters, so that we can monitoring the final product have also adapt all processes in the value chain to been improved. achieve maximum consumer satisfaction. With regard to digital processing, Through the application of technological systems have been neuroscience techniques, we can implemented in order to plan production understand how consumers perceive in advance and to monitor its evolution in our products and what they base their real time. This project has begun at the decision-making process on with regard dried fruit and nut plant in Beniparrell to their purchases. Since 2018, we (Valencia), and will be extended to other have been analysing how the technical sites in the coming years. Through this characteristics of our products influence project we have been able to perform consumer acceptance. The products a predictive analysis of product quality tested include sunflower seeds, pumpkin and adapt production to control product seeds and walnuts. In addition, our teams variability. are constantly studying the stability of In addition, the sunflower and pumpkin our products’ quality, as well as their seed production centre in Sagunto positioning in relation to other products on (Valencia) has been optimised. This site the market. will only manufacture sunflower and In 2019, we created the improvement pumpkin seeds, which will allow us to and excellence units to encourage remove the product labelling indicating the involvement of all Importaco’s the presence of the allergens “tree nuts” professionals in food safety and quality, and “peanuts”. The production lines as well as in actions for the future, in incorporate the latest technology and are order to maintain our leading position connected to ensure real-time monitoring. on the market due to the excellence The facilities are highly efficient and have of our products. The most important temperature and humidity control systems plans carried out were the transfer of in place. food safety knowledge to suppliers, the application of preventive methods for Communication with customers the detection of foreign materials, the Communication with customers and study of new varieties to improve product consumers to learn about their experience characteristics, and the optimisation of in the consumption of our products processes in suppliers’ factories. The presents an opportunity for improvement. plans implemented in these units have The first source of information about led to an improvement in consumer a product is its labelling. Through the experience with our products, which has packaging, consumers can find out resulted in an increase in sales. the nutritional values of a product, contact details for Importaco, and Operational excellence recommendations for its proper use. Importaco’s production centres are In addition, packaging is an opportunity led by a strategy that combines food to promote healthy eating habits. For safety, quality, digital processing and products that have outstanding nutritional continuous improvement. All sites are values, we therefore use slogans to draw certified in accordance with IFS Food and consumer attention to the product’s health BRC (Global Standard for Food Safety) benefits. All information included on the 18 packaging complies with the applicable legislation and is strictly reviewed by regulatory specialists. Similarly, when a customer or consumer sends us a suggestion regarding our products, it is passed on to food safety and quality specialists who analyse the root cause of the reported issue and respond. The customer service protocols we implement regulate the response time for different queries, as we are committed to responding immediately when the incident may be related to an aspect of food safety. In 2019, we extended our customer service hours and established agreements with agencies in order to recover any samples in less than 24 hours. Collaborating to improve The promotion of healthy habits associated with food and exercise is our way of sharing our commitment to health with society. Importaco regularly collaborates with race events through the participation of the Importaco Runner team, sportsmen and sportswomen working at Importaco who take part in races and involve other colleagues in sport. In 2019 this team was present in the 10K race held in Beniparrell (Valencia) and in the Valencia Trinidad Alfonso EDP 10K, half-marathon and marathon events, where it was the largest corporate team in the competition. In addition to participating as runners, we support these initiatives through sponsorship and the donation of dried fruit, nuts and water. For example, in 2019 we collaborated with the Trinidad Alfonso EDP 10K, the Trinidad Alfonso EDP HalfMarathon, the Valencia Trinidad Alfonso EDP Marathon, the 10K race in Beniparrell (Valencia), the Trail de Bronchales race, the Gegant de Pedra race, the Club de Atletismo Playas de Castellón sport club, the UNICEF Torneo Baloncesto Toledo basketball tournament and Fundación Montanejos, among others. In total, the company has collaborated by supplying 43,600 litres of water and 1,900 packages of dried fruit and nuts. 19 Sustainable Supply Chain Collaboration between all stakeholders also take into account the minimisation of in the food chain is essential if we are the environmental impact of agricultural to produce safe and nutritious food. activities on the ecosystem, as well as Through our sustainable sourcing their influence on climate change. The programmes, we work with farmers and products included in this programme are agri-food companies that specialise in peanuts, sunflower seeds, almonds, corn nuts and dried fruit. Together, we are and walnuts. always working towards finding the best The different levels of integration variety and the optimal origin to achieve in the programme allow us to adapt to an excellent product that meets the the needs of farmers, supporting them expectations of all our customers. through direct collaboration in cultivation projects and monitoring. We also provide Responsible sourcing advisory services to help farmers select Importaco generates value throughout the most suitable seeds and to train them the supply chain, guaranteeing the food in agricultural best practice. safety, quality, and sustainability of all its In the area of quality, several products. Our model allows us to classify projects and action plans have been our suppliers into preferred, recurrent developed to ensure compliance with and occasional, according to the volume our standards from the very early stages of purchases and their level of integration of the supply chain. To this end, through of our policies. Preferred suppliers are a multidisciplinary team made up of those with whom we maintain a long-term specialists in agricultural integration, relationship that allows us to develop R&D+i and quality, Importaco has worked food safety, quality and sustainability closely with suppliers of products such as programmes. In 2019 we sourced 81% of prunes, raisins, pumpkin seeds, Peruvian our raw materials (in terms of volume) corn and popcorn corn. from these suppliers. Importaco has an Agricultural Integration Programme specialised in Agricultural integration Spanish almonds, through which we Importaco’s Agricultural Best Practice monitor the quality of all our Marcona, Programme aims to ensure the highest Largueta and common almond varieties. standards of food safety, quality and The main advances achieved in 2019 sustainability in the cultivation of nuts were improvements in traceability, a and dried fruit. To this end, Importaco reduction in the number of bitter almonds collaborates with 348 farmers in order to and improved peeling processes. We communicate consumer expectations. In should note that, in order to achieve these addition, we should highlight that in 2019 improvements, Importaco has developed projects were carried out with technology collaboration with farmers through centres in order to develop new varieties. quarterly visits and technical support to Food safety and quality during improve agronomic practices. cultivation are guaranteed through the In 2019 this programme was present in monitoring of cultivation techniques and Spain, Turkey, China, Argentina and Chile. of the main contaminants. In addition, we In total, 19,984 hectares were cultivated, 20 2019 2018 51,889 19,984 12,017 4,800 TONNES HECTARES Agricultural Best Practice Importaco’s Agricultural Best Practice Programme aims to ensure the highest standards of food safety, quality and sustainability in the cultivation of nuts and dried fruit Number of Suppliers by Geographical Area 2018 2019 AMERICA (United States, Argentina, 56 74 Chile, Peru, Canada and Brazil) ASIA (China, India, Turkey, Israel, Iran, Thailand, 17 33 Philippines, Sri Lanka and Indonesia) EUROPE (Spain, France, Italy, Bulgaria and Portugal) 84 49 AFRICA (Burkina Faso, South Africa and Tunisia) 8 6 OCEANIA (Australia) 1 1 Agricultural Integration 2018 2019 Farmers 392 348 Hectares 4,800 19,984 Tonnes 12,017 51,889 Suppliers / Quality 2018 2019 Within the Quality at Origin Programme 192 190 Certified in Food Safety and Quality (BRC/IFS) 82 111 Audited 65 82 Topics Included in Our Code of Conduct for Suppliers Commitment to Freedom of association Prevention of Regular employment respecting human rights and collective bargaining environmental impact Prohibition of sexual, Prohibition of Safe and healthy Prohibition physical, verbal or any forced labour working conditions of bribes other form of abuse Prohibition of Compliance with Right to Decent wages child labour environmental legislation privacy Fighting against No excessive Reducing natural Knowledge discrimination working hours resource consumption protection Suppliers / Social Compliance 2018 2019 Within the Social Compliance Programme 43 75 Who have signed the Code of Conduct 43 67 Who comply with the Social Compliance Programme 17 61 Audited 32 45 21 resulting in 51,889 tonnes of produce. working conditions and help protect the In addition, agricultural practices were environment. standardised and emerging risks were Our programme is implemented assessed for each product in order to globally, applying due diligence criteria improve cultivation techniques. to avoid any non-compliance. Its scope has been defined according to the Quality from the origin characteristics of the countries in which The development of quality plans in our suppliers carry out their activity. To all phases of the chain allows the total evaluate each country’s level of risk, we integration of consumer expectations. use the national Human Development Importaco’s Quality at Origin Programme Index defined by the United Nations aims to collaborate with our direct Development Programme. suppliers in the creation of a joint food The code of conduct has been signed quality and safety programme, which by 67 suppliers, who have committed to will allow the standardisation of product respecting human rights, the principles characteristics and processing. of the International Labour Organization Importaco has quality professionals (ILO) and Importaco’s environmental in all geographical areas who work with standards. In addition, four-pillar SMETA suppliers on a daily basis to improve audits are also conducted to verify their processes. In 2019 we collaborated compliance. These audits are mandatory with 190 suppliers in the development of for suppliers operating in countries quality management systems that were in deemed to be at higher risk. A total of accordance with Importaco’s standards. 45 audits were carried out in 2019. At the same time, new suppliers were A fundamental factor for developing also approved for integration into our decent working conditions is collaboration programme. with social entities. To this end, in 2019, Collaborating daily with suppliers we continued with our project to improve allows us to support their further working conditions in India, collaborating development and to work preventively with Traidcraft. Thanks to this programme, on the detection of incidents. Risks are hygiene and workplace conditions have therefore evaluated for each product in been improved to safeguard the health of order to develop effective control plans everyone. In addition, in Turkey, training for the resolution of deviations in physical, courses have been given to farmers on chemical or microbiological parameters. hygiene and labour rights, in collaboration In addition, thanks to the relationship of with our supplier. trust we maintain with our suppliers, when a deviation in a product is detected, the root cause is jointly evaluated in order to improve the processes involved. Continuous monitoring gives us direct knowledge of crop evolution, ensuring appropriate decision-making. Furthermore, in 2019, 82 audits were carried out to verify the management systems implemented at the centres. Training courses have also been given to technical teams, covering the detection of defects and their control mechanisms. Responsible sourcing At Importaco we are committed to respecting human rights in all our activities, along with the international standards established by the International Labour Organization and the OECD. Our Social Compliance Programme was created in 2012 with the objective of working together with suppliers to improve 22 Leadership and Integrity Leadership is the quality that allows Developing people people to work together to achieve a Importaco understands the development common goal. The people who make up of people to be a process of personal Importaco stand out for their knowledge and professional growth. Only through and commitment to the company’s this development can we attain a purpose. In order to further enhance their cross-cutting organisation, where talent, we have created the REM Project, everyone works together to achieve the which is based on the leadership skills organisation’s goals. The objective of the of our professionals, focusing on their REM Project, launched in 2019, is to create ability to transform Importaco into a more an organisation with high-performance agile, cross-cutting and change-oriented teams, where every individual is motivated company. and feels that they are contributing to fulfilling the organisation’s purpose. A diverse and committed team The people who make up Importaco Importaco’s workforce is made up of are the company’s main source of diverse and talented people who are differentiation and knowledge. That is capable of rising to the company’s why at Importaco we have development challenges. Thanks to our global vision, we policies to ensure that professionals can integrate new forms of leadership into acquire new skills and knowledge through our organisation, based on respect and training, 360-degree appraisals, and collaboration between people. With regard performance evaluations. These tools help to its organisation, Importaco is made us to ensure that all our employees are in up of corporate and business managers tune with the organisation’s policies and to ensure agile and cross-cutting objectives. management. Importaco’s annual training programme In 2019, our total workforce consisted reflects the training needs detected of 1,425 people, 4% more than the previous through internal policies and performance year. This increase was made possible by evaluations. Its objective is to strengthen the company’s continued development our staff ’s abilities, competencies and and the need to add new expertise to skills. Through this project, we encourage key departments within the organisation. the professional and personal growth In addition, 83% of our staff are on a of our employees, while improving their permanent contract. experience and career. In 2019, 90% of our In 2019, 108 new employees were hired, staff received training, which amounted for which we applied our recruitment and to 43,036 training hours. In terms of their selection policy, which includes criteria distribution per person, each employee that ensure equal opportunities and nonreceived 31 hours of training over the discrimination. These new employees course of the year, distributed almost included new additions to the organisation equally between men and women: as well as conversions to permanent 32 hours a year for men, and 30 hours contracts. a year for women. 23 The most important training courses and defined their objectives in accordance in 2019 were related to the strategic with the new criteria. reorganisation of the business model, continuous improvement programmes, a Occupational health and safety specialist course in business management, Importaco’s commitment to well-being and food safety programmes. at work means that we prioritise the Another tool within the development creation of healthier and safer working programmes is Importaco’s Leadership environments. To this end, Importaco has Model, which assesses the attributes of a global health and safety management Importaco’s leaders and their observable system that integrates our plans to behaviour. This model is assessed every prevent occupational risks and promote two years in a work climate study, and health and safety at work. This system is is shared in training sessions given by certified under the OHSAS 18001 standard company directors. The next work climate in seven work sites, representing the study will be conducted in 2020 and will workplace of 1,149 employees (84% of the involve the entire workforce. It is important workforce). to note that workshops have been held Occupational health and safety after each edition to increase employee objectives can only be achieved through motivation and satisfaction in their the involvement of all employees. experience with the company. Therefore, in the processes of Every year we also carry out a negotiating our own collective agreements, performance evaluation associated with we include aspects such as the provision the management of each professional’s of personal protective equipment, the individual talent. This assessment creation of health and safety committees, measures the employee’s performance, worker participation, training, complaint and aims to create an individual mechanisms, and the right to refuse development plan to enhance their unsafe work. With regard to training, professional development. In 2019 we in 2019 we provided 3,478 hours of created a new tool through which we can training, with 755 people being trained in identify new talent and achieve greater occupational risk prevention. interaction between our professionals. In In addition, Importaco has health and this first phase, 563 people participated safety committees in sites with more than 24 2019 2018 24,555 20,219 21,597 18,481 MEN WOMEN Training Hours The aim of our training programme is to strengthen our staff’s abilities, competencies and skills Distribution of Workforce by Gender, Age, Country and Professional Classification By gender 2018 2019 Men Women Men Women Number of employees 611 764 656 769 Total 1,375 1,425 By age 2018 2019 < 30 years old 165 165 30-50 years old 965 987 > 50 years old 245 273 By country 2018 2019 Spain 1,260 1,305 Portugal 2 4 Poland 76 77 Turkey 26 28 China 4 4 India 1 1 Argentina 3 3 Chile 1 1 United States 2 2 By professional classification 2018 2019 Qualified 536 425 Specialists 372 522 Technicians 249 245 Managers 198 211 Executives 20 22 Diversity 2018 2019 Employees with a disability 27 27 25 Distribution of Workforce by Type of Contract PERMANENT TEMPORARY By gender 2019 Men 695 74 Women 532 124 Total 1,227 198 By age Under 30 years old 133 32 30-50 years old 859 128 Over 50 years old 235 38 Total 1,227 198 By category Qualified 234 191 Specialists 517 5 Technicians 245 0 Managers 209 2 Executives 22 0 Total 1,227 198 Distribution of Workforce by Type of Employment FULL TIME PART TIME By gender 2019 Men 761 8 Women 590 66 Total 1,351 74 By age Under 30 years old 165 0 30-50 years old 921 66 Over 50 years old 265 8 Total 1,351 74 By category Qualified 405 20 Specialists 478 44 Technicians 238 7 Managers 208 3 Executives 22 0 Total 1,351 74 26 50 employees, and prevention delegates in Equality and diversity smaller sites. These committees maintain At Importaco, we believe that equal parity of composition and meet quarterly. opportunities is an essential factor for Their functions include promoting creating fairer working environments. With initiatives to improve working conditions this in mind, we have measures in place to and monitoring the organisation’s health achieve effective equality between men and safety performance. and women in access to employment and in the development of professional duties. Labour relations In 2019, the Importaco workforce was Importaco supports and respects freedom made up of 54% men and 46% women. In of association and the right to collective addition, women hold 36% of the middle bargaining. We are committed to the legal management and executive positions. representation of workers and we strive to Remuneration policies are one of create a framework of trust that promotes the most important ways of recognising open dialogue and transparency. employee value in a workplace At Importaco we have two collective environment. Importaco’s remuneration agreements of our own: one for corporate policy is based on job maps that describe management and the dried fruit and nut each position’s contribution to the business (negotiated in 2019), and another company strategy. The positions are for the natural drinks business (negotiated assessed independently, which eliminates in 2018). Both agreements improve on the any discrimination based on gender, conditions of the sectoral agreements race, social orientation or politics. The in terms of remuneration as well as the average salary of Importaco’s staff is distribution of the working day, flexibility 24,228 euros: 25,088 euros for men and and work-life balance. All our staff in Spain 23,222 euros for women. are covered by a collective agreement; in With regard to policies to promote workthe other countries we operate in, we are life balance, Importaco offers measures governed by national regulations. designed to improve the organisation of In addition to addressing conditions working time, such as flexible working regarding the organisation of work, hours, the possibility of combining work and these agreements regulate highly study, and the reduction of working hours important aspects and protocols for in the case of legal guardianship. In 2019, the improvement of working conditions 64 people used these work-life balance in the Group. These measures include, measures (78 people used them in 2018). among other things: a protocol for As regards maternity and paternity leave, in action in case of sexual or gender-based 2019, 30 women and 19 men took parental harassment, environmental management, leave (in 2018, it was 9 men and 16 women). the integration of minority groups, and All employees returned to their positions training. In order to strengthen internal following their parental leave, and all remain regulations on social matters, a social working in the company 12 months later. committee will be set up (ensuring parity of composition) to study new methods to improve the Group's working conditions. The issues that will be dealt with by this committee include policies for digital disconnection and measures for work-life balance. Agreements are actively communicated to all employees. To improve this process, a guide to frequently asked questions on labour matters has been created to practically convey the areas regulated by the agreements. This initiative has enabled us to manage questions more efficiently and connect everyone with the concepts surrounding labour regulations. 27 Environmental Sustainability Climate change, loss of biodiversity renewable energy consumption. and lack of water resources are some Green energy, including electricity of the challenges we face regarding produced from renewable sources and the sustainability of life on our planet. energy produced from the biomass At Importaco we are convinced that boiler, represented 61% of the total our development must contribute to energy consumed, enabling us to prevent sustainability, which is why every year we the emission of 14,771 tonnes of CO2. strive to integrate environmental criteria The energy consumed in 2019 totalled into the organisation’s daily decision75,035 megawatts/hour. In addition, total making. emissions from energy consumption equalled 7,409 tonnes of CO2 for Scope Responsible energy consumption 1 emissions and zero for Scope 2 emissions, Climate change is a reality that is affecting thanks to the purchase of renewable human health and development in many energy. regions of the world. At Importaco, we believe that by integrating environmental 2018 2019 sustainability criteria into the projects we develop, we can contribute to Energy consumption Megawatts Tonnes Megawatts Tonnes protecting nature. As a company, it is our and emissions by per hour of CO2 per hour of CO2 energy source responsibility to move towards a lowcarbon economy. Renewable energy 43,915 0 41,377 0 Our energy efficiency strategy was Gas 22,819 5,750 24,976 6,294 created in 2018 and aims to reduce our energy consumption by 8% by 2020. Propane 2,369 602 2,553 648 Through this plan, we prioritise renewable Diesel 1,634 508 1,501 467 energy consumption, engage people in the sustainable use of energy, and utilise Almond shells 4,431 0 4,628 0 technology to reduce energy consumption. Energy consumption was reduced by 4% in 2019, and has now reached a 7% decrease since the start of the strategic Sustainable use of water plan. This reduction is equivalent to a Without water, there is no life. Fresh decrease of 1,764 megawatts/hour and water accounts for just 3% of all water 3,143 megawatts/hour respectively. on the planet, and the ever-increasing Our production centres have systems level of water stress due to climate to monitor energy use, and utilise change is affecting its availability. Aware technology to acquire real-time of this reality, Importaco has set out consumption data and to detect any to maintain water quality and use it deviations. In addition, measures have efficiently. The lines of work that outline also been implemented to improve the our strategy in this area are: efficiency efficiency of processes and facilities. in water consumption, reduction of Another line of work in our energy water pollution and proper treatment for efficiency strategy is the prioritisation of water reuse. 28 5,689 5,100 2018 2019 Waste Generated (t) We recycle, recover and reuse the waste generated in all our centres In the dried fruit and nuts business, The water consumed at Importaco cleaning tasks have been improved, and a comes from the public supply network study has been carried out to determine (dried fruit and nut business) and from how to make more efficient use of water underground collection (natural drinks in our production processes. We should business). In total, 860,488 m3 of water highlight that in 2019, a study was carried was consumed in 2019 (851,285 m3 out to establish how to reuse process was consumed in 2018). The difference water at the Snacks production centre. between the two amounts is due to an The measures derived from this study increase in production. Industrial water will allow us to use water more efficiently, derived from our production processes potentially saving 70% of our water is treated by authorised managers or consumption. is purified in our facilities. In 2019, the In the natural drinks business, the industrial water originating from this most important aspect is the purity of the process totalled 61,814 m3 and 8,890 springs and the sustainable use of water tonnes of water (85,774 m3 and 8,175 throughout the process. Accordingly, our tonnes in 2018). All discharged water met springs have security perimeters that the required parameters, and 14% was protect them and prevent contamination reused for biogas production. from external factors. In addition, we also have monitoring systems to check up Circular economy on the status of the aquifers. Thanks to Our sustainable growth strategy is being this information, we have increased the developed within the framework of a efficiency of our bottling processes. circular economy. We therefore act in 29 every phase of our products’ value chain, waste produced at the Beniparrell dried from the design of the packaging to the fruit and nut plant (Valencia). In this recovery of the waste generated in our study, we have detected possibilities for production centres. reduction, reuse and recovery through Packaging is essential to guarantee the which we can reduce food waste in our food safety and quality of our products. facilities. It also plays a key role in transmitting As regards plastic, new separation information to the consumer and points have been implemented in our communicating the product’s conditions production centres for microwave of use. However, in order for packaging to popcorn, chocolate-covered nuts, snacks continue to be useful, its composition and and food service. Thanks to this measure, end-of-life options must be re-evaluated. in 2019 we recycled 100 tonnes more At Importaco we are committed to plastic than in 2018, even though the improving the sustainability of our bottles volume of plastic waste generated was and packaging. To this end, we aim to lower than in 2018. In total we recycled make all our packaging recyclable and 5,100 tonnes of waste in 2019. have all our bottles made of 25% rPET by 2025. We are also committed to Environmental impact of sourcing 95% of our cardboard from our products sustainable forests (FSC-certified) by At Importaco we want all the actions we 2020. take in relation to the environment to make To increase the recyclability of our products more sustainable, while also our packaging, we have developed contributing to improving our consumers’ collaboration projects with the diets. To this end, we only use palm oil that technological institutes ITENE and is certified by the RSPO (Roundtable on AINIA. Thanks to these studies, we Sustainable Palm Oil), which guarantees have developed lines of work to define that it comes from sustainable forests. packaging for the future that will help us In addition, in 2019 we carried out to be more sustainable. It is important a life cycle analysis of common and to highlight that our suppliers also Marcona almonds in order to know the participate in this process, enabling us impact of each phase in the value chain to find solutions that allow us to combine (from the field to the customer). Thanks our policies on sustainability, food safety to this project, we are now aware of the and quality. carbon footprint and the water footprint In 2019, the materials used to package of these two varieties, as well as potential and bottle our products were cardboard, areas of improvement to reduce their plastic, glass and metal. In total, 91% of environmental impact. Following on from the materials used were recyclable. this project, we will define environmental 90% of the cardboard used is recycled, cultivation best practices to improve their and 72% comes from sustainable forests sustainability. (FSC-certified). Continuing with the sustainability of Importaco sites are managed under our value chain, we periodically carry zero-waste principles. To this end, we out an environmental assessment of our have separation systems that facilitate raw material and packaging suppliers in the utilisation of the waste generated by order to ascertain their impact on the our activity through our reuse channel. environment. Thanks to these audits, we Operational improvements have made it can establish improvement plans that allow possible to reduce the amount of waste us to improve the performance of our value generated by 15%. With the separation chain. In 2019, 45 raw material suppliers carried out in 2019, it was possible were audited using the four-pillar SMETA to reduce the amount of industrial approach, and 23 material suppliers have waste generated by 399 tonnes, which been ISO 14001 certified. represents 40% less than the previous year. In addition, this industrial waste is Environmental management system recovered through energy generation. Currently all our production centres in A study has also been carried out Spain and Turkey are certified with the to discover the main sources of waste ISO 14001 environmental management generation and the amount of organic standard. The environmental management 30 system is overseen from the company’s In addition, before implementing corporate management departments, any new processes, their effects on the and is implemented in our production environment are assessed in order to centres, following an assessment, in order prevent any negative impacts. Through to reduce their footprint. This certification this procedure, we can reduce our levels verifies that Importaco complies with all of pollution and control any emissions, environment-related laws and regulations. noise or light pollution that may affect our environment. Waste generated (t) Elimination method 2018 2019 Cardboard Recycling 1,627 1,327 Plastic Recycling and energy recovery 458 400 Organic Reuse 2,103 1,882 Raffia Recycling 204 237 Industrial waste Energy recovery 975 617 Wood Recycling and reuse 288 200 Scrap metal Recycling 33 59 Oil Recycling 377 Total non-hazardous waste Recycling, recovery and reuse 5,689 5,100 Treated according to the nature Total hazardous waste 50 50 of each waste product Material consumption (t) 2018 2019 Cardboard 1,275 1,337 Plastic 14,765 14,390 Glass 10 0.10 Metal 0.3 0.009 31 Actions Taken by Importaco to Address the COVID-19 Crisis The disruption caused by the arrival • Strict hygiene and disinfection of COVID-19 is affecting every area of protocols, due to which the cleaning our lives: health, work, the economy, of the facilities has been tripled, along etc. Aware of the importance of helping with the disinfection of common areas overcome this situation, Importaco such as changing rooms, canteen, created the “Overcoming Barriers parking lots, etc. Together” strategy. The aim of this • Delivery of a personal hygiene kit strategy is to protect the health of all to each worker, containing a mask, employees and guarantee our customers’ face shield, alcohol hand sanitiser supply. The strategy has three pillars: and gloves. • Implementation of physical separations in the production lines to ensure the I TAKE CARE OF MYSELF, safety distance is maintained between YOU TAKE CARE OF ME workers. • Reorganisation of start times, finish Under the slogan “I take care of myself, times and lunch shifts to avoid crowding you take care of me”, we are encouraging and ensure the safety distance (1.5 our workers to protect their health by metres) is maintained. Reorganisation complying with all hygiene protocols. of the entrance to the dried fruit and The main measures implemented are: nuts plant. • Reduction of the capacity of the Health and hygiene to protect our canteen and changing rooms to ensure workers the safety distance (1.5 metres) is • Protocol that allows workers to maintained. New protocols for the use communicate their symptoms of changing rooms. 24 hours a day in order to advise • Reorganisation of production to them on the steps to follow with the create smaller teams (small working health authorities. In addition, we groups), so that the safety distance is are measuring all our employees’ maintained and any close contact is temperatures at the beginning of minimised. their shift. • Elimination of visits to production • Special measures to protect centres that are non-essential for its high-risk groups. activity. In addition, for visits that are 32 76,000 litres 42,200 packets of mineral water of dried fruit and nuts Donations to Hospitals and Care Homes The aim of the Overcoming Barriers Together strategy is to protect the health of all employees and to guarantee the supply of our products indispensable, a protocol has been communication via the app was >65%). created to assist subcontractors and • Communication plan in the event a hauliers, ensuring they comply with positive case is detected. all the established hygiene and safety • Transparent communication with our measures. stakeholders to inform them about the • Protocol for returning to work in offices measures and actions being taken. through the adaptation of spaces and • Video to highlight our management of flexible hours to comply with hygiene the situation in the face of COVID-19. measures. • Participation in the “This Doesn’t Have • Promotion of work-life balance measures. to Stop” initiative. Communication Management system • Creation of a communication channel • Creation of the crisis committee led by through team leaders so that workers Importaco’s President, with actions in receive daily information about the both businesses (dried fruit and nuts, actions being taken. and natural drinks). • Definition of the communication plan • Creation of management committees: to promote motivation and help create People to follow up on employee peace of mind among employees. symptoms and make employee-related • Implementation of a mobile app decisions. and daily notices to communicate Hygiene to implement all hygiene these measures to all workers in a and disinfection protocols in the transparent way (the opening rate of the production centres. 33 Stocks to guarantee the supply TOGETHER WE GUARANTEE of masks, face shields and alcohol ACTIVITY hand sanitiser. Teleworking to explore the best way to Under the motto “Together we guarantee return to work in offices, guaranteeing activity”, we are implementing measures to the safety of everyone. ensure business continuity: • Creation of a service committee to Monitoring system evaluate daily supply commitments with • Training courses on hygiene protocols customers. and safety measures. • Daily assessment of raw material • Audits to verify compliance with stocks and logistics to guarantee implemented procedures. correct supply. • Unannounced drills to evaluate protocol • Daily contact with industry associations operation. to learn about the main developments of the crisis. • Start-up of the Parc Sagunt factory to RESPONSIBLE HEROES guarantee a supply of sunflower and pumpkin seeds. Under the slogan “Responsible heroes”, we are motivating our employees in their daily work, making them aware that we have a very important role to play in society by supplying food. To this end, we share our main production indicators on a weekly basis, and collaborate with social entities and institutions through the donation of our products. • Donation of 76,000 litres of water to hospitals and care homes in the Community of Valencia, the Community of Madrid and Castilla-La Mancha. • Donation of 42,200 packages of dried fruit and nuts to hospitals and care homes in the Community of Valencia. • A €200/month bonus for workers who come to the workplace every day. 34 GRI Content Index This report has been prepared in as respect for human rights) apply accordance with GRI standards, in line inside and outside our organisation. with the Core option. Importaco is a member of the United Entities Included in the Nations Global Compact, and this report Consolidated Financial Statements acts as a progress report. The GRI index indicates the different parts of the YES Importaco, S.A. document that are related to each of the Global Compact’s principles and the YES Importaco Casa Pons, S.A.U. sustainable development goals. YES Importaco Chocolates, S.A.U. The report’s contents were compiled YES Importaco Food Service, S.L. by applying the principles contained in the GRI 101 Standard: Foundation 2016. YES Importaco Ingredients, S.L. YES Importaco Snacks, S.A.U. • Stakeholder inclusiveness: The content of the report is based on the YES Importaco Internacional, S.L.U. stakeholder engagement processes YES Importaco Poland SP. Zoo. carried out in 2019 (detailed in the chapter “Stakeholder Engagement”). YES Importaco Gida Sanayi Ve dis Ticaret • Sustainability context: Throughout the Anonim Sirketi report, we have tried to convey how we YES Importaco Terra, S.L.U. perceive sustainable development and how we put it into practice through our YES Importaco Terra la Guita, S.L.U. products. All the information included YES Importaco Terra Portugal, S.A. refers to our own impact, taking into account the geographical areas we have NO Desarrollo Empresarial y Capital, S.L.U. a presence in. YES Bebidas Naturales, S.L. • Materiality: When deciding on material issues, we have taken into account the YES Aguas de Cortes, S.A. economic, environmental and social YES Agua de Bronchales, S.A. impact we are exposed to as a company YES Fuente Arevalillo, S.L.U. working in the food and beverage industry. In addition, prior to the report, YES Font Teix, S.A. we assessed the key issues and future NO Helados Estiu, S.A. challenges to help achieve sustainable development. NO Fondo de Energías Renovables, S.A. • Completeness: The information included attempts to convey the most important actions and impacts that took place during the reporting period. In terms of coverage, we have included information regarding our supply chain when considering which aspects (such 35 EXTERNAL RELATIONSHIP GRI STANDARD CONTENT PAGE / RESPONSE ASSURANCE WITH THE SDGs GRI 101: Foundation GRI 102: General Disclosures 1. Organisational profile 102-1 Name of the organisation Yes Activities, brands, 102-2 Yes products, and services 102-3 Location of headquarters 102-4 Location of operations Yes 102-5 Ownership and legal form Public limited company Yes 102-6 Markets served Yes 102-7 Scale of the organisation Yes Importaco’s staff turnover in 2019 was 3.6%: 5.6% for men and 1.9% Information on employees for women. In terms of age, staff 102-8 Yes SDG 10 and other workers turnover was 2.4% for people under 30; 2.9% for those between 30 and 50; and 6.9% for people over 50 102-9 Supply chain Yes Significant changes to the 102-10 Yes organisation and its supply chain Precautionary Principle 102-11 Yes or approach 102-12 External initiatives Yes 102-13 Membership of associations Yes 2. Strategy Statement from senior 102-14 Yes decision-maker Key impacts, 102-15 Yes risks, and opportunities 3. Ethics and integrity Values, principles, standards, 102-16 Yes SDG 16 and norms of behaviour Mechanisms for advice and 102-17 Yes concerns about ethics 36 25,088 24,228 23,222 MEN WOMEN Average Salary (€) Our remuneration policy is based on the job being carried out, which guarantees that equal pay is given for equal work EXTERNAL RELATIONSHIP GRI STANDARD CONTENT PAGE / RESPONSE ASSURANCE WITH THE SDGs 4. Governance 102-18 Governance structure Yes Consulting stakeholders on 102-21 economic, environmental, Yes SDG 16 and social topics Chair of the highest 102-23 Yes SDG 16 governance body Role of highest governance 102-26 body in setting purpose, Yes values, and strategy 5. Stakeholder engagement 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Yes SDG 8 Approach to stakeholder 102-43 Yes engagement 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Yes 6. Reporting practice Entities included in the 102-45 Yes consolidated financial statements Defining report content 102-46 Yes and topic Boundaries 102-47 List of material topics Yes 102-48 Restatements of information N/A Yes 102-49 Changes in reporting Yes 102-50 Reporting period Yes 102-51 Date of most recent report Yes 102-52 Reporting cycle Yes Contact point for questions 102-53 Yes regarding the report Claims of reporting in accordance 102-54 Yes with the GRI Standards 102-56 External assurance Yes 37 EXTERNAL RELATIONSHIP TOPIC GRI INDICATOR PAGE / RESPONSE ASSURANCE WITH THE SDGs GRI 103: Management Approach GRI 201: Economic Performance Management Approach Yes GRI 200: Economic Topics Profits obtained by country, taxes SDG 201: Economic Performance 201-1 and 201-4 paid on profits and public subsidies Yes 1, 2 and 9 stated in the annual accounts 202: Market Presence 202-12 Yes Expenditure on local suppliers 204: Procurement Practices 204-1 Yes stated in the annual accounts 205: Anti-corruption 205-2 Yes GRI 300: Environmental Topics SDG 301: Materials 301-1 Yes 8 and 12 302: Energy 302-1 and 302-4 Yes 303: Water and Effluents 303-1 Yes 305-1, 305-2, 305305: Emissions Yes 5 and 305-6 306: Waste 306-2 Yes In 2019 we were not made aware of 307: Environmental Compliance 307-1 Yes any environmental non-compliance 308: Supplier Environmental 308-1 Yes Assessment GRI 400: Social Topics 401: Employment 401-1 Yes In 2019 there were 97 accidents that 403: Occupational Health 403-1, 403-2, 403resulted in leave (incident rate: 7.9) Yes and Safety 3 and 403-4 and 192 that did not result in leave (incident rate: 15.7) 404: Training and Education 404-1, 404-2 nd 404-3 Yes Average salary of directors and 405: Diversity and executives stated in the annual 405-1 and 405-2 Yes Equal Opportunity accounts. The Group's absentee rate was around 3.57% In 2019 we were not made aware 406: Non-discrimination 406-1 Yes of any cases of discrimination 408: Child Labor 408-1 Yes 414: Supplier Social Assessment 414-1 Yes In 2019 we were not made aware of 416: Customer Health 416-1 and 416-2 any non-compliance regarding Yes and Safety product health and safety In 2019 we were not made aware 419: Socioeconomic 419-1 of any non-compliance regarding Yes Compliance financial or economic laws 38 39 The information contained in this report refers to the year 2019. The report is produced annually, with the last one being published on 26 May 2019. If you have any questions or concerns about the information published, please contact the Sustainability Department. Photographs of nature: Paula Prats Interior photographs: Josep Gil Design and layout: Dídac Ballester Printing: La Imprenta CG IMPORTACO Sustainability Department Pol. Industrial Carrascal Oest Calle Real de Madrid Nord, número 81-83 46469 Beniparrell (Valencia, Spain) sostenibilidad@importaco.com 40 -14,771 tonnes of CO2 Electricity from Renewable Sources All the electricity we consume comes from renewable sources, which has prevented the emission of 14,771 tonnes of CO2
