2020 C OM MU NI C AT IO NS O N P ROG R E SS |Page1 Message from the CEO As we approach the end of our seventh year communicating our progress to United Nations Global Compact, I am pleased to reaffirm that United Projects for Aviation Services KSCP (UPAC) is committed to support the ten principles of the UN Global Compact relating to Human Rights, Labour Standards, the Environment and the Fight Against Corruption. UPAC continues to uphold these principles as well as its obligation with regards to consistently reporting and communicating its annual progress to its stakeholders. In the 2020 Communication on Progress (COP), UPAC provides an overview of its continued commitment to the ten principles set out in the UN Global Compact by showcasing its relevant achievements to date through its business strategy, work culture, and daily operations. Achievements during 2020 include:  Participating in various community activities to support humanitarian issues locally and worldwide.  Expanding the scope of various activates within our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) platform to include ongoing support to the Kuwait Red Crescent Society and other NGOs.  Supporting the Directorate General of Civil Aviation’s (DGCA) in its repatriation eefforts during the COVID-19 pandemic.  Developing various new health and safety policies and procedures in response to the COVID-19 pandemic and implementing these policies throught the Company.  Enhancing the Cleaning and Disinfection Procedures in response to the COVID-19 pandemic and implementing the same across all the ocmpany’s premises.  Protecting the environment by controlling Company waste and electricity consumption.  Succesfully completing the surveillance audit of the Quality Management System ISO 9001:2008.  Re-Certification of the Environmental Management Systems EMS 14001.  Re-Certification and transition from OHSAS 18001:2007 to ISO 45001:2018.  Revising all relevent HR policies and procedures to ensure consistency with the updated requirements of the Public Authority for Manpower related to COVID-19.  Introducing a consolidated “Office Re-entry Plan” and “Work Resumption Plan” in order to increase awareness amongst employees to combat COVID-19 and safeguard employee health and saftety.  Distributing awareness posters and ensuring accessabilty of hand sanitizers, face masks, and other safety equipment as applicable across the Company.  Completing more than 19 technical and management training programs across departments. In this annual COP report, UPAC presents an overview of its commitment to the ten principles set out in the UN Global Compact. This report is compiled to present the Company’s achievements to date in line with its business strategy, work culture and daily operations. UPAC continues to uphold these principles as well as its obligation to consistently and responsibly report and communicate its annual progress to its stakeholders. Best Regards, Nadia Akil CEO and Vice Chairperson I Page 2 Table of Contents Message from the CEO .............................................................................. 2 Human Rights Principles ........................................................................... 4 Labour Principles ....................................................................................... 7 Environment Principles ............................................................................ 12 Anti-Corruption Principles ....................................................................... 17 Corporate Social Responsibility ............................................................... 22 UPAC’s Commitment ................................................................................ 28 I Page 3 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPALS I Page 4 Principle 1 Two employees joined UPAC in 2020 and their training Businesses should support and respect the protection completion ratio for on-line training during the year of internationally proclaimed human rights. was recorded as follows: Online Trainings Principle 2 100% Make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 47% 51% 15% UPAC is committed to promoting and respecting the proclaimed human rights and does not engage in any activity related to human rights abuses. UPAC Mar-20 Jun-20 Sep-20 Dec-20 employees are required to participate in compulsory Completion % by employees Ethics and Compliance training courses during the first six months of employment. Training is carried out using examples and other real situations that are designed to Induction and Orientation help with the understanding of model behavior. Newly joined employees are introduced to UPAC Participants must complete an online test to ensure an through a comprehensive orientation program. The understanding of the good business practice. The standard orientation program covers the following: system allows the participant to listen to a live conversation or read a situation script. o UPAC Vision, Values and Services o UPAC Organizational Structure In 2020, UPAC 's management implemented a new set o Code of Business Ethics and Conduct of training courses in addition to the basic training o HR Department Scope of Work provided upon joining. The following courses are a new o Introduction for Abroad Hires set of training courses for employees, both managers o Contact details for key persons and non-managers. o Health and Safety Procedures o Residency information o CYBER-SECURITY: How to Avoid Dangerous o Working Hours, Leave, and Official Holidays Links (New) o Performance Review Process on E-forms o Whistleblowing: Raising Concerns (New) o Dress Code o Code of Conduct: Best Practices (New) o Job Description o Recognizing and Avoiding Bribery (New) o Grievance and Disciplinary System o Human Rights (New) o Orientation to the respective Department o Global Cybersecurity Employee Training (New) o FCPA Anti-Bribery Training and Development o Antitrust: Careful Communication with Competitors As per the Orientation Training and Development o Conflicts of Interest Policy, employees shall receive the required o Government Procurement orientation to understand their rights and duties. The o Global Data Protection orientation process provides the employee with o Insider Trading information related to the organization’s structure, o Privacy and Data Protection direct reporting access, whistleblowing channels, as o Preventing Sexual Harassment well as a brief on the Grievance and Disciplinary Policy. Orientation is provided in both languages, Arabic and Participation is carried out by e-learning on an English. Recruits are informed of their rights in both individual basis, and employees must pass an online Arabic and English languages. Contracts defining salary exam to obtain certification. Upon completion of the and benefits are issued to each employee in three course, an electronic certificate will be generated for copies; one copy for UPAC, one for the employee and employees and the corporate records will be updated one provided to The Public Authority for Manpower, a accordingly. Kuwait government entity. I Page 5 UPAC is committed to paying salaries by the 25th of Employment contracts clearly define employees' each month, and is based on an approved grading entitlements, including salary, benefits, annual leave, system that defines the titles, basic pay, as well as vacation, and indemnity. The annual incentives are allowances and benefits for each employee. linked to the performance assessment review and are part of the UPAC remuneration packages for all its As part of our recruitment and employee orientation employees. UPAC carefully screens all employees training, new recruits are provided with the employee before employment to ensure the recruitment of handbook that includes an overview of the Company’s applicants over the age of 18. ethical practices. The employee handbook has been revised during 2019/2020 to include additional Religious beliefs and practices are respected and information related to the annual leave process and accepted within the organization, providing sufficient end of service calculation. time for prayer during working hours. During Ramadan, working hours are reduced by two (2) hours a day, in During 2020, the Succession Plan and Career accordance with the Kuwait Labor Law, and all relevant Development Policy were updated and approved. The religious holidays are respected. objective of the Succession Plan is to ensure the timely availability of a diverse and experienced pool of COVID-19 Pandemic employees to meet key job requirements as and when necessary. All members of the management team, as Since the start of the COVID-19 crises, UPAC took all well as direct line supervisors, are responsible for the necessary actions to ensure the continuity of its implementing the Career Development Policy. business with minimal disruption. COVID-19 has shown its devastating impact across the globe, quite literally Local and International Recruitment forcing the world into quarantine and impacting industries, corporates, and governments worldwide. UPAC is committed to continue and contract with only The COVID-19 pandemic affected the pattern of our those recruitment agencies that refrain from charging daily life and routine where all employees were asked fees to applicants and that refuse to accept applicants to work remotely from home. under the age of eighteen (18). For local and international recruitment, UPAC covers all relevant Employees were provided with some tools to be able recruitment fees, visa fees, airfare, travel, medical as to work from home without affecting the safety of well as any other applicable fees for all employees. employees such as: Technical employees are supplied with six (6) complete  Secured network to access UPAC’s systems sets of Company uniforms, two (2) pairs of safety  Transfora mobile application to process shoes, winter weather clothing, and job-related requests online Personal Protective Equipment (PPE). UPAC’s policy  Corporate virtual meeting tools and states that all employees must retain their passports. applications All employees are recruited based on the Kuwait  Mobile Internet connection Labour Law practices considering their right to annual  Flexible working hours leave and sick leave pay. Service period indemnity is  Moving some office equipment to homes paid as per the Kuwait Labour Law. temporarily  Laptops for some employees Recruitment processes continue to support the  Hotlines to respond to emergencies establishment of a diverse workforce and ensure that all employees and job applicants are treated fairly and UPAC continued running its critical operations as in accordance with the Equal Employment Opportunity necessary in Kuwait International Airport mainly which Policy. is one of the critical sites in Kuwait. Employees working onsite have been provided with the following: Any associated recruitment costs are fully covered by UPAC. UPAC is also committed to recruiting applicants  Free of charge transportation from abroad through the official channels stated by  Accommodation facility onsite local embassies and as per the Kuwait Labour Law.  Meals during the day  Disposable Masks and gloves I Page 6 LABOUR PRINCIPLES I Page 7 Principle 3 Revision of Policies and Procedures Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective The Human Resources policies have been signed off in bargaining. 2015 and have since been reviewed, updated, and enhanced every two years. The last review has been Principle 4 approved in 2019. UPAC revised the Human Resources The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory Policies and Procedures, including the Equal labour. Employment Opportunity Policy to ensure compliance with the regulations issued by the Capital Markets Principle 5 Authority (CMA) in relation to the overall Corporate The effective abolition of child labour. Governance Framework. Principle 6 Following the same pattern, UPAC signed off the The elimination of discrimination in respect of Finance Department Policies and Procedures during employment and occupation. 2019. The policies address the necessary relevant International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and UPAC is an Equal Opportunity Employer and prohibits Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAPs) to discrimination and harassment of any kind. UPAC has ensure alignment of both local and international laws committed itself to the principle of equal opportunities and to ensure stronger financial controls. for all employees and provides them with a secure workplace free of discrimination or harassment. The  Accounts Payables Company continues throughout the year to improve its  Accounts Receivable and Bad Debts Process current policies and procedures.  Cash Management and Bank Reconciliation  External Audit Process UPAC follows a zero-tolerance policy with regards to a  Fixed Assets breach of conduct; hence employees must attend the  Inventory Code of Business Ethics E-Learning training and are  Petty Cash Process required to pass the course to ensure compliance. The  Revenue Recognition mandatory Code of Business Ethics E-Learning training  Management of Information Reporting course is assigned to raise awareness of the Equal  Annual Budgeting Process Employment Opportunity and prevention of harassment. During 2020, the Operations Department signed off new procedures that control the supporting activities All UPAC employment decisions are based on business at Kuwait International Airport. The new procedures needs, employment requirements, and individual include: qualifications regardless of race and color, religion or belief, ethnic or national origin, gender, age, disability COVID-19 Infection Prevention and Control or any other status protected by legislation or regulations. UPAC does not tolerate discrimination, During this year, the cleaning and disinfection harassment, inhumane treatment, including forced protocols and procedures have been updated to labor or physical punishment. UPAC promotes equality respond to the emerging situation of COVID-19. UPAC in the workplace and aims to eliminate all forms of has developed a specific policy “Infection Prevention discrimination. and Control Guidelines COVID-19” to control the cleaning and disinfection activities at all premises and By the end of 2020, UPAC’s team consists of 86 projects that UPAC is responsible for. employees, two out of its eight senior executives are females; this reflects the value the Company places on Employees were asked to follow the “Office Re-entry their experience and knowledge. UPAC supports Plan” (ORP) framework that includes new policies and women in the workplace and takes the necessary procedures that have been put in place to mitigate the measures to understand their needs while seeking to spread of coronavirus and ensure a safe return to work actively support their career paths by promoting a for all employees after the lockdown period. healthy work-life balance. I Page 8 The plan included the measures taken prior to the duty UPAC Recognize the employees' efforts during COVIDresumption, preventive measures applied, and official 19 Pandemic sources of information & contacts. UPAC honored all the employees, both at Kuwait Additionally, UPAC has developed a “Work Resumption International Airport and at the Discovery Mall, who Plan” that provides employees with a manual that worked very hard during the COVID-19 pandemic and summarizes the newly set guidelines which are had the greatest effect to overcome this situation to designed to safeguard both employees and visitors maintain the sustainability of the business. UPAC who visit the UPAC premises to ensure a healthy and operations did not stop during the full and partial safe workspace. lockdown period stated by the government. The plan included details related to infection control, disinfection procedures, meetings set up, recommendations on how to use common areas at the workplace, handling external mail, parcels and other deliveries, transportation, and travels. The plan has been considered in both Arabic and English languages to increase awareness among employees. Graphical posters and related instructions in both languages Arabic and English were posted in all public places to ensure the spread of awareness and increase of knowledge. UPAC managment encourages employees to be transparent and inform the HR Department of any UPAC CEO presented gifts for employees who worked symptoms of COVID-19 illness to safeguard other during the lockdown period along with a plaque of employees. COVID-19 sick leaves are fully paid. appreciation in recognition of their commitment, Employees returning from abroad are paid for the contributions and dedication towards the Company quarantine period of 14 days from the day of return. over the years. During the ceremony, several employees graciously shared some of their most UPAC CEO was keen to keep all employees informed memorable moments over the crises and how they with the latest updates on the COVID-19 pandemic on passed it. weekly basis, and how this could be reflected in our operation, business continuity and financials. Tenants Manual The Tenants Manual aims to define the Tenant and landlord (UPAC) obligations and rights. The document is detailed enough to include all aspects of maintenance and preventive maintenance liabilities on both parties. Cleaning Activity Procedure The Cleaning Activity Procedure aims to state the approved policy and procedure to control the cleaning activities within Kuwait International Airport. It defines the expected level and quality of the deliverables, in addition to the level of performance of the cleaning employees. The document similarly states the human rights laws and regulations that should be followed. I Page 9 Collective bargaining During the COVID-19 pandemic, UPAC applied a hybrid training model that enables a combination of physical UPAC employees are free to participate in the political training and online training. As a consequence of the process in their private capacity, provided that it does COVID-19 pandemic, employees must consider social not violate the principles set out in the Code of distance while maintaining business continuity. The Business Ethics and Conduct. training process has shifted to consider the delivery of technical training in small groups of less than 4 There is no common practice of collective bargaining in employees and to consider theoretical online training the State of Kuwait, additionally, private sector labor for larger groups. laws limit employee’s scope for collective bargaining; however, anti-union discrimination and employer A structured, e-learning and on-job training are an interference with union functions is prohibited under ongoing process at UPAC, and in 2020 the Company the laws. provided the below intensive training programs covering the following topics: Following the approved Corporate Governance Framework and HR policies, employees are provided Training Description # of Participants with different channels for expressing views, providing feedback, and raising concerns. We expand the Low Tension Panels troubleshooting (Low 16 channels for employees to address their concerns to Voltage) the management in a formal structure. Types of pollution, causes, effects and 9 our social responsibilities UPAC encourages an open, equitable, and transparent Practical Training on the Merging Belt 4 working environment and thus offers the following Conveyor System using 90 ° and 45 °. contact platforms to enable employees to COVID-19: Defeating the Crisis and 79 communicate their grievances in an efficient way and Evolving as a Leader in total confidentiality: Chemical treatment of Water 7  UPAC Customer Complaint Email SKIDATA LPR Camera Calibration 4 customer.feedback@upac.com.kw Fire Alarm Panel Troubleshooting. 8  UPAC Whistleblowing Email whistleblowing@upac.com.kw ISO 45001 Awareness training 76  UPAC Suggestion Box Electrical Safety Procedures in UPAC 7 Premises (OHSMS) UPAC strives to meet the highest standards of business conduct and ethics both internally within the Cloud and Virtualization Technologies 2 organization and externally with respect to its Mobile Application and Website customers, suppliers and other related third parties. 2 Administration Having said that, it is crucial that all employees abide by these ethical standards and comply with these The Basics of Network Cabling 15 regulations when conducting business. International Financial Reporting 1 Standards IFRS Online UPAC undertakes to conduct its business fairly and in Financial Reporting Integrity 1 full compliance with all applicable laws and regulations. Managing Business in Challenging Times 1 Training and Development Developing Effective Teams 1 IFRS Updates (Online Training Course) 1 In 2020, over USD 10,000 was invested in training and development programs by UPAC. The investment was People Analytics: HR Transformation 1 coordinated with international bodies to ensure that through Data quality-assured services are provided. This investment Occupational Health and Safety 8 has helped to improve knowledge and skills for 45001:2018 Transition Stage employees at all levels of the Company. I P a g e 10 10 Number of Training Diversity Persentage of Training Across the 8 8 in 2020 Structure in 2020 6 5 Support Level Professional 4 Level 42% 4 37% 2 Top 2 Management 21% 0 Online Hybrid Online Physical (External Training (Internal Training Training) Training) I P a g e 11 ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLES I P a g e 12 Principle 7 Another important consideration was water Businesses should support a precautionary approach consumption art Reem Mall. Efficient irrigation to environmental challenges. systems and equipment have been integrated in the design in order to reduce the consumption of potable Principle 8 water in the building. Solid sustainability measures Undertake initiatives to promote greater have also been applied since 2016 in the building environmental responsibility. phase. At least 70% of wasted water onsite is recycled and 20% of material is obtained from sources within Principle 9 500 kilometers from the project site, reducing travel Encourage the development and diffusion of distance and associated air pollution. environmentally friendly technologies. Reem Mall has adopted the Equator Principles. This is ENVIRONMENT a financial industry benchmark for determining, assessing and managing environmental and social risks UPAC has pledged to continue working with different in Projects. All Reem Mall stakeholders from AFPD environmental-friendly organizations and to enhance down to subcontractors are in compliance with these sustainable activities to promote environmental and they are included in all forms of Contract. These engagement and support. UPAC aims to reduce contribute to deliver the objectives and outcomes of environmental impact and increase efforts to promote the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. various environmental and social sustainability as a responsible Company based in Kuwait. Since the introduction of the 'Go-Green' initiative in 2014, UPAC continues to support and improve the The environmental expansion was part of UPAC's Abu program on a regular basis. In 2020, UPAC renewed its Dhabi – Reem Mall project. The Abu Dhabi Urban contract with United Waste Management Company for Planning Council (UPC) awarded Estidama 2 Pearl the recycling of all types of paper. Design Rating to Reem Mall. UPAC has partnered with Omniya Plastic Recycling Estidama is a major urban development initiative since 2016 to collect all forms of plastic waste for developed and promoted by the UPC. It strives to plastic recycling. Both companies are committed to encourage sensible and responsible development by weekly recycling schedules to establishing a balanced society based on four equal pillars of sustainability: environmental, economic, As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, we asked UPAC social, and cultural. employees to work remotely from home, and we put in place internal procedures to consider online payment and other digital methods to reduce possible physical contact. This resulted in a significant reduction in the amount of recycled material. The diagram below shows the total recycled material from 2018 to 2020. (As of 1 November 2020) Recycled Material 2018 2020 KG 1000 940 820 2018 800 2019 From the start, Reem Mall surpassed the obligatory 600 2020 minimum sustainable design. Highly insulating and 419 400 360 370 high-performance materials, together with highly efficient air conditioning and lighting systems have been studied and designed carefully for the walls, roof 200 115 and glazing. 0 Plastic Paper I P a g e 13 During the COVID-19 pandemic, UPAC extended its the spread of coronavirus and ensure a safe return scope for environmental awareness, to include all its for all employees. employees. The HR Department considered circulating  Developed a “Work Resumption Plan” that internal communication in both Arabic and English provides employees with a summary of the newly languages to increase awareness of practices that applied guidelines to secure a safe workspace. could affect the health and safety of employees and  Awareness posters that include instructions in how to protect themselves and others from infections both languages Arabic and English. while disposing of used masks and gloves and placed  Shared links of various government e-services with separate biohazard bins. employees UPAC conducts continuous training programs to ensure adequate protection to help prevent any hazardous incidents. All employees are provided with the appropriate Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) such as overalls, gloves, eyeglasses, hearing protection, reflective vests, and safety shoes to ensure that anyone coming into contact with hazardous materials is protected. In line with our commitment to promote industryleading health and safety standards, Al Farwaniya Property Developments, the developer behind Abu Dhabi’s Reem Mall (one of UPAC projects), launched a unique awards program for its staff and contractors “Health and Safety Awards”. UPAC regularly promotes energy conservation and This year's Earth Day activity is part of a wider range of environmental protection between employees by socially responsible initiatives dedicated solely to the applying the following: environment.  Spreading awareness between employees of the importance of environmental protection and energy conservation.  Sharing reminder memos to turn off all electronics (including lights, laptops, PCs, and other electronics) daily at the end of each working day.  Verbally addressing these issues to employees on an individual basis. The well-being of our employees and their families has been and will remain at the forefront of UPAC's response to COVID-19. UPAC considered the following measures to protect employees, visitors, and customers: UPAC has pledged to continue working with various environmental organizations to further its  Update the Cleaning and Disinfection policy to commitment to reducing its overall environmental respond to ensure limiting the spread of COVID-19 footprint by supporting various socially responsible infections. activities that have a positive impact on the  Developed a new policy “Infection Prevention and environment. UPAC organized a tree planting activity Control Guidelines COVID-19” to control the at Al Andalus public gardens in celebration of Earth Day cleaning and disinfection activities at all premises 2020 in collaboration with Green Hands Environmental and projects that UPAC operates. Team, a local non-profit organization.  Developed an “Office Re-entry Plan” (ORP) that includes new policies and procedures to mitigate I P a g e 14 UPAC hosted the Earth Day activities for the fifth As a responsible Company operating in Kuwait, UPAC consecutive year. 33 volunteers from UPAC, along with aims at reducing its environmental impact and their families, and a number of other volunteers took increasing its efforts in promoting various CSR part in planting nearly 350 plants with the aim of initiatives. increasing the number of trees planted and beautifying the area. UPAC partnered with Ajyal Nursery through the sponsorship of “Healthy Meals” program that took place in Discovery Mall. The objective of the program was to increase awareness of following a healthy lifestyle. The program encouraged the children and their parents to walk and practice sports to reduce their weight and improve their lifestyle. UPAC has pledged to continue working Before the event kicked off, the temperatures of all with various environmentally friendly organizations to volunteers, adults and children, were measured and further its commitment and support towards the the necessary instructions were provided regarding environment. proper hygiene, sterilization, security and safety, in addition to a short presentation for children on how to On the other hand, UPAC believes that encouraging a cultivate and the importance of preserving the healthy lifestyle and improving employees' diet has a environment. significant impact on their physical and mental wellbeing. Promoting a healthy lifestyle has a huge influence on the productivity and efficiency of a person's personal and professional life. That being said, UPAC asked HealthyBar Kuwait to establish an “Employee Wellness Program” that aims to help employees and their families maintain a healthy lifestyle and have a balanced diet. The program is based on calorie intake per day and it is designed to consider the preferences of participants and their targeted weight. The programs encourage fitness based on a combination of diet and sport under the supervision of a dietitian and medical observation. Since March 2020 and with the spread of the COVID-19 virus, to further ensure the health and safety of our employees, clients, and visitors, UPAC assigned the cleaning company to conduct Disinfection Procedures twice a week at all premises in UPAC. I P a g e 15 The programs included diets for slimming, fitness, The system helped to improve productivity, efficiency, weight gain, body-building and vegan. The program has and to reduce paper printing for environmental been provided at discounted prices for the employees sustainability. In 2020, we continued to use the same and their families to encourage maintaining a healthy system to conduct the end of the year and mid-year lifestyle especially during the lockdown periods and performance review. A new process has been applied working from home for parents and children. internally to arrange for delivery and pickup services to reduce gas emissions and air pollution. UPAC is committed to protecting the environment and considering any steps that might be taken to Initially, in 2019, UPAC implemented a new Transfora enforce the concept of a green process management system, enabling users to model, environment. This has been implement, monitor, and optimize processes and demonstrated by encouraging transactions such as the processing of employees’ employees to include a go green leaves, the contracts approval, the issuance of visas, footnote in UPAC emails. procurements, supplier evaluations and the approval of IT license fees. I P a g e 16 ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES I P a g e 17 Principle 10: Recognizing and Avoiding Bribery Businesses should work against corruption in all its UPAC’s Code of Business Ethics and Conduct governs forms, including extortion and bribery. the conduct of employees as well as the Board of Directors. The Code is aligned with the regulatory ANTI-CORRUPTION Corporate Governance Framework. UPAC has a zero-tolerance approach to unethical During 2020, the board members participated in some conduct and is committed to ensuring that its personalized e-learning sessions organized by SAI employees retain the reputation of the Company. Global Company and in compliance with the Corporate UPAC promotes honesty, integrity and equality in all Governance Framework. aspects of its business and expects the same in its relationship with all those with whom it conducts  FCPA Anti-Bribery business.  Global Cybersecurity  Refresher: Code of Conduct: Best Practices Code of Conduct and Business Ethics The training was customized to the executive level to UPAC's Code of Business Ethics and Conduct reflects address all scenarios related to ethical business UN Global Compact Principles, which include, but are practices and how to recognize, address and avoid not limited to, conflicts of interest, insider trading, bribery in business. external affiliations, money laundering, improper payments, fair dealings, gifts, meals and entertainment Name Description while interacting with customers, suppliers, This course is designed to make it subcontractors, and competitors. clear that the Company prohibits FCPA Antibribery, including the bribery of Bribery UPAC employees are required to comply with internal government or public officials, rules on the prevention of bribery and corruption with anywhere it conducts business. interactions between government officials and private The training is designed to educate individuals. It is also required that external consultants the participant on types of scam comply with the same internal policies as the targeting companies. This training Corporate Governance Framework. helps in protecting the Global organization from compromised Cybersecurity UPAC has approved the Code of Business Ethics and accounts and help the users to Conduct policy to help employees identify, report and learn how and why attackers resolve certain conflicts and other complications that compromise accounts along with may arise during the course of business as part of its best practices to avoid scams. standard review procedure. This course is designed to provide the recipient with the Refresher: The Code is available to all employees on the Company fundamentals of acceptable Code of website and is also covered within the employee business practices. It outlines the Conduct: Best handbook. Both employees and the Board of Directors principles of driving business in an Practices are governed by the Code and Conduct and the code ethical way to reinforce business conforms to the corporate governance framework. values. UPAC’s induction program for new recruits educates UPAC undertakes to provide up-to-date, accurate and employees on the importance of corporate ethics, reliable information. All data or information submitted values, and business conduct. New employees are to public officials or other third parties is up to date, given a copy of the Code of Business Ethics and accurate and reliable. UPAC makes no payments to Conduct upon their employment and are required to political parties, organizations, or their sign it as acceptance and acknowledgment. representatives. I P a g e 18 UPAC and its subsidiaries apply the approved International Accreditation Tendering Procedure, which is strictly followed in all UPAC projects. The tendering procedure sets out clear Integrated Management System requirements for the pre-qualification and selection of tender winners to meet those criteria. The call for an enveloping meeting to envelop tenders submitted by subcontractors (including the Reem Mall Project in Abu Dhabi) imposed tight control to prevent corruption. Equator Principles In September 2020, UPAC has also successfully passed The construction contract for Reem Mall has direct the surveillance audit requirements for the ISO reference to the Equator Principles and these are 9001:2015 Quality Management Systems (QMS), and monitored monthly via Audits, Workshops, and regular the re-certification requirements for ISO 14001:2015 Site audits. The Contractor has signed this document Environmental Management System (EMS) by SGS and has fully agreed to undertake to abide by such Kuwait. principles. UPAC passed the audit transition requirements to move from OHSAS 18001:2007 (Occupational Health and Safety Management System) to ISO 45001:2018 for the same domain. The certifications were done by Société Générale de Surveillance (SGS) Kuwait. Certificates were awarded following a comprehensive site audit of all UPAC operated facilities at Kuwait International Airport and in recognition of its implementation of environmental and safety management systems, as well as its continuous efforts to uphold and develop its quality management AFPD has also ensured that all Subcontract Works have standards. a back to back Clause transferring this obligation on to all Sub-contractors and Sub-consultants. The These certificates reflect UPAC 's dedication to provide Contractor provides written statements every month the highest level of quality, safety, and environmental advising of its continual compliance with these management. It further credits UPAC 's role in the local requirements such as payment of staff and labour, and regional markets as a leading real estate and retention of passports, payment of employment fees facilities management company. Certificates are etc. awarded by the United Kingdom Accreditation Service (UKAS), the only national accreditation body recognized by the British Government. As well as these statements, spot checks are carried out at irregular, non-specific times, on labor attending the Project. The Project also has anonymous comments boxes to enable people to air their views without any threat of reprisal. I P a g e 19 Corporate Governance The external and internal audit activities included the following: The principles of the Corporate Governance Framework fall within the competence of the members  A surveillance audit was conducted for the ISO of the Board of Directors (BOD). The members of the 9001. BOD are committed to implementing a sound  Re-certification audit for ISO 14001:2015 governance system that meets the relevant regulatory  Transition audit to move to ISO 45001:2018 requirements set out by the Capital Markets Authority standards. (CMA) and other applicable regulatory bodies.  Risk Assessment Audit conducted by Protiviti Kuwait. UPAC's BOD has adopted a sound Corporate  Internal Control Audit conducted by Deloitte Governance Framework that improves the overall Kuwait governance environment and is in line with the  Financial Audits conducted by Ernst & Young applicable corporate governance practices, laws, and Kuwait. regulations.  Internal Audits conducted by Agility Kuwait.  Corporate Social Responsibility Audit This has been pursued through an integrated conducted by Agility Kuwait. Corporate Governance system applied and monitored through a set of policies, standards and internal Access to the full Corporate Governance Report for controls that have been adopted by the Company in 2019 is available on this link. line with regulatory requirements. Board of Directors Meetings Under the Corporate Governance Framework, UPAC began implementation of an internal control system The BOD held a total of six meetings during the course that ensures all business transactions are checked, of 2020. All meetings are called by a formal invitation verified, and audited regularly. in advance, in order to allow adequate time for members to attend. Risk Management Function Each time a meeting is called for, a formal agenda is The Risk Management function ensures that the overall shared with members along with all necessary risks of the Company are identified, managed, and supporting documents prior to the meeting to allow rectified effectively. Risk identification involves existing members sufficient time to review. or potential risks. UPAC's BOD ensures that sufficient management resources are allocated to identify, Board of Directors Meetings assess and take appropriate action on related business risks. Year Number of Meetings 2018 7 Internal Audit Functions 2019 6 2020 5 The Internal Audit Function (IAF) plays a critical role in providing the BOD and Executive Management with a In 2016, UPAC established two independent comprehensive view of the applied financial and committees in order to provide an independent review operating controls. The IAF provides assurance on the function between the BOD and management. The effectiveness of the Internal Control, Risk committees seek to provide recommendations to the Management, and Corporate Governance Framework BOD as an independent body and as well as to monitor processes within the Company. The BOD has allocated the effectiveness of Executive Management. qualified resources to manage the IAF. During 2020, all financial reporting activities have been carried out through the external audit and internal audit functions, as well as through direct reporting to the BOD via the recommendations of the Board Risk and Audit Committee. I P a g e 20 Board Risk and Audit Committee (BRAC) Board Nomination and Remuneration Committee (BNRC) The Board Risk and Audit Committee (BRAC) was formed pursuant to a Board Resolution executed on The BNRC was formed pursuant to a Board Resolution 28th June 2016, following the approval from the CMA dated 10th November 2016. The below schedule to merge the Board Risk Committee and the Board indicates the progress of the Board Nomination and Audit Committee. Remuneration Committee (BNRC) meetings as of 15th November 2020: The Board Risk and Audit Committee has been restructured in November 2017 to meet the Board Nomination and Remuneration Committee requirements of the Capital Market Authority. (BNRC) Year Number of Meetings The below schedule indicates the progress of the Board 2018 2 Risk and Audit Committee (BRAC) meetings as of 15th 2019 1 November 2020: 2020 1 Board Risk and Audit Committee (BRAC) Year Number of Meetings 2018 4 2019 4 2020 4 I P a g e 21 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY I P a g e 22 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) UPAC Plants Trees for Earth Day 2020 7th March 2020 As a socially responsible organization, UPAC has designed and participated in various CSR initiatives UPAC has pledged to continue working with various throughout the year that support individuals, families, environmental organizations to further its NGOs, and communities both locally and commitment to reduce its overall environmental internationally. UPAC has always given importance to footprint by supporting various socially responsible its social commitments. CSR initiatives included activities that have a positive impact on the volunteering, fundraising, donations, and sponsorship. environment. Breast Cancer Awareness Campaign. 3rd March 2020 and 15th October 2020 UPAC organized a public awareness session for employees and visitors of Kuwait International Airport to spread the awareness among the general population of breast cancer under the campaign name “Let’s Tie One More Ribbon for Breast Cancer” UPAC organized a tree planting activity at Al Andalus public gardens in celebration of Earth Day 2020 in collaboration with Green Hands Environmental Team, a local non-profit organization. 33 volunteers from UPAC, along with their families, and a number of other volunteers took part in planting nearly 350 plants in Al Andalus public gardens with the aim of increasing the number of trees planted and The campaign aims to increase awareness of the beautifying the area. causes and risk factors of breast cancer, selfexamination, clinical manifestations, early detection, stage of breast cancer, preventive methods, and treatments. During the session, both male and female participants were provided with educational brochures and were given time to ask questions. In October 2020, UPAC employees were offered preferential rates for early screening visits to private hospitals. The Green Hands Environmental Team facilitated all the necessary approvals to support UPAC’s Earth Day project this year. The non-profit organization aims to support efforts and communities to protect and conserve the environment, as well as, increase environmental sustainability awareness. I P a g e 23 Donation to KRCS’s “Aid for Eastern Africa” Campaign Donations to Lebanon Relief Effort 12th February 2020 6th August 2020 UPAC believes that social responsibility is a vital part of Disaster, disease and conflict can strike at any moment. any organization and within the community in which it On August 4, a massive explosion tore through Beirut, operates. UPAC has supported the Kuwait Red killing hundreds of people, injuring more than 5,000 Crescent Society (KRCS) in its campaign “Aid for Eastern and leaving more than 300,000 homeless. Africa.” The campaign aimed to raise funds to support the Eastern Africa countries in need of financial UPAC joined forces with Agility who teamed up with support in order to secure basic necessities such as International Medical Corps providing urgent supplies food, water, and healthcare. and staff to area hospitals and deploying mobile medical units to the affected communities. International Medical Corps is on the frontlines, delivering lifesaving health care and training, wherever Recognizing that millions of children and their families and whenever we are needed. The mobile medical in East Africa are left extremely vulnerable due to teams had been deployed to support local health climate-related disasters, and more than nine million clinics after a natural disaster, as well as preventing citizens displaced to other areas as a result of internal disease outbreaks and providing malnutrition conflict in Ethiopia, Somalia, Tanzania, and Djibouti, treatments to vulnerable communities. facing threats such as hunger, disease, and exposure to violence and abuse. Over the last few years, UPAC has supported a variety of charity programs that aim to further benefit education and communities at different levels. Through this campaign, UPAC’s employees were able to participate by providing support by way of cash donations that were matched dollar for dollar by the Company. UPAC has partnered with KRCS supporting various campaigns to help those in need. Most recently, the Company donated funds to the “Donate to Education” Please watch this video to understand the full impact campaign, which aims to support less fortunate of our contribution. students by providing them with the opportunity to gain access to a basic level of education. I P a g e 24 UPAC Organized Fun Day for Kuwait’s Orphanage Accompanying the children were 5 UPAC volunteers 19th February 2020 who spent the day alongside the children and guided them throughout the various fun activities. UPAC organized a Fun Day for Kuwait’s Orphanage at Discovery Center. The event took place on 19th February 2020 to take part in the National Day celebration activities in Kuwait. The event was carried out in coordination with the Public Authority for Minors Affairs, who currently manage all affairs related to orphanage minors across Kuwait. UPAC Organized Fun Days in Discovery Center 20 – 23 February 2020 UPAC organized various entertainment and fun days for children at Discovery Center. The days marked Liberation and National days’ celebrations. UPAC places great importance on social responsibility and its overall role in increasing social awareness and participating in the wider community. The events catered more to 100 children between the ages of 4 – 12 all of whom were given the opportunity to enjoy several activities across the center’s entertainment outlets in addition to the national day celebration program. The fun days between 20 – 23 February were coordinated with Gravity Solutions, where more than 500 children enjoyed several fun activities across the center. UPAC employees volunteered to entertain the children and provide the required assistance during the days. I P a g e 25 UPAC Supports Repatriation Efforts during COVID-19 UPAC Supports its Discovery Mall Tenants during Pandemic COVID-19 Pandemic 26th April 2020 2nd May 2020 In support of the Directorate General of Civil Aviation’s UPAC announced that it has waived four months’ rent (DGCA) repatriation efforts for citizens returning to for all its tenants at Discovery Mall, in consideration of Kuwait, UPAC announced that it has offered the current circumstances brought on by the COVID-19 complimentary parking services at its facilities at pandemic and its economic effects felt by most sectors Kuwait International Airport’s Terminal 1 (T1) and including small businesses. Terminal 4 (T4) for the families and relatives of those passengers returning home. This initiative aims to provide support to affected small and medium-sized Kuwaiti businesses whose owners are facing various challenges in light of the crisis. Parking fees were waived for those persons and government officials involved in the repatriation During unprecedented times, many smaller businesses efforts, which commenced on 19 April, and will experienced a number of economic hardships and continue for a set timeframe as per the official were in need of assistance and we believe it’s schedule and as coordinated with the DGCA. important to find a middle ground to ensure business sustainability in the long term. UPAC has a longUPAC is proud to be able to support the DGCA and standing relationship with its tenants at Discovery Mall serve our country during these unprecedented times. and our aim was to continue to support them as best UPAC is always working closely with the DGCA and the as we can during hard times. Incheon International Airport Corporation to coordinate a smooth and efficient process for returning passengers, as well as to support staff from the Ministry of Interior Ministry of Health, and others, in any way. I P a g e 26 Educational Activities at Discovery Center REEM Mall Campaign “Go PINK FOR A CAUSE”. 18th February 2020 October 2020 UPAC partnered with Ajyal Nursery through the In honor of Breast Cancer Awareness Month, Al sponsorship of the “Healthy Meals” program that took Farwaniya Property Developments (a partnership place in the Discovery Center. As a responsible between Agility, UPAC, and National Real Estate Company operating in Kuwait, UPAC aims at reducing Company), has launched a breast cancer awareness its environmental impact and increasing its efforts in campaign, aiming to spread knowledge on combatting promoting various initiatives to encourage a healthy the disease among its employees and the local lifestyle. communities in which it operates. Al-Farwaniya campaign included various activities highlighting the importance of adopting a healthy lifestyle and on methods of prevention and early detection of breast cancer. The goal of the initiative was to raise awareness of a healthier lifestyle. The initiative encouraged children The team of Al Farwaniya Development has been and their parents to exercise and practice sports in invited to show their support and build awareness by order to decrease their weight and change their joining “Go PINK FOR A CAUSE”. lifestyles. UPAC has vowed to continue partnering with numerous environmentally sustainable organizations They decorated the office with pink balloons, the team to further its contribution and support to the wore their favorite shade of pink, pink masks and community. cupcakes were distributed, and nice photos from the day posted on Reem Mall social media pages to support spreading the awareness and the strong fighters of this disease. I P a g e 27 UPAC’s Commitment The annual Communication on Progress Report (COP) serves to incorporate information regarding the Company’s activities according to the UN Global Compact. An overview of such activities is available on the UN Global Compact’s website as well as the UPAC website. UPAC is committed to continuing to update and report annually on Communication on Progress Report (COP). Integrating the principles of the Global Compact into UPAC 's policies and culture has provided the Company with an opportunity to enhance its culture of integrity and accountability and has allowed it to continue to build on its responsibilities towards its people, stakeholders and the wider community. We hope that this report succeeds in outlining the Company's performance in 2020 and in demonstrating its commitment to upholding the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. In the coming year, UPAC aims to maintain and advance its human rights, workplace, environment, and anti-corruption activities. We would like to thank you for this opportunity and welcome any feedback on the above report. www.upac.com.kw I P a g e 28
