RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 CONTENTS Chairman’s message  1 At Sucden we recognize that our Group overview  2 long-term success depends on Our approach to responsibility  4 the sustainability of our business Performance reporting  7 Business practices as a whole. – Key challenges, risks & opportunities  8 – Our strategy, policies and performance 9 Therefore, we are committed to the People – Key challenges, risks & opportunities 12 responsible care of our employees, our – Sucden employees around the world 12 – Our strategy, policies and performance 13 clients, suppliers and partners, and act Environment – Key challenges, risks & opportunities 16 responsibly towards the communities in – Our strategy, policies and performance 17 which we operate and the environments Supply chain – Key challenges, risks & opportunities  21 that we share. Sucden’s commitment and – Our strategy, policies and performance  22 Communities approach, as well as our entire business – Key challenges, risks & opportunities – Our strategy, policies and performance 26 26 activity, seek to create long-lasting Auditor’s report  28 solutions and fair business opportunities. Sucden creates opportunities 1 CHAIRMAN'S MESSAGE At Sucden, adapting to a In this constantly changing environment, we To be pragmatic, we have divided our motto to changing environment is part intend to remain a global commodities leader, act responsibly into five key areas of action: effectively and sustainably connecting supply of our culture and philosophy. and demand, and this is in line with our ––We promote fair business practices to create From that perspective, 2019 68 years of history as a family business. the basis for long-term relationships. has been interesting, with a Indeed, being a family business is not only ––We value our employees and want to continuously ensure that they have good highly volatile commodities a matter of ownership, but one of company working conditions and adhere to the market. culture as well as a mindset where our people company’s values. are key, and where we try to ensure a ––We respect our environment during all of our long-term approach in regard to all actions we industrial operations, and are always looking take. In that respect, taking responsibility has for ways to improve, reaching toward the always been an underlying concern for the highest industry standards. company, but now it becomes a key driver in our approach to business, through formalized ––We look forward to continuously increasing strategy, and full integration into our company knowledge of our supply chain, to give us a culture. The company culture is evolving along clear view of all the potential risks it presents with our people and leads to the three main and addressing these risks through various reasons I see for engaging in sustainable action programs. and corporate social responsibility. ––We aim to act responsibly to generate positive local impact where we have business First, we believe, and are convinced, that acting interests, either by direct action or through responsibly is the right thing to do and that it is local involvement by our employees. one of the reasons our company can use to justify its long-term existence. We have clearly In 2019, I set a clear focus of embedding embedded this approach into our long-term responsibility in our company culture, through view and aim to optimize our positive impact in internal actions as well as through external relation to our profit-making purpose. commitments. We now subscribe to major initiatives to demonstrate to our business Second, and I see this more obviously every partners that we have made a long-term day, there is an institutional reason for this: for commitment. This is why I recently committed example, local regulations ask us to comply to the company’s participation—as well as that with increasingly demanding requirements of all our related diversified business related to traceability and compliance. We also activities—in the Global Compact initiative, in see a growing interest from our employees, addition to more sector-specific initiatives. This business partners and other third parties who way of formalizing our global citizenship has now expect us to be committed to CSR and to been carried out while managing the report on the steps we take. expansion of our business activity in Russia and Finally, we have learned from past experience in Colombia. I see this as a long-term trend. We that this culture of positive impact also will continue to bring sustainability to the heart happens to be good for business. Indeed, of our expansion by supporting pragmatic and sharing our highest expectations increases our efficient action, so that our people can be employees’ level of confidence as well as that proud to be part of our family, connecting of our suppliers and customers, in the ability agricultural supply and demand, and creating of Sucden to deliver goods that have been long-lasting relationships with our partners. sourced in a responsible manner. Serge Varsano Chairman Sucden Responsibility 2019 2 GROUP OVERVIEW Sucden is principally a major trading house engaged in the soft commodities supply chain. Our mission is to facilitate global flows between producers and consumers. To do so, we trade on the world’s major markets in a wide range of products and services including sugar, coffee, cocoa, ethanol, ocean freight and futures/options brokerage. In support, we are active in agriculture and sourcing, processing, logistics, distribution, merchandising, financing, research and risk management. We combine global know-how with local expertise to connect supply and demand in a sustainable way. While doing so, we serve our clients and partners with quality and integrity. As an independent company with more than 68 years of activity on the commodities markets, we analyze all opportunities with a long-term perspective, with a constant consideration of existing constraints and expectations from business partners and local authorities. USD6.1bn SUCDEN GROUP TURNOVER IN 2019 2019 highlights 9.7mt Acquisition of a majority stake in a Russian sugar business including Eletski sugar plant in Lipetsk region and about 64,000 ha of land. OF SUGAR ORIGINATED AND SHIPPED OR Acquisition of the coffee business DISTRIBUTED IN 2019 of Engelhart Commodities Trading 104,000t Partners in Colombia. This will speed up Sucden’s strategy in the second largest producing country of Arabica coffee. OF SUGAR BEET PULP PELLETS SOLD IN 2019 Establishment of a Forest Protection Policy for the cocoa supply chain. Sucden Responsibility 2019 3 Four vertically integrated lines of business SUGAR, COCOA, COFFEE AGRO-INDUSTRY AND ETHANOL TRADING AND DISTRIBUTION Sugar In Russia, Sucden is a major sugar producer and processor with Market leader in the global sugar business. four factories (Dobrinski and Eletski1 in Lipetsk region, Atmis-Sakhar in Penza region, Tbilisski in Krasnodar region). Active in sugar sourcing, logistics, trading, risk management, merchandising, processing and distribution. Total sugar beet processing is 36,500 tons per day. These four plants have a production capacity in excess of 800,000 tons of Originates and ships or distributes about 9.7 million tons crystalized sugar annually. of sugar annually. Sucden manages more than 244,000 hectares2 of land, Analyzes and shares publicly on its website sugar market growing sugar beets as well as wheat, corn, and sunflowers. tendencies on a quarterly basis. Additionally, Sucden is involved in milk production, with a herd Cocoa of 3,000 cows. One of the leading cocoa beans and products traders in the market. 244,000hectares Serves a diverse client base from all over the world. Provides tailor-made solutions for the cocoa and chocolate industry. Manages each step of the supply chain from cocoa origination to OF LAND UNDER MANAGEMENT IN RUSSIA IN 2019 logistics, risk mitigation, and final delivery to the client. Originates approximately 680,000 tons beans equivalent annually. BROKERAGE Coffee Sucden has developed its coffee trading activity by sourcing Arabica and Robusta coffees from South and Central America, With a history and heritage in commodity futures and options as well as from Asia where we operate green coffee processing trading, Sucden Financial has evolved and diversified to become and storage units in Vietnam, Indonesia, and India. a leading global multi-asset execution, clearing and liquidity provider across FX, fixed income and commodities. Trades about 230,000 tons annually. Sucden Financial has headquarters in London, with offices in Ethanol Moscow and subsidiaries in Hong Kong and New York, providing Established in 2007. a global reach and a local service to clients around the clock. Sucden Financial Limited is authorised and regulated by Financial Key activities include trading, origination and marketing. Conduct Authority. Trades approximately 200,000 m3 of ethanol annually. SHIPPING Sucden moved into fleet management under the name of Sucden Armateurs in 2016/2017, taking delivery of four handymax vessels, each with a capacity of 43,000 tons. These vessels are some of the most environmentally friendly bulk carriers in the world. 1 Eletski factory was purchased in 2019 and is 51% owned by Sucden. 2 Of which 64,000 hectares of land related to the Eletski factory. Sucden Responsibility 2019 4 OUR APPROACH At Sucden, responsibility is part of our company culture. Sucden TO RESPONSIBILITY aims to be a global leader in connecting agricultural supply and demand in a sustainable way and our vision towards sustainable growth is based on five key action areas. Our material issues Business ethics Health & safety Soil management Company culture Well-being at work Transport & logistics Talent management Utilities management (factories) Direct Impacts Our action areas BUSINESS PRACTICES PEOPLE ENVIRONMENT The way we behave as a company How we interact with people defines Our main business is linked to in all of our activities around the us as a business. Our commitment is soft commodities production, so world is of fundamental importance. to treat people wherever we operate the way we treat the world around We will conduct our business and in all walks of life with dignity us will inevitably affect our future. with integrity, accountability and respect. Equally, we promise to Therefore, we commit to reduce and responsibility. provide our employees with a safe our environmental impact at place to work. constant scope and conserve natural resources. READ MORE P.8 READ MORE P.12 READ MORE P.16 Impact on SDGs Sucden Responsibility 2019 5 We have conducted a risk and opportunity assessment and identified our key material issues and our direct and indirect impacts. The diagram outlines how our impacts are addressed under five focus areas and how they Livelihoods of growers and workers Development for local contribute to the United Nations Sustainable populations Development Goals (SDGs). Responsible and sustainable supply Local social investment Nature conservation & forest and support Step 1 – Risk assessment and protection compliance principles As a golden rule, being compliant to applicable Carbon footprint understanding laws and regulations is a principle that is Supplier management embedded in all of our activities and management instructions. In practice, on Chain of custody matters that we identify as significant to our activities, we make sure to conduct a risk and Sustainability programs opportunity assessment to create a clear implementation framework for focusing our efforts. Potential risks and issues are disclosed in this report and Indirect Impacts have been identified based on French and EU regulations as well as on the UN Sustainable Development Goals. Step 2 – Know our impacts and identify our material risks Given the diversification of our activities, which include trading, agricultural and industrial production, and logistics, the challenges we face are manifold. Consequently, analysis of SUPPLY CHAIN COMMUNITIES the materiality of the issues is essential to the Our supply chain impacts Our commitment is to invest in, and consideration of a responsible and efficient communities and households in the engage with, the communities with strategy. In summary, we identify our main origins from which we source. We whom we interact. We will leverage impacts in our strategic consideration and in are protecting forests in the coffee our employee’s involvement and our means of action, as follows: and cocoa supply chains through knowledge of local issues to impulse Direct impacts innovative tree planting programs. positive change and identify Business practices We will seek to better understand innovative solutions. The way we behave as a company in all of our our overall carbon footprint in this activities around the world is of fundamental critical part of our business. importance. We will conduct our business with READ MORE P.21 READ MORE P.26 integrity, accountability and responsibility. ––Business ethics ––Company culture People How we interact with people defines us as a business. Our commitment is to treat people wherever we operate and in all walks of life with dignity and respect. Equally, we promise to provide our employees with a safe place to work. ––Health and safety ––Well-being at work ––Talent management Sucden Responsibility 2019 6 Environment The Responsibility Forum is coordinated by Certifications Our main business is linked to soft Sucden’s Chief Responsibility Officer and is When certifications are available and valued in commodities production, so the way we treat made up of sustainability and operational the industry, we intend to participate in them. the world around us will inevitably affect our managers from around the Group who are This includes certification of our industrial future. Therefore, we commit to reduce our directly responsible for developing programs operations, as well as certification of products environmental impact at constant scope and and initiatives, and contributing to the we trade. In addition to helping Sucden have a conserve natural resources. development of a responsibility culture in all positive impact, certifications have also proven subsidiaries and geographies. to be drivers of excellence, thus improving ––Soil management processes and procedures. This Forum meets quarterly for an update ––Transport and logistics on current activities and seeks to align to Direct actions and internal processes ––Utilities management for factories implement strategies, share best practices, and In addition to certifications, we intend to suggest improvements to Sucden’s approach conduct direct actions in the field to ensure Indirect impacts to responsibility. positive impact on our sphere of influence Supply chain (business partners, local families at origins, Our supply chain impacts communities and Ensuring responsibility and sustainability everywhere local authorities, etc.). These actions are led by households in the origins from which we Sucden teams, and address external issues as source. We are protecting forests in the coffee In order to maximize our positive impact, well as internal processes to ensure that our and cocoa supply chains through innovative and always act in conformity with our core values are shared and applied everywhere in tree planting programs. principles and values, we intend to share the Group. Our compliance framework is part responsibility actions and perspectives with all ––Livelihoods of growers and workers of this demanding process management. functions within the Group. This means that in ––Responsible and sustainable supply addition to tackling our material risks, we have Partnerships for initial actions an eager interest in ensuring that responsibility Given the challenges we face, we seek to build ––Nature conservation and forest protection and sustainability actions exist and change the partnerships with strong players and support ––Carbon footprint understanding working life of all our employees. This can go existing collective initiatives in place. Indeed, through actions such as waste recovery for we consider that generating a positive impact, ––Supplier management offices or plastic cups ban, which may be seen particularly from the onset, requires that many ––Chain of custody as smaller scale but no less significant skills be brought together, and remains an compared to industrial impact. experimental science regarding the complexity ––Sustainability programs implementation of certain issues. The use of a variety of Improving internal and In addition to that, we will seek to better expertise is therefore a means of accelerating external communication understand our overall carbon footprint the transition towards fully traceable and In order to continuously enhance our company in this critical part of our business. sustainable supply chains. culture awareness towards responsibility and Communities sustainability, we have implemented local Corporate foundation Our commitment is to invest in, and engage training sessions and a corporate newsletter Sucden has established a corporate foundation with, the communities with whom we to unify our actions and ensure all our to leverage the local involvement of our interact. We will leverage our employee’s employees are able to share our actions employees. The Foundation now provides involvement and knowledge of local issues with our business partners. funding to projects of general interest with a to impulse positive change and identify true positive impact on nutrition and health, innovative solutions. Step 4 – Define adequate means to education, environment, social and livelihood reach our objectives issues. To do so, the Foundation favors projects ––Local populations development Having set the above framework, Sucden’s that enable Sucden to make a distinctive Board has set strategy and means to leverage contribution and a significant impact in the ––Local social investment and support our will to continuously improve our community through the funding of two types Step 3 – Continuously work on the sustainable way of doing business, as well as of projects: company culture and embed improve our license to operate. Thus, the focus ––Projects where employees are personally sustainability in our mindset areas have been set: involved. Setting an efficient governance Commitments ––Projects to increase the positive impact of the framework – Responsibility is embedded Sucden is ready to go public about its Group on local environment and communities in the Company’s organization and convictions which are part of our historical which are located in areas where the Group culture Company culture. This is demonstrated by has economic interests or activities. Governance is vital and is fully embedded in memberships and public positions (Global the Group’s management structure. Compact, Cocoa and Forests Initiative, Sustainability strategy is set by Sucden’s International Cocoa Initiative, etc.) Management Board. To ensure that resources are available and that objectives are being met, the Board has appointed a Responsibility Forum for the strategy implementation. The Management Board considers responsibility issues, reviews and acknowledges achievements and ongoing programs, develop strategy and allocate resources. Sucden Responsibility 2019 7 PERFORMANCE REPORTING Sucden is committed to assessing, and reporting on its strategy and involvement in addressing compliance, environmental and social issues. Sucden Responsibility 2019 8 BUSINESS PRACTICES KEY CHALLENGES, RISKS & OPPORTUNITIES In the frame of our commitment Corporate Code of Conduct Expectations and opportunities to conduct our business ethically and regulatory risk We expect demand for sustainable, responsible Sucden is determined to conduct its commodities to grow in the coming years. and with integrity, we are actively business in compliance with applicable laws, As a company that is close producers of sugar, developing our compliance and in all countries where it operates. With a cocoa, coffee and ethanol, Sucden is well certification processes. number of subsidiaries/branches located placed to support this demand. Leveraging worldwide using the US banking system, our origin sourcing networks, we can work on Sucden group must comply with an origin tracking and supporting local increasing number of rules and regulations populations in responsible development. issued by French, EU, and other relevant In addition to that, our long-term way of doing authorities of different countries and by business very much stresses building a international organizations. relationship of confidence with our business Legal obligation under French law and partners. This long-term view is based on other jurisdictions that are applicable to business ethics, and we see responsibility Sucden, stipulate appropriate procedures in and sustainability becoming equally important areas such as international sanctions, to customers. anti-money laundering, prevention of corruption, and the fight against the financing of terrorism. This is especially key as we operate, when sourcing or selling commodities, in countries that are considered at risk. Contributing to the following UN Sustainable Development Goals Sucden Responsibility 2019 9 OUR STRATEGY, POLICIES & PERFORMANCE Conducting business ethically and in A compliance leadership committee has been Commitments towards compliance with applicable laws established and meets on a regular basis to global initiatives It was essential for Sucden to approve and decide on Sucden’s compliance strategy, As a Group, we are ready to share our view implement, as a first step, a Code of Conduct, monitor issues, enforce the approved on responsibility with our business partners setting out the rules, principles and values that compliance program and make any and interested parties. This is illustrated by Sucden’s management and employees should necessary decisions in relation thereto. commitments and initiatives that we endorse follow when acting in their professional at Group level or at activity level depending on Sucden also implemented a clear Personal capacities, both internally, and in the course of the matter. Data Protection Policy to comply with the EU their business activities with business partners General Data Protection Regulation. and counterparties. Our performance in 2019 Sucden’s Code of Conduct1 is designed Sucden’s commitments embed corporate as an overarching document that can Our performance in 2019 initiatives as well as sector specific initiatives. be supplemented by additional written In 2019, Sucden’s management and As such, we adhere to the following: instruments or policies such as the Forest Compliance Committee has taken steps protection policy, that we publicly shared in to ensure that the Code of Conduct, the ––Global Compact: Sucden applied to join 2019, or Sucden’s anti-corruption policy, and whistleblowing policy and more generally, the initiative in early 2020. We consider is intended to be updated on a regular basis. Sucden’s compliance framework were this as the overarching public understood by all employees and enforced commitment that applies to the whole Since 2017, a comprehensive compliance within the group through all its subsidiaries Group and its diversified activities. framework has been formulated and is being and branches. ––In 2019, and regarding cocoa activity, progressively implemented. It consists of an Sucden joined organizational and controlling process that For this purpose, local compliance officers, aims to ensure that we conduct business acting under the authority of the • Cocoa & Forests Initiative (CFI)2: it drives ethically in compliance with applicable laws and Compliance Committee, have been efforts from the industry to protect forests regulations and with the principles and values appointed in all Sucden’s branches, and ensure traceability of sourced cocoa. set out in our Code of Conduct. subsidiaries and/or activities. • International Cocoa Initiative (ICI)3: The compliance officers, acting in it promotes child protection in In addition to the approval and implementation cocoa-growing communities and works of our Code of Conduct, this compliance association with the legal department and the operational teams have also ensured to ensure a better future for children framework sets out policies, processes and and their families. controls consisting inter alia of: that KYC checks are made before any contractual engagement and that sanction ––For the maritime transport activity, ––Drawing a risk map to identify the main risks clauses are systematically inserted in all Sucden remains a member of the Maritime that Sucden may face; commercial and other types of contracts Anti-Corruption Network (MACN)4; MACN’s ––The implementation of an internal entered into by the entities of the vision is to raise awareness of antiwhistleblowing policy; Sucden group. corruption challenges faced by its ––The implementation of Know Your Customer members and to implement the MACN (KYC) /Know Your Supplier (KYS) procedures; Anti-Corruption Principles and co-develop and share best practices, collaborate with ––Setting out policies in relation to International governments, NGOs and civil society to Sanctions, Anti-money laundering and identify and mitigate the root causes of anti-bribery; corruption, as well as integrity within the ––Training management and employees maritime community. Through this exposed to corruption on compliance issues; membership, Sucden participates in the ––Regular financial and compliance audits. collective forces of MACN worldwide to tackle corruption in the shipping industry and benefit from the workshops and the collective actions already in place. 1 https://www.sucden.com/en/corporate-responsibility/code-of-conduct/ ––In addition to those commitments that 2 https://www.worldcocoafoundation.org/initiative/cocoa-forests-initiative/ relate to our responsibility, we are active 3 https://cocoainitiative.org/ in our general sector initiatives. 4 https://www.maritime-acn.org/ Sucden Responsibility 2019 10 OUR STRATEGY, POLICIES & PERFORMANCE CONTINUED Certifying our practices Our performance in 2019 and processes In 2019, Sucden renewed and improved In line with our commitments, we are the assessments initiated in previous years, dedicated to demonstrating that our practices reaching the main following items: and processes reflect the highest standards ––EcoVadis: as Sucden is deeply involved in of our industry. Indeed, we consider that managing its supply chain and providing certification contributes to raising the bar assurance to its clients, several entities and ensuring a level playing field. within the Group asked for an EcoVadis Consequently, our certification strategy external assessment. In 2019, our main is based on the following: French entity reached gold level1. ––Certification of our processes to trade ––Sugar: several offices and subsidiaries of certified products: demand for certified the Group are certified to trade Bonsucro2 products increases, and certification is one sugar, which is a standard used to promote way, among others, to demonstrate reliability sustainable sugarcane production, and traceability of our processes. processing and trade around the world. ––Certifications for our asset-based activity: In 2019, we sold more than 60,000 tons our vessels and plants in Russia are engaged of Bonsucro certified sugar. in a certification strategy, addressing ––Sugar Beet Pulp Pellets: in 2019, Sucden has environmental, Health & Safety, supply chain, been GMP+ certified. This animal feed safety or social practices. assurance certification allows customers to get full traceability of products, as well as insurance on hazard management at each stage of the supply chain. ––Cocoa: Sucden is certified to trade UTZ – Rainforest Alliance, Fairtrade, and Organic certified cocoa. Overall, in 2019, we sold more than 65,000 tons of certified cocoa. ––Coffee: Sucden is certified to trade Rainforest Alliance, UTZ, 4C, Fairtrade, and Organic certified coffee. In 2019, we sold 44,000 tons of certified coffee. ––Ethanol: Sucden is certified according to the International Sustainability & Carbon Certification (ISCC) system and supplied about 50’000m3 of certified ethanol in 2020. 1 Gold level is granted to the top 5% of performers. 2 https://www.bonsucro.com/what-is-bonsucro/ Sucden Responsibility 2019 11 Embedding sustainability and values in our Company culture At Sucden, we wish to ensure that all employees know about Sucden’s values and sustainability commitment and consider that all employees should see the company's progress in achieving the company's sustainability goals. To do so, we ask local management to consider all five pillars (see Our approach on page 4) of our responsibility strategy and drive the change locally. This approach leads us to address issues that are less significant compared to items disclosed in this report. Still, smaller scale actions are very useful for including all staff in our responsibility strategy. For example, this goes with specific attention to the environmental impact of office-based activity with waste reduction plans or participation in sustainable offices challenges. Sucden in Russia Sucden at sea Dobrinski and Atmis-sakhar are both In 2019, and in line with our certification certified against the following standards: strategy, our four vessels reached certification ISO 9001 Quality Management, ISO 14001 against ISO 9001 Quality Management and (Environmental Management), and ISO 45001 ISO 14001 Environmental Management. (Health & Safety Management). With regards to food safety, all our sugar factories have been certified for food safety in conformance with the FSSC 22000 standard. In the agricultural business, Sustainable Agriculture Initiative (SAI) principles have been applied and the three historical areas in which we operate are part of the Farm Sustainability Assessment by SAI Platform. In 2019, audited zones achieved gold and silver status, and the Group produced 181,351 tons of FSA certified sugar in Russia, out of about 800,000 tons. The newly acquired entity is progressively included in the SAI approach, and started in 2019 by completing a self-assessment on the SAI Platform. Sucden Responsibility 2019 12 PEOPLE KEY CHALLENGES, RISKS SUCDEN EMPLOYEES & OPPORTUNITIES AROUND THE WORLD Sucden is a family business that Risks related to talent More than 80% of the Group’s employees are works on an interpersonal level. attraction and management in Russia, where they work in a range of We are open and straightforward, People are vital to our business and our agro-industrial activities. The other 20% are believe in the value of engaging human resource management covers three involved in our trading activities and services key areas: maintaining a top employer of products, ranging from sugar, coffee, cocoa directly with clients and partners image, developing and retaining talent, and ethanol, to ocean freight and futures/ across the value chain, and in and ensuring well-being at work. options brokerage. building strong relationships. We have a thorough recruitment system Sucden’s maritime business is part of our This approach has been instrumental that aligns individuals and their roles in European operations, and crew members are a working environment that is conducive hired for limited periods linked to vessel in our success as a business and to development, by empowering and activity, which is in line with industry practice. bolsters our reputation as a company challenging them. Sucden ensures proper management of skills where people want to work. We We are keen to retain talent by giving and knowledge sharing. Knowledge sharing offer our talented employees the assignments that are ambitious and varied, potentially has a number of significant opportunities, support and training while providing an ongoing intellectual advantages: an increase in individual and necessary to be the best they can challenge, attractive pay and real collective skills, retention of sensitive opportunities for development within the know-how, and reinforced cohesion within be. We welcome individuality and Group. This effort continues throughout teams; an increased motivation for “senior” innovative thinking. the employee’s career by creating a sense employees, an accelerated learning pace for of belonging and pride in working for new hires, and stabilization and retention of the company. junior employees. Contributing to the following UN Sustainable Development Goals Sucden Responsibility 2019 13 OUR STRATEGY, POLICIES & PERFORMANCE Sucden employees in numbers Building a safe environment Sucden has developed internal processes to 31 < age Temporary Permanent comply with applicable regulations and best Region 2019 2018 Men Women <30 < 50 > 51 Workers workers practices for safety. This is especially a major Asia 246 233 190 56 50 177 19 16 230 priority for our industrial operations in Russia Europe 469 474 352 117 83 249 137 107 362 where measures are being implemented to Middle East & Africa 81 77 61 20 8 62 11 5 76 reach a no accident target. To achieve this North America 85 86 41 44 10 52 23 – 85 target, focus is made on processes and certifications, training and on global awareness Russia 4,904 3,614 3,290 1,614 589 2,601 1,714 719 4,185 of any occupational safety risks. South America 132 141 60 72 31 75 26 4 128 Total 5,917 4,625 3,994 1,923 771 3,216 1,930 851 5,066 Our performance in 2019 To reduce the risk of accidents in our factories, increase awareness, and Employees by region Employees by age group continuously enhance our processes, internal security audits were performed in 5% 14% our four factories in 2019. These audits gave Asia <30 10% 55% a general picture of security. In addition to Europe 31 < Age < 50 that, in 2019, the Dobrinski plant joined 2% 31% Atmis-Sakhar in being ISO 45001 certified. Middle East & Africa > 51 2% In 2019, one fatality occurred in Russia, and North America Sucden’s frequency rate1 of occupational 78% Russia accidents was 1.6 (1.0 for activities in Russia) 3% and the severity rate2 was 0.03 (0.02 for South America activities in Russia), compared to 1.1 and 0.04 in 2018 respectively. Well-being at work – adaptability in all its forms The Group is committed to the well-being of its employees in the workplace. A satisfied employee is less absent, more creative, more committed and… more productive. Sucden also promotes social and cultural dialogue by using all levers at its disposal, according to local rules applicable to each country. Young professionals – defined as Millennials– are opting for companies that allow them to blossom. And, more generally, employees now rate empowerment and the quality of human relations high in their motivation. The rate of absenteeism at the Group level indicates what 1 Frequency rate calculation: number of lost-time accidents x 1,000,000/number of hours worked during the reporting period. 2 Severity rate calculation: number of calendar days lost (fatalities excluded) during the year x 1,000/number of hours worked during the year. Sucden Responsibility 2019 14 OUR STRATEGY, POLICIES & PERFORMANCE CONTINUED we have achieved. In 2019, this rate is 3.1%, compared to 3.4% in 2018. The turnover Our performance in 2019 displayed is a further indicator of overall satisfaction. This turnover rate, excluding Turnover rate by region in 2019 Russia, is 12%, compared to 15% in 2018. In Terminated at Russia, this rate is much higher (33%), due to Number of Number of the employer's Turnover Turnover the fact that industrial activity is, by nature, Region employees people hired Departures initiative rate 2019 rate 2018 mobilizing many temporary workers. This Asia 246 25 31 1 12.6% 6.4% tendency occurs because our plants do not Europe 469 62 54 9 11.5% 12.2% operate all year long, but only in relation to the Middle East & Africa 81 9 5 3 6.2% 1.3% sugar beet production period. At Group level, North America 85 17 14 2 16.5% 4.7% our goal is to find the right balance between new hires and experienced employees. The Russia1 4,904 1,813 1,637 190 33.4% 45.4% below results of our industrial sites in Russia South America 132 14 21 8 15.9% 48.9% and South America are the direct result of Group average 5,917 1,940 1,762 213 29.8% 38.7% more difficult working conditions. 1 Turnover rate in Russia, when calculated on permanent employees only is 21%. On our industrial sites, the issues related to well-being at work involve providing a modern, Absenteeism rate high-performance work environment, which 44 hours is reflected in a sustained investment policy, 7% 6% i.e. integration of new technologies in our 5% agricultural crops, renovation of canteens, etc. 4% Flexibility at work 3% TRAINING PER EMPLOYEE IN 2019 2% Amongst the methods we use, flexibility in 1% the workplace, which is seen as a real form of 0 freedom when it comes to the pace of life, is a Asia Europe Middle North Russia East & South major factor in attracting workers to perform, Africa America America and to maintain this performance. Sucden Absenteeism rate 2019 average applies this in different ways, in order to achieve 2018 average greater adaptability and a better work-life balance. This flexibility includes, for example, financing childcare in company crèches, allowing staff to work from home and work part-time after having taken maternity leave, or contributing to resolve personal issues which may affect health, family life or working life. Employee shareholding: a stronger commitment to the Sucden adventure This system complements other schemes, such as profit-sharing and incentive schemes and a social protection program that guarantees minimum social benefits for all employees worldwide. This social policy is one of the components of Sucden, whose success is based on a strong collective, a protective environment and sharing the rewards reaped from growth. Sucden Responsibility 2019 15 Attracting talent and managing Our performance in 2019 competencies – Sucden creates opportunities The acquisition of new skills and knowledge by Training overview our employees is critical to Sucden’s success, and our managers are responsible for providing Number of Training hours/ Region Training hours employees employee development opportunities and support. We Asia 419 246 2 have developed close relationships with top French universities, as well as with agronomic Europe 1,606 469 3 schools. We also bring our contribution to Middle East & Africa 440 81 5 various business schools through the payment North America 2,000 85 24 of apprenticeship tax. Further, our employees Russia 252,080 4,904 51 are active in alumni networks and tend to expand their professional networks. South America 990 132 8 Grand total 257,534 5,917 44 Sucden aims to create business opportunities and we are committed to converting those into career opportunities for our employees. Sucden at sea Training hours In line with professional practice in the 50 //250,000 shipping industry, training and certification are the employees’ responsibility. Adequate training and certification are a requirement for 2,000 40 employment at Sucden. Sucden in Russia 1,500 30 The recruitment of qualified employees in Russia is difficult, given the location of our 1,000 20 industrial sites which are rural. Employee development and training is, therefore, a major priority on which Sucden spends significant 500 10 time and resources. 0 0 Asia Europe Middle East North Russia South & Africa America America Training hours Group average training hours per employee Sucden Responsibility 2019 16 ENVIRONMENT KEY CHALLENGES, RISKS & OPPORTUNITIES Sucden monitors its impacts on the planet, with a specific focus on its asset-based activities in Russia or at sea with our fleet of Handymax vessels. Minimizing direct environmental impact goes through processes of excellence, and indirect impact reduction comes with the general awareness of all Sucden employees while making traveling decisions or selecting suppliers. Contributing to the Our direct environmental impact mainly Employees’ business trips following UN Sustainable comes from the operations in Russia, our Our employees must travel to visit clients, Development Goals fleet of Handymax vessels and our industrial suppliers and our global businesses, and to meet and warehousing operations in Asia, Africa other ongoing business requirements. While we and Brazil. intend to track this information going forward, this data is not yet included in the consolidated Main contributors to Sucden’s direct reporting scheme and is not included here1. environmental footprint Our industrial and agricultural business Office-based activity activities in Russia and our maritime The environmental impact of our office transport activities have the most significant activities is not included as we are focusing on impact on our environmental footprint. our more material activities as a priority. Other activities, such as industrial and warehousing operations in Asia, Africa and Brazil have a much lower environmental impact. 1 However, employees from the head office in France travelled 6.22 million km over the year 2019, generating 1978 tons of CO2 emissions. Sucden Responsibility 2019 17 OUR STRATEGY, POLICIES & PERFORMANCE Environmental or accidental risk Improving environmental Sucden operates four sugar beet factories in management & site safety Russia that produce about 800,000 tons of Sucden in Russia Sucden at sea sugar each year and cultivates more than Sucden Russia has adopted a local policy to In preparation for new 2020 IMO regulations, 244,000 hectares of land. To reduce the implement the Group strategy and manage all our vessels have switched fuel oil quality to risk of accidents, our teams in Russia are the business in an ethical and responsible a new grade of bunkers with a lower sulfur constantly working to increase control manner. As for environmental aspects, content, thereby reducing our environmental of the industrial process through an this includes a focus on certifying our impact. Along with this use of cleaner fuel, ISO 9001-certified quality process, continuous environmental management systems, and Sucden has also equipped each vessel with a monitoring of occupational safety issues on monitoring and optimizing impact on the brand-new fuel purifying system able to filter (ISO 45001 certification) and ongoing following matters: sustainable agriculture, up to 80% more residual fine particles, deployment of a certified environmental energy efficiency, renewable energy use, allowing further improvement in fuel quality management system (ISO 14001 certification). ISO 26000 or IFC standard guidelines, and reduction in carbon emissions. The agricultural business is managed in such water consumption efficiency, waste a way as to limit the environmental impact of optimization, and food safety. This policy production using techniques that are shared is applied through a specific organization across the sector. as each Russian industrial or agribusiness Climate change risk entity has environment officers to support Climate change affects agricultural production the management in dealing with around the world. In Russia we work to mitigate environmental issues and concerns. This this risk by continually verifying that the seeds structure also helps ensure compliance with we use in crops, sugar beets or cereals, are the locally applicable standards. most suitable for local conditions. As a player in the supply chain for agricultural commodities such as sugar cane, cocoa and coffee, we also help support farmers to adapt their production to the long-term risks related to climate change. This can involve interventions such as income diversification and improved agricultural practices, as well as reforestation. Within our supply chain, we recognize the impact this has on our indirect carbon footprint and will be seeking to understand this material impact to a greater degree. Our detailed actions in the supply chain are shared in on page 21. Sucden Responsibility 2019 18 OUR STRATEGY, POLICIES & PERFORMANCE CONTINUED Saving energy and limiting our direct carbon footprint Our performance in 2019 Sucden in Russia Sucden in the world Sucden at sea We are committed to reducing our energy The following table shows the energy The actual Energy Efficiency Design Index consumption and carbon footprint, since consumed by Sucden’s operations by for Sucden’s vessels is 4.18 grams of CO2 it is both beneficial for the environment and energy type. Greenhouse gas (GHG) per ton-mile versus a standard target for helps reduce costs. In addition, cutting the emissions are calculated based on this this vessel’s category of 5.90 grams of CO2 production of waste and optimizing utility consumption, using country-specific per ton-mile. Our vessels are compliant usage are key to ensuring overall plant emission factors. Our carbon footprint is with International Maritime Organization efficiency and industrial process reliability. monitored based on energy consumption regulations through to 2024. Sucden from all industrial, agricultural, logistics, vessels have lower fuel consumption and We consistently monitor our energy and maritime activities. higher fuel efficiency than standard designs. consumption and consider ongoing Fuel consumption for Sucden vessels is just investments to help us reduce it in both our Sucden in Russia over 20 metric tons a day at 13.5 knots, industrial and agricultural business units. In 2019, a mass and thermal balance has compared to a standard 27-28mts for As a rule, any investment has to consider been performed for each factory to identify similarly sized vessels at the same speed. energy savings. available actions to optimize energy efficiency and carbon footprint. In our agricultural business, we invest in high-performance, modern equipment (tractors, For management purposes, Sucden monitors: beet harvesters, etc.) that enables us to optimize ––CO2eq per cultivated hectare – 425kg CO2 the management of cultivated land in terms of eq/cultivated hectare (compared to 359 energy consumption and quality of tillage. in 2018), Moreover, analytical crop management includes energy consumption among its key parameters. ––CO2eq per ton of sugar beet processed, – 102kg CO2 eq., (compared to 113 in 2018). Sucden at sea In order to minimize the environmental impact of our shipping operations, as well as improve Energy consumption and GHG emissions business opportunities, we invested in modern ships that optimize energy consumption. Our Fuel & Butane / Zone Gas Electricity gasoline Propane Total GHG emissions vessels are specifically designed to reduce MWh MWh teq CO2 teq CO2 bunker consumption, have modern, efficient MWh MWh MWh MWh 2019 2018 2019 2018 engines, and the latest hull shape, which is Asia 199 1,487 2,557 – 4,243 4,658 1,638 1,950 specifically coated to reduce water resistance. Russia 1,828,002 40,465 290,640 1,231 2,160,338 1,700,665 544,322 378,212 We maintain a strong focus on maintenance Shipping1 – – 203,864 – 203,864 178,865 66,052 43,761 to ensure that we continue to achieve South America – 937 – – 937 895 332 335 high performance. Total 1,828,202 42,889 497,061 1,231 2,369,382 1,885,084 612,344 424,256 1 Shipping section includes all consumption from Sucden vessels 425kg CO eq PER CULTIVATED HECTARE 2 102kg CO eq PER TON OF SUGAR BEET PROCESSED 2 Sucden Responsibility 2019 19 Managing our waste products Optimizing our water consumption and production residues Sucden in Russia Sucden in Russia Sucden at sea Reducing water consumption is one of the key Sugar production generates by-products1 With the exception of organic waste products metrics of the sustainability policy that local that can be valuable, such as molasses and that are released at sea during voyages, all managers focus on in our Russian operations. beet residue which can be used as fertilizer. other wastes are either treated onboard when This includes reducing the volume of discharged In addition, limited volumes of waste are possible or landed ashore in the ports via water. In the sugar beet refining process, water produced, stemming mainly from logistics specialized disposal companies. All waste is used to clean beets can be reused within and commercial activities (such as used pallets closely followed in a specific on-board waste closed-loop systems. These systems are now and scrap packaging). Agricultural activity registry. Our captains and crews have being deployed in all three of our plants. 0.8m itself generates little waste. Still, innovative instructions regarding environmental opportunities to recycle an increased volume management on-board, and waste of waste are constantly looked at, and all management is part of this documented production residues and waste are monitored management system. 3 jointly by each refinery’s leadership and the WATER CONSUMPTION / TON regions’ agricultural managers. Actions are OF SUGAR BEETS PROCESSED, undertaken jointly to maximize recovery rates COMPARED TO 1.4 M3 IN 2018. for production residues and to minimize waste. Our performance in 2019 Our performance in 2019 The data shown below tabulates the Sucden in Russia waste generated by our industrial and In Dobrinski, a closed loop circuit for syrup agricultural activities. cooling has been installed in 2019 to reduce Sucden in Russia ––Biological treatment system improvements freshwater consumption by 250,000 m3. In 2019, we made substantial investments are now implemented in Dobrinski, Atmis We also continue benefitting from previous (more than 1MUSD) and put in significant and Tbilisski. years’ investments to reduce water organizational effort to optimize waste consumption in our sugar factories. ––Wastewater study has been launched management, including the following: in Dobrinski to define a 2025 plan to Sucden at sea ––Installation of a third pulp press in significantly reduce volumes thrown out The entire Sucden fleet is equipped to ATMIS-SAKHAR, to reduce by 45 000 tons into the river. produce fresh water for crew and the pulp volume to be spread in the fields maintenance use (17 metric tons of fresh and increase marketable pellets’ volume. water/day) by desalination of sea water through a boiling system using waste heat Waste production quantity and recovery rate (January to December 2019) recovered from the main engine. Zone Non Hazardous Total waste Recycled Recovery Zone Water Water hazardous produced volume rate consumption consumption in metric tons in metric tons in metric tons in metric tons % 2019 (m3) 2018 (m3) Asia 899,875 220 900 095 – – Asia 13,056 4,104 Russia 331,279,458 1,765,120 333,044,578 330,337,851 99.2% Russia 3,346,926 4,220,772 Shipping – 208,355 – – South America 13,100 15,503 South America 214,288 160 214,448 87,000 40.6% Other 115 290 Total 332,393,621 1,973,855 334,159,121 330,424,851 98.9% Total 3,373,197 4,240,669 1 Sugar and pellets are considered as products; molasses and beet pulp are considered as by-products. By-products are included in the waste reporting disclosed in this report. These wastes are considered as recovered. Sucden Responsibility 2019 20 OUR STRATEGY, POLICIES & PERFORMANCE CONTINUED Conserving our soil Animal welfare and protecting biodiversity Sucden in Russia Sucden strives to protect biodiversity, Aside from our main activity of cereals and Our performance in 2019 especially in our agricultural and maritime sugar production, we produce milk from the At Sucden, CIWF criteria application activities, where we have a direct impact. The 3,000 cows that we breed on our farms. establishes the following practical actions: land we cultivate is the habitat of numerous Animal welfare is embedded in our milk species, and we employ agricultural practices herd management, and we base our ––Comfort: daily mulching from 8 to 12 kg that protect the soil through crop rotation as analysis on the five fundamental freedoms of straw per animal; well as fertilizer and pesticide management. as stated within the CIWF (Compassion in ––Ventilation: housing the animals in World Farming) criteria. At Sucden, we renovated buildings equipped to manage Sucden in Russia ensure the following actions: heat stress, ensure a humidity level in the We set up an agrochemical soil analysis program in the Dobrinski district to measure air not exceeding 70%, and guarantee the soil quality. All fields are analyzed once every safety of the animals; five years and annual applications of mineral ––Dairy team: trainings are organized to and organic fertilizers are closely monitored. ensure high quality care to prevent and Sucden at sea control diseases; Our ships travel from one continent to another, ––Feeding: daily control of forage quality and we take great care not to alter local from maize, alfalfa and pulp. biodiversity as a consequence of our activity. To this end, our vessels are equipped with advanced water ballast treatment systems, preventing contamination of local ecosystem by foreign bio Fundamental freedom Achievement example at Sucden organisms. Furthermore, any chemicals used on Do not suffer from Renovation of drinking troughs and setting of rations to cover board comply with best management practices hunger or thirst the needs of each category of animals. stipulated by the International Maritime Do not suffer Purchased rugs to put in hobbled barns to improve comfort. Organization in its Evaluation of Safety and discomfort Building of barns with deep-bedded cubicle sand. Pollution Hazards of Chemicals. Do not suffer pain, Permanent care of the animals with, for example, specific injury or illness investments in the trimming of animals, and presence of trained people in each farm. Our performance in 2019 To be able to express Decreased the use of the tie-stall barn in favor of free A program to suppress heavy fuel storage is natural behaviours housing buildings. in place to reduce the risks of soil pollution. Do not experience fear All people in contact with animals are sensitized to this This has been fully implemented in Tbilisski and distress dimension and must treat the animals with respect. in 2019. Fertigation feasibility studies have also been initiated in order to assess this technical solution within the local agricultural practices’ framework. This would allow fields to be irrigated by wastewater coming from the factory as this water imparts nutriments aggregated in the industrial process. Sucden Responsibility 2019 21 SUPPLY CHAIN KEY CHALLENGES, RISKS & OPPORTUNITIES Cocoa and coffee businesses Cocoa Coffee make a significant contribution Cocoa is primarily grown by smallholder Sucden purchases coffee from more than farmers in West Africa. The Ivory Coast and 20 origins, with key sourcing operations in to the economies of producing Ghana combined produce nearly three Vietnam, India, Indonesia and Colombia. The countries and thereby to the million metric tons of cocoa. The average majority (globally around 70 per cent) of the well-being of those households farm size in this region is between two and coffee we deliver to our customers has been that have decided to cultivate three hectares, and the average yield ranges grown by smallholder farmers who often rely between 300 and 500 kg per hectare. It is on coffee for their entire livelihoods. these crops. Our sourcing role therefore estimated that there are between is therefore strategic, and we two and three million cocoa farmers in Ivory Although mechanical harvest is becoming more common, coffee cherries are still focus on partnering with clients Coast and Ghana alone. The sheer number harvested manually in many places, and in implementing sustainability of cocoa farmers and the total cocoa harvest remains the most labor-intensive production in this region means that this programs and reinforcing the crop contributes significantly to these stage of coffee production. Together with other monitoring of our supply chain countries’ economies. farming tasks, coffee cultivation thus creates income opportunities for millions of workers to address community and Many cocoa farmers, however, face worldwide. Beyond its economic importance, household level cocoa and challenges, such as lack of availability of coffee also provides a good opportunity for coffee related impacts. labor, decreasing fertility and moisture of integrating nature conservation in the soils, and low productivity. These difficulties productive system. In particular, where coffee translate into the need to improve labor is grown within a shaded system, the native practices, safeguard forests, and raise trees play an important role for biodiversity farming family incomes. and as carbon sinks. Contributing to the following UN Sustainable In addition, the regulatory landscape is In general, the ecosystems where coffee is Development Goals changing in the United States and in the grown are being impacted by land degradation European Union. Current legislation seeks to and climate change, putting millions of hectares address the risks of forced labor, child labor, at risk of becoming unsuitable for coffee and deforestation in supply chains. As such, production. Simultaneously, smallholder as a supplier to chocolate manufacturers farmers struggle with low coffee prices and and processors, Sucden must take shortages, as farm workers seek safer and fairer possession of cocoa that meets all regulatory work circumstances. As a result, millions of requirements. In order to achieve this goal, livelihoods are at stake, as is the future of coffee Sucden implements sustainability programs supply, including its quality and diverse origins. that seek to tackle these key challenges. Taking a share of responsibility for the supply Our aim is to supply cocoa that helps chain that Sucden relies on for its coffee cocoa-growing families and communities, business, implies recognizing the undeniable their countries and the planet to prosper. role of coffee in human livelihoods, culture In order to achieve our goals, we are and productive landscapes and actively committed to partnering with stakeholders, participating in order to tackle challenges such as cocoa sector administering bodies; that are endangering its very existence. NGOs, Foundations and companies with expertise on certain topics like forest conservation and improving labor practices; and industry associations in order to confront the sector’s many challenges head on. Sucden Responsibility 2019 22 OUR STRATEGY, POLICIES & PERFORMANCE 30,000 Cocoa There is no single solution to the economic, social and environmental challenges facing cocoa farmers. That’s why we believe in a flexible approach and adapt our programs to COCOA FARM BOUNDARIES MAPPED THROUGH 2019 suit local conditions while meeting our clients’ needs. In order to speed up progress towards achieving sustainable cocoa, we work through three interlinked ambitions. Support Source cocoa women and tailored to communities client needs SUPPORT SAFEGUARD Protect PROVIDE FARMING by facilitating programs that improve access to THE PLANET forests TRUSTWORTHY by providing beans that meet specific FAMILIES healthcare, water and by not sourcing COCOA customer sustainability give agency to female requirements. heads of households. from protected forest areas for all our cocoa. Enable Promote a clients to living income Improve Source track their for farmers farming from wellsustainability by working with experts practices managed journey Prompt to support the role of by offering farms by offering access responsible cocoa in improving farming families’ farmers training by facilitating to a sustainability monitoring platform. labor practices earnings. and access to business training better plants and by implementing for farmer group farm inputs. child labor management teams. Offer monitoring and remediation traceability systems, and to farm tools to assess by mapping our direct supply and respond to the chain back to farm in Ivory risk of forced labor. Coast and Ghana by 2024. 14,000 24,000 30,000 farming families trained on the farmers trained on improved cocoa farm boundaries importance of avoiding child and agricultural practices in Ivory Coast, mapped through 2019. forced labor through 2019. Ghana and Nigeria through 2019. We want cocoa farming Promoting a living income for farmers Supporting women and communities families to flourish Achieving an income that allows farmers Sucden Cocoa engages expert delivery We work with cocoa-growing families to to invest in their family and farm is vital for partners to support communities and diversify household incomes, assist children safeguarding the future of cocoa. This is a address what matters most, such as access in attending school, and empower women by: complex issue where cocoa can play an to healthcare and water. We facilitate important role. We’re working to identify how programs that give agency to women in Prompting responsible labor practices best to improve incomes, partnering with their roles as heads of households and We are committed to playing our part in seeing Sourcemap, a supply chain mapping software community members. that forced labor and the worst forms of child program that enables us to trace products to labor are eliminated. Children should not the source and track important agricultural, conduct work inappropriate for their age and social and environmental data. Sourcemap should have improved opportunities to attend provides us with insights about the earnings of school. That’s why we are implementing child farmers in our supply chain. At present, we’re labor monitoring and remediation systems, collecting the baseline data, which will allow while continuing to support farming the impacts of initiatives in Ivory Coast, Ghana organizations with training on child and Nigeria to be measured. and forced labor prevention. Sucden Responsibility 2019 23 We want to safeguard the planet Sourcing cocoa tailored In 2019, Sucden Cocoa published1 its To reduce pressure on critical ecosystems, we to client specifications “Sucden Forests Protection Policy for support farms to grow cocoa more efficiently by: Sucden Cocoa helps clients source beans that the Cocoa Supply chain.” meet their own sustainability requirements or Protecting forests In addition, we joined the World Cocoa those of certification standards. We manage and We monitor our supply chain for forest Foundation’s Cocoa and Forests Initiative2. assess programs to ensure that premiums for encroachment by mapping the boundaries The Cocoa and Forests Initiative is a growing certified cocoa are correctly disbursed of all farms in our direct supply chain. We pre-competitive, industry-wide initiative, which to farmers, and that client investments in continue to support farmers’ improved seeks to protect and restore the forests of Ivory sustainable cocoa programs are used effectively. livelihoods, thereby tackling a potential driver Coast and Ghana, promote sustainable cocoa of deforestation, through training on forest Enabling clients to track production and farmers’ livelihoods, and support conservation and agroforestry. their sustainability journey community engagement and social inclusion. We provide access to personalized dashboards Encouraging good agricultural practices We also joined the International Cocoa showing sustainability program delivery Better practices help farmers produce more Initiative3, which promotes child protection information. This makes it easy for clients quality cocoa without encroaching on in cocoa-growing communities in Ivory Coast to confirm that their cocoa production protected land. We make this possible by and Ghana. requirements are in place at the farms growing offering training to improve farm practices the cocoa that they ultimately purchase. and by helping farmers access better plants and other agricultural inputs. Sourcing from well-managed farmer organizations Our performance in 2019 Professionally run farmer organizations and In 2019, we achieved the following: ––In Ghana, jointly with our clients and cocoa farms are more successful. That’s why Licensed Buying Company partners, we ––In Ivory Coast, on behalf of our clients, we we offer business training to the management have trained 11,562 farmers on good trained 10,662 farmers on good agricultural teams of farmer groups in Ivory Coast, Ghana agricultural practices. We have also practices and managed 72 demo plots. We and Nigeria. mapped 24,879 farms with polygons and worked with Solidaridad to train 40 women distributed 2158 multi-purpose shade trees We will continue to provide from a cooperative on income-generating for on-farm planting. One of our partner trustworthy cocoa activities, financial management and Licensed Buying Companies has worked on Sucden Cocoa uses Sourcemap and our nutrition. We collaborated with PUR Projet a gender program, which focuses on how to in-country teams to provide clients the to conduct a feasibility assessment for an better engage with women, both on cocoa information and insights they need by: agroforestry project, through which we will farms and at the farmer organization level. plan to plant 155 shade trees per hectare Offering a fully traceable supply chain ––In Nigeria, in partnership with our client, we on farms with at least 75 farmers. In We source cocoa predominately from Ivory trained 7,852 farmers on good agricultural partnership, with our clients, we set up child Coast and Ghana. By 2024, we will complete practices and established 93 cocoa labor monitoring and remediation systems the mapping of our supply chain where nurseries. In addition, we trained over 7,000 across 12 cooperatives. programs are in place. In these countries farmers on nutrition and on ecosystem that includes a digital record of the farms protection, soil conservation, and biodiversity. from which we source, and the boundaries of these farms, enabling us to monitor for forest encroachment. As of 2019, all 30,000 farms in our sustainability programs were mapped in this way. 1 https://www.sucden.com/media/1483/sucden_cocoa-forest-protection-policy.pdf 2 https://www.worldcocoafoundation.org/initiative/cocoa-forests-initiative/ 3 https://cocoainitiative.org/ Sucden Responsibility 2019 24 OUR STRATEGY, POLICIES & PERFORMANCE CONTINUED 50% target Coffee Besides compliance with standards, we’ve As a global coffee trader with a considerable committed ourselves to the UN Sustainable market share and presence in many origins, Development Goals, as laid out in the Global we aim to use our knowledge, our resources Compact and the Sustainable Coffee FOR CERTIFIED COFFEE SHARE AT SUCDEN BY 2025 and business incentives to identify, prevent Challenge, by actively helping to build a and mitigate the sector’s main social and resilient coffee supply chain, in particular environmental risks in a holistic manner. by achieving the following objectives: We are improving traceability and building ––Improving livelihoods of growers and a thorough due diligence process. We’re workers, through income diversification developing a sustainability approach that & improved labor conditions takes into consideration the inherently complex character of the coffee supply ––Sustaining supply in a socially and chain, and embeds sustainability initiatives environmentally responsible way, through at farm, landscape, and planet level. increased productivity and enhanced resilience of coffee production systems Compliance with our internal standards is to be assured by our Coffee Supplier Code of ––Conserving nature through forest protection Conduct which is being introduced to suppliers and improved water resource management in various origins. Our objective is a gradual roll-out to achieve 100% compliance in the near future. Historically the Voluntary Sustainability Standards, such as those introduced by Rainforest Alliance, UTZ and 4C, have always been an important part of our sustainability approach. In 2019, we have also included Fairtrade and Organic certification in our portfolio. Our objective is to continue to increase the share of certified coffee in our trade, to achieve 50% by 2025. We have selected this target primarily based on the demand of the market. We will continue to respond to the needs of our customers. In 2019, we have also included Fairtrade and Organic certification in our portfolio. Sucden Responsibility 2019 25 Our performance in 2019 commodities to the commercial sector. BBS Sustainable Commodities Partnership The project also identified types of coffee The Bukit Barisan Selatan (BBS) Sustainable Certified trade Commodities Partnership (‘BBS KEKAL’) is a farm rejuvenation methods, including the ––17% of the coffee we trade is certified, establishment of farm nurseries. The methods new and innovative landscape partnership to compared to 11% in 2018, with our target are expected to give benefit and can be protect forests and support improved being 50% until 2025 adopted by farmers in Pagar Alam and other livelihoods around the Bukit Barisan Selatan ––Total production within own certified areas that grow coffee. National Park (BBSNP) in southern Sumatra. programs amounted to 28,000 MT Sucden is engaged in Roundtable discussions In 2019 Sustainability programs since 2018, together with over 15 coffee ––1,400 farmers were trained on agroforestry companies who signed the Collective Sucden supply chain projects – Sustaining and associated practices Statement of Intent. landscapes in India (Karnataka, Ponampet) Sucden has partnered with the local Forestry ––6 field staff and 25 extension officers were BBS KEKAL aims to contribute towards College to address challenges faced by one trained on key topics reduced deforestation of around 20,000 of our coffee sourcing regions. The objective ––4 demonstration plots were mapped and hectares in the park compared to a of the project is to revive the self-sustaining, designed business-as-usual scenario; equivalent to the diversified coffee farming landscape in the ––11 public nurseries were established avoidance of 13,167,109 MT of CO2 emissions region by promoting increased tree cover (2020-2050). The project aims to restore the and eco-friendly practices. This will be done Sector initiatives– Sustainable ecological integrity of BBSNP, securing by promoting economically important native Coffee Challenge c.318,000 hectares and restoring an and fruit yielding trees among farmers, as Sucden is a proud member of the Sustainable additional 2,500 hectares of degraded well as by increasing the tree cover in Coffee Challenge, which is being led by forests, while engaging and supporting the community lands. College nurseries will Conservation International. As part of our livelihoods of an estimated 20,000 farmers supply the project with necessary planting commitment to the Challenge, Sucden cultivating in the buffer zone of BBSNP. material. Training of farmers will be carried supports the Coffee Days Campaign: Building out by local experts and further on-farm work Resilience in Coffee Communities. This will be supported by college students via a campaign will support coffee farmers in newly created participatory curriculum. landscapes across Honduras, Colombia and Peru that are threatened by climate change Client-partner projects – Empowering and market instability. local farmers in Indonesia (South Sumatra, Pagar Alam) Our commitment to the Challenge: “helping The goal of the project is to enhance the to build a resilient coffee supply chain, to livelihood of smallholder Robusta coffee safeguard natural resources and to secure the farmers through strengthening and livelihood of millions of coffee farmers around diversifying incomes from coffee and other the world. We are fully aware that complex associated crops, reducing agrochemicals, challenges faced by the coffee supply chain and halting deforestation through incentives. can only be tackled in collaboration at sector Activities in the project are intended to level. We appreciate and support the initiative increase production of Robusta coffee and its taken by Sustainable Coffee Challenge to unite associated crops (e.g. avocados and durian), and structure the movement towards a better through development of improved, coffee future for all. Therefore, we commit to environmentally sustainable agricultural participate in this journey by sharing management, as well as management and knowledge, leveraging resources and striving marketing practices that provide a to build enabling environments for change to sustainably produced, traceable supply take place.” high-quality Robusta coffee and other Sucden Responsibility 2019 26 COMMUNITIES KEY CHALLENGES, RISKS OUR STRATEGY, POLICIES & OPPORTUNITIES & PERFORMANCE Sucden is very well-aware of As a trading house company, Sucden Sucden supports causes that are important its impact on the communities has a global footprint, with premises in to us, by contributing financially to recognized 25 countries and employees traveling to organizations, causes and specific projects. we interact with, in conducting almost all countries in the world. In every We are particularly focused on health and transactions with local place we operate, we consider that our education projects in the origin countries producers, employing people, employees reflect the company's values. where we source and process commodities. paying taxes, and supplying As such, our business partners should see We are committed to allocating more than our values applied in the field by all 1% of our consolidated net income to such food ingredients to the world's Group members. activities. This commitment goes through consumers. We aim to share two main channels: Having more than 5,000 employees, the positive impact of our Sucden’s teams are constantly being ––We provide support to universal causes, activity and optimize our global faced with or introduced to local based on our corporate perception of footprint by leveraging the concerns, such as nutrition and health, challenges. involvement of our employees education, environment, and social ––We intend to leverage our employees’ & livelihood issues. Our employees to support universal causes. voluntarily interact with local involvement and expertise through our Corporate Foundation which is communities and contribute to financially supporting: addressing these issues. This positive • Projects where employees are personally impact generation forms part of the involved, generating positive impact on long-term relationship of confidence we local communities throughout the world. build with our partners, and we look forward to keeping this approach by • Projects identified by employees in regions constantly supporting these activities. where the Group operates and/or sources/ sells commodities. Contributing to the following UN Sustainable Development Goals Sucden Responsibility 2019 27 Our performance in 2019 In 2019, Sucden contributed more than 2 million USD, compared to 1.9 in 2018 to various organizations and initiatives; this Institut du Cerveau et de la Moelle épinière – ICM5 (Brain & Spine Institute) ICM is an international brain and spinal cord research center whose innovative concept and USD 2million DONATED JANUARY TO DECEMBER, 2019 represents around 2% of our 2019 structure make it the only institute of its kind in 2% consolidated net income. the world. The ICM brings patients, doctors and researchers together with the aim of rapidly A few examples of charities supported by developing treatments for disorders of the Sucden or its Corporate Foundation in 2019: nervous system and enabling patients to Sidaction1 benefit from them as quickly as possible. NET INCOME DONATED IN 2019 Sidaction fights against AIDS by supporting Association Coup de Pouce6 research programs, community care Coup de Pouce works in partnership with programs, and by providing treatment and municipalities and public schools in France assistance for the sick, both in France and to enable every child, regardless of their abroad. Sucden has been a partner to socio-economic environment, to chart a Sidaction for the last 5 years, to support course towards academic success. specific programs in Africa. The Pan-African Organization to Fight for Heritage foundation2 Health (OPALS)7 Sucden signed a three-year commitment OPALS is a medical organization dedicated to with the French Foundation to safeguard maternal and child health in Africa. the cultural and architectural heritage in the country. Additionally, some subsidiaries make donations locally to address specific issues, such as Healing Hands of Hope Colombia 3 financing nurseries or schools for children, – Project “El Refugio” in Colombia local charity programs or support for We signed a three-year commitment to employees’ humanitarian projects. Their support the building and starting of a new contribution is included in the Group figures school in Colombia, in Tierra Bomba where disclosed in this section. education infrastructure is not sufficient. StrongWoods4 initiative in Ivory Coast We signed a three-year commitment to initiate a reforestation project including nursery tree creation and tree-planting with related monitoring. 1 https://www.sidaction.org/ 2 https://www.fondation-patrimoine.org/ 3 http://colombia.thehandsofhope.org/ 4 https://strong-woods.com/fr/ 5 https://icm-institute.org/en 6 http://www.coupdepouceassociation.fr/general/about-us/ 7 https://www.opals.asso.fr/en/ Sucden Responsibility 2019 28 AUDITOR’S REPORT Report by one of the Independence and quality control (Compagnie nationale des commissaires aux Our independence is defined by the comptes or CNCC) applicable to such Statutory Auditors, appointed requirements of article L.822-11-3 of the engagements and with ISAE 30002: as independent third party, on French Commercial Code and the French ––We obtained an understanding of all the the consolidated non-financial Code of Ethics (Code de déontologie) of our consolidated entities’ activities, and the statement profession. In addition, we have implemented description of the principal risks associated; a system of quality control including For the year ended 31 December 2019 documented policies and procedures regarding ––We assessed the suitability of the criteria of compliance with applicable legal and regulatory the Guidelines with respect to their relevance, To the Annual General Meeting, requirements, the ethical requirements and completeness, reliability, neutrality and In our capacity as Statutory Auditor of your French professional guidance. understandability, with due consideration of company (hereinafter the “entity”) appointed industry best practices, where appropriate; Responsibility of the Statutory Auditor as independent third party, and accredited by appointed as independent third party ––We verified that the Statement includes each the French Accreditation Committee (Comité On the basis of our work, our responsibility category of social and environmental Français d'Accréditation or COFRAC) under is to provide a report expressing a limited information set out in article L.225-102-1 III; number 3-10491, we hereby report to you on assurance conclusion on: the consolidated non-financial statement for ––We verified that the Statement provides the year ended 31 December 2019 (hereinafter ––the compliance of the Statement with the the information required under article the “Statement”), included in the Group requirements of article R. 225-105 of the R. 225-105 II of the French Commercial management report pursuant to the French Commercial Code; Code, where relevant with respect to the requirements of articles L.225-102-1, principal risks; ––the fairness of the information provided in R. 225-105 and R. 225-105-1 of the French accordance with article R.225-105 I, 3° and II ––We verified that the Statement presents the Commercial Code (Code de commerce). of the French Commercial Code, i.e., the business model and a description of principal Responsibility of the entity outcomes, including key performance risks associated with all the consolidated The Board of Directors is responsible indicators, and the measures implemented entities’ activities, including where relevant for preparing the Statement, including considering the principal risks (hereinafter and proportionate, the risks associated with a presentation of the business model, a the “Information”). their business relationships, their products or description of the principal non-financial services, as well as their policies, measures However, it is not our responsibility to risks, a presentation of the policies and the outcomes thereof, including key comment on the entity’s compliance with other implemented considering those risks and performance indicators associated to the applicable legal and regulatory requirements, the outcomes of said policies, including key principal risks; nor on the compliance of products and performance indicators. services with the applicable regulations. ––We referred to documentary sources and The Statement has been prepared in conducted interviews to: Nature and scope of our work accordance with the entity’s procedures The work described below was performed in • assess the process used to identify and (hereinafter the “Guidelines”), the main accordance with the provisions of Article confirm the principal risks as well as the elements of which are presented in the A.225-1 et seq. of the French Commercial consistency of the outcomes, including the key Statement and available upon request Code, as well as with the professional guidance performance indicators used, with respect to at the entity’s head office. of the French Institute of Statutory Auditors the principal risks and the policies presented; 1 Accreditation scope available at www.cofrac.fr 2 ISAE 3000: international standard on assurance engagements other than audits or reviews of historical financial information 3 SDI (Russia); Sucden Financial Limited (UK); Sucden Armateurs (France). Sucden Responsibility 2019 • corroborate the qualitative information We believe that the work carried out, based (measures and outcomes) that we on our professional judgment, is sufficient considered to be the most important. to provide a basis for our limited assurance Concerning certain risks as Supply chain conclusion; a higher level of assurance risk and Code of ethics or law breaches and would have required us to carry out more reputational risk, our work was carried out extensive procedures. on the consolidating entity, for the other Means and resources risks, our work was carried out on the Our work was carried out by a team of six people consolidating entity and on a selection between December 2019 and April 2020 and of entities3. took a total of approximately three weeks. ––We verified that the Statement covers the We were assisted in our work by our specialists scope of consolidation, i.e. all the consolidated in sustainable development and corporate entities in accordance with article L. 233-16 social responsibility. We conducted of the French Commercial Code; approximately ten interviews with the people ––We obtained an understanding of internal responsible for preparing the Statement. control and risk management procedures the Conclusion entity has put in place and assessed the data Based on the procedures performed, nothing has collection process to ensure the come to our attention that causes us to believe completeness and fairness of the Information; that the non-financial statement is not presented ––For the key performance indicators and other in accordance with the applicable regulatory quantitative outcomes that we considered to requirements and that the Information, taken as be the most important, we implemented: a whole, is not presented fairly in accordance with the Guidelines, in all material respects. • a nalytical procedures to verify the proper consolidation of the data collected and the consistency of any changes in those data; Paris-La Défense, on April 21st 2020 • t ests of details, using sampling techniques, KPMG S.A. in order to verify the proper application of the definitions and procedures and reconcile the data with the supporting documents. This work was carried out on a Fanny Houlliot selection of contributing entities3 and Partner covers between 86% and 100% of the Sustainability Services consolidated data selected for these tests; • We assessed the overall consistency of the Statement based on our knowledge of all the consolidated entities. Laurent Génin Partner 20/22, rue de la Ville l’Évêque 75008 Paris France Phone: +33 (0) 1 53 30 12 34 Email: sustainability@sucden.com
