HOW ARE WE SHOWING BUSINESS RESILIENCE? HOW DID WE RESPOND DURING COVID-19? WORKING FOR A SUSTAINABLE FUTURE HOW ARE WE BATTLING CLIMATE CHANGE? HOW ARE WE TACKLING SOCIAL EXCLUSION? IN UNCERTAIN TIMES RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2020 Working for a sustainable future in uncertain times “Our role must be to help forge sustainable and inclusive futures, navigating a new legal, regulatory and stakeholder landscape. We must use our expertise and our capabilities as conveners, working with others to make a positive difference with our commitment to the rule of law, justice and equality as our foundation stone.” Matthew Layton, Global Managing Partner CONTENTS INTRODUCTION DOING PEOPLE COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT MONITORING BUSINESS OUR PROGRESS Our Vision A Global Shift Leading Scaling Up A New Landscape Monitoring our Page 2 Page 10 Through Change Our Impact Page 28 Progress Page 16 Page 22 Page 32-33 Our Responsible A Smooth Balancing the Business Strategy Transition Eradicating Bullying Solid Foundations Human Impact Thank you Page 4 Page 11 & Harassment for Growth Page 29 Page 34 Page 17 Page 23 Mapping our My View On It: My View On It: Objectives Standing Shoulder My View On It: My View On It: The Growth of ESG Page 5 to Shoulder with The Power of Tackling Structural in Latin America our Clients Reverse Mentoring Discrimination Page 31 In the Face Page 13 Page 19 Page 25 of Change Page 6 Credits: Our thanks for this reporting go to all of our colleagues across the world, plus particularly our army of amateur domestic photographers, and the core team in London, Delhi and at our agency SuperUnion, who working together remotely have embodied the spirit of collaboration celebrated in this year’s report. Under the rules of certain US jurisdictions, this document may constitute attorney advertising. Prior results do not guarantee a similar outcome. CLIFFORD CHANCE | 1 OUR VISION is to be the global law firm of choice for the world’s leading businesses of today and tomorrow. ABOUT US STRATEGIC OVERVIEW As a leader in our field we are rightly held We believe that working in partnership to high standards in all we do. We believe with our clients, legislators, governments, that our licence to operate, the sustainability industry bodies, local communities and of our business and the achievement of beyond helps us to realise our responsible our vision are dependent on our ability to business strategy and contribute to inspire trust and earn the confidence of sustainable change. all our stakeholders. We believe that a large part of this is To do this we must act responsibly, creating working to empower our people to seek long-term value and supporting their future opportunities to collaborate to make an success. We use our commitment to the impact in the areas that matter. This report UN Global Compact, and associated global gives an insight into the ways we collaborate frameworks, to help shape our approach. with all our stakeholders, and the positive Our activity is aligned with and supports change we hope to achieve through the UN Sustainable Development Goals, working together. focusing on those areas where we can make the greatest contribution. CLIFFORD CHANCE | 2 CLIFFORD CHANCE | 3 SUSTAINABLE GROWT?H O H WR A EE W SHOIW NG MAPPING OUR DOING BUSINESS BUSINESS RESILIENCE? OBJECTIVES Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) O H W DID E W RESPOND is an increasingly well understood concept adopted by organisations globally to help COMMUNITY them map objectives to promote sustainability their own practices. DURING COVID-?9 1 OUR The principles that are integral to ESG are PEOPLE OUR embedded in our Responsible Business CLIENTS strategy. For instance, we align our CIVIL O H W DO EW MAE K operations to contribute towards a number SOCIETY of the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), in particular goals 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 8, 10, PEOPLE N A IMPACT? 11, 15, 16 and 17, and we intend to continue to do so through to 2030. The activities highlighted in this year’s report T AHW IS OUR ROLE demonstrate our commitment to sustainable growth and how it has endured and been ENVIRONMENT strengthened during a period of uncertainty, disruption and change. INSOCIETY? OUR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS STRATEGY Our Responsible Business strategy DOING BUSINESS PEOPLE COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT concentrates on our most material issues: those that are most important to our Strategic focus: Strategic focus: Strategic focus: Strategic focus: stakeholders and those with the greatest We establish and promote market-shaping We realise the potential of our people We partner to support our community We manage our footprint and contribute potential to affect the sustainability and practices in relation to ethics, professional by creating a safe, healthy and inclusive by widening access to justice, finance, to developing a more sustainable world. success of our firm. standards and risk management. workplace, and by broadening our skills and education. and experience. Benefits to society: The strategy aims to take a holistic view that Benefits to society: Benefits to society: Minimises our own impact. Contributes integrates different perspectives and near-, Promotes ethical business practices which Benefits to society: Supporting a wide range of organisations to wider adoption of environmentally midand longer-term horizons, and that is build sustainable economies and uphold the Our people are equipped to make a positive from small community charities to sustainable business activities. progressed through clear objectives and rule of law. contribution across their networks and international NGOs to achieve their mission. KPIs, careful scrutiny at senior leadership wider communities. Benefits to clients: level and high levels of engagement Benefits to clients: Benefits to clients: Meets expectations of environmental throughout our firm – across offices, roles, Service informed and defined by the highest Benefits to clients: Project collaboration strengthens sustainability. and seniority. standards of professionalism, ethics and Better understanding and better advice. relationships. risk management. Benefits to the firm: Benefits to the firm: Benefits to the firm: Demonstrates commitment to Benefits to the firm: Attracts, retains and develops Broadens experience and develops skills. environmental issues. Aligns with our Builds trust and confidence in all high-quality people. people’s expectations and reduces cost. stakeholders. 4 | RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2020 OUR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS STRATEGY | CLIFFORD CHANCE | 5 Reflecting on the last year, WE HEIGHTENED IF WE ARE TO HELP OUR AWARENESS OF OUR SOCIETIES Global Managing Partner INDIVIDUAL STORIES BUILD BACK BETTER, Matthew Layton and Global AND EXPERIENCES WE MUST STAY Senior Partner Jeroen ACROSS OUR AMBITIOUS AND DIVERSE NETWORK.” IMPATIENT FOR Ouwehand discuss what it PROGRESS.” means to be a responsible Matthew Layton Managing Partner Jeroen Ouwehand business in uncertain times. Global Senior Partner IN THE FACE OF CHANGE Matthew Layton: The past year has really This has not only brought us closer together, Innovation and being open to the new are Jeroen Ouwehand: When we consider us structure our thinking around our purpose We have achieved a huge amount this year, challenged us to think about what it means it helps us to withstand the wider personal important elements of how we do business. what it means to build a better, more and values; how we ensure they are at the in extraordinary circumstances. But if we are to be a responsible business. In the face of a challenges that each and every one has This has been even more critical to our sustainable future, it is the fundamental heart of all we do, supported by inclusive to help our societies build back better, we global pandemic, environmental disasters, faced. business resilience this year, enabling us to principles of the law that guide us: equality leadership, clear expectations on our people, must stay ambitious and impatient for civil rights and humanitarian injustices and an continue to deliver the highest level of service and fairness, access to justice, effective strong accountability and reinforced through progress. We must continue to strengthen accelerated fracturing of the geopolitical As we seek to find a way through the to our clients as each new challenge has regulation and government, the eradication our talent strategy and metrics for success. our SDG commitments – including through landscape, our vision, our values and our pandemic to the new “norms” for society and arisen. But as I look back on the past year, of corruption, and the promotion and This is important work – not just because it’s our partnerships with clients, governments commitments to our clients, to our economic growth, we find ourselves in a what strikes me most is the degree of agility, protection of human rights. something we believe in – but because our and legislators – to maximise the impact we communities and – more than ever – to each world that is questioning globalisation and flexibility and humanity I have seen in our stakeholders rightly expect it of us. and our NGO partners can have in societies other have been tested like never before. multilateralism and which is beset with teams and I think ultimately, they are what These have always been pivotal to how we most affected by this crisis. complexity. Our role must be to help clients has enabled us to remain resilient in the face operate as a responsible business and they The UN Sustainable Development Goals, in We are a professional organisation, but we forge sustainable and inclusive futures, of so much uncertainty and which will carry play an increasingly important role in our pursuit of a more sustainable world, are also This is where our power lies: in the robust are a human organisation first, and it is with navigating a new legal, regulatory and us through the period ahead. advice to clients, as we help them develop important to us, to how we approach our partnerships that enable us to uphold the great pride that I reflect on the amount of stakeholder landscape. We must use our their Environmental, Social and Governance client work, and how we run the firm.. As the rule of law, wherever we are in the world, so care and passion our people have shown in expertise and our capabilities as conveners, The future remains uncertain, and I believe (ESG) agenda and plan their individual Covid-19 pandemic continues to highlight we not only contribute to progress, we are in their work with clients and in their working with others to make a positive we will continue to benefit from our contributions to the rebuilding of successful inequalities, many of us feel a renewed sense the driving seat of sustainable change. commitment to each other. Our focus on difference with our commitment to the rule of experiences for some time, reflecting on our societies. of urgency to address issues of injustice, communication was a big part of this. law, justice and equality as our foundation learnings and how we can hold firm to our poverty and climate change and drive real Finding new ways to interact and converse in stone. strengths. We must proactively engage with We too are putting a lot of thought into our societal change. Some examples of these a virtual environment, we heightened our our clients and our peers on these issues too role in society. Earlier this year, we launched fantastic efforts are captured in this report. awareness of individual stories and as we nurture our collective ambitions to a new global framework to strengthen and experiences across our diverse network. shape and build a better future. enhance our firm’s culture, which is helping 6 | RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2020 IN THE FACE OF CHANGE | CLIFFORD CHANCE | 7 BUSINESS RESILIENCE? HOW DO WE SHIFT TO REMOTE WORKING? HOW ARE WE TACKLING DIGITAL RISKS? HOW DO WE DELIVER TO OUR CLIENTS? HOW ARE WE EVOLVING AS A BUSINESS? DOING BUSINESS responsibly through marketPROGRESS IN 2019/2020 shaping practices in relation to EACH OF THOSE SOC2 TYPE 1 COMPLIANCE ethics, professional standards DIVERSE VOICES IS FOR SECURITY, CONFIDENTIALITY and risk management is a VALUED AND THE AND AVAILABILITY OF INFORMATION HELD COLLECTIVE INPUT top priority LEADS TO BETTER SDGS ACTIVE INVOLVEMENT DECISION MAKING.” IN WEF GLOBAL FUTURES COUNCIL ON Geraint Hughes TRANSPARENCY AND Regional Managing Partner, Asia Pacific ANTI-CORRUPTION NEW MODERN SLAVERY & HUMAN RIGHTS TRAINING ROLLED OUT Follow more of our progress on page 32 and online 8 | RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2020 DOING BUSINESS | CLIFFORD CHANCE | 9 A GLOBAL A SMOOTH TRANSITION SHIFT Significant investments in IT systems and security made by the firm over the past few years put us in a position of strength when faced with unprecedented demands due to visibility into what was happening in different locations which gave us time to shift, adjust and take critical steps to ensure operations could continue uninterrupted. We were also A KEY BENEFIT WAS VISIBILITY INTO WHAT WAS HAPPENING Through the pandemic, we have prioritised the the Covid-19 pandemic. able to lean on the strength of our global network to help us address more localised or IN DIFFERENT health and wellbeing of our people, aimed to Our strategic commitment to digitally enable our firm, backed up with strong risk, cyber bespoke challenges, meaning no part of our business suffered. LOCATIONS.” prevent the spread of virus and continued to deliver security and compliance processes, meant that we could seamlessly adopt the working While our experiences this year have a high level of support to our clients. processes of our Asia Pacific region and enable the rest of our firm (approx. 6,000 given us confidence in our ability to pivot quickly and responsibly, they are also people) to work remotely, safely and helping us to further evolve our strategies to securely in approximately three days. accommodate future shifts amid a changing landscape, and the impact the pandemic A situation of this magnitude was not will have on the ways in which we operate without its challenges, which we could only in future. navigate with focus, diligence, resilience and enormous collaboration across our IT teams and support networks. A key benefit was INTERVIEW WITH GERAINT HUGHES AND PIA PIALORSI Asia Pacific was the first of our regions As the coronavirus pandemic began to and continuing a high level of support to our scenarios they may face as the virus began Staying on the topic of communication Geraint: Yes, and again, our guiding to face an unprecedented shift to unfold in your region, what were your clients. These have formed the basis for all to spread. – this is crucial to both of your roles. principles were really fundamental here extensive agile working, both as a result first priorities? policies, protocols and decisions we have What was your approach to staying in because we had clarity on our business of the public demonstrations in Hong made since. Every time we have a question Geraint: We also needed to understand touch with your teams as events priorities. We were able to communicate with Kong and the onset of the global Geraint: We acknowledged that the best about how to proceed, we go back to these challenges on a personal level. Because of unfolded? empathy and in a way that we felt was in the coronavirus pandemic. Regional way to handle this unprecedented situation principles and usually find the answer. our earlier decision to shift to agile working to best interests of our people and our clients. Managing Partner Geraint Hughes and would be to form a Steering Group of protect our people during the Hong Kong Pia: We felt it was very important to help We engaged with our teams through a Communications Manager Pia Pialorsi lawyers and business professionals to What were your greatest challenges and demonstrations, some of us had technology people feel safe, connected and supported. variety of channels including virtual townhalls, discuss their experiences and what co-ordinate our response to the unfolding how did you navigate those? and home-working setups in place before Maintaining a balance was really key, both in videos and even old style floor walking, they’ve learned. events. This group is inclusive from a gender, the pandemic, which gave us a precedent tone and frequency. We wanted to keep where possible, to check in on people. As ethnic, age, sexual orientation, and home Pia: Every jurisdiction is different, so and helped others follow suit. But of course, people well informed, but not overwhelm or the situation progressed, we realised that environment perspective. Each of those understanding local context across our Asia we were constantly assessing: how were alarm them unnecessarily. We also put a lot one of our greatest strengths as a firm is our diverse voices is valued and the collective Pacific offices was very important. Alongside people managing in areas where a tiny living of thought into the channels we used, being sense of community. This shifted much of input leads to better decision making our regional Steering Group, each office space is standard? Were people supported respectful of working hours, and how often our communication focus to personal including establishing the three principles had its own Incident Management Team, enough? What were our clients saying? we would communicate. For example, we situations and staying aware of how our that would guide all of our future decisions. which would come together on calls to raise Keeping lines of communication open and found that regular communications on the people were coping, particularly in light of We also wanted everyone to feel empowered questions or discuss certain challenges they conducting pulse surveys were really key to same day every week provided comfort to balancing responsibilities and home life. to challenge decisions. were experiencing. Collectively though, the understanding all these issues. We had to people, which was an important piece of Steering Group would come up the best build scenarios and test and re-test as the learning to pass on to other regions as they Pia: Our three guiding principles were: way forward, guided by our principles. situation evolved. faced up to the virus. prioritising the health and wellbeing of our These forums provided useful foresight and people, preventing the spread of the illness, reference for our other offices about similar 10 | RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2020 DOING BUSINESS | CLIFFORD CHANCE | 11 MY VIEW ON IT | STANDING SHOULDER TO SHOULDER WITH OUR CLIENTS. In the midst of this year’s emergency What I found remarkable was how this lockdowns, we advised Telefónica on the experience brought us so much closer to biggest strategic initiative in their history, our client, and to each other. With no and one of the biggest corporate deals in the travel, we saved a lot of time and our teams WE FOCUSED ON world at that time: the integration of 02 and worked with greater efficiency than ever. Liberty Global in the UK. We focused on listening to each other LISTENING TO EACH without distractions. And importantly, with OTHER WITHOUT Due to the nature of the deal, six months’ nothing separating external lawyers from work needed to be condensed into five in-house counsel, we pulled together as DISTRACTIONS.” weeks, so urgency and confidentiality were one team, all working to a shared goal. paramount. We took enormous care to maintain professional secrecy in every home Reaching the signing was a challenge like no environment and kitted teams out with extra other, but under extraordinary circumstances technology to grapple with agreements we were there for our client when it really reaching hundreds of pages without the mattered and I’m enormously proud of how need for printing. we rose to that challenge together. Miguel Odriozola, Partner, Madrid INTERVIEW WITH GERAINT HUGHES AND PIA PIALORSI CONTINUED Pia: I agree, and while our experiences have hardship. I think this says a lot about the You touched on learnings that you served as a useful model for other regional sort of firm we are, particularly as we were able to pass on to other regions. adaptations, an important point I’d like to consider what else we can achieve together How else have you been able to offer advice to others, particularly as the underline is that support from the top has been fundamental to this resilience. Geraint in the future. IT WAS VERY pandemic spread? championed our principles throughout, which Geraint: Absolutely. I’ve always been proud IMPORTANT TO Geraint: It became clear, very quickly, in turn made it easier for function leads to do their job, advise others and issue the most to work for the firm, but never prouder than now. I think our people have shown us their HELP PEOPLE FEEL that our teams are very resilient, which coupled with our ability to stay agile were efficient and helpful guidance possible. I think true character. We’ve continued to support SAFE, CONNECTED key to navigating our business this is my biggest takeaway from our experiences this year. our clients on fantastic deals, we’ve supported those more vulnerable in our local AND SUPPORTED.” successfully during times of crisis. But for communities, and we’ve supported each me, this comes back to community and Pia Pialorsi Finally, as we look ahead, what do you other. Of course we’re hoping for better Brand, Communications & encouraging the different perspectives think these experiences have taught us times, but for me, it’s important that we now Marketing Manager, AP, Hong Kong that give us a more rounded view of how about ourselves as a firm? reflect on everything we’ve learned and events are impacting the different consider carefully what the next normal is populations of the firm. We remain in very Pia: Our people rose to the occasion, I really going to be. close contact with our people, and I believe that. I think across the firm and believe this has strengthened our position certainly among our leadership, we’ve enormously. demonstrated a strong moral centre that enables us to act with integrity when faced with entirely new challenges or times of 12 | RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2020 DOING BUSINESS | CLIFFORD CHANCE | 13 A STOP TO BULLYING? HOW ARE WE PROMOTING REVERSE MENTORING? HOW ARE WE REACTING TO EXCEPTIONAL TIMES? ARE WE GIVING CAREER AND TRAINING ADVICE? HOW ARE WE BOOSTING TEAM MORALE? PEOPLE are central to everything we do. PROGRESS IN 2019/2020 We realise our potential by creating OUR EXPERIENCES OF NEWLY a safe, healthy and inclusive HAVE PUSHED US 35% PROMOTED PARTNERS workplace, and by broadening TOWARDS BEING WERE WOMEN MORE OPEN TO NEW our skills and experience. IDEAS.” DEVELOPED GLOBAL SDGS AND REGIONAL Neha Patel INCLUSION TARGETS Associate, New York FOR ETHNICITY, GENDER AND LGBT+* FORMED A GLOBAL WELLBEING GROUP TO SUPPORT RESILIENCE AND MENTAL HEALTH Follow more of our progress on page 32 and online 14 | RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2020 *launched in July 2020 PEOPLE | CLIFFORD CHANCE | 15 LEADING THROUGH ERADICATING BULLYING AND HARASSMENT CHANGE We have partnered with the International Bar Association (IBA) to run a global seminar series in response to their ground-breaking research last year, which harassment. This is at the heart of a new training course we have since launched; it is an explicit call to action for everyone at Clifford Chance. PEOPLE FEEL EMPOWERED TO CALL OUT BAD Extensive remote working has prompted us to showed that bullying and harassment remain major challenges for the legal sector and Bullying and harassment have no place in BEHAVIOUR.” evolve traditional working habits, develop new together we must do more to tackle it and eradicate it. our firm, and run counter to the culture we strive to nurture: where people are treated styles of leadership and cultivate a new sense Events were hosted across our network – with the respect and dignity that each and every one of us deserves, and feel of community. both in person earlier this year and online during lockdown – to raise awareness of the empowered to call out bad behaviour in the knowledge that the firm will support them dynamics of bullying and harassment in the when they do. legal sector and to listen to the concerns and observations of our own people, our industry peers and our clients. Part of this is ensuring we are never complacent and that each of us understands, and embraces, the critical role we can play in ending bullying and INTERVIEW WITH NEHA PATEL AND MO AL-SHUKAIRY chance to share knowhow and stay on top New York Associate Neha Patel and What stands out to you the most in terms seamless as they could. The IT team’s Accepting sometimes that there may not be a personal development perspective of latest developments and learnings. Regional Managing Partner for the of how we’ve had to adapt this year? leadership was at the forefront of this, but a perfect solution and engaging in also? Middle East Mohammed Al-Shukairy many partners and associates came up with meaningful dialogue and being more Mo, your region has been trialling a discuss recent experiences in their Mo: The unwavering commitment of our ways to deepen our sense of community and adaptable was key. Neha: Training has been a real priority. ‘balanced contribution’ model, which regions. people to help each other. This was evident camaraderie. Whether through personal Partners and senior associates have taken removes utilisation from its assessment throughout our experiences, and I saw check-ins, weekly calls to share news on Neha: This is also important because not this time to connect with junior associates of lawyer contribution and performance. leadership in many different guises. Partners work or social events with teams, we feel everyone’s situation at home is the same. every week to study different substantive and How important do you feel this is now? ramping up one-to-one engagement to more connected with each other than ever Parents who have children at home or others legal topics and answer any questions we check in on team members and clients., before, which is a very positive outcome. who have faced emotional and even physical may have. While we’ve always offered this Mo: The balanced contribution approach Lawyers showing camaraderie and relentless challenges as a result of the coronavirus type of training, we may not have prioritised remains important and if anything gains devotion to clients on transactions that A lot of the recent challenges our teams found the adjustments harder than others. it in the same way before. It’s been hugely additional urgency in light of the “new suddenly became significantly more have faced are entirely new. How have Many working groups have been set up and beneficial to my growth as a junior associate, normal”. Looking beyond billable hours to a challenging. I also witnessed numerous we been able to navigate these? wellness programmes increased to help so I’d like to see it continue. more holistic understanding of our people’s examples of our business professionals those in different situations feel supported. contributions is not entirely new for us as a being extremely creative to ensure business Mo: In many ways, through open debate and Our leadership has been very open to what Mo: As it should, of course. It is imperative firm, but we formalised the approach in the could continue come what may. The humanising the experience. While we were we could do better. In my opinion, this is for us as firm to continue to find effective region in the context of our bonus criteria for exchange of ideas and collaboration was finding our feet early on, we focused on really setting Clifford Chance apart from ways to deliver and receive professional lawyers, to adhere to a more qualitative and hugely valuable. policy and procedures, and rightly so. As other firms. training for the benefit of our teams and broad based assessment of how our lawyers things evolved, we quickly turned to sharing clients. Our global Academy has done a are doing when it comes to delivering legal Neha: We felt these efforts at all levels of the personal experiences during regular team How have we worked to ensure the great job of ensuring training opportunities advice, developing client relationships, firm as teams went out of their way to make calls and ensuring transparency around what needs of our people are being met from scale up both online and through virtual playing a part in the firm achieving its the transitions feel as comfortable and was working well and what was not. group meetings, so that our people have a 16 | RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2020 PEOPLE | CLIFFORD CHANCE | 17 MY VIEW ON IT | THE POWER OF REVERSE MENTORING Ebun: Reverse mentoring is invaluable Sophie: Having Ebun as a reverse mentor because it turns my experiences as a black has enriched my understanding of different woman into useful change for the benefit of experiences of ethnic minorities in our firm, the firm. Sophie is always ready to listen, and I see the effects of our conversations in but also my ability to make informed leadership decisions. The openness she IT FELT USEFUL various actions taken by the firm. Especially brings to our discussions not only helps me TO TALK ABOUT THE during lockdown, it felt useful to talk to her about the disproportionate impact the think compassionately and inclusively about the impact our decisions may have on DISPROPORTIONATE pandemic has had on ethnic minorities, and different population groups in the firm, it’s IMPACT THE how this has affected me and my family. As a result, I saw new lines of communication pivotal to our commercial strategy too: we want to get the absolute best out of our PANDEMIC HAS open between the leadership and our ethnic people and if we’re not set up to help HAD ON ETHNIC minority communities, helping others feel supported, and more importantly, listened to. everyone succeed and feel valued, we need to change our approach. We need to talk MINORITIES.” This is what matters, and providing action openly and honestly about that and I’m follows, this is what will effect positive hugely grateful for the role that Ebun change for the long term. plays in this. Ebun Soyinka, Recruitment Marketing & Employer Brand Specialist and Sophie Schwass, UK Regional Chief Operating Officer INTERVIEW WITH NEHA PATEL AND MO AL-SHUKAIRY CONTINUED strategy and thought leadership. This is competitive environment where people feel There is a real desire to learn and to adjust. critical to how we continue to develop as pressure to increase their billable hours, I believe this will continue to translate across a business. instead of thinking of how they could everything we do; from developing our Certainly our experiences this year have maximise the efficiency and efficacy of our work product, as well as their own skills and individual skills and approach, to delivering an unparalleled client service, regardless of WE GAINED emphasised the need for versality, listening experience. The Americas offices are also where we work from. I also believe we’ve GREATER FOCUS even more intently to our clients and finding ways to deliver greater value. Our people already taking a more holistic view, for example, counting a certain proportion of pro developed greater momentum in our efforts to nurture truly diverse and adaptable teams, ON THE THINGS thrive on being empowered to contribute to bono hours as billable hours. I think adopting so we can hopefully thrive as a responsible THAT MATTER community matters and use their talents more broadly in the knowledge that it will be this model more broadly would be a very positive step for our firm. business in the years to come. MOST TO OUR celebrated and recognised in terms of Neha: Yes, our experiences have definitely PEOPLE” compensation and career progression. Our As we look ahead, how do you think our pushed us towards being more open to new associates’ involvement in broader initiatives learnings from this year will shape our ideas. We’re listening in a meaningful manner Mo Al-Shukairy has increased, our financial performance in future? and having genuine conversations rather Regional Managing Partner, the region improved and, crucially, feedback than going through the motions. We’ve Middle East from our lawyers and clients is Mo: I believe we gained greater focus on the seen this in our interaction with clients too; overwhelmingly positive. things that matter the most to our people and there’s a more personal touch which we to our clients. I hope that looking back people may not have managed as well in normal Neha: It’s a great model because the entire will see that Clifford Chance showed leadership, circumstances. This needs to be a continuous notion speaks to work-life balance. Being genuine care for our people, a ‘can do’ effort, so our learnings stay with us for the solely focused on utilisation creates a attitude, resilience and, importantly, humility. long-term and help us set a new standard for our industry. 18 | RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2020 PEOPLE | CLIFFORD CHANCE | 19 A STOP TO BULLYING? HOW CAN WE BUILD NEW PARTNERSHIPS? HOW ARE WE REACTING TO EXCEPTIONAL TIMES? HOW ARE WE TACKLING SOCIAL EXCLUSION? HOW CAN WE WIDEN ACCESS TO JUSTICE? COMMUNITY sits at the heart of our firm. We PROGRESS IN 2019/2020 partner to support our community by A RESPECT FOR 61,456 IN-KIND HOURS THROUGH widening access to justice, finance HUMAN RIGHTS IS PRO BONO AND COMMUNITY and education NO LONGER ENOUGH. OUTREACH ORGANISATIONS HAVE TO ACTIVELY 115 COLLABORATIONS SDGS WITH CLIENTS PROTECT HUMAN AND SIGNIFICANT RIGHTS.” CIVIL ACTORS Jan Dobrý Senior Associate 1.2MILLION PEOPLE HELPED SINCE THE LAUNCH OF OUR HELPING 100,000 PEOPLE PROGRAMME IN 2012 Follow more of our progress on page 32 and online 20 | RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2020 COMMUNITY | CLIFFORD CHANCE | 21 SCALING UP SOLID FOUNDATIONS FOR GROWTH OUR IMPACT With the coronavirus pandemic wreaking so much damage, many businesses have sought to direct their core skills, as well as their financial resources, towards addressing We have also provided grant funding through the Clifford Chance Foundation to other global strategic pro bono partners to support their Covid-19 emergency response work WE WERE ABLE TO SUPPORT MANY OF THE MOST During the Covid-19 pandemic, the protection the consequences of the crisis. amongst communities who were particularly vulnerable to the effects of the pandemic, VULNERABLE of human rights and civil liberties has been We were able to support many of the most vulnerable individuals and communities including: Asylum Access, whose work has been focused on securing access to health INDIVIDUALS AND even more important than ever before. affected by the pandemic and its effects care for refugees and the removal of refugees COMMUNITIES through a number of our pre-existing pro from detention centres where contagion AFFECTED BY THE bono relationships. On a local level, we rates are so high; Hope and Homes for continued to run our free legal clinics Children, who have been seeking to minimise PANDEMIC.” remotely and provide vital pro-bono legal the impact of the virus in orphanages around advice to individuals and communities on a the world, in particular central and eastern variety of areas of law including employment, Europe and Africa; and War Child, who welfare entitlement and housing issues. have been working in some of the most acute conflict zones around the world to On an international level, we have continued shield children and young adults from to work with and support several of our the virus. global strategic pro bono partners, including Fair Trials to track how justice systems are being affected by the Covid-19 outbreak. INTERVIEW WITH DOROTHÉE VERMEIREN AND JAN DOBRÝ Brussels based Partner Dorothée Why is our focus on human rights more Access to justice is a critical aspect of Jan: The Covid-19 pandemic has impacted safeguard public health and provide medical Additionally, our global outlook is hugely Vermeiren and Prague based Senior important now than ever before? human rights. You are both part of the everyone. From a personal point of view, I care to those who need it. Inevitably, these beneficial as their requests often have a Associate Jan Dobrý discuss the firm’s international team working on the firm’s think the pandemic has forced local and measures limit our human and fundamental strong policy perspective and they look to us work with global criminal justice Dorothée: Businesses can no longer strategic pro bono and community national authorities to reconsider the way rights to an extent rarely experienced in for information and data on broader watchdog, Fair Trials. operate in isolation; we have an obligation to outreach partnership with global their justice systems operate and the urgent peacetime. Initially in Belgium, detainees developments around detainee rights that help those less fortunate than ourselves and criminal justice watchdog, Fair Trials. need for modernisation. In the Czech were often prevented from going to hearings can be used in other jurisdictions. For to make a positive impact on society. What’s What do you find significant about this Republic, for example, it wasn’t necessary and had their temporary leave suspended in example, my colleagues and I have been more, we’re increasingly asked about our work? for courts to adopt new rules regarding the name of public safety. sourcing practical information from views on social issues and social justice by online proceedings. These measures have enforcement authorities in Belgium that could clients and potential recruits alike, who are Dorothée: Clifford Chance has worked with been in place for many years, but haven’t What makes Clifford Chance’s teams so help to understand how the efficacy of the no longer solely interested about the firm’s Fair Trials on a variety of projects previously been tried before. Covid-19 changed that, it well equipped to help Fair Trails on this policy can be improved in other areas financial wellbeing. and we are currently helping them track how forced judges and officials to move to online project? notably when it comes to the right for different justice systems across Europe are proceedings and look into the ways the use detainees to have legal assistance during Jan: I agree – corporate activity and human being affected by the Covid-19 outbreak. of technology might actually bring significant Dorothée: As the content underpinning Fair police interviews. rights are now more interrelated and The aim of the project is to raise and benefits. Covid-19 has also forced judges Trials’ requests is often challenging and not indivisible than ever before. A respect for maintain awareness of the impact of and courts to reconsider how they effectively within our areas of expertise, we have had to This initiative sounds very interesting human rights is no longer enough. emergency measures on due process within detain individuals with children and how best research areas of law that criminal lawyers and a big undertaking. Did you get the Organisations have to actively protect human the criminal justice system and to empower to arrange meetings with the detainees. might be more familiar with. That said, Fair opportunity to work with colleagues in rights. Ultimately, the protection of human Fair Trials’ network of criminal justice Trials comes to us, not because of our the same office and other offices who rights underpins good business practices advocates across Europe to try to curb Dorothée: Governments must take urgent expertise in criminal law but, because we can you wouldn’t normally interact with? and it’s clear that businesses that don’t unnecessary restrictions. measures to curb the spread of Covid-19 to get to the real heart of their requests. understand and value this will find themselves in difficult positions. 22 | RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2020 COMMUNITY | CLIFFORD CHANCE | 23 MY VIEW ON IT | TACKLING STRUCTURAL DISCRIMINATION This year, our long-term relationship with the international issues to drive meaningful International Center for Advocates Against change is hugely inspiring. Our work Discrimination (ICAAD) was formalised as together is not only intellectually stimulating a global strategic pro bono partnership. and rewarding, it offers perspectives I may IT’S FANTASTIC TO Through this partnership, we’ve worked not have gained otherwise. The COFA together to tackle discrimination linked to initiative in particular has taught me a lot PARTNER WITH AN gender-based violence in the Pacific Islands; about the experiences of those living in the ORGANISATION THAT to develop strategies for three Pacific Island Pacific Islands and the importance of nations as they prepare to renegotiate negotiating fair agreements that promote and REFLECTS OUR Compact of Free Association (COFA) protect their environmental, financial and APPROACH.” agreements with the United States; and security rights. to find ways to hold tea gardens in India accountable to the fair trade employment Moreover, it’s fantastic to partner with an standards under which their tea is marketed. organisation that reflects our firm’s global and strategic approach to pro bono work. While ICAAD is a relatively small organisation, Collaborating with ICAAD and talented its appetite for taking on large-scale, colleagues in New York and Washington D.C, as well as across Europe and APAC, has helped us appreciate our ability to make impactful changes to people’s lives through the work we do all over the world. Celeste Koeleveld, Partner, New York INTERVIEW WITH DOROTHÉE VERMEIREN AND JAN DOBRÝ CONTINUED Dorothée: Yes, we’ve worked closely a Why does the work with Fair Trials privileged positions to give back to large, cross-border team from across our matter to you? society. Fair Trials has definitely given me offices in London, Paris, Germany, Spain, the opportunity to do so and I’d Luxembourg, Warsaw, Prague, and Brussels who are helping to gather data and Jan: While giving back to those less fortunate than ourselves is important and encourage others to take part if they can. WE’RE information from authorities in their respective rewarding, working with Fair Trials and other INCREASINGLY jurisdictions for Fair Trials. The more junior colleagues in my office are very committed to pro bono initiatives is personally very beneficial and has taught me a great deal ASKED ABOUT the project and it’s been nice working so both personally and professionally. It has also OUR VIEWS ON closely with them on something different and challenging – other than our usual given me the chance to step away from my daily routine and tasks, gain new SOCIAL ISSUES AND client work. perspectives and helped me avoid burnout SOCIAL JUSTICE Jan: As Dorothée said, the Fair Trials project from the high-pressured nature of client work. BY CLIENTS has allowed me to work with a lot of junior AND POTENTIAL colleagues, who I wouldn’t have come across otherwise. They have been really keen Dorothée: I’ve always loved the law and access to justice, and I even remember RECRUITS ALIKE.” to take on more responsibilities and defending my friends from bullies at school. Dorothée Vermeiren ownership of different parts of the project, While I spend most of my time advising Partner, Brussels which has subsequently helped them acquire companies on all types of litigation, I came and develop new skills. into the law with a very ethical mindset and maintain the belief that we should use our 24 | RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2020 COMMUNITY | CLIFFORD CHANCE | 25 A STOP TO BULLYING? HOW ARE WE BATTLING CLIMATE CHANGE? HOW CAN WE DO BETTER? HOW DO WE DRIVE SUSTAINABLY GROWTH? HOW ARE WE REACTING TO EXCEPTIONAL TIMES? WHAT MORE CAN I DO? ENVIRONMENT contributing to a more sustainable PROGRESS IN 2019/2020 world is important to how we advise IT’S INCREDIBLY 28.42% REDUCTION IN our clients and manage our business. IMPORTANT THAT WE SCOPE 1 AND 2 CO2 EMISSIONS* ACT RESPONSIBLY AND ACTIVELY PROMOTE POSITIVE SDGS 27.90% CHANGE.” REDUCTION IN PAPER Liesbeth Buiter CONSUMPTION* Partner, Amsterdam MONITORED AND ANALYSED GLOBAL AND LOCAL DATA Follow more of our progress on page 32 and online 26 | RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2020 *per FTE from the 2017/18 baseline ENVIRONMENT | CLIFFORD CHANCE | 27 A NEW BALANCING THE HUMAN IMPACT LANDSCAPE This year, the firm has made significant Now an established pro bono client, OUR PEOPLE ARE strides to environmental harms through we recently helped Lifescape develop ‘home-grown’ charity Lifescape, which private law mechanisms – where public INCREASINGLY seeks to balance the human impact on the law mechanisms are lacking – to halt the PASSIONATE ABOUT The Covid-19 lockdown has had a significant natural world and allow nature to recover. loss of wild areas and important ecosystems. These mechanisms will allow individuals PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT.” impact on the way that we operate, highlighting Lifescape was established in 2014 by and organisations to secure protection Clifford Chance partner Roger Leese for nature for hundreds of years, without positive changes we can all make in future. and then lawyer Adam Eagle, a keen having to entirely forego its economic value. conservationist who highlighted the importance of rewilding. Over time, they Many of our people are increasingly garnered the support of almost 100 of the passionate about protecting the environment firm’s lawyers and business professionals and look for new ways to make an impact. across 10 offices, who continue to volunteer Lifescape serves as a conduit to achieving their time and skills to develop and broaden meaningful results and continues to the charity’s scope and impact – so much encourage people, at all levels of the firm, so that Lifescape now functions fully to get involved. independently, with Adam taking on the full-time role of CEO in January 2020. INTERVIEW WITH ALAN CORR AND LIESBETH BUITER building to clear their desks as part of a Regional Chief Operating Officer for Asia There has been a lot of talk about the use of power while working from home. Alan: We remain committed to delivering an be optimised. This is essential as many of firm-wide ‘clear desk’ policy to minimise the Pacific Alan Corr and Amsterdam environmental impact of the Covid-19 outstanding client experience and our young people will choose to work from potential spread of Covid-19 and reduce the Partner Liesbeth Buiter discuss the lockdown. Has this proven to be the Liesbeth Buiter: Lockdown has certainly maintaining the health and wellbeing of our the office as either their home working setup risk associated with client confidentiality. I positive practices lockdown has case in your work at Clifford Chance? reduced my car and plane travel. In people, but we are now more dedicated to is inadequate, or they are still in the early was incredibly surprised at how positively uncovered for them. Amsterdam, we were encouraged to work ensuring that our business priorities have stages of their career and need guidance people have responded to this request. We Alan Corr: The last few months have been remotely. While not every meeting can be environmental and sustainable outcomes. from more experienced members of staff. have had a similar experience in HK. like nothing I’ve experienced before. The held as a video conference, I will now think As most of our office space has been empty A big part of having a clear desk policy is the biggest environmental change in my work is twice before hopping on a flight to London or for the last six months, we are plan to trial a Greater agile and remote working will reduced use of paper. While it’s no secret the amount of flying that I’m doing. Before, I to one of our other offices for only a few flexible and agile working policy that brings have significant benefits. What are some that the legal industry has an addiction to would usually travel at least two or three hours. Not only has the use of video about a better work/life balance, eases of the other positive practices that paper and that old habits die hard, we have times a month to one of our offices in APAC. conferencing helped to reduce our carbon health concerns and reimagines how we lockdown has uncovered and what do seen a dramatic reduction in paper use However, since the end of January, I haven’t footprints, it’s strangely brought us closer to might use our office space in the future. you think some of the obstacles are to across the network. been on a single work trip and have done our clients. They are now able to see us on enforce these changes? most of my meetings over via video camera, where previously they might have Liesbeth: Through discussions with Liesbeth: I agree, paper is definitely one of conferences it seems that most of my just spoken to us over the phone. colleagues, we are looking at how best to Alan: The fact that some of our colleagues in our biggest challenges in terms of changing colleagues in the region are the same. use the real estate to deliver positive Asia went back to their offices before being the way we work. While working from home, How have our regional and firm-wide environmental and sustainable outcomes. In sent home again, and then coming back in I wasn’t able to print and was dependent on With fewer people in the offices, and for environmental and sustainability addition to taking all appropriate health and again, has allowed us to take note of the using the technology available to me. As I’m months many offices were empty, we’ve priorities changed over the past six safety measures and reducing the use of positive practices and the challenges of now back in the office, I feel a strong urge to seen a significant reduction in the use of months? And how does that compare to conference facilities and hotels, it’s important maintaining them. In Singapore, where our print but am committed to using less paper electricity across the network – although we pre-lockdown? to consider the environmental and social team is still working remotely, we have and not slipping into bad habits. are looking into how that is offset by people’s aspects of existing assets and how they can allowed some colleagues to enter the 28 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2020 ENVIRONMENT | CLIFFORD CHANCE | 29 MY VIEW ON IT | THE GROWTH OF ESG IN LATIN AMERICA As a member of the firm’s global ESG Board, responsible business practices and combat I’m seeing first-hand the increasing appetite corruption and impunity. It’s rewarding to see for ESG-related investment opportunities improvements in compliance and good worldwide. Latin America is no exception to the rule. We’ve been helping our clients to governance, as well as the positive effect this has had on attracting more investment, IT’S REWARDING TO not only comply with ESG-related particularly from institutional and financial SEE IMPROVEMENTS obligations, but develop best practices in the field, and capitalise on ESG value creation investors, all across the region, as well as on local communities. IN COMPLIANCE AND opportunities. It’s a fascinating time for the GOOD GOVERNANCE.” Latin America region, with some really We are also seeing increased interest in exciting projects and new policies around sustainable investment opportunities in the ESG emerging. region. Earlier this year, our team advised on the US$1.2 billion sovereign bond issuance In particular, over the past few years, for Guatemala, whose proceeds will be used high-profile corruption investigations have to finance its COVID-19 prevention, driven businesses, regulators and containment and mitigation efforts. This governments to work harder to embed new landmark issuance is the first social bond in policies and guidelines to promote Central America and the Caribbean and included a significant participation from investors with dedicated ESG criteria accounts and social bonds portfolios. Thais Garcia, Partner, New York What will help drive the reduced use of Liesbeth: Definitely, we’ve seen a lot of Liesbeth: It’s incredibly important that we paper in the future? interest from clients who want to get their act responsibly and actively promote positive businesses up and running again and to do change. In addition to the reputational Alan: We have a longstanding ambition to so in an environmentally friendly way. We are benefits, clients are moving towards greater THERE IS A REAL reduce paper use, which we are even more advising clients on investing in real assets sustainability and we have to go with them. committed to encouraging now. We are also that have pre-existing green certificates and When doing transactions in this space and OPPORTUNITY TO looking into reducing the number of personal are sustainable, so that they comply with things are moving quickly, clients want WORK CLOSELY printers across the network, as studies show both existing and future regulations, without lawyers who believe in these issues and are that using a communal printer reduces the having to invest further down the line. able to provide them with information on the WITH OUR YOUNGER amount paper use and has added health & latest developments. COLLEAGUES collaboration benefits. Additionally, where How important is it for you that we, as a some colleagues may be more reluctant to firm, act in a responsible way and stand WHO ARE MORE change their ways of working, there is a real out from amongst our peers? DIGITALLY MINDED opportunity to work closely with our younger colleagues who are more digitally minded to Alan: As a leading international firm, we have TO HELP ACHIEVE help achieve our objectives. an opportunity to lead from the front and OUR OBJECTIVES.” share best practice from around our network To what extent are clients talking about with our clients and other stakeholders for Alan Corr their environmental impact and changes the benefit of the wider society. We are using Regional COO/CFO, Asia Pacific caused by lockdown? Is this a topic that our experiences from APAC to benefit our we are speaking to them about? clients and other stakeholders in the legal and business sectors. 30 | RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2020 ENVIRONMENT | CLIFFORD CHANCE | 31 MONITORING OUR PROGRESS DOING BUSINESS COMMUNITY Ensure regional risks are being managed in accordance with local frameworks Continue to develop pro bono and community outreach opportunities in business-critical regions Continue to develop region-specific risk frameworks for the Americas, Continental Europe, Asia-Pacific and the Middle East Number of new pro bono mandates in the Americas and Africa Establish a risk framework in the UK External validation of our pro bono work Equip our people with the training and support to do the right thing, in the right way Continue to undertake pro bono and community outreach work that strengthens the capabilities of our people and our relationships, and All employees to complete mandatory risk and compliance training maximises the value we add to our pro bono clients’ capacity to achieve their mission Roll out new Modern Slavery and human rights training Pro bono involvement in innovative services and products, e.g. fintech and social business solutions Roll out new AML training in line with 4th MLD Number of strategic pro bono relationships that exemplify our theory of change Progress comprehensive programme of activities to enhance our ethical culture, informed by our ethical culture survey The number of our people who are serving on the boards of not-for-profit organisations Further evolve our incident and business continuity planning including a robust programme of Continue to develop long-term strategic pro bono and community outreach relationships with the world’s best NGOs. Collaborate with our scenario rehearsals clients on projects for these NGOs Continue to test and embed our cyber response plan The number of global strategic pro bono and community outreach relationships, specifying the number with an environmental focus Roll out and embed updated approach to operational risk and resilience including a programme of operational resilience exercises The number of clients and significant civil actors with whom we collaborate Further evolve our client acceptance processes to act only for reputable businesses Deliver our pro bono and community outreach services through partner-led, client-focused and properly resourced teams. Our pro bono and community outreach practice will provide all of our people, at all levels with the opportunities to practice and enhance the skills that Extend deployment of the Clifford Chance Responsible Business Statement (‘RBS’) increasing the number of relevant clients who confirm they meet are key to their development, making them more effective and well-rounded our expected standards The proportion of lawyers who reports skills enhancement as one of the benefits of doing pro bono work Convene an annual discussion with peer firms on client acceptance best practice Initiate a process to carry out enhanced due diligence on certain categories of clients over and beyond regulatory requirements, involving appointing Continue to develop and refine our capability and that of our clients, to support effectively the widest range of civil society organisations, an external investigative agency form small community-based organisations to international NGOs In-kind (hours) and direct financial investment in our pro bono and community outreach work Support external initiatives which promote responsible and ethical business practices The number of people helped by the NGOs we work with, as a result of our support for them Identify opportunities to actively engage with relevant bodies and organisations, including with the Institute of Business Ethics, with Professionals Against Corruption and with Partnership Against Corruption The proportion of our pro bono and community outreach mandates, and Clifford Chance Foundation grants, that contribute to the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals PEOPLE ENVIRONMENT Improve the gender balance in our partnership, so that women make up at least 30% of our partnership Gather and analyse systematic data on our environmental performance across our business Continue to advance towards the 30% gender balance target and publicly report progress Ensure accurate reporting of all global data is monitored and analysed Improve the ethnic diversity of our firm Set standards of environmental performance for all offices and monitor achievements as a commitment to continuous improvement Develop and roll out a global strategy for appropriate targets for ethnic diversity in the partnership and continue to publicly report ethnic diversity Set, measure and monitor local targets and initiatives across the global firm Participate in UN World Environment Day Improve the alignment our learning and development programmes with our vision and strategy Conduct at least one local environment awareness campaign a year Develop a leadership development programme for partners which includes learning around inclusive leadership Continue to reduce energy consumption Support our people in increasing their resilience Reduce scope 1 and 2 emissions by 5% from 2017/18 baseline per FTE by 2021 Continue to embed a more global approach to wellness and resilience awareness-raising programmes, particularly leveraging learnings from the UK Reduce paper consumption resilience programme Reduce procurement of paper by 10% per FTE from 2017/18 baseline by 2021 Minimise waste Improve waste segregation in all offices Monitor and reduce water consumption Implement a means of measuring water consumption Key Improve employee engagement Good progress / Complete Please visit our website for Develop local and global communications strategies In progress our 2020/2021 KPIs. Ensure reporting data is inclusive and accurate Extend our sustainability Promote local initiatives to protect our surrounding environments and habitats 32 | RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2020 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2020 | 33 THANK YOU Every day, in every office, our people are doing more for local causes that make a difference in their community. We celebrate the efforts of those who give their time, and extend our warmest gratitude, right across the network. 34 | RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2020 Clifford Chance, 10 Upper Bank Street, London, E14 5JJ © Clifford Chance 2020 Clifford Chance LLP is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales under number OC323571 Registered office: 10 Upper Bank Street, London, E14 5JJ We use the word ‘partner’ to refer to a member of Clifford Chance LLP, or an employee or consultant with equivalent standing and qualifications. www.cliffordchance.com
