SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2019 We’re BRENNTAG WORLDWIDE END-MARKET INDUSTRIES Coating & Construction Cleaning NORTH AMERICA Cosmetics 5,257 Employees READING Pennsylvania EUR 4.8 BN HOUSTON Texas Polymers External sales Food & Nutrition LATIN AMERICA Pharma 1,934 Employees Oil & Gas EUR 0.9 BN External sales Water Treatment ID E Regional headquarters More than 640 locations worldwide W O RL DW EMEA BR EN NTAG 7,720 Employees EUR 5.2 BN External sales ESSEN Germany ASIA PACIFIC 2,581 SINGAPORE Employees Republic of Singapore EUR 1.5 BN External sales KEY FIGURES IN EUR M 2019 2018 2017 Sales 12,821.8 12,550.0 11,743.3 Operating gross profit 2,821.7 2,660.9 2,554.1 Operating EBITDA 1,001.5 875.5 836.0 Profit after tax 469.2 462.3 362.0 Free cash flow 837.3 525.2 440.3 Employees  at Dec. 31 17,492 16,616 15,416 Personnel expenses 1,072.6 1,004.7 990.8 including social insurance contributions Accident rate (LTIR)1) 1.9 1.5 1.7 Employee fluctuation in % 7.6 8.5 7.7 ISO 9001 certifications % of operating sites 91 91 86 1) Number of accidents resulting in at least 1 day’s absence/1 million working hours ABOUT BRENNTAG Brenntag is the global market leader in the distribution of chemicals and ­ingredients. Connecting chemical manufacturers (our suppliers) and chemical users (our ­customers), we provide both complete distribution solutions as well as individual ­chemical products. Brenntag distributes industrial and specialty chemicals for thousands of suppliers. We maintain a global network with more than 640 locations in 77 countries in the regions North America, Latin America, EMEA (Europe, Middle East & Africa) and Asia Pacific. We serve around 195,000 customers worldwide in various end-market industries. With its corporate strategy1), Brenntag pursues the goal of being the ­preferred distributor for both specialty and industrial chemicals for our customers and suppliers and, at the same time, the industry leader in ­safety, growth and profitability. A positive work environment and responsibility towards our almost 17,500 employees worldwide are fundamental aspects of our corporate strategy and therefore also of Brenntag’s sustainability strategy. 1) F  or information on Brenntag’s vision, objectives and strategy, please see Brenntag’s 2019 Annual Report. BACK 1 SUSTAINABILITY AT BRENNTAG “ConnectingChemistry” – this is the brand promise of Brenntag and of each of its employees to our business partners. As the global market leader in the distribution of chemicals and ingredients, Brenntag connects chemical manufacturers and users in a value-creating partnership. Brenntag’s key role in the value chain offers huge potential – but also entails an obligation to contribute towards greater sustain­ability in the industry. RESPONSIBLE CORPORATE BEHAVIOUR is part of Brenntag’s brand promise and self-image. For us, sustainability entails more than just commercial success. We also aim to achieve sustainable value creation. For this reason, Brenntag also considers the effects of its business activities on the environment and factors in social issues when making strategic decisions. CONTENTS 2 Interview with the CEO 03 Global impact. More information Our future in mind. 01 Global business. 35 Safety More information online Our agenda. 44 Environmental Protection 6 Sustainability at Brenntag 50 Responsibility in the NFB Denoted Non-financial 18 For a Sustainable Future: Supply Chain Report (NFB) Circular Economy 54 Community 02 The people at Brenntag. 57 Further information Our most important resource. 57 Report Profile 23 Employees 60 Practitioner’s Report 62 GRI Content Index Brenntag 2019 Annual Report online: annualreport2019.­brenntag.com. 66 Imprint 2 INTERVIEW WITH DR CHRISTIAN KOHLPAINTNER, CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER „ Sustainability must be an elementary part of our corporate strategy and thus become part of our corporate culture. Mr Kohlpaintner, you have many years’ experience as a manager in the ­chemical industry. How important is the issue of sustainability to you? I have followed the debate about sustainability as it has developed during the meanwhile almost 30 years that I have worked in the chemical industry. It used to be about specific issues relating to environmental protection, such as efficient water usage. Today, it goes far beyond this: Sustainability is now a central issue that concerns a company’s long-term “licence to operate”. How can companies ensure their future viability? The question of acceptance is of particular importance for all industrial companies. The “licence to operate” requires that companies act sustainably in accordance with the expectations of society; in other words, a company must evolve with society and operate in harmony with social values. That is where their future viability comes from. And the expectations for a company that operates with chemicals are particularly high. When I talk about society, I mean all relevant stakeholder groups – and that includes our investors in particular. The financial community pays a great deal of attention to the sustainable development of companies and formulates its expectations very clearly in public. Investors are placing more and more value on sustainable portfolios – primarily to achieve long-term investment objectives. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2019 TABLE OF CONTENTS INTERVIEW WITH THE CEO 3 What does this mean for Brenntag? I regard sustainability as an element of change and evolution that must take a sensible and comprehensible form – in terms of a cultural change within the company. Sustainability is not an additional task that simply needs to be completed. Sustainability must be an elementary part of our corporate strategy and thus become part of our corporate culture. Therefore, of central importance to me is the question: How do we embed sustainability within our corporate strategy? In this regard, I view the issue in a very holistic way. Sustainability has to flow into our vision, our strategy, our value chain and day-to-day business, and our actions – and in doing so become a business driver. We need to evolve in this direction at Brenntag. Ensuring and driving this change is clearly the „ responsibility of the CEO. We will continue this journey together at all times at Brenntag. As a company, we must develop robust responses today so that we are still credible and accepted as a company in ten or fifteen years. Brenntag is in a strong and solid position when it comes to ­sustainability. The next evolutionary stage now follows. Dr Christian Kohlpaintner, CEO What role will Brenntag have in the future in matters relating to sustainability? The key factor is: Brenntag is the global market leader in chemical distribution and must take a stand on certain issues. Without the involvement and commitment of the major players, it won’t work. Responsible actions extend far beyond the company’s walls. We must ask ourselves: Where can we play our part in ensuring that value chains become more sustainable? Transformation is possible. What conflicting objectives do you see? How do company growth and sustainability fit together? I firmly believe that our holistic approach to sustainability is opening up further opportunities for growth. For a long time, it was widely believed that sustainability and successful business were mutually exclusive. Even in the past, I didn’t share this view. Addressing sustainability is an essential part of securing the confidence of customers, investors, employees and suppliers. Sustainability must be regarded as a business driver. And it is also in line with my self-image that we operate sustainably in a dual sense, namely with a view to the future and in the interests of our stakeholders. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2019 4 Which issues are particularly important to you in terms of future developments at Brenntag? Brenntag is in a strong and solid position when it comes to sustainability. The next evolutionary stage now follows. It will start with us providing good sustainable programmes. In addition to strategic embedding, the ­integrated „ approach is important. This will also bring global business opportunities. Brenntag will have a competitive advantage wherever suppliers and customers place value on sustainability. I firmly believe that our holistic ­approach to sustainability is opening up further opportunities for growth. Dr Christian Kohlpaintner, CEO For example, the topic of the circular economy with the possibilities for recycling and preventing waste offer opportunities to Brenntag and our customers. And sustainability is also important to recruit employees who want to work for a company that credibly pursues sustainability objectives. It is a fact that people will no longer want to perform certain activities in the future. For this reason, I am also addressing the future viability of our working conditions. We will be working on these and other issues in the coming months with the goal of establishing a clear road map for the evolution of sustainability at Brenntag. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2019 TABLE OF CONTENTS 01 GLOBAL BUSINESS. OUR AGENDA. Several thousand suppliers More than 10,000 products More than 640 sites globally Around 17,500 Around employees 195,000 customers 6 SUSTAINABILITY AT BRENNTAG NFB We source, transport, store, blend and sell chemicals, chemical SEPARATE NON-FINANCIAL products and ingredients all over the world. While we are the GROUP REPORT global market leader in chemical distribution, our aim is to go beyond this: We want to make value creation sustainable. Selected content in this sustainability To achieve this, we address fundamentally important topics: report serves as the separate non-finansafety and health, conservation of resources, waste prevencial Group report (NFB) pursuant to Section and recycling are just a few examples. Awareness of our tion 315c in conjunction with 289c ff. of ­responsibilities – including compliance at all times with laws the German Commercial Code (HGB) to and regulations – is deeply rooted in our company. It deterensure compliance with the legal remines our behaviour towards our employees, suppliers and quirements of the HGB. The NFB has customers as well as society in general and it has a direct been audited by Pricewaterhouseinfluence on the success of our company. Coopers GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft pursuant to ISAE 3000 (ReWith this awareness in mind, we aim to factor in the effects of vised) to obtain limited assurance. The our business practices on the environment and society in both NFB is denoted with a blue line and the NFB our day-to-day activities and strategic decision-making. To this acronym NFB in the sustainability reend, we have established corresponding standards and proport. Detailed information on the NFB cesses in our international corporate structures. We raise our can be found in the Report Profile on employees’ awareness of these issues and provide them with page 57f. Information on the business corresponding training. In addition, we support sustainable model can be found in the Combined development through our membership of various organizaGroup Management Report and the tions and initiatives and regularly discuss sustainability issues Management Report of Brenntag AG with other players in our industry. of Brenntag’s 2019 Annual Report on page 34. Information on environmental protection provisions amounting to EUR 97.8 million for the clean-up of soil and ground water at current and former own or leased locations can be found under note 26 to the consolidated financial statements for the 2019 financial year. CREATING VALUE – CHEMICAL PURCHASING TRANSPORT STORAGE BRENNTAG’S ROLE MANUFACTURERS WORLDWIDE IN THE SUPPLY CHAIN Brenntag’s slogan “ConnectingChemistry” stands for our self-image as well as our ob/ Several thousand / > 640 locations in 77 countries jective and the promise that we make to suppliers / Local purchasing teams and a global sourcing organization all of our partners in the supply chain. As a / > 10,000 industrial with more than 1,000 experts provider of a full-line product portfolio and and specialty chemical / Cost of materials in 2019: EUR 10 billion products as a “one-stop shop”, Brenntag plays a key role in the chemical industry’s value chain and, as a strategic partner, contributes to greater efficiency. TABLE OF CONTENTS SUSTAINABILITY AT BRENNTAG 7 SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT NFB SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES AND TARGETS: NFB 2019 MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT: In August and SeptemWe are continuing to pursue our susber 2019, we conducted a new materiality assessment in order tainability targets from 2016. In terms to examine and document the extent to which the issues that of the targets, we are initiating suit­ are material for Brenntag need to be updated. able projects aimed at improving our sustainability performance, prioritizing To meet the requirements of the Global Reporting Initiative measures and quantifying our progress. (GRI) and the HGB, three dimensions have now been considReformulating Group-wide targets ered for the 2019 materiality analysis in addition to the 2015 from 2021 onwards is on our agenda. materiality analysis: The importance for the stakeholders, the We are currently working to incorpoimportance for understanding the business performance, rate the findings obtained from the the business result or the situation of the company and the materiality analysis into our strategic ­impacts on the environment, society and the economy. Against considerations for future sustainability this background, the previously selected 13 topics had to be activities and objectives. Overall, we S ee also the ­assessed. Those surveyed included internal and external stakeneed to further develop our sustain­ INTERVIEW WITH DR CHRISTIAN holders. In addition to e ­ mployees, customers, suppliers and ability approach and better integrate it ­KOHLPAINTNER, association representatives, we included investors for the first into our corporate strategy. from page 2. time. The results of the survey, which were presented to and discussed with the Board of Management of Brenntag AG, ­affirm our current sustainability strategy and the activities that are based on it. The relevant topics are shown in the materiality matrix on page 8. FILLING MIXING AND EXTENSIVE WAREHOUSE PACKAGING CHEMICAL USERS PACKAGING BLENDING TECHNICAL MANAGEMENT TRANSPORT WORLDWIDE LABELLING SUPPORT Around 195,000 customers in various end-market / Repackaging / Just-in-time delivery and inventory industries, e.g.: ­management / Filling, labelling, barcoding and palletizing / Coatings & Construction / Return of packaging drums / Local distribution and marketing teams comprising / Cleaning more than 5,000 experts / Efficient logistics and transport / Cosmetics management / Product mixing in line with specific customer requirements / Polymers / Blending and technical service in our own application / Food & Nutrition laboratories / Pharma / Oil & Gas / Water Treatment 8 Our sustainability approach should be seen in a global context NFB and objectives, Brenntag’s individual and it takes the guidelines of the UN Global Compact (UNGC) companies and sites pursue a large into consideration. With regard to the ongoing development number of activities on their own and of our sustainability strategy, we also incorporate the effects in line with local and regional requireof our business activities on our natural and societal environments and commitments. We raise our More information ment. We additionally want to make progress with the global employees’ awareness accordingly and on the SDGs can be found at: Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) of the United Nations. provide them with further training. www.17ziele.de We will put more and more emphasis on these with our projects and sustainability activities. As a first step in the direction, three Brenntag has two working groups in the Brenntag employees from USA are taking part in the 10-month area of sustainability: an international See also page 55. “Young SDG Innovators Program”. The programme will provide project team and a steering committee. us with helpful impulses for the further development of our The international project team which SDG approach. consists of representatives from HSE (Health, Safety and Environment), ComNFB SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT: At Group level, there are pliance, Human Resources, Operations, numerous strategic guidelines, policies and projects in the Procurement and Communications, is area of sustainability that have a global focus. Standards responsible for the systematic developand processes are implemented, established and optimized ment of sustainability at Group level. and responsibilities are allocated at the various levels of the The group meets regularly on a project-­ Group. Moreover, in accordance with the Group’s guidelines related basis. BRENNTAG MATERIALITY MATRIX very high 5 Safe handling of chemicals Respectful and supportive Occupational health work environment and safety Climate protection Compliance and corporate governance Water and wastewater People development and training Stakeholder relevance Climate adaptation Sustainable selection of suppliers 4 Sustainable growth Waste and packaging Sustainable products and solutions Social commitment Relevance for long-term ­business development: very high high medium 3 3 4 5 medium Impact very high Safety and environmental protection Sustainable corporate management Employees and society BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2019 TABLE OF CONTENTS SUSTAINABILITY AT BRENNTAG 9 SUSTAINABILITY AT BRENNTAG: OUR TARGETS TARGETS BY STATUS NFB SAFETY LTIR1 day/1 million < 1.0 for the 2020 Group accident rate LTIR1 day/1 million ­Brenntag Group in 2019 was 1.9 (2018: 1.5) (page 40). SUSTAINABLE Check 80% of our total chemical 2020 The supplier assessments carried out ­PROCUREMENT spend (in EUR) through sustainabilby the end of 2019 cover some 72% ity assessments and audits as part of Brenntag’s total chemical spend of our membership in “Together (in EUR) (2018: around 70%) (page for Sustainability”. 50–53). 70% of our suppliers undergoing 2020 The re-assessments carried out by the re-assessments should be able end of 2019 led to an improvement to improve their score by at least rate of 59% (page 50). 1 point. ENVIRONMENTAL To reduce scope 1 and 2 CO2 2020 2019 Brenntag Group (per 1,000 PROTECTION emissions (per warehouse tonne warehouse tonnes of goods sold): of goods sold) by 6% (compared Scope 1: 19.21 tonnes (2018: 19.71 t) to 2016). Scope 2: 4.78 tonnes (2018: 6.93 t) Change compared to base year 20161): –0.58% (page 44–45). COMPLIANCE To achieve and sustain full cover2020 Coverage rate for e-learning at age in compliance training for the the end of 2019: relevant employees. Code of Business Conduct: approx. 95% Anti-corruption: approx. 93% EU cartel law: approx. 96% We have extended the target achievement period to the end of 20202) (page 15–16). EMPLOYEES To provide a working environment ongoing In 2019, Brenntag’s new global where the best people want to employer brand “Explore Variety” work. was launched, further measures for our HR development strategy were implemented and the incorporation of our HR processes into our global HR portal was continuously expanded (page 22ff.). SUSTAINABLE To become the preferred distribu­ 2020 BASF: project completed; Grüner SOLUTIONS tor for sustainable solutions by Punkt: ongoing; Schütz IBCs: on­going; setting up pilot projects with 10 Gas Engine Service Program: ongoing; selected key suppliers. Alumichem (Circular ­Economy): ­started (page 18–19). RATING To achieve and sustain an Ecoongoing Score in November 2018: Vadis score of at least 62 points 68 points, gold status (page 53) and gold status. 1) The values given for base year 2016 have not been audited by PwC. 2) Due to improved technical possibilities when using the e-learning platforms, the missing training courses will be carried out in 2020. The steering committee comprising individual representatives NFB these two working groups, promotes the NFB of the top management from Brenntag’s various regions. This ongoing development of the company’s is also consulted on a case-by-case basis for strategic discussustainability strategy worldwide and sions in particular and primarily serves as an interface to maintains a dialogue with those colthe operating units and is intended to reinforce i­ntegration leagues responsible for sustainability ­relating to the issue of sustainability at an operational ­level. In issues at Group level and in Brenntag’s addition to the two working groups Brenntag has established regions. The Board of Management rea sustainability unit. It consists of a team, which is based in ceives reports on a regular basis as well Brenntag AG’s Corporate Development department, and susas on a case-by-case and project-related tainability managers in the regions. The team initiates and basis and supports the working groups coordinates global projects and initiatives in cooperation with and the sustainability unit in their tasks. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2019 10 In 2019, the sustainability team and the working groups The basis for quality management with­focused on the following issues and projects: in the Brenntag Group is the internationally applicable ISO 9001 standard. // O ngoing development of Brenntag’s sustainability We aim for a global coverage rate of ­strategy: Tracking of Brenntag’s sustainability targets at least 90% at the relevant Brenntag for 2020 and development of new targets locations. // Sustainable procurement: Initiating s­ ustainability ­assessments and audits for suppliers, factoring Year Relevant Locations with ISO 9001 ­sustainability aspects into purchasing decisions Brenntag certifications // Launch of a global solar project locations // Continuation and improvement of global energy worldwide reporting abs. abs. in % // Establishment of a best-practice platform to save energy 2015 398 356 89 by using new technology 2016 395 354 90 2017 422 363 86 QUALITY MANAGEMENT 2018 387 353 91 Brenntag is a chemical distributor which differentiates itself 2019 390 355 91 from its competitors through the high level of quality of its products and services as well as its strong customer focus and the excellent level of service provided by its employees. BRENNTAG EMEA: HARMONIZATION Our Group’s sustainability performance has now also become AND STANDARDIZATION WITH SHAPE a competitive advantage. We increasingly receive enquiries April 2019 saw the official launch of from our customers who are themselves evaluating their SHAPE, which stands for ­Standardization, suppliers according to sustainability criteria (for example, in Harmonization and Automation of Prothe form of a “Sustainability Balanced Scorecard”) and who cesses within Brenntag EMEA. This profactor this into their purchasing decisions. For example, we ject, which will run for several years, are asked for information about our carbon footprint or how aims to standardize structures using new, For information on Brenntag’s ECOVADIS-­ we deal with the issues of recycling and waste. As a result of state-of-the-art information technology, RATING, please see our sustainability monitoring and our participation in external to reduce complexity and to pave the page 53. ratings such as the EcoVadis assessment or the CDP climate way for faster, streamlined processes rating, Brenntag is able to respond to these enquiries and throughout the region. It will be introwww.cdp.net meet the standards to which we are held. duced in the Benelux countries in 2020 as a pilot region and then gradually Using management systems, certificates and audits, we conrolled out in other regions. The entire For further information stantly ensure compliance with the quality standards required introduction process will be accompaon MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS AND CERof us and which we define ourselves. Procedures are in place nied by communication and training TIFICATES, please see at our company which ensure that products are procured measures for employees. the Safety chapter on page 35. from reliable sources and meet quality standards. Through various mechanisms, we obtain customer feedback for the continuous monitoring and improvement of our service quality. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2019 TABLE OF CONTENTS SUSTAINABILITY AT BRENNTAG 11 RISK MANAGEMENT AND COMPLIANCE NFB RISK REPORTING: The risk inventories NFB Brenntag has always attached great importance to responsi­ performed every six months by our ble, prudent and sustainable corporate governance. Our top Group companies are an important inpriority is to comply with statutory requirements and volunstrument for global risk control within tary internal policies on conduct. To ensure this, the manthe risk management system. They inagement uses various internal control and risk management volve enquiring about existing risks and For further information on Brenntag’s systems and has established a compliance organization within assessing these in terms of their probaCONTROL AND RISK the company. Every Brenntag employee is personally responsibility of occurrence and their potential MANAGEMENT SYSTEM as well its report on ble for complying with all applicable laws, directives, policies damage. The risk assessment includes opportunities and risks, and regulations. risks and opportunities with a sustain­ please see pages 75ff. of Brenntag’s 2019 ability dimension, such as environmental Annual Report. COMPLIANCE MANAGEMENT AND ORGANIZATION: At the risks, employee turnover or risks in the top of Brenntag’s compliance organization is the Board of Manarea of law/compliance. The Group risk agement and, within this body, its chairman. The Governance, management system also includes susRisk & Compliance (GRC) manager in Brenntag AG’s Corporate tainability-related aspects concerning Internal Audit department regularly reports to the Board of environmental and employee matters, Management on compliance issues. The regular meetings of the human rights, and anti-corruption and Supervisory Board’s Audit Committee also include reporting on bribery matters and the associated risks. compliance and whistle-blowing as well as on the ongoing development of the Group-wide compliance management s­ ystem. With regard to the non-financial aspects The GRC manager is supported by the Compliance Committee of the German CSR Directive Implemenas an internal advisory body. This committee comprises repretation Act (CSR-RUG), a net assessment sentatives from the departments Legal, Audit, Accounting & Tax, of the risks did not identify any material Controlling, Finance & Investor Relations, Communications, Risk risks which are associated with our busiManagement, Information Security, HSE as well as Human Reness activities or our business relationsources. Issues and measures aimed at observing human rights ships, products and services and which and fighting corruption are also on its agenda. are very likely to have serious negative effects now or in the future. At a regional level, the Regional Executive Management is responsible for the compliance issues. Regional compliance CODE OF BUSINESS CONDUCT AND ­managers have been appointed. They receive, assess and ­report ETHICS: As a global company, Brenntag any compliance issues and/or questions referred to them, is subject to a large number of laws, dicoor­dinate the compliance management system at a regional rectives, regulations and provisions. In ­level and regularly exchange information and experience with addition to compliance with regulatory Brenntag AG’s GRC manager. This ensures that our compliance frameworks, honesty and integrity are management is closely interlinked with our business activities our top priority. All of our fundamenat regional level. tal company values, ethical principles, compliance with laws, rules and regulaThe Brenntag CODE tions as well as the relevant guidelines OF BUSINESS CONDUCT AND ETHICS is and procedures which are of key signifiavailable on the cance for Brenntag and its reputation are ­company’s ­website at www.brenntag.com/ summarized in a comprehensive Code of sustainability under Business Conduct and Ethics. Service & Contacts. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2019 12 NFB The Code of Business Conduct and Ethics contains requireNFB year, the focus was on the fundamental ments for the following areas: right to data protection and the right to informational self-determination, in // Health, safety and the environment particular in relation to the processing // Human rights and working conditions of employee data. In addition to mak// Relationships with business partners and ing information on data processing public institutions available to Brenntag employees, we // Fighting bribery and corruption do the same for our shareholders and // Competition and antitrust law customers through various channels of // Avoidance of conflicts of interest communication. // Data protection and information security PREVENTING CORRUPTION: Preventing The Code is available on the internet and intranet in German, corruption is an essential element of English, Spanish and French. It applies to all employees at all Brenntag’s compliance management levels of the company and is intended to give them guidance system. Group-wide requirements relatin the legal and ethical challenges of their daily work and to ing to anti-corruption are specified in encourage proper conduct. The Code has been distributed codes and guidelines. They apply to all throughout the entire Brenntag Group and made available employees equally and compliance with to all of our employees. Its observance is monitored by the them is monitored. If our e ­ mployees management teams of Brenntag’s various companies. Any infail to comply with these requirements, fringement of the Code may lead to disciplinary action and this could have reputational and finanhave consequences under labour law or even criminal law for cial risks for Brenntag. Employee misthe employee in question. conduct is not tolerated by Brenntag (zero-tolerance policy) and can lead to As well as the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, there disciplinary measures or have conseare further Group guidelines which stipulate compliance requences under labour law. quirements, including an anti-corruption guideline, an insider compliance guideline and an internal control guideline. The In addition to the Code of Business Code and all guidelines that are applicable Group-wide can be Conduct and Ethics, there is a worldThe ANTI-CORRUPTION accessed by all the Group’s employees on the intranet. wide anti-corruption guideline for the GUIDELINE is available on our website at Brenntag Group which specifies what www.brenntag.com/ DATA PROTECTION: To meet the increasing requirements behaviors are expected of employees sustainability under Service & Contacts. globally in the area of data protection, the Board of Manin this regard. It also provides guidance agement appointed a Group Data Protection Officer in 2018. on how employees should behave in As head of the Global Data Protection department she reports critical situations so that their conduct independently and directly to the Board of Management. The is compliant and risks are avoided. Global Data Protection department is responsible for developing, implementing and managing the data protection management system for the Group. Data protection coordinators in the various regions support the Global Data Protection department and report to the central unit. A Data Protection Committee was established in the reporting year comprising Board of Management members from Brenntag AG and Brenntag Holding GmbH as well as representatives from the departments Data Protection, Legal, Human Resources, IT, Internal Audit and Compliance. The participants hold regular meetings to discuss recommendations under data protection law and developments within the company. In the reporting BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2019 TABLE OF CONTENTS SUSTAINABILITY AT BRENNTAG 13 The anti-corruption guideline contains and specifies requireNFB proves to be founded, delivery of the NFB ments for the following areas: product or service is suspended and, if necessary, additional action is taken in // Prohibition of corruption and bribery coordination with the authorities. // Gifts, hospitality and other benefits // Donations and sponsorship, including prohibition HUMAN RIGHTS: Observing human of political donations on behalf of the company rights is one of Brenntag’s top principles // Prohibition of facilitation payments and is regarded as an essential element // Relationship with third parties (sales brokers, of its general compliance management agents, etc.) system. Through its voluntary commitment to the principles of the UNGC, The internal control guideline contains further requirements Brenntag seeks to lend further weight to and measures to counteract corruption and bribery, such as its position. The Brenntag Code of Busiensuring the separation of functions, complying with the ness Conduct and Ethics stipulates that double-check principle and adhering to the requirement to our company and employees must avoid obtain comparative bids from suppliers and service providers. violations of human rights in any form. We oppose all forms of forced labour or Internal audits are regularly conducted at our Group compachild labour, advocate equal opportuninies to ensure compliance with these guidelines. The Interties and fair work conditions, and reject nal Audit department conducted 27 audits in 2019. Further discrimination of any kind. elements of the compliance management system relating to the prevention of corruption at Brenntag are target group-­ Violations of human rights can be reportoriented training courses for employees, which are essentially ed internally via our compliance organirolled out via our e-learning systems, and a whistle-blowing zation and anonymously via our whistle-­ system, which can be used to provide anonymous informablowing system. External third parties tion. In the reporting year, no cases of corruption at Brenntag can also use this system. If any suspected were reported. violations of human rights are confirmed, they are strenuously pursued and sancEXTERNAL TRADE RESTRICTIONS: tions are incurred. In the reporting year, DUE DILIGENCE PROCESS AT BRENNTAG no violations of human rights within the As a global market leader in the distribution of chemicals and corporate Group were reported. ingredients, Brenntag must adhere to all applicable laws on external trade and customs in its countries. This includes restrictions on the import and export of certain goods, services and technologies into or out of countries that are subject to sanctions or embargoes. The same applies to supplies to or from companies or persons that appear on sanction lists. Furthermore, all applicable trade restrictions resulting from international embargoes that typically restrict or prohibit funds transfers or capital transfers to or from certain countries must be adhered to. In connection with this, Brenntag uses special software to regularly check whether our customers and suppliers are on the sanction lists of the United Nations, the European Union, the USA and various other countries where Brenntag operates. Even a mere suspicion leads to a diligent check being performed based on all available information. If the suspicion BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2019 14 CHEMUK: “Sustainability is already a big topic in the supply chains of the chemical industry and will be more ­influential in the future as a driver for innovation, new products and services,” says Richard Ward, ­Commercial Vice President of Brenntag UK & Ireland at UK Chemical Industries Supply Chain Expo & Open Conference (CHEMUK) in May 2019, Harrogate. NFB For several years, Brenntag has voluntarily undergone a NFB A working group was formed in 2017 to For information on ­sustainability assessment by the international rating agency concentrate on the issue of human rights the SUSTAINABILITY EcoVadis every two years. In November 2018, the Brenntag in our company and our supply chain. In ASSESSMENTS and the Supplier Code of Group achieved a score of 68 points, thereby reconfirming the the year under review, we continued to Conduct, please see the gold status that it achieved in 2016. Another sustainability aswork on pinpointing where human rights chapter Responsibility in the supply chain on sessment began at the end of 2019 and will be completed at the issues affect our company and identifying page 50. start of 2020. The results will be provided in our sustainability approaches for a detailed analysis of poreport for 2020. EcoVadis evaluates the sustainability perfortential dangers. mance of companies in terms of four categories: environment, www.unglobalcompact.org labour practices, fair business practices and sustainable proUN GLOBAL COMPACT: As a signatory curement. The review of aspects in the area of human rights is of the United Nations Global Compact an essential element of this external assessment of Brenntag. (UNGC), Brenntag is required to make the UNGC’s principles in the areas of Brenntag believes that a big risk of potential violations of huhuman rights, labour standards, enviman rights is in our supply chain. Within the framework of ronmental protection and fighting corour membership of the industry’s “Together for Sustainability” ruption an integral element of its corpoinitiative, we request that our suppliers undergo EcoVadis susrate strategy. They supplement our own tainability assessments, which also include a review of complicorporate values and principles which The SUPPLIER CODE OF ance with human rights. Brenntag’s Supplier Code of Conduct guide our activities. This Sustainability CONDUCT is available on our website at ­ explicitly requests that our suppliers support the observance Report also serves as a progress report www.brenntag.com/­ of international human rights and that they avoid violations which must be published annually as sustainabilty under Service & Contacts. of human rights. Furthermore, there are additional supplier part of our participation in the UNGC assessments and audits based on standardized questionnaires (“Communication on Progress”). that also deal with the observance of human rights. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2019 TABLE OF CONTENTS 15 UN GLOBAL COMPACT: THE TEN PRINCIPLES 1 HUMAN RIGHTS Businesses should support and respect the 2 ­protection of internationally proclaimed ­human rights and ... 3 ... ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. LABOUR STANDARDS TRAINING: Our compliance programme focuses particularly NFB Businesses should uphold the freedom of 4 on observing our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and association and the effective recognition of the antitrust law requirements as well as on the prevention of right to collective bargaining, ... corruption and environmental and health protection, since it is here that Brenntag sees the greatest risks. We hold regular 5 employee training sessions covering these issues – through ... commit themselves to eliminating regional and global events which employees attend either all forms of forced labour, ... in person or via e-learning systems. The aim is to keep all of Brenntag’s employees’ knowledge up to date and to avoid any illegal actions as well as to protect the environment from being damaged and employees from being injured. ... commit themselves to 6 abolishing child labour and ... There is a global online training module on the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for all employees which was continCOMPLIANCE ued in the reporting year. Participation is mandatory for all ... commit themselves to eliminating 7 ­discrimination in respect of new employees when they join the Group. Employees can employment and occupation. complete the one-hour training module on the internet via the e-learning platform at any time and from any location. A total of twelve topics are covered – including anti-corrupENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION tion and the observance of human rights – using practical 8 Businesses should take a precautionary examples and exercise questions. The employees then take approach to dealing with environmental a test to ensure that the knowledge has been transferred. challenges, ... Between its launch date in 2016 and the end of 2019, a ­total of approximately 13,600 Brenntag employees worldwide com... undertake initiatives to promote 9 pleted this training module, representing around 95% of the greater environmental awareness and ... relevant employees1). ... encourage the development and distribution of environmentally friendly ­technologies. 1) In general, this excludes employees who do not have access to the e-learning platform (primarily warehouse employees). These employees will receive training on the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics using alternative methods. 10 FIGHTING CORRUPTION Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2019 16 NFB There are also in-depth compliance training modules at Incoming reports mainly concern cases a regional and global level on the topics of bribery and of suspected fraud and theft. Violations corruption and on antitrust law. The training modules on of the Code of Conduct and Business European antitrust law and on bribery and corruption are Ethics (such as conflicts of interest and mandatory for all commercially active employees and mandiscrimination in the workplace) and agers. Between its launch in 2017 and the end of 2019, reports concerning other compliance some 2,300 employees in the EMEA region completed the issues (such as violations of regulations) training module on European antitrust law and around are also reported. Compliance managers 5,400 employees completed the training module on bribalso receive general inquiries, for examery and corruption. This corresponds to approximately 96% ple about possible conflicts of interest of the relevant employees and managers for the antitrust and requests to accept gifts or invitalaw training module and approximately 93% for the ­global tions. If a suspicion is confirmed, this anti-corruption training module. Since the EU’s General will incur the sanctions permitted under Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) came into force, there labour law. has been a multi-level training concept for the issue of data protection. Employees are informed of and trained on this Year Number of confirmed issue through various channels. The focus of the data pro­compliance incidents1) tection training modules was on the EMEA region. A total of around 4,500 employees (around 90%) received training 2017 13 via our e-learning platform. There were additional classroom 2018 11 training modules on this issue in some countries. 2019 14 1) T  hese are cases reported to the GRC manager for which WHISTLE-BLOWING SYSTEM: Tried-and-tested processes are sufficient evidence has been established. Compliance incidents may also occur which are reported, assessed and in place at Brenntag for the orderly acceptance and proprocessed at a local or regional level but which are not cessing of Group-wide internal and external complaints reported centrally on grounds of insufficient relevance. as well as compliance reports. Our employees can report relevant information either to their direct line manager or STAKEHOLDERS to the regional compliance manager, or alternatively via a Brenntag engages in regular, transparent central email address or a whistle-blowing system on the and target group-specific dialogue with intranet or internet. The whistle-blowing system also proits stakeholders. These include the intervides the option of making anonymous reports, e.g. on vio­ est groups that are significantly affected lations of human rights or suspected cases of corruption. by the economic, ecological or social Third parties can submit complaints and report violations by impact of our business or who may be getting in touch with the compliance contact indicated on affected in the future. They also include Brenntag AG’s website. The information received will always groups that may influence the economic, be dealt with on a strictly confidential basis. The reports ecological or social impact of Brenntag received are examined and appropriate action taken if a now and in the future. compliance infringement has taken place. Email addresses and other whistle-blowing systems have also been set up at a regional level. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2019 TABLE OF CONTENTS SUSTAINABILITY AT BRENNTAG 17 KEY STAKEHOLDERS BRENNTAG SUPPLIERS AND CUSTOMERS EMPLOYEES VALUE CREATION BUSINESS PARTNERS INVESTORS AND GOVERNMENTS AND JOURNALISTS ANALYSTS AUTHORITIES BRENNTAG ­ENVIRONMENT NEIGHBOURS AND ASSOCIATIONS AND UNIVERSITIES AND LOCAL RESIDENTS, ORGANIZATIONS RESEARCH INSTITUTES LOCAL COMMUNITIES We aim to notify our various target groups promptly and apBrenntag’s Investor Relations and Corpropriately regarding developments at Brenntag and its obporate Communications departments Information about our jectives, thus enabling our stakeholders to obtain a compreregularly and promptly notify investors, ­INVESTOR RELATIONS hensive picture of our company and its business activities. In analysts and journalists of developments ACTIVITIES can be found at www.brenntag.com/ return, this dialogue enables Brenntag to identify the needs within the company, e.g. by presenting investor-relations. and expectations of our stakeholders, to evaluate them and to the company at roadshows, in analyst appropriately reflect them in our business decisions. As well conference calls, press conferences and as specific business-related issues, sustainability issues such as events as well as via the company’s websafety, the environment, the supply chain and compliance also site and various social media channels. At regularly feature in the discussions. its various locations, Brenntag engages in active discussions with local residents The Brenntag Group pursues dialogue with its stakeholders in and local authorities. For example, open various ways. Our employees maintain close contact with supdays provide the opportunity to inform pliers and customers on a day-to-day basis. Systematic customer the general public about Brenntag and and supplier surveys are also regularly carried out. We pursue to get to know one another. dialogue with business partners worldwide at the many trade fairs where Brenntag presents itself and its portfolio of services. You will find a list of Brenntag’s ­KEY As a member of relevant technical and industry associations at MEMBERSHIPS in the a local, regional and international level, Brenntag maintains an Service & Contacts ­section of our website active dialogue concerning industry-specific issues, including at www.brenntag.com/ sustainability. sustainability. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2019 18 FOR A SUSTAINABLE FUTURE: CIRCULAR ECONOMY Brenntag’s goal is to be the preferred distributor for sus­ OPPORTUNITIES tainable solutions worldwide. To achieve this, we think and act in a forward-looking way and take a systematic approach // Improved sustainability record to the issue of sustainability. Applying the concept of the // Conservation of resources circular economy will allow us to ensure that chemicals can // Prevention and reduction of waste be used more than once. We prevent and reduce waste // Efficiency increase/utilization of by-products and provide our customers with flexible opportunities // Promotion of innovations with added value. We differentiate between two different // Optimized customer benefit models that create opportunities for Brenntag, our customers // New business opportunities/resales and society. // Opportunity for new partnerships THE MODEL MODEL 1 CUSTOMER A Model 1: A substance is sold and then returned to Brenntag after it has been used in the production process of the customer. It can then be used by another customer without being treated. CUSTOMER B MODEL 2 CUSTOMER A Model 2: A substance is sold and then returned to Brenntag after it has been used in the production process of the customer. It is treated to remove impurities and then resold. CUSTOMER B BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2019 TABLE OF CONTENTS FOR A SUSTAINABLE FUTURE 19 INNOVATION IN THE SUPPLY CHAIN: RECYCLABLE ACETIC ACID FOR USE AS A DE-ICER SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS Alumichem and Brenntag Nordic worked together “This is due to the sugar residue from its initial use on a trial project for a year and a half. The Danish and is a defect that will be irrelevant for certain purcompany Alumichem specializes in developing chasers of the recycled product”, says Tina ­Klarskov and producing high-quality aluminates1) for water Olesen, COO of Alumichem. treatment processes, the concrete industry and www.­alumichem.com winter maintenance services. Alumichem’s research The team is satisfied with the results, especially and development team conducted a trial project since the product has been accepted positively on with “used” acetic acid provided by Brenntag to the market. Nonetheless, there were ­concerns at ­determine whether this acetic acid could be added the beginning of the project due to the ­complex to a de-icer without impairing the latter’s effecnetwork of laws regarding the handling of tiveness and quality. The acetic acid came from ­chemicals and waste. An essential aspect of the another company that had used it as a processing ­facilitation of the circular economy approach aid to produce a product. For Brenntag, there is an is that chemicals can be classified as chemical extensive scope for research and trial projects in products even after their first use. Classification relation to the treatment of products (such as acids as waste would significantly complicate their and solvents) with the aim of restoring the quality further use. A positive development regarding the of the substances as effectively as possible after further promotion of circular economy models is their initial use. ­emerging, particularly on the EU legislative level. The project team had to be patient. ­Success was Following the successful pilot project, Brenntag uncertain for some time, as numerous undesired and Alumichem have no doubt that this kind of side effects occurred at several stages of the trial. business model will provide additional potential In the end, they managed to eliminate all of these: in the future. The effectiveness of the de-icer was virtually the same; only its colour could not be aligned with the original product. 1) Salt of an aluminium compound „ Sourcing recycled acetic acid from Brenntag enables Alumichem to ­enhance its sustainability record. Circular economy is not a revolution that will happen overnight. I think it is important that we have patience here, while also playing an active part at each stage as developments occur. Tina Klarskov Olesen, Chief Operating Officer, ALUMICHEM BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2019 20 BRENNTAG FOOD & NUTRITION: CIRCULARITY WITH FOOD The circular economy is an area that the Brenntag Food & Nutrition business unit established in 2018 also focuses on. Although food security is one of the pressing global issues of our time due to a growing world population, there are still challenges in the food industry such as food waste or its accumulation of vast volumes. For Tom Corcoran, Vice President of Brenntag Food & Nutrition, innovation and creativity are key to more sustainable solutions in the industry. With regard to the current challenges in the food industry: How can Brenntag Food & Nutrition make a valuable contribution through circular economy? TOM CORCORAN: We are working intensively on solutions to reduce food waste. Our ex­Vice President Brenntag Food & Nutrition perts in the food development teams in all Brenntag regions are ­focusing Tom Corcoran has been leading our ­global Food & Nutrition organization on this problem. Next to our expertise, innovation and ­creativity play since the end of 2018. a decisive role. There was recently a series of trials at Brenntag North America in which apple and carrot peel were processed to form a powder that can be used to refine the taste of rusks. Apple or carrot powder is also used, among other things, because of its natural colour and www.food-nutrition.brenntag.com texture. Waste is also created if food spoils quickly. For this reason, we are working to make food more long-lasting. This primarily concerns microbial growth and the deterioration of quality through oxidation. We work with antimicrobial agents and antioxidants to increase shelf life and reduce waste. In order to implement our ideas, we work closely with our suppliers. The complete traceability of Brenntag’s entire supply chain is important to support our suppliers and customers and contribute to a circular economy. In what other areas does Brenntag Food & Nutrition contribute to a more sustainable society? We respond to trends within the sector. To changes in demand, for example, as the younger generation is more conscientious about what it eats and prefers vegetarian fare. Today’s consumer values quality and is prepared to pay more for it. In addition to the health effects on people, a vegetarian diet has other benefits compared to the consumption of animal products such as fewer CO2 emissions, since local production plays a bigger role, lower water and land usage, the preservation of biodiversity and the protection of animals. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2019 TABLE OF CONTENTS FOR A SUSTAINABLE FUTURE 21 THE PRINCIPLE: CLOSING THE LOOP In implementing sustainable solutions, we try to recycle: Reprocessing and subsequent recycling think along the principles of the circular economy are on the programme at Brenntag. At Brenntag’s reduce, reuse, recycle, rethink and to use these own plant in Switzerland, for example, the company principles across the entire value chain. can recycle chemical products themselves. In other countries, Brenntag works with specialised recycling reduce: In consulting with its customers, Brenntag companies for chemicals, plastics and packaging. can contribute to the efficiency of their use of chemicals and thereby reduce both the amount of rethink: Thinking in loops and longer life cycles chemicals in use and the waste they produce. leads Brenntag to create new business models and promotes innovation. reuse: Reusing chemicals and packaging is an attractive option in many ways. Alongside suppliers and customers, Brenntag can create a cycle that conserves resources and reduces costs. Multiple use of Chemicals Packaging E RE E  fficient use UC U RE N OF RES of chemicals D VATIO OU SE N SER RC Prevention O ES C of waste NA N CH H A LT N GE I GE LÖ S U SU STA NS Recycling of RE I N AB LE SO LU TIO E Chemicals YC TH IN L K R EC Packaging Plastic Innovations New business models BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2019 02 THE PEOPLE AT BRENNTAG. OUR MOST ­IMPORTANT ­RESOURCE. 640 77 Sites 100 Countries Nations NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES EMEA 7,720 North America 5,257 Asia Pacific Latin America 2,581 1,934 TABLE OF CONTENTS Employees 23 EMPLOYEES HEALTH PROMOTION AT BRENNTAG UK & IRELAND: Become a ­ ctive, be healthy and feel good. The participants of the 2019 fitness day demonstrated this awareness with great sustaining power. Nearly 17,500 people work at Brenntag worldwide. With The Chief Human Resources Officer is reNFB their expertise and their dedication, they play a key role in sponsible for Brenntag’s Global ­Human For information on our the company’s success and our long-term competitiveness. Resources area. The Chief Human ReCORPORATE VISION, please see page 35 Embedded in Brenntag’s corporate strategy and vision, the sources Officer reports directly to the of Brenntag’s 2019 primary goal of our human resources strategy is for us to be CEO and also pursues discussions and Annual Report. regarded globally as the preferred employer in the field of dialogues regularly with the entire Board chemical distribution – both for current and potential emof Management of Brenntag AG, through ployees. We see it as our responsibility to offer fair working Board of Management meetings and exconditions and an attractive, safe and inspirational working ecutive committees such as the Executive environment while encouraging our employees’ personal and Staffing & Development Committee. EMPLOYEES professional development in a targeted manner. Together with the Global HR Leadership HUMAN RESOURCES STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT NFB Team, which includes the HR officers for A globally uniform HR strategy has been developed and the Global Development & Talent Managepriorities for the coming years have been determined on the ment, Global Compensation & Benefits basis of our corporate strategy and our corporate values. A key and for Brenntag’s regions, the Chief aspect of our HR strategy is to promote employee retention Human Resources Officer is responsible and HR development at every level. This includes embedding for implementing our global HR strateglobally standardized measures in relation to employee regy and for putting in place and centrally cruitment, employee retention, feedback dialogues, HR demanaging corresponding measures in velopment, identification and development of potential, and the Group’s various regions. succession planning. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2019 24 MARION MESTROM: Chief Human Resources Officer Marion Mestrom has been Chief Human Resources Officer at the Brenntag Group since 2015. She is also chair of the ­Committee for Diversity & Inclusion and is particularly focused on the advancement of women within the Group. MARION MESTROM ON DIVERSITY, PERSONNEL DEVELOPMENT AND CAREER PLANNING AT BRENNTAG Brenntag employs around 17,500 people from 77 ­countries worldwide. They work in sales, logistics, service and ­management, to name just a few examples. There is a diverse range of job profiles within the Group. Brenntag therefore needs people who have a wide range of interests and skills. To enable the company’s long-term success, they also have to fit together and work as a team. How do you ensure that this happens within the context of the company’s global HR strategy? Diversity is very important to me, and it is also a permanent item on the Management Board’s agenda. Diversity has to be lived within the company, as doing so creates enormous opportunities. We need to welcome and accept diversity, to be open and not prejudiced. If employees are diverse, in terms of their gender or ethnicity, or they bring in new and different ideas and experiences, this allows innovation to arise and creative solutions to be found. It is crucial here that everyone feels equally confident to put themselves and their ideas forward within the company. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2019 TABLE OF CONTENTS Employees 25 In order to promote diversity and inclusion even further at How does career and succession Brenntag in the future, we established a Committee for Diver­planning work at Brenntag? sity & Inclusion in 2019. I work on this committee together with several top managers from various Brenntag regions. At Brenntag, everyone who wants to The members bring their experiences to the committee and, should be able to develop themselves in return, put diversity on the region’s agenda. in a targeted manner and allow their talents to unfold. For those who want to How do you provide suitable opportunities for ­personnel make a career at Brenntag, performance development in terms of the “qualified workforce of is also important, of course. At least tomorrow”? once a year, we conduct People Performance Dialogues with all employees. We can currently see how the world – including the world These dialogues take place between an of work – is changing faster and faster. This makes it all the employee and their manager, during more important that our employees are prepared for future which they discuss individual targets challenges. However, in order to remain viable in the future, as well as growth potential. We want a positive attitude towards change as well as individual inito provide our employees with further tiative are needed: Employees who are open to developing training in line with their potential. An „ themselves and learning will be given the corresponding opemployee’s personal commitment and portunities by us. People also learn through new tasks or an willingness to develop will also have exciting new project. a positive impact on potential career opportunities. Our aim is to be able to provide indiAdvancing and developing our vidual and systematic support within ­employees is important not just for the this process, and we are working to individual employee but also for the achieve this. Advancing and developing company so that it is in a strong position our employees is important not just for for the future. the individual employee but also for the company so that it is in a strong posiMarion Mestrom, tion for the future. Chief Human Resources Officer, Brenntag Group In addition, personnel development programmes play a key role. Our training options have a long-term focus and consist of a mix of internal and external training courses as well as “micro-­learning”. This includes 15-minute videos, short online training modules and TED talks1). Nobody is excluded from personnel development. On the contrary, we see it as an opportunity for every employee who wants to develop further. With regard to our programmes for new employees and our management positions, for some time now our focus has been on the advancement of women to ensure a balanced and diverse group of participants. 1)  ED stands for Technology, Entertainment, Design. Short lectures in which an idea is T presented as appealing and entertaining as possible. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2019 26 NFB HR PORTAL: In order to implement and manage our globNFB RECRUITMENT AND RETENTION ally standardized HR processes in the areas of employee OF TALENTS recruitment, employee retention, feedback dialogues, HR We strive to provide a working envidevelopment, identification and development of potential, ronment where the best people want and succession planning, we have introduced a global HR to work. It is the people who make up management system and already replaced many of the previBrenntag, our market-leading position, ous applications in our heterogeneous HR system landscape safety culture and diversity. These are by the new system. In the year under review, for example, the foundations of our new “Explore More about our recruitment module including an external and internal Variety” employer brand that we introEXPLORE ­VARIETY can be found on the job platform went live globally. The learning module in this duced worldwide in the year under reBrenntag career pages system should be introduced by the end of 2020, replacing view. In doing so, we are taking another at ­­www.brenntag.com. our existing e-learning system. This will enable us to manage step towards positioning ourselves as all HR processes throughout the Group in an integrated systhe global employer of choice for curtem. In the year under review, our feedback dialogues and rent and future employees. target agreements were made available via the system for approximately 90% of our employees, while annual salary EMPLOYER BRAND: A modern, attracreviews were conducted using the HR portal for almost half tive employer brand with a uniform of our employees. presence on all job markets is not just about the company’s external image, JOB ARCHITECTURE: A framework that comprises and orbut also strengthens the common idenganizes all positions worldwide at Brenntag. The global job tity of the people within the company. architecture offers us the transparency to identify career op“Explore Variety” is a promise to future portunities within a job family and across several job families, employees as well as to those who have for example, and to devise and offer needs-based training been working at Brenntag for a long and development measures. At the same time, the global job time and are familiar with the compaarchitecture serves as a basis and resource for implementing ny. It focuses attention on the p­ eople and enhancing measures in relation to employee recruitment, who contribute to the company’s sucemployee retention, feedback dialogues, HR development, cess by passing on their knowledge and identification and development of potential, and succession passion, by ensuring diversity and by planning, all of which are described in the following sections. energizing the employer brand. Team spirit, a familiar atmosphere, a good work culture and career opportunities are what set Brenntag apart as an employer, today and in the future. JOB PORTAL: In addition to the new employer brand, a new global job applicant platform has been launched. It allows applicants to search for all vacant positions worldwide at Brenntag and apply directly online. The new applicant platform is thus a further indicator of the wide-ranging diversity that Brenntag has to offer. Brenntag employees from all over the world can also view job advertisements via the “Career Center” on Brenntag’s internal HR portal. DIVERSITY THAT CONNECTS: By contributing with their different talents, Brenntag employees create a common identity. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2019 TABLE OF CONTENTS Employees 27 640 FEEDBACK DIALOGUES: Annual feedback dialogues, which NFB take place for all employees, are an instrument which is used to ensure long-term employee retention at our company. In all Brenntag companies, the dialogue between employees and their line managers promotes a feedback culture while also encouraging a change and performance culture. These meetings consider employees’ performance and discuss their goals locations in and personal expectations as well as individual development 77 countries – measures. By integrating our globally standardized “People this creates great Performance Dialogue” into the Brenntag HR portal, we are cultural diversity at able to conduct and track the process efficiently. Brenntag. HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT AND TALENT MANAGEMENT The objective of the Global HR Development & Talent Management Team is to develop and implement suitable human resources development concepts based on our global HR strategy and in line with our corporate strategy. Brenntag’s in the year under review. For example, NFB HR development strategy includes measures for all groups of our global programme “Leading with More information about employees to ensure that our employees receive appropriate impact” for experienced high-potential the LEADING WITH ­IMPACT programme ­ training and that crucial positions are filled at Brenntag in employees was successfully launched on page 28. good time and in line with requirements. and the customized “Leader Excellence Acceleration Program” was set up. The Monitoring the level of employee turnover on the basis of modular programme was developed in employee termination provides an indicator which can be used partnership with a renowned business to identify a specific need for action. This key figure is centrally school and tailored to the needs of our EMPLOYEE TURNOVER indicators can be found determined every quarter for each Brenntag company and top management level. The programme on page 33. reported to the Group’s HR management. Due to ­regional and will start for the first time in spring 2020. country-specific variations, the figures are analyzed at ­local ­level. In the event of atypical deviations, the causes are idenSUCCESSION PLANNING: Succession tified, and suitable measures are considered as needed. planning and structured, proactive HR development are closely associated with IDENTIFICATION AND DEVELOPMENT OF POTENTIAL: In ­order the identification of potential, which to foster internal careers and to ensure the emergence of a puts these issues on the list of priorities new generation of Brenntag managers and experts, there is for our HR strategy. As part of our global a global concept for identifying high-potential employees “People Review” process, management who fulfil our global criteria and are distinguished by their and HR officers proactively develop straparticularly strong performance. This approach enables us to tegic succession scenarios, identify emidentify employees with strong development potential at an ployees for vertical and horizontal career early stage so that we can enhance their skills and provide moves on a structured basis and devise the structure to prepare them for the next potential step in corresponding development options their career. and needs. Due to its importance, the Chief Human Resources Officer regularly Our global development programme “Connecting P ­ otential” discusses succession planning for global for high-potential employees who are at the start of their executive management with the Board career takes place annually with a total of approximately 60 of Management. The global standard participants in all regions. We also initiated additional globprocess is continuously expanded to inal development programmes for further management levels clude key positions at additional levels. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2019 28 TEAM BRENNTAG KOREA: The Employee Engagement Workshop in Korea gave employees new impulses and promotes cooperation and open communication. NFB PROGRAMMES AND TRAINING: At Brenntag, we want to creNFB At Group level and in Brenntag’s reate a working environment where each individual can recoggions, programmes are in place to meet nize and take advantage of the development opportunities the specific needs of our managers and that exist at our company. In line with the Group’s global junior staff, in order to prepare them concept, Brenntag-specific skills and expertise are taught for their responsibility as managers or through a globally uniform approach. Under the umbrella of experts and to support them in their the “Brenntag Academy”, target group-specific and individual role. As well as providing and enhancmeasures and training are offered at a global, regional and ing management skills, in these devellocal level and, depending on the nature of this measure or opment programmes Brenntag aims to training, are provided either in conventional events attended encourage the systematic and sustainain person or through online training events. ble sharing and transfer of knowledge. Our global e-learning management system provides our employees with a flexible and digital-based opportunity PRACTICAL EXAMPLES to enhance their knowledge and skills independently and ­efficiently. By offering a comprehensive range of specific In the year under review, the new g ­ lobal and interdisciplinary training with presentations, videos and development programme “Leading additional reference materials for self-learning, we foster a with impact” began for the first time culture of autonomous learning. We also reach all of our with 24 participants. It is aimed at seemployees with access to a PC via our online platform, maklected motivated and successful managing it easier for them to take part in mandatory global and ers, team leaders, project managers and For information regional c­ ompliance trainings, such as on the Brenntag Code functional heads who have a decisive on COMPLIANCE ­TRAININGS, please of Business Conduct and Ethics, anti-corruption, antitrust influence on our business. The prosee the Sustainability law, fraud prevention and the EU’s General Data Protection gramme brings together experienced at Brenntag chapter on page 15f. Regulation. In 2020, the existing system will be replaced by high-potential employees at global level the learning module in our Brenntag HR portal so that all and helps them to further develop their HR processes and measures can be linked to each other in a personal and leadership skills so they standardized system. To facilitate this, we analyzed our emcan drive innovation and change and ployees’ learning needs in the year under review based on secure Brenntag’s global success. current requirements and selected a corresponding range of training measures. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2019 TABLE OF CONTENTS Employees 29 Various further training measures that place a particular emapprenticeships, Brenntag offers young NFB phasis on personal development in addition to expert know­ key players attractive prospects and ledge are offered to our specialist employees and managers in challenges. In the year under review, Germany, Austria and Switzerland. For example, “MOVE” is a Brenntag received 4 out of a possible workplace-based development programme which is offered to 5 stars in the “Germany’s best trainers” dedicated employees in specialist careers. The programme, survey by the business magazine Capital which has been in existence since 2008, was redesigned in (issue 11/2019), making it one of Germa2019 due to advanced developments and changes in learnny’s top training companies. ing methods. The areas of focus in the new format include communication skills, self-reflection, personal autonomy EMPLOYEE COMMUNICATION AND and flexibility as well as digitalization. The new programme INVOLVEMENT “MOVE – New Learning Journey” started at the end of 2019 In addition to development prospects, with 12 ­participants. open communication and an opportunity to play a part in shaping the comIn many countries, trainee programmes enable u ­ niversity NFB pany are important aspects which help graduates to combine their theoretical knowledge with to promote employee motivation and practical experience while gaining an insight into our comloyalty. Brenntag’s employees are regpany’s many different areas. The specific trainee programmes ularly kept informed of current issues for management or specialist careers which are offered in and company matters through their line ­Germany, Austria and Switzerland also provide an incentive managers and also through our internal to gain international experience. To date, more than 30 career print and online media. Conversely, our entrants have completed these trainee programmes. employees are able to discuss issues directly with their line managers or with Due to the various regional and local requirements of the the personnel managers responsible at working environment as well as cultural differences, Brenntag any time. largely takes charge of and manages individual further training and development measures on a decentralized basis. Depending on the country-specific legOur employees receive training in accordance with their duislation, employees can also contact ties in the company and their personal development needs. the persons representing their interests The training measures, which take the form of face-to-face on elected co-determination bodies. events, courses and workshops as well as online seminars, Brenntag respects its employees’ right cover technical topics – including sales, logistics, chemistry, to freedom of association and collective environmental protection and quality management – as well bargaining and will not pursue or toleras personal development measures such as intercultural trainate any measures which are intended to ing, negotiating skills, presentation techniques and conflict restrict these rights. management. In every Brenntag region, occupational safety For information on training courses in the is a core topic for training, since protecting our employees’ The internal online portal “LINK” suparea of OCCUPATIONAL health and safety is a top priority for us. ports and promotes the flow of informaSAFETY, please also see the Safety chapter on tion, communication and cooperation page 39ff. APPRENTICESHIPS: As a recognized training company, Brenntag between Brenntag employees across difoffers an extensive range of training positions in a forward-­ ferent locations. This platform brings tolooking industry in Germany, Austria and Switzerland. Via gether our employees and facilitates the the dual education and training system, we are currently transfer of knowledge while offering an training 80 young people to become management assistants opportunity to share information, expein wholesale and foreign trade, management assistants in riences and best-practice methods from operations logistics, office managers, IT experts, warehouse different areas. staff, laboratory technicians, chemists, process mechanics and production staff. Alongside comprehensive apprenticeship opportunities and the acquirement of specific skills and expertise, priority is given to the transfer of our corporate culture and company-­specific working processes as well as the personal development of the apprentices. Brenntag trains junior managers and experts in a targeted manner, thanks to the wide array of apprenticeships on offer in the various occupational areas. Once they have successfully completed their BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2019 30 Brenntag also has idea management systems and platforms employees. At its more than 640 sites in at many levels, which employees can use to become actively 77 countries, Brenntag employs people involved and submit their suggestions and ideas for improvfrom almost 100 different nations and a ing organizational aspects, processes and operations. wide range of backgrounds. By s­ haring their knowledge, experience, ideas and The purpose of the “Brenntag Outstanding Performance Award” passion, our employees contribute to is to acknowledge and reward those employees who have the success of our company. We work ­delivered outstanding performance on an annual basis. Rein ­multinational, interdisciplinary teams ceiving the award, or simply being nominated for it, reprearound the world to create value for our sents an award in itself, for both the individual employee and partners and employees. the Brenntag unit that he or she represents; it thus reflects the high standards in place in terms of leadership, training and In order to firmly embed diversity, equal commitment to achieving top performance. Each Brenntag opportunities and inclusion, not just in region and the company’s headquarters in Essen presents the our business strategy and our objectives global and regional awards every year to employees who have but also in our culture, we launched an achieved outstanding success in the areas of sales, safety or internationally organized committee professional performance. for diversity and inclusion at the start of 2019. The committee is comprised HEALTH AND WORK-LIFE BALANCE of representatives from various areas Brenntag’s identity as an attractive and responsible employer across all regions and aims to increase includes promoting the health of our employees and their awareness of diversity and inclusion in work-life balance. In all regions, we therefore offer measures our daily business and at all levels of our which are in line with local social systems, while frequently organization. To support our managers going beyond national practices and statutory requirements. with their duty to deal with differences In countries with inadequate social security arrangements appropriately and create an inclusive for example, supplementary private health insurance and life work environment on this ­basis, in 2019 assurance policies are offered. In many countries, Brenntag we held a workshop on “dismantling also covers part of the cost of preventative measures or medsubconscious prejudices” with the aim ical examinations and pays for vaccinations for its employees of increasing their awareness of this and their families. Brenntag also promotes its employees’ issue. We plan to focus more on this physical fitness. For instance, individual companies contribute issue from 2020 onwards and raise its towards gym memberships or initiate campaigns and events importance within the organization. As which provide tips on healthy eating and lifestyles. Joint para first step, a mentoring programme ticipation in company runs and other sporting competitions and other employee training measures are also very popular. Many Brenntag companies help their will be introduced. employees to reconcile work and family life by offering flexible working time models and holiday arrangements as well We celebrate the wide-ranging diversity as other supportive services such as childcare or care for relof our employees. Guaranteeing equal atives. Regular initiatives also take place at many Brenntag opportunities is a matter of course for locations, when employees can show their relatives where Brenntag, as is counteracting and elimthey work or when families are invited on group excursions. inating any form of discrimination and harassment. The recruitment, remunerDIVERSITY, EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES AND INTEGRATION ation and development of employees Our culture of fairness, of mutual appreciation and support, is solely reflect their qualifications and the foundation of our day-to-day activities and is embedded in abilities in relation to their respective our core values. For us, diversity means recognizing, valuing duties. For Brenntag, it is a matter of and respecting differences. It fosters a dynamic work environcourse and of the utmost importance See also the ment where everyone can learn from each other. D ­ iversity that employees, business partners INTERVIEW WITH ­MARION MESTROM is a fundamental feature of Brenntag. This also includes and third parties do not suffer any dison page 24f. the cultural backgrounds, qualifications and needs of our crimination on grounds of their ethnic BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2019 TABLE OF CONTENTS Employees 31 ”INITIATIVE WOMEN INTO LEADERSHIP”: Brenntag is a founding member of the “Initiative Women into Leadership” (IWiL). After a successful graduation, the first mentee year had their farewell with a festive ceremony at Brenntag’s headquarters in Essen. The new mentee year of the IWiL programme will also take place with the participation and support of Brenntag. origin, gender, marital status, age, religion or belief, skin colThere are both defined benefit and deour, physical and mental abilities or sexual orientation. This is fined contribution pension plans for the stipulated in our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. Violaemployees of the Brenntag Group. The tions of this code are investigated by our compliance organpension commitments vary depending ization with the necessary rigour and, if a violation is found on the legal, tax and economic circumto have occurred, remedial and disciplinary action is taken. stances in the individual countries and See COMPLIANCE ­INCIDENTS on page 16. the employee’s years of service with the REMUNERATION AND PENSION SCHEMES company and pay grade. In addition Brenntag’s remuneration policy is defined by factors such as to employer-financed company penattractiveness, fairness and competitiveness. Employees’ qualsion schemes, Brenntag also supports ifications, experience and level of responsibility are the main private pension schemes through varicriteria. We offer a competitive remuneration and benefits ous options and pension plans. For inpackage. Remuneration may vary in line with local market stance, through a deferred compensaconditions, regulations and legislation. The value-based retion scheme employees are able to forgo muneration system for management level consists of three payment of specific pay components in components: a fixed annual base salary, a short-term ­variable favour of an employee-funded company annual bonus and long-term variable remuneration. The ­ratio pension commitment. of fixed to variable remuneration depends on a specific manager’s influence on the company’s success. Variable remuneration is closely linked to personal performance and the company’s results, and is also dependent on whether targets for key performance indicators (KPIs) are met. In addition to the aforementioned remuneration components, managers receive contractually agreed non-cash remuneration and other benefits. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2019 32 EMPLOYEE STRUCTURE The number of employees indicated is shown on the basis of the Group’s headcount as at the end of the year (Dec. 31). EMPLOYEES BY REGION AND GENDER EMPLOYEES IN MANAGEMENT POSITIONS1) BY GENDER 2019 2018 2017 2019 2018 2017 abs. in % abs. in % abs. in % abs. in % abs. in % abs. in % EMEA 7,524 43.0 7,162 43.1 7,023 45.6 Women 72 19.1 78 20.1 58 15.3 Women 2,831 37.6 2,677 37.4 2,634 37.5 Men 304 80.9 310 79.9 320 84.7 Men 4,693 62.4 4,485 62.6 4,389 62.5 Brenntag North America 5,257 30.0 5,174 31.1 4,747 30.8 Group 376 100.0 388 100.0 378 100.0 Women 1,183 22.5 1,162 22.5 1,034 21.8 Men 4,074 77.5 4,012 77.5 3,713 78.2 Latin America 1,934 11.1 1,610 9.7 1,453 9.4 EMPLOYEES BY TYPE OF EMPLOYMENT AND GENDER Women 742 38.4 654 40.6 545 37.5 2019 2018 2017 Men 1,192 61.6 956 59.4 908 62.5 Asia Pacific 2,572 14.7 2,486 15.0 2,043 13.2 abs. in % abs. in % abs. in % Women 1,034 40.2 987 39.7 958 46.9 Full-time 16,838 96.3 15,978 96.2 14,805 96.0 Men 1,538 59.8 1,499 60.3 1,085 53.1 Women 5,398 32.1 5,093 31.9 4,812 32.5 Other Men 11,440 67.9 10,885 68.1 9,993 67.5 ­segments 205 1.2 184 1.1 150 1.0 Part-time 541 3.1 550 3.3 519 3.4 Women 91 44.4 87 47.3 73 48.7 Women 438 81.0 441 80.2 394 75.9 Men 114 55.6 97 52.7 77 51.3 Men 103 19.0 109 19.8 125 24.1 Brenntag Apprentices 113 0.6 88 0.5 92 0.6 Group 17,492 100.0 16,616 100.0 15,416 100.0 Women 45 39.8 33 37.5 38 41.3 Women 5,881 33.6 5,567 33.5 5,244 34.0 Men 68 60.2 55 62.5 54 58.7 Men 11,611 66.4 11,049 66.5 10,172 66.0 Brenntag Group 17,492 100.0 16,616 100.0 15,416 100.0 EMPLOYEES BY TYPE OF EMPLOYMENT AND GENDER 2019 2018 2017 EMPLOYEES BY TYPE OF CONTRACT AND GENDER abs. in % abs. in % abs. in % 2019 2018 2017 Sales 6,446 36.9 6,348 38.2 5,859 38.0 abs. in % abs. in % abs. in % Women 3,242 50.3 3,079 48.5 2,897 49.4 Permanent Men 3,204 49.7 3,269 51.5 2,962 50.6 contracts 15,401 88.1 15,881 95.6 14,367 93.2 Distribution 2,528 14.5 2,305 13.9 2,160 14.0 Women 5,006 32.5 5,253 33.1 4,794 33.4 Women 270 10.7 250 10.8 210 9.7 Men 10,395 67.5 10,628 66.9 9,573 66.6 Men 2,258 89.3 2,055 89.2 1,950 90.3 Fixed-term Warehouses 5,318 30.4 4,977 29.9 4,647 30.2 contracts 1,978 11.3 647 3.9 957 6.2 Women 561 10.5 535 10.7 516 11.1 Women 830 42.0 281 43.4 412 43.1 Men 4,757 89.5 4,442 89.3 4,131 88.9 Men 1,148 58.0 366 56.6 545 56.9 Administration 3,200 18.3 2,986 18.0 2,750 17.8 Apprentices 113 0.6 88 0.5 92 0.6 Women 1,808 56.5 1,703 57.0 1,621 58.9 Women 45 39.8 33 37.5 38 41.3 Men 1,392 43.5 1,283 43.0 1,129 41.1 Men 68 60.2 55 62.5 54 58.7 Brenntag Brenntag Group 17,492 100.0 16,616 100.0 15,416 100.0 Group 17,492 100.0 16,616 100.0 15,416 100.0 1) Comprises the global executive management and local management groups. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2019 TABLE OF CONTENTS Employees 33 NEW EMPLOYEES BY TYPE OF ENTRY EMPLOYEES BY AGE3) 2019 2018 2017 2019 2018 2017 abs. in % abs. in % abs. in % abs. in % abs. in % abs. in % New hires 2,701 74.3 2,824 72.2 2,346 94.0 < 20 48 0.4 33 0.3 26 0.2 Company 20 – 29 1,598 13.1 1,562 13.7 1,453 13.6 acquisitions 934 25.7 1,090 27.8 149 6.0 30 – 39 3,792 31.0 3,580 31.3 3,216 30.1 Brenntag 40 – 49 3,499 28.6 3,297 28.8 3,124 29.3 Group 3,635 100.0 3,914 100.0 2,495 100.0 50 – 59 2,706 22.1 2,461 21.5 2,322 21.8 > 59 592 4.8 509 4.4 528 5.0 NEW EMPLOYEES BY REGION Brenntag Group 12,235 100.0 11,442 100.0 10,669 100.0 2019 2018 2017 abs. in % abs. in % abs. in % EMEA 1,296 35.6 1,212 31.0 855 34.3 AVERAGE AGE AND LENGTH OF SERVICE BY REGION3) North America 1,107 30.5 1,321 33.8 908 36.4 2019 2018 2017 2019 2018 2017 Latin America 579 15.9 412 10.5 198 7.9 Asia Pacific 589 16.2 938 23.9 516 20.7 Ø-age Ø-length of service in years in years Other ­segments 64 1.8 31 0.8 18 0.7 EMEA 44 43 44 11 11 11 Brenntag Latin Group 3,635 100.0 3,914 100.0 2,495 100.0 America 40 40 40 7 7 7 Asia Pacific 39 38 38 7 6 6 Other EMPLOYEE TURNOVER2) BY REGION segments 43 43 45 9 10 11 NFB Brenntag 2019 2018 2017 Group 42 42 42 9 9 10 abs. in % abs. in % abs. in % 2) Termination of employees on the basis of the Schlüter formula. EMEA 529 6.2 501 6.1 446 5.6 3) Excluding employees in the North America region; due to the legal situation in North America 538 8.2 620 10.2 488 8.9 North America, the data in the region are not recorded in full for all employees and therefore cannot be evaluated on a valid basis. Latin America 135 6.1 122 6.5 131 7.4 Asia Pacific 353 11.4 385 13.0 326 12.7 Other ­segments 21 8.8 16 7.8 6 3.7 Brenntag Group 1,576 7.6 1,644 8.5 1,397 7.7 BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2019 03 GLOBAL ­IMPACT. OUR ­FUTURE IN MIND. 68 points & gold status in the EcoVadis sustainability rating TABLE OF CONTENTS SAFETY 35 SAFETY Safety is of paramount importance at Brenntag and is part of NFB Brenntag’s global business operaNFB our corporate strategy. “We are the safest chemical ­distributor” tions and highly diversified customer – this is the primary objective of our corporate vision. Worldand supplier structure imply a diverse wide, we operate in accordance with the “Safety First” principle range of operating conditions (legislaas our most important company value. This applies both to the tion, cultures, industry standards and safety and health of our employees, as well as to product safety other demands). In order to fulfil the and environmental protection. We are bound by the highest resulting requirements as effec­tively as standards in the industry and adopt policies which often expossible, Brenntag adopts a predomiceed statutory requirements. We are working continuously nantly decentralized approach to its HSE For information on to further improve safety within our company. We invest in management. the current GROUP ACCIDENT RATE, our infrastructure and train our employees with this goal in see page 40. mind. Our goal is to keep our Group accident rate LTIR1 day/1 million The operations and HSE managers below 1.0 by 2020. respon­sible at regional level, t­ogether with the central Corporate Health, HSE STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT ­S afety & Environ­m ent department, SAFETY Brenntag has implemented a global health, safety and enviform Brenntag’s Global HSE Team. The ronment (HSE) strategy. This contains our principles in the areas team develops and coordinates g ­ lobally of safety, product stewardship, the environment, adherence applicable policies, programmes and to laws (compliance) and quality. The global strategy is impleother activities and regularly shares its mented in the regions as part of their own HSE programmes. experiences. HSE ORGANIZATION AT BRENNTAG BOARD OF MANAGEMENT Chairman Operations and HSE managers of the regions Corporate Health, Safety & (North America, Latin America, Environment department GLOBAL HSE TEAM EMEA, Asia Pacific) GLOBAL HSE TEAM Regular exchange Team composition BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2019 36 HSE AT BRENNTAG: OUR APPROACH  COMMITMENT TO THE PRINCIPLES OF OUR RESPONSIBLE CARE/RESPONSIBLE DISTRIBUTION PROGRAMME Product stewardship Occupational health Comprehensive protection of and product safety and safety, including the environment (air, water, transportation soil, raw materials and waste) THE BRENNTAG APPROACH SAFETY AND SAFETY HSE PROGRAMMES CLEAR GUIDELINES APPROPRIATE REGULAR INTERNAL CULTURE AROUND AND REGULAR AND PROCEDURES TECHNOLOGY AND EXTERNAL THE WORLD TRAINING REPORTING NFB The chairman of the team regularly reports to the Board of NFB Brenntag manages HSE data in various Management of Brenntag AG. In order to further deepen their databases at regional level that are forworking relationship, every Board of Management member warded to the company’s central HSE takes part at least once a year in the Global HSE Team’s regular department. Working together with phone conferences or meetings. external experts, the environmental risks including historical data are conThere are HSE organizations with similar structures within the tinuously examined and evaluated at regions, countries and down to the individual locations. All of each site. This allows conclusions to be this has created a global network of HSE managers and teams drawn about potential contamination, For information on at the various levels within Brenntag. These experts regularly among other things. This information is the ENVIRONMENTAL share their experiences in their teams, develop measures to collated in a centralized ­environmental ­PROVISIONS, see page 142f. of remedy identified deficits and work together on further imdatabase and serves as a basis for the Brenntag’s 2019 proving the company’s safety culture. environmental provisions which are Annual Report. ­determined annually. Decisions taken by the teams are then incorporated into the regulations and programmes within the respective organiBrenntag has implemented various For the MANAGEMENT zation in a suitable format. The local management in the management systems in order to enSYSTEMS see page 37. respective company unit or country is responsible for defining sure its compliance with applicable processes, procedures and measures in accordance with local HSE standards. Our performance is also regulations and taking account of local requirements. regularly assessed and certified by independent third parties. Compliance with the HSE programme is reviewed through regular internal and external audits. The decision on the NFB To ensure effective chemicals managefrequency of these audits depends on various factors, such ment, data that are necessary for the as the risk potential being assessed, legal regulations and safe handling of our products during customer requirements. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2019 TABLE OF CONTENTS SAFETY 37 storage, transport and within the delivery chain are stored NFB compliance audit programme was develin central databases at Brenntag. In Europe, for example, a oped for these instructions and an audit central SAP-based system is used for this purpose, making it catalogue was created. An audit team of possible to implement relevant changes to European legisla18 Brenntag experts from several countion in all countries at the same time and provide employees tries was then trained in accordance with with access to them. All European companies are connected this catalogue. In 2019, these experts to this database. audited a total of 29 Brenntag locations extensively. During these audits, risks Certified and assessed ISO 14001 OHSAS 18001 SQAS-ESAD2) were identified, assessed and classified, operating locations1) (Europe) and the timeframe for eliminating the abs. in %1) abs. in %1) abs. in % risk in question was specified. The audi2015 105 26 59 17 78 73 tors were also involved in implementing 2016 108 27 67 19 80 77 the agreed action plans. As a rule, the 2017 109 26 65 17 72 71 various locations welcome information about existing risks and how to improve 2018 108 28 64 19 72 73 process security. In turn, the auditors 2019 115 29 72 21 61 64 can expand their knowledge by audit1) The percentage figures for ISO 14001 include purely sales-based locations as well ing locations outside their own region. as warehouse locations. The OHSAS 18001 figures exclusively refer to warehouse locations. Since the auditors do not just document 2) S QAS-ESAD (Safety and Quality Assessment System, European Single Assessment Docthe risks but also collect best-practice ument) is a catalogue featuring more than 500 detailed questions on the handling solutions to specific problems, the enof chemicals. It is intended to provide a uniform assessment of the HSE and quality management system of chemical distributors and is associated with the Responsible tire Group benefits from this knowledge Care/Responsible Distribution industry initiative. transfer. Management also regarded the results achieved as a success. A further PROCESS SAFETY 34 audits are planned for 2020. Process safety measures depend on the particular type of process and the risks associated with it. Many requirements The multi-stage plan to improve the fitare regulated by local legislation and industry directives, tings and safety of pallet shelves in accor­ ­although standards often vary widely from country to ­country. dance with the corresponding guidelines If Brenntag considers these regulations to be insufficient, is now complete in Europe apart from we establish our own more stringent measures, which are a small number of exceptions. In North ­defined in our HSE manuals. America, work in this area still requires more time. The following aspects and levels of process safety are covered: The integrated IT system for stock man// Use of suitable equipment agement, product tracking and trans// Work instructions on how to use the equipment port management at Brenntag North ­correctly and safely and how to perform the process America and Brenntag UK & Ireland // Suitable technical and organizational safety measures has been enhanced and an improved that help to control process risks and prevent errors version developed. This system makes // Regular reviews (inspections, audits) it possible to track goods on a paperless // Regular checks of whether the specified inspections, and real-time basis as they are moved audits and reviews have been conducted as scheduled from our suppliers to our plants and to and corrective measures have been implemented the customer, thereby minimizing the risk of product mix-ups and incorrect deliveries. It is planned to gradually roll out the new version across Europe over PRACTICAL EXAMPLES the coming years. FURTHER EXAMPLES are presented on  renntag EMEA has specified four of its procedural instrucB our website at tions as “Critical Procedures”. Failure to adhere to the measwww.brenntag.com/ sustainability under ures described could lead to significant risks. These include the Projects Worldwide. handling of flammable liquids. Additionally, in 2018 a special BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2019 38 In 2018, the global Misload Control and Prevention proNFB The policies of the RC/RD programme gramme was launched. To begin with, a globally standardized have been incorporated into our HSE definition was specified and a data analysis was initiated: A strategy and programmes and therefore misload occurs when Brenntag or a service provider operatplay a key part in the safe handling of ing on behalf of Brenntag delivers an incorrect product or a chemical products and, as a result, in the product in the incorrect packaging or a product to the incorprotection of soil, air and water as well as rect location. In 2019, Brenntag EMEA increased its efforts occupational safety within our company. to avoid and reduce misloads. It is a complex issue, as there Adherence to these policies is verified are many points between ordering and delivery where an and documented by external assessors. error could occur. Accordingly, an eight-member task force was established with representatives from HSE, Operations, Brenntag has also specified that all Sales, HR, various EMEA national organizations and the Group ­operating companies join the RC/RD proheadquarters. The task force gathers ideas and develops gramme. Due to the fact that an RC/RD measures to reduce and prevent misloads. As part of a tarprogramme is not offered by national geted campaign, training and communication measures are organizations in every country in which also conducted for the relevant employee groups from Sales, Brenntag operates, programmes have Customer Service, Production Planning, Storage, Logistics and been developed and existing processes Transport in order to increase awareness of the problem and optimized in the individual regions to attentiveness among them. The package of initiatives and verify internally that the guidelines in measures developed by the task force also includes a new force in the relevant countries are adonline training course and a range of information materihered to. In this way, Brenntag compaal. In addition, internal processes and IT are optimized and nies play their part in the global obligaexperiences are shared in detail within the countries of the tion towards Responsible Care. EMEA region. Brenntag’s high standards in process PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP AND SAFETY safety and product responsibility conBrenntag takes appropriate measures to ensure the proper tinuously earn the company external handling of our products. This mainly relates to procurement, recognition. In 2019, all North American packaging, classification and labelling, handling, storage and sites where chlorine is filled and bleach transportation. We produce product dossiers and safety inis produced were rewarded for their exstructions and ensure disposal. We act in accordance with the emplary safety performance – with six applicable standards and regulations and also cooperate closely of them obtaining “Diamond Level”. The with the industry’s national and regional umbrella associations Chlorine Institute, a national industry of which our national companies are members. association, grants its so-called Diamond Level award to sites which have recordNFB RESPONSIBLE CARE/RESPONSIBLE DISTRIBUTION: For many ed zero workplace accidents or incidents years now, Brenntag has taken part in the Responsible Care/Reand zero environmental releases over a sponsible Distribution (RC/RD) programme of the International period of at least five years. Chemical Trade Association (ICTA). As such, we implement the eight guiding principles laid down in this global programme NFB Year1) Proportion of Brenntag legal entities participating in the covering the following areas: RC/RD programme2) Since 2002 Brenntag has been participating in // Legal requirements abs. in % the chemical industry’s // Management of risk 2015 108 76 “Responsible Care” programme. // Policies and documentation 2016 113 76 // Provision of information 2017 114 76 // Training 2018 106 81 // Emergency response 2019 108 78 // Ongoing improvements 1) T  he values given for 2015 to 2016 have not been a ­ udited // Community interaction by PwC. 2)  hese data do not include pure sales and service enT tities with revenue of under EUR 100,000 or acquired entities which, as at December 31, 2019, have been part of the Brenntag Group for less than a year. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2019 TABLE OF CONTENTS SAFETY 39 As a chemical distributor, Brenntag generally operates in a comBrenntag continuously invests in its NFB plex regulatory environment. Examples of this in Europe would equipment and infrastructure in order be the REACH Regulation or the Biocidal Products Regulation to optimize plant safety and work proFurther information on REACH can be found of the European Union. Our transnational teams of experts, cesses at its sites and thus further minion the website of the consisting of a network of experienced HSE and regulatory mize safety risks and hazards. For examFederal Environment Agency www.Umweltspecialists, ensure that our operational processes and workple, Brenntag audited safety harnesses bundesamtes.de/themen flows comply with the relevant regulations. They work ­closely used for work operations on road tankin the area chemicals. with management in both purchasing and sales to ensure that ers and rail tank cars in the year under Brenntag complies professionally, fully, and efficiently with the review by launching a long-term project numer­ous regulatory requirements. to improve this safety equipment. To ­begin with, this involved carrying out Our product and sales managers are trained and experienced detailed site-based reviews of the variin supporting our suppliers and customers in fulfilling regulaous systems in place. Using action plans, tory requirements according to their wishes by: the companies at Brenntag North America achieved around 75% of the agreed // Ensuring a REACH-compliant supply and usage system improvements by the end of 2019 and // Providing support in relation to many further questions invested several million dollars in the // Safeguarding optimal communication within the ­ process. Brenntag EMEA launched this supply chain project at a later stage and is therefore // Identifying alternative substances still at the planning stage with regard to the structured implementation of OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY improvements. However, it has already Our top priority is to ensure the safety of our employees and made some investments. The project is to protect their health. This means that we continually work continuing in 2020. towards improving the company’s safety culture and take necessary and appropriate measures to prevent accidents and ACCIDENT REPORTING: Accidents at work, incidents. near misses and similar ­occurrences are recorded and evaluated centrally accordTRAINING AND EQUIPMENT: Regular training of our employNFB ing to a standardized system. Any imees is important in order to raise their awareness of potential portant conclusions are communicated hazards and to enable them to work safely. This training goes throughout our organization. Furtherabove and beyond the statutory requirements, and ranges more, the findings and the measures from safety instructions for new employees to comprehensive derived from these are incorporated training measures that are specially tailored for the work sitinto the global HSE guidelines, regional uation and the risk potential of specific occupational groups HSE manuals and prevention and trainor individual employees. Training is given by HSE managers ing measures. As an enhancement to and also by external experts, both in the form of face-to-face the existing accident reporting system, events as well as digitally. In the year under review, we conBrenntag introduced the so-called “potentinued to focus on training our employees at all levels on a tial hurt level” model at the end of 2019. wide range of issues. For example, Brenntag North ­America With this model, accidents are assessed offered a specific training programme for managers and line not just according to the actual severity managers which is run by an external provider and has proven of the injuries suffered but also according its value over many years. The programme provides them with the techniques and skills they need to make lasting improvements to the safety culture within their area of responsibility. 72 participants completed the programme in the year under review. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2019 40 NFB to how severe the injuries could potentially have been when measures are therefore focused on makthe accident occurred. The aim of this enhanced assessment ing improvements in these areas. With is to focus our countermeasures better on the most important regard to injuries resulting from contact aspects of accidents. with chemicals in particular, which is an industry-specific injury, a wide range GROUP ACCIDENT RATE1) of measures enabled us to reduce the LTIR1 DAY2) number of incidents Group-wide by 75% between 2010 and 2018. However, there 1.9 was a significant increase again in the 1.7 year under review. Almost all of this was 1.6 1.5 1.5 due to chemical burns or irritation to the neck and head, and in particular to the eyes. Our priority here must be to continue working on preventing direct contact with chemicals. ­However, we also need to improve the correct use of SAFETY personal protective equipment such as safety goggles and visors by conducting training sessions and regular checks. Although the number of injuries caused 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 by slips/trips/falls was reduced again in the year under review, it still remains at The values given for 2015 to 2016 have not been audited by PwC. 1) a high level. In almost all cases, these 2) LTIR1 day (Lost Time Injury Rate): number of industrial accidents resulting in at least one day’s absence from work per one million working hours. accidents were caused by a lack of attention and incorrect behaviour. At the end of 2018, Brenntag established a task This ongoing process of improvement has enabled us to force that will continue working on the steadily reduce the number of reportable industrial accidents campaign to reduce these accidents. within the Group over many years. Unfortunately, this trend Having stayed relatively constant for has not progressed as continuously in recent years, and we many years, the number of accidents have to report a year-on-year increase for 2019 for the second involving vehicles (forklift trucks, trucks, time since 2017. Overall, however, we were able to reduce cars, motorbikes) almost doubled in the the Group accident rate between 2010 and 2019 by 58%. In year under review. This was primarily 2019, the value was 1.9. due to an increase in traffic accidents that were difficult, if not impossible, In 2019, the accident rate rose in all four regions. However, to avoid for the Brenntag employees the trends have varied. After recording good results in 2018, concerned. However, there was also a there were slight increases in both Asia Pacific and Latin slight rise in the number of accidents inAmerica in the year under review. In North America, the total volving internal transport. This increase number of reported accidents fell significantly. Compared to occurred despite extensive preventative previous years, however, an unusually high number of these programmes that have been established accidents led to work absences and therefore to an increase in the Brenntag regions in recent years. in the relevant accident rate. The negative trend at Brenntag The focus ranges from driving safety EMEA was strongly influenced by high accident numbers at training, including for sales employees, specific locations. to the use of devices to analyze driving in trucks, to improved road signage for A closer analysis of the accidents shows that slips/trips/falls, internal transport and for pedestrians at contact with chemicals, accidents involving vehicles and the locations. ­accidents involving equipment/tools are the most common causes of injuries and absences from work at Brenntag. Our BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2019 TABLE OF CONTENTS SAFETY 41 PRACTICAL EXAMPLES More than 1,300 employees in 20 countries within the EMEA region received online training from an external provider in each quarter on a topic related to safe driving. After two years, the programme is now completed. Since 2014, Brenntag North America has had particularly posi­ tive experiences using a system that records driving behaviour and traffic situations with a video camera in its trucks. If necessary, truck drivers can then analyze critical situations and unsafe behaviour with their direct managers using video clips. The technology used was replaced with an improved version, and the partnership with the external service ­provider for the video programme was extended by several years. The Brenntag fleet in North America covered around 50 million miles in 2019. Since the programme was introduced, the number of accidents per 1 million miles travelled has decreased BRENNTAG HONDURAS – HONOURED: For the third time by 75%. in a row, the Brenntag terminal location received an award from the municipality of Puerto Cortés for the exemplary implementation of local environmental regulations. Brenntag EMEA continues to conduct special hazard analyses for transport on the grounds of its sites. Wherever there is increased potential for accidents, suitable measures are imBrenntag’s primary objective is to preplemented: ranging from the simple installation of mirrors to vent all types of accidents and incidents. the clear separation of pedestrian paths and vehicle roadways, With a view to the development of the right up to investment in vehicles and construction activities. number of accidents, we are continuously working on further improving our safety culture. CAUSES OF LOST TIME INJURIES 2019 e BEST PROGRAMME: A key element of (IN %) our efforts to increase safety is the ­global 20 Brenntag Enhanced Safety Thinking 28 (BEST) programme. It focuses on the safety behaviour of Brenntag employees at all levels within the company, which is a key cause of accidents in more than 75% of cases. Two BEST employee surveys were conducted between 2015 and 6 2018. According to the findings of the last survey, the participants believe that the safety culture is overall at a high level. Internal communication was regarded 22 24 as having room for improvement. There were large regional differences. The results were incorporated into various action plans for the coming years that take Slips, trips, falls Manual handling account of the varying circumstances Contact with chemicals Vehicles, forklifts Facilities, equipment, tools locally. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2019 42 “SAFETY WEEK” AT BRENNTAG-BENELUX: Safety at work is just as important as safety on the way to or from work. Safety tranings and crash tests during the Safety Week at Benelux locations were a special ­opportunity to prepare for critical situations in the car. In order to expand the BEST ideas beyond occupational Also Brenntag UK & Ireland had its safety and into the personal sphere of Brenntag employees, first Safety Day. The event centred on a Brenntag developed the BEST – Personal Safety Action Plan promise by every person to pay atten(PSAP). Since 2018, all Brenntag employees worldwide were tion to their own safety and that of their asked to create a PSAP and list the risks that they encounter colleagues each and every day. Under daily while at work as well as in their personal lives. Together the slogan “See, Stop, Do”, everyone has with their respective line managers – who had been given been called on to take action: Whenever special training in this area – they developed individual plans I see danger, I stop what I am doing and consisting of measures to prevent accidents and incidents. I do something about it. Russel Argo, New PSAPs are developed every year. President at Brenntag UK & Ireland, emphasized that everyone at Brenntag has the right to stop unsafe activities in order to have a positive impact on the PRACTICAL EXAMPLES FURTHER EXAMPLES company’s security culture. The feedare presented on our website at The following practical examples and highlights from our reback on the Safety Day, the results of www.brenntag.com/ gions provide an insight into our diverse range of practices the BEST surveys, the analysis of current sustainability under Projects Worldwide. and safety culture at Brenntag. trends regarding the issue of safety and comparisons between PSAPs were used Brenntag locations and individual companies frequently to analyze the issue of “Safety First” in dedicate an entire day to the issue of safety. Brenntag Latin detail during the year. The focus was America, for example, holds its CASA1) Day every year. Many on personal accident prevention above companies in Brenntag EMEA organized a day or a week for all else. There was a concerted effort to the first time during 2019 with various initiatives relating to address the question of how important the issue of “Safety First”. various factors are for the safety of each 1) CASA is the name of the HSE programme at Brenntag Latin America and stands for quality (CALIDAD), safety and health (SEGURIDAD & SALUD) and the environment (MEDIO AMBIENTE). BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2019 TABLE OF CONTENTS SAFETY 43 and every employee at their work station and where there It was also evident at the Grez-encould be potential for accidents or injuries. The findings were Bouère site in France on June 3, 2019 systematized and culminated in “risk maps” for work areas that courageous intervention combined and sites. with the correct training will pay off. There, two Brenntag employees, trained Brenntag Benelux brought another element into play in reas first-aiders, became lifesavers after a lation to safety in the workplace during its first Safety Week colleague collapsed and a short time latin 2019: The risk of accidents and injuries in private and on er stopped breathing. They performed the way to and from work. Numerous external partners also cardiac massage until the emergency took part in the individual events, visits and discussions that services arrived and also used the defispanned a number of days. Key issues included how to act in brillator on hand at the site. Thanks to the event of a fire and fire-extinguishing techniques, safety their exemplary actions, their colleague training and vehicle crash tests, and ergonomically correct survived. sitting postures in the workplace. 34 of the 53 Brenntag EMEA sites with Brenntag South Africa also held its first workplace safety more than 40 employees recorded zero week. Together, employees practised how to perform firstlost-time injuries (LTI) in the year under aid measures, identify potential dangers in the workplace in review. Four of the 34 sites have gone ten advance and fight fires. Information was also provided on how years without an accident-related work to better protect one’s health in the workplace as well as nuabsence, and a further eleven sites have tritional tips. Special recognition was given on this occasion to gone five years without one. forklift drivers, who have to exercise particular caution while handling dangerous machinery day in and day out. The emergency teams and Brenntag employees demonstrated their skill and reliability at Brenntag’s Dos Hermanas and Cartagena sites in Spain on September 13, 2019: The Dos Hermanas site had to be temporarily evacuated that day after a fire broke out at a different, neighbouring facility. A strong wind caused sparks from the fire to fly and reach the Brenntag Overall, we were facility. Thanks to the dedicated work of the emergency able to reduce the team, two fires caused by the sparks were immediately extingroup accident rate by 58% guished, preventing worse things from happening. How safe the Brenntag facilities are was demonstrated in C ­ artagena. There, the grounds of the site were completely flooded in the early hours of the morning by heavy rainfall. The water level was half a metre in some places. Preparations had been made the previous day as part of an emergency plan. This meant from 2010 to 2019. that, despite the flooding, there was no ongoing risk from chemicals in storage. Although the clean-up operation lasted several days, the damage at the site was fully rectified – in particular due to the dedication of the team. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2019 44 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION The responsible use of natural resources has always been NFB During the reporting year, the global very important to Brenntag. As part of our business activi­activities of the Brenntag Group r­ esulted ties, we consume water, electricity and different types of fuel, in a total of 244,414.91 tonnes of CO2 while producing waste, waste water and various emissions. emissions (Scope 1 and 2). Energy conMoreover, as a chemical distributor we deal with products sumption at our sites (offices and warethat could damage the environment if not handled with the houses) accounted for around 44% of necessary care. these, while the vehicle fleet (trucks, company cars and other vehicles) acAll around the world, we aim to protect resources and use counted for around 56%. This means them optimally, and to minimize the impact that our business we were able to record a year-on-year activities have on the soil, water and air. At the same time, decrease in total Scope 1 and 2 CO2 emisBrenntag supports its customers with sustainable solutions sions for the first time despite the incluand helps to preserve the environment with ecologically sion of data from various company ac­efficient products, processes and services. quisitions. CO2 emissions per warehouse tonne of goods sold decreased by 9.95% NFB When it comes to protecting the environment and climate, compared to the previous year. Compared Brenntag also acts in accordance with the “Safety First” printo the base year 20161), we also recorded ciple and has incorporated the fundamental aspects of its a decline in CO2 emissions, namely of For further informa­activities into its global HSE strategy. Brenntag’s sites around 0.58%. The reason for this was a drop tion on Brenntag’s HSE STRATEGY AND the world implement numerous environmental protection in electricity consumption in Europe and ORGANIZATION, please and efficiency measures in the context of local and regionNorth America. Most of the reduction is see the Safety chapter on page 35f. al outline conditions and legislative requirements, tailored attributable to our site in Thetford in the to their individual activities. These internal measures focus UK, which ceased production of sodium on energy and water consumption, the protection of soil, hypochlorite due to the modernization water and air, waste reduction, and transport and fleet of the facilities, and to numerous energy management. efficiency measures in North America. NFB ENERGY 1)  he values given for the 2016 base year have not T We calculate our consumption of resources on the basis of the been audited by PwC. data which we collect through our HSE programmes. Brenntag has established Group-wide energy reporting in order to make its own energy consumption and associated CO2 emissions more transparent. Sites’ energy consumption data are colENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION lected quarterly and are compiled and evaluated centrally by Brenntag’s sustainability team. These data enable us to identify energy-saving potential. Our target is to reduce the Scope 1 and 2 CO2 emissions (per warehouse tonne of goods sold) by 6% by 2020 compared to 2016. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2019 TABLE OF CONTENTS Environmental Protection 45 ENERGY CONSUMPTION BRENNTAG GROUP1) NFB 2019 20183) Base year: 20163) Total Per 1,000 Total Per 1,000 Total Per 1,000 warehouse warehouse warehouse tonnes of tonnes of tonnes of goods sold goods sold goods sold Electricity (in MWh) 138,811 13.6 153,894 15.6 146,904 16.5 District heating (in MWh) 7,914 0.8 – – – – Gas (in MWh) 302,710 29.7 290,213 29.4 178,702 20.1 Diesel (in 1,000 litres) 44,393 4.4 44,717 4.5 36,290 4.1 Petrol (in 1,000 litres) 6,277 0.6 6,550 0.7 6,141 0.7 Other4) (in 1,000 litres) 3,960 0.4 3,944 0.4 3,870 0.4 CO2 EMISSIONS5) BRENNTAG GROUP1) 2019 20183) Base year: 20163) Total Per 1,000 Total Per 1,000 Total Per 1,000 warehouse warehouse warehouse tonnes of tonnes of tonnes of goods sold goods sold goods sold Scope 2 Electricity (in tonnes) 46,982 4.6 68,476 6.9 63,666 7.2 District heating (in tonnes) 1,686 0.2 – – – – Scope 1 ENVIRONMENTAL Gas (in tonnes) 55,550 5.5 53,296 5.4 32,818 3.7 PROTECTION Diesel (in tonnes) 117,749 11.6 118,707 12.0 96,336 10.8 Petrol (in tonnes) 14,449 1.4 15,011 1.5 14,072 1.6 Other (in tonnes) 4) 7,999 0.8 7,862 0.8 7,933 0.9 Scope 1 + 2 (in tonnes) 244,415 24.0 263,352 26.6 214,825 24.1 Change compared to base year 20162) (in %) – –0.58 – 10.41 – – 1) T  he data of the reporting year do not include the following operating units: Brenntag International Chemicals, Raj Petro Specialities Pvt. Ltd., ­Alphamin Group, Canada Colors and Chemicals (included since Q2/2019), Pachem Distributing Inc., Conquimica S.A., Quimisa S.A. and Tee Hai Chem Pte Ltd. (included since Q4/2019) and all companies in Africa and the Middle East. 2) The values given for the base year 2016 have not been audited by PwC. 3) A  s part of our ongoing improvement process, the energy consumption reported for 2018 and the CO2 emissions reported for 2016 to 2018 were again reviewed and adjusted. 4) Gas oil, kerosene, propane gas 5)  s and from the 2019 reporting year, CO2 emissions have been calculated for electricity using the respective country-specific factors as per A IEA (2019), for district heating using the factor as per UBA (2018) and for all other energy types using the energy-specific factors defined in the UK Government GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting (2019). For the preceding reporting years, CO2 emissions were calculated for electricity using the respective country-specific factors as per the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Factors (2012) and for all other energy types using the energy-specific factors defined in the UK Government GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting (2016). BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2019 46 DON’T STOP FIGHTING THE ENERGY MONSTERS Our internal energy-saving campaign “Fight the Energy Monsters” launched in 2018 was a success and enjoyed strong ­uptake across all regions and areas of work. As part of it, we continued our efforts to ­reduce energy consumption and the ­associated CO2 emissions in the year under review. NFB The numerous measures implemented globally in 2019 to inIn 2019, Brenntag took part in the clicrease energy efficiency include for example the repacement of mate rating initiative of the internaDISCLOSURE INSIGHT ACTION conventional lighting with energy-saving LED light bulbs at vartional organization CDP once again and ious locations. In addition, existing technology needs to be was given a rating of C (“Awareness”). replaced with technology that operates using low-emission CDP compares thousands of c­ ompanies www.cdp.net energy sources. For this reason, additional forklifts and vehicles worldwide every year (currently more that run on diesel or petrol were replaced by electrically powthan 8,000) with regard to their straered vehicles in the year under review. Some of the company’s tegic approach to the challenges of locations also began purchasing “green electricity” in 2019, in climate change and assesses their cliaddition to the own production of solar and wind energy at mate management system based on a several sites. comprehensive catalogue of criteria. By participating in the initiative, Brenntag To achieve even greater CO2 savings in the future, we is aiming to enhance its energy reportlaunched a global project in 2019 to enable the company to ing using recognized standards. At the produce its own electricity from renewable sources. We have same time, it also allows us to address a large number of rooftops on our warehouses that are suitour customers’ and investors’ requireable for solar arrays in particular. These are to be installed at ments for greater transparency and many Brenntag locations worldwide so that we can meet our comparability in our energy consumpfuture electricity needs with our own “green electricity” as far tion reporting and to demonstrate our as possible. In 2019, suitable service providers were initially progress in the areas of energy efficiency identified to implement this plan. In 2020, the first solar arrays and energy management. are to be installed at selected pilot locations. In subsequent years, this will gradually be extended to other locations. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2019 TABLE OF CONTENTS Environmental Protection 47 addition, work is being done to improve PRACTICAL EXAMPLE the maintenance and fitting of the vehi­ FURTHER EXAMPLES In 2019, numerous energy-saving measures and comparative cle fleet. For example, air-conditioning are presented on measurements of consumption were carried out at several units that meet the latest technical our website at www.brenntag.com/ locations in Brenntag Italy to continue monitoring and further and ecological standards have been insustainability under reducing CO2 emissions in the future: The increased use of stalled on the lorries. The region also Projects Worldwide. inverters in numerous devices helped to optimize the energy fulfils 95% of the requirements under consumption. In addition, the switch to LED lighting systems the EMEA Best Defensive Driving prowas realized at several locations in the region. These measgramme. ures will continue and expand into 2020. WATER TRANSPORT/FLEET MANAGEMENT Brenntag uses water in its business As a distributor, Brenntag maintains its own fleet of vehicles. opera­tions, for example to produce To keep fuel consumption and harmful emissions to a minisolutions, to clean pipe systems and to mum, structured transport logistics are used at our sites to cool or heat chemicals and tank faciliavoid unnecessary trips and to make the trips taken by our ties. Water consumption varies widely vehicles as efficient as possible. In regular training courses, at Brenntag’s sites and is subject to flucBrenntag drivers receive instruction on matters such as fuel-­ tuations, as it is largely dependent on conscious driving. the nature and scope of the products handled and services provided. In adMore and more Brenntag companies use telematic systems in dition, water is needed to operate the order to optimize the use of their vehicle fleets. They ­record buildings and plants, for example in the vehicle and trip-related data such as fuel consumption, speed sanitary facilities or to clean surfaces. and driving duration. These on-board units facilitate safe and eco-efficient driving, for example by providing visual and Brenntag obtains around 90% of its acoustic warning signals for the driver or by displaying vehiwater from the public water supply netcle speed, braking behaviour and engine idling. work. Water consumption is currently not recorded and consolidated on a Group-wide basis. PRACTICAL EXAMPLE The initiative to reduce CO2 as part of fleet management at Brenntag Iberia encompasses various measures, such as purchasing additional electric forklifts. In 2019, it lowered CO2 emissions in the region by 24,200 kg. The focus here is also on the safety-first principle, or safe driving: As part of the Road Safety Plan, Brenntag employees receive more detailed instruction on proper and responsible driving, which should also lead to environmentally friendly driver behaviour. A reward system also promotes carpooling as another way of reducing the risk of accidents and lowering CO2 emissions. In BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2019 48 Wasserverbrauch total South was able to reduce its consumpPRACTICAL EXAMPLE (in Mio. Liter) tion. The reasons for the increase includBrenntag Latin America regularly measures water consumped leaks and the rise in water-­intensive tion at all of its sites as part of its extensive CASA programme. processes. In Mexico, consumption was There are several reasons for consumption fluctuating over higher due to the purchase of a boiler time: Company acquisitions and changes in the number of and the watering of new green areas employees increase or reduce water needs. Water-intensive on the company premises. Brenntag processes, such as hydrostatic testing of new tanks or test Caribbean produced significantly more operations on fire protection systems, also occur at ­irregular product blends in 2019, which is why intervals. Absolute water consumption in the Brenntag Latin the tanks had to be cleaned more freAmerica region rose by 6% in 2019 compared to the previquently. ous year. The increase in water consumption was from the Brenntag Latin America North region; Brenntag Latin America BRENNTAG LATIN AMERICA: WATER CONSUMPTION TOTAL PER WAREHOUSE TONNE OF GOODS SOLD (IN MILLIONS OF LITRES) Wasserverbrauch pro verkaufte Tonne Lagerware (IN LITRES) Wasserverbrauch total (in Liter) (in Mio. Liter) 86.0 80.0 81.0 73.4 70.1 67.6 60.3 61.4 57.4 56.9 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Wasserverbrauch pro verkaufte Tonne Lagerware (in Liter) NFB PROTECTION OF SOIL, WATER AND AIR NFB measures will be derived and impleWe work continuously on minimizing the environmental immented. Whenever new buildings or pacts of our business activities on the soil, water and air. plants are constructed or necessary Our HSE strategy and various measures such as investments ­modernization and renovation work is in infrastructure, optimized work procedures and employee undertaken, environmental protection qualifications are implemented with a view to identifying issues are considered and reflected both ­environmental risks early on and to avoiding environmentally in terms of the construction approach Information on related incidents. Brenntag’s sites in all of its regions comply and plant engineering. ENVIRONMENTAL ­PROVISIONS can be with the applicable rules and regulations relating to the profound on page 142f. tection of the environment as well as our Group’s stringent All of Brenntag’s sites implement suitof Brenntag’s 2019 Annual Report. internal environmental and safety standards. able environmental protection measures. Basic measures include multilayer With many of Brenntag’s sites having been used industrially soil protection in warehousing areas, for decades, including those purchased through acquisitions, double-­walled tanks and collection there is historical soil and groundwater contamination at tanks, closed water cycles, multistage the sites, which we are combatting with appropriate remewater purification and treatment prodiation measures. The soil and groundwater situation at all cesses, and modern air and exhaust air of the sites is reviewed and recorded annually in cooperapurification systems. tion with external partners, and the necessary remediation BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2019 TABLE OF CONTENTS Environmental Protection 49 RECYCLING AT BRENNTAG ­SWITZERLAND: Solvents in particular can be processed in the company’s own recycling plant and thus are ready for further use. In the rare event that chemicals are released during processSUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS FOR ing, when being placed in or moved between containers or OUR CUSTOMERS during transportation, Brenntag has strict and effective measBrenntag’s employees have in-depth ures in place to quickly rectify the problem and clean up and expertise in the fields of chemicals, dispose of the chemicals. Spillages are recorded, categorized components, procedures, processes and evaluated using a standardized system. and application technologies. They are experts on the industries of individual customers, cooperate closely with the manufacturers, and are familiar with apPRACTICAL EXAMPLES plicable safety and quality regulations. WASTE/RECYCLING Our technicians who work in numerous The Brenntag sites have implemented processes for the hanapplication industries assist our customdling of waste and also take-back and recycling systems for ers in developing tailored formulations various types of packaging and containers, each in line with and advise them on ways to optimize the site’s type and volume of business. As part of this, we the use and handling of the products. maintain a close dialogue with manufacturers and with the national u­ mbrella associations of chemical dealers, with the Brenntag also continuously works to common goal of reducing the volume of waste in the industry add new products to its portfolio which and ­increasing recycling rates. increase efficiency, reduce consumption or decrease environmental impact when The principle of “reduce, reuse, recycle, rethink” – the 4R’s – applied, thereby providing sustainable Also see CIRCULAR ECONOMY page 18–21. represents our goal of reducing packaging material by reusing alternatives to conventional products. In it and by using better recycling methods. We have optimized this regard, our target is to implement our packaging cycle: At Brenntag EMEA, several hundred pilot projects with ten selected key supthousand IBCs (intermediate bulk containers) circulate annupliers by 2020 and in doing so become ally. They are in use for two years on average and are handled the preferred distributor for sustainable three times a year. solutions. SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS We also ensure that unnecessary waste is avoided right from Brenntag’s expertise and portfolio thus the outset and that the volume of waste is reduced by giving help improve the level of efficiency our employees intensive and regular training in the handling, within the supply chain and support its storage and transportation of chemical products. customers to optimize their use of resources and improve productivity. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2019 50 RESPONSIBILITY IN THE SUPPLY CHAIN As the global market leader in the distribution of chemicals NFB In addition to achieving greater transand ingredients, Brenntag serves as an important link beparency in relation to sustainability tween the manufacturers of chemical products and the comperformance through a higher coverpanies that process these products. We maintain a close and age rate, Brenntag also prioritizes imongoing dialogue with our suppliers and customers through provements in its suppliers’ sustainaour regional and global procurement and distribution organbility performance. We have therefore izations as well as our HSE structures. The majority of these specified another target in the area of business relationships and partnerships go back many years. sustainable procurement: By 2020, we want 70% of our suppliers undergoing For the SUSTAINABILITY NFB Brenntag has set itself the goal of monitoring its own supply a re-assessment to have improved their ASSESSMENTS please also see the correchain more closely with regard to the various sustainability score by at least one point compared sponding sections aspects and gradually making it more sustainable. Among our to their previous assessment. In 2019, in this chapter on page 52. sustainability targets for 2020, we aim to analyze a specific some 59% of our suppliers were able to percentage of our total chemical spend (in EUR) through susimprove their score through a re-assess­ tainability assessments or audits as part of our membership ment. Around 1,100 of our suppliers of the “Together for Sustainability” initiative (TfS). In 2016, we completed an assessment between the set a target of 50% for our coverage rate, which we achieved launch of the programme in 2015 and SUSTAINABLE by the end of 2017 with a rate of around 64%. We adjusted the end of 2019. ­PROCUREMENT the target accordingly and are now aiming for a coverage rate of 80% by 2020. By the end of 2019, we analyzed some 72% SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT of our total chemical spend (in EUR) at least once using susBrenntag’s purchasing organizations tainability assessments or audits. have over 1,000 employees globally, including local and regional purchasing teams, specialists in sourcing chemical products from Asia, and product managers for specific chemicals and customer industries. These employees are in contact with several thousand suppliers COMMITTED TO MORE TRANSPARENCY: worldwide. As a trading company, busiDavid O’Connell (right) and Stefan Emmerling (left) discuss the results of the supplier assessments ness relationships with suppliers have a and audits of selected suppliers. direct influence on the product portfolio and are therefore a key differentiation point for distributors. These relationships are often more accurately described as sales partnerships rather than conventional purchasing relationships. For this reason, Brenntag maintains regular, close communication with its suppliers. At various levels throughout the Group, there are standardized processes in place for relationship management with suppliers. In our company, supplier relationships are a management issue and a key element of strategic decision-making. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2019 TABLE OF CONTENTS RESPONSIBILITY IN THE SUPPLY CHAIN 51 SUSTAINABLE PROCUREMENT AT BRENNTAG SUPPLIERS Suppliers are asked for a Suppliers are asked for Results of conducted Results of conducted sustainability assessment by rating on-site audit by using external EcoVadis assessment sustainability audits company EcoVadis audit companies Results of Brenntag‘s supplier Brenntag: EcoVadis assessment assessments and audits Rating of Brenntag‘s Results of supplier assessments and sustainability performance audits conducted by other TfS members Result of Brenntag‘s EcoVadis assessments CUSTOMERS Activities within the scope of TfS membership Voluntary activities In selecting new suppliers and evaluating existing supplier relaSUPPLIER CODE OF CONDUCT: Brenntag NFB tionships, both economic and quality criteria and issues of envihas drawn up a code of conduct specThe SUPPLIER CODE OF ronmental protection and safety, labour and social standards as ifying what we expect of our suppliers CONDUCT is available well as compliance and governance are relevant for Brenntag. in the areas mentioned. The code is on our website at www.brenntag.com/ In 2019, an internal process was developed to ensure and check based on the principles of the United sustainability under that sustainability criteria are adequately taken into considerNations Global Compact, the chemiService & Contacts. ation when purchases are being made. The process is set to cal industry’s global Responsible Care be introduced and implemented in 2020. We also expect the programme and Brenntag’s Code of Group-wide roll-out of our project SHAPE in the coming years Business Conduct and Ethics. It can be More on SHAPE in the chapter Sustainability at to deliver key benefits for our supplier management activities. found on the company’s website and is Brenntag on page 10. therefore available to all suppliers. In orA project team is in charge of advancing the topic of susNFB der to verify compliance with the code tainable procurement within our international corporate of conduct, we invite selected suppliers structures. The team consists of representatives from the to undergo a sustainability assessment purchasing units of the four Brenntag regions, the Brenntag or audit. Global Sourcing Organization and Brenntag’s sustainability team. The sustainability manager regularly reports on the topic of sustainable procurement to Brenntag AG’s Board of Management. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2019 52 NFB SUSTAINABILITY ASSESSMENTS FOR SUPPLIERS: Within the The sustainability team and the purchasscope of its membership of the “Together for Sustainability” ing units at Brenntag maintain regular (TfS) industry initiative, Brenntag requires a certain number of contact to discuss the topic of sustainits suppliers to undergo sustainability assessments every year. able procurement and to develop our We thereby achieve greater transparency in relation to our objectives. We regularly train our purFor more information, see suppliers’ sustainability performance and are able to ­better chasing staff on the assessment procewww.tfs-initiative.com. consider sustainability issues in our purchasing decisions. dure and therefore also on sustainability issues, enabling them to assist and to We work together with EcoVadis, which is a leading provider advise their suppliers during the review of sustainability assessments and is well established in the process. chemical industry. EcoVadis evaluates companies in terms of four categories: environmental protection, labour practices, NFB SUSTAINABILITY AUDITS OF SUPPLIERS: fair business practices and sustainable procurement. Based on In the event that a sustainability audit the responses provided by the companies in a comprehensive is conducted at a supplier’s location, online questionnaire and on their accompanying documenauditing is based on a catalogue of tation, EcoVadis awards scoring points and creates a detailed ­requirements developed by TfS and covprofile of strengths and weaknesses. ers the areas of sustainability management, environ­ment, health and safety, ECOVADIS SCORING OF BRENNTAG’S SUPPLIERS labour and human rights, and corporate SHARE OF TOTAL CHEMICAL SPEND IN EUR (IN %) governance. The results of all audits are shared within TfS. Brenntag reviews its 63.9 28 suppliers’ audit results. If necessary, it agrees on corrective measures with the company and the auditor and follows up on their implementation. BRENNTAG AS A SUPPLIER For a number of years now, Brenntag has registered an increasing demand for information on how we deal with sustainability issues – particularly on the part of its customers. We are reg8.1 ularly asked to document our sustainability performance. We are pleased to respond to these needs by making our principles and activities transparno score score: 1–44 score: 45–100 ent and measurable in various ways. As well as our annual sustainability reBrenntag´s membership Brenntag evaluates its suppliers’ assessment results. It found port, this also includes our own reguin TfS provides it with access to the results of that suppliers which represent some 64% of our total chemical lar EcoVadis assessment, issue-specific all the ASSESSMENTS spend scored 45 points or higher. According to the EcoVadis audits at our locations and our particwhich TfS member companies conduct assessment system, these companies have, as a minimum, ipation in the climate rating initiative with their suppliers. a structured and proactive sustainability approach, policies of the international organization CDP. and tangible actions in relation to the areas evaluated and a basic reporting system or set of performance indicators. As a TfS member, Brenntag can also Depending on their performance, Brenntag requests that its provide its customers with information For CDP, see the Environmental suppliers take corrective measures (corrective action plan) or about its suppliers’ sustainability score Protection chapter it arranges a supplementary audit. In the year under review, and thus make its supply chain even on page 46. the focus was on the suppliers that scored less than 45 points more transparent. and/or had an outdated scorecard (older than three years). The targeted improvements will be evaluated as part of a re-assessment. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2019 TABLE OF CONTENTS RESPONSIBILITY IN THE SUPPLY CHAIN 53 ECOVADIS SCORE: In its most recent EcoVadis assessment TfS was established in 2011 and now in November 2018, the Brenntag Group achieved a score of counts 25 members. Its goal is to estab68 points, thereby confirming the gold status (Gold Recog­ lish a uniform global programme for RATING nition Level) that it achieved in October 2016. This result the responsible procurement of goods puts us among the top 1% of companies assessed in our and services in the chemical industry, industry category. As specified in our sustainability objecto achieve transparency in relation to tives, we will endeavour to maintain our gold status and our sustainability performance throughThe results of the ­ECOVADIS RATING score. At the end of 2019, a new sustainability assessment out the supply chain and to make furare available on was started, which will be completed in early 2020. ther improvements to its suppliers’ our website at www.­brenntag.com/ ­ecological and social standards. For sustainability under SAFETY DATA SHEETS: As a distributor, Brenntag plays a major this purpose, all TfS members regularly Service & Contacts. role in safeguarding the seamless flow of information along the evaluate and review their suppliers by supply chain and must ensure complete product documentation. means of a standardized process using Together with every product sold, Brenntag therefore sends its assessments and audits. This informacustomers safety data sheets that contain specific and detailed tion is shared confidentially and used information on the appropriate and safe handling of the chemjointly within the network, which proicals in question. We thereby make a very concrete contribution vides efficiency benefits for every parto greater transparency and safety in the supply chain. In 2019, ticipant and creates more transparency. Brenntag sent around 600,000 safety data sheets to customers At present, we are working even more in the EMEA region and the USA alone. intensively at Brenntag to use the findings we have obtained to improve our TOGETHER FOR SUSTAINABILITY NFB suppliers’ sustainability performance. Brenntag has been involved in the chemical industry’s “­Together for Sustainability” initiative (TfS) since October As a member, Brenntag has a seat and 2014 and became a full member in October 2016 when it voting rights at the general assembly, achieved an EcoVadis score of over 60 points – the first and, the top decision-making body of TfS. as of the end of 2019, only chemical distributor to do so. In addition, Brenntag employees in Europe, Asia, Latin America and the USA are involved in working groups. Together with representatives of the other TfS members, they are working, Top for example, to further develop the audit programme, to increase awareness of the initiative and its objectives at events in the industry and to convince other suppliers of the added 1% value created by the voluntary sustainability assessments and audits. Our involvement with TfS provides us with an opportunity not just to advance the issue of sustainability within the chemical ­industry’s supply chain but also to In the EcoVadis sustainability learn from best-practice experiences of assessment, we are among the top 1% of all companies the other members and to further proassessed in our industry fessionalize our sustainability approach category. in the area of supplier management. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2019 54 COMMUNITY Brenntag is present at more than 640 sites in 77 countries PRACTICAL EXAMPLES worldwide, where it is an employer, a business partner and a neighbour in local communities in many different countries Tours of plants took place at Brenntag and cities. We see ourselves as part of these communities, North America to show young school as a “corporate citizen”, and we maintain a lively dialogue students first-hand how diverse the job with them and aim to contribute to a positive environment. profiles and duties are at a chemical distributor. For this, Brenntag employees Brenntag’s social commitment is underpinned primarily by from Accounting, Customer Service and our employees. They collect money and donations and invest other divisions shared their experiences their expertise, their time and their manpower in support with the school students, in relation to of charitable causes. In many cases, Brenntag supports their their training and education or how they contribution either financially and organizationally or else by came to work at Brenntag, for example. releasing them from their work duties. As part of the “JuWiChem1) meets IndusPROMOTION OF EDUCATION try” series of events, which Brenntag The promotion of education is a focus of Brenntag’s activiGermany continued in 2019 together ties and the projects it supports in all of its regions. A large with the business chemists’ association number of our sites have been cooperating with schools, uniGemeinschaft Düsseldorfer Wirtschaftsversities and institutions for many years now with the comchemiker e. V. (GDW), the students dealt mon aim of encouraging young people’s interest in chemistry with the importance of sustainability in and our industry, sensitizing them regarding the handling of the chemical industry. Brenntag invited chemicals and supporting their education. them to the headquarter in Essen, where the students used case studies to develop concrete recommendations with the support of Brenntag specialists. These will be analyzed as part of Brenntag’s sustainability programme and considered for further developments. 1) “ Junge WirtschaftschemikerInnen” (Young business chemists) BRENNTAG PHARMA & COSMETICS: In a series of lectures and workshops, the Brenntag team presented the students of Liverpool John Moores University, among other things, the natural skin care trends of tomorrow. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2019 TABLE OF CONTENTS Community 55 COMMON SUSTAINABILITY GOALS: The United Nations’ Young SDG Innovators Program provides innovative impulses with regard to Brenntag’s sustainability strategy. f. l. t. r.: Dan Merkel, Talitha Poore and Marie Wardenski from Brenntag North America. LOCAL COMMITMENT “Giving is gaining: We love, care, give Brenntag aims to provide assistance exactly where it is and share”. This was the motto of ­needed. Because local needs vary from country to country due the first blood donation initiative of to national, cultural and structural differences, the Brenntag Brenntag Asia Pacific in Singapore, sites decide autonomously where and to what extent they get which provided many blood donors involved in social initiatives. Because the company pursues with an opportunity to engage in a commany different activities, only a few examples are listed here. pletely new type of social involvement. In India, a two-day “blood donation camp” was organized on the Brenntag premises in Mumbai, with several local PRACTICAL EXAMPLES doctors and nurses getting involved. FURTHER EXAMPLES are presented on In partnership with the children’s charity “Little Lambs”, Brenntag also invited employees of othour website at Brenntag South Africa supports disadvantaged children in er companies to take part. This initiative www.brenntag.com/ sustainability under remote communities. At Easter in 2019, they were given was well received by everyone involved, Projects Worldwide. sweets as well as washing utensils and rubber boots. The and the two-day blood donation camp latter were provided so that the children, who otherwise often is expected to become a twice-yearly go barefoot, would have better protection against sickness event in the future as a result. in the winter months. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2019 56 TEAMBUILDING WITH A CAUSE: ­Employees of Brenntag India were delighted with the successful ­assembling of eleven wheelchairs, which were then donated. Brenntag India’s social involvement takes many forms. VolEmployees of Brenntag Germany lent untary monthly donations made by Brenntag employees are their support to two preschools in ­Essen: passed on to local non-governmental organizations (NGOs). As part of a number of initiatives, the inOn the first Friday of every month, Brenntag employees have side and outside areas of the preschools an opportunity to support selected NGOs in their work for were enhanced, an exterior wall was half a day. Personal items that are no longer used or needed covered with wood panelling and rooms are donated regularly. One team-building measure in the reinside were newly painted. In addition, porting year was an initiative to assemble eleven wheelchairs, there were experiments for the children which were subsequently donated. on the topic of water. Employees of Brenntag Malaysia also organized a team event Both Brenntag North America and to support a good cause: The Food & Nutrition team spent a Brenntag Latin America have s­ upported day at a special residential facility with children in need aged the charitable organization Water For between 5 and 17. As well as engaging in shared activities, People since the beginning of 2018 interactive games and conversations, numerous items of everyand provided financial assistance again day use, such as bed linen, were donated to the facility. in 2019. Water For People champions access to high-quality drinking water and sanitation worldwide by drawing on the support of local communities, companies and governments. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2019 TABLE OF CONTENTS REPORT PROFile 57 REPORT PROFILE ABOUT THIS REPORT REPORTING PRINCIPLES IDENTIFICATION OF MATERIAL ­CONTENT: NFB Brenntag’s Sustainability Report for the Financial Year 2019 The issues presented in the materiality is its seventh sustainability report. Brenntag reports on its matrix on page 8 form the basis for desustainability activities every year. The report for 2020 will termining the NFB content. The matrix therefore be published in 2021. This report complies with is the result of a materiality assessment international standards for sustainability reporting – the Globwhich is based on the principles deal Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the principles of the United fined by the Global Reporting Initiative: Nations Global Compact (UNGC). sustainability context, materiality, completeness and stakeholder inclusiveness. // T his report has been prepared in accordance with the In order to determine the material t­ opics GRI Standards (2016): Core Option. The GRI Content for the NFB, Brenntag has adhered to Index can be found on page 62. the definition of Section 289c, para. 3, // This Sustainability Report for the Financial Year 2019 sentence 1 of the German Commercial is also an annual progress report (Communication on Code (HGB). These topics were assessed Progress – COP) for the UNGC, which Brenntag joined for the NFB using the following criteria: www.unglobalcompact.org in October 2014. This report has therefore also been published on the organization’s website. // T opics that are necessary to understand the business performance, the SEPARATE NON-FINANCIAL GROUP REPORT NFB business results, the c­ ompany’s posiThe content in this report marked with a blue line and the tion and the effects of Brenntag’s acronym forms the separate non-financial Group report (NFB) NFB activities on the non-financial pursuant to Section 315c in conjunction with 289c ff. of the aspects (environmental, social German Commercial Code (HGB) to ensure compliance with and employee matters, respect for the legal requirements of the HGB. The NFB is based on the human rights, anti-corruption and standards of the Global Reporting Initiative as a framework. bribery matters, and responsibility The NFB has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH in the supply chain) Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft (PwC) pursuant to ISAE 3000 // Topics rated as “very important” in (Revised) to obtain limited assurance. The Practitioner’s Report at least one of the dimensions can be found on pages 60 and 61. // Topics that form part of Brenntag’s Group strategy and/or sustainability References to information not contained in the combined targets Group management report or the management report of Brenntag AG are not part of the NFB. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2019 58 NFB This materiality process identified the following topics as NFB The contents and data provided in this ­being material to Brenntag within the meaning of the law: report have been determined on the basis of internal processes. They derive from Brenntag’s existing management BRENNTAG: MATERIAL TOPICS PURSUANT TO SECTION 289C, PARA. 3, and data recording systems and from SENTENCE 1 OF THE GERMAN COMMERCIAL CODE company documents and have been ASPECTS TOPIC AND obtained from the operational units PAGE REFERENCE of Brenntag’s regions as well as the Environmental matters // S afe handling of responsible corporate departments. chemicals (page 38–39) The content of this report has been re// Climate protection (page 44–47) viewed by employees with the relevant Employee matters // O ccupational health and safety (page 35, 39–40) specialist expertise. The content of the // HR development and training/ NFB has also been audited by PwC purRespectful and supportive suant to ISAE 3000 (Revised) to obtain work environment (page 24–31) limited assurance. Respect for human rights // C  ompliance and governance (page 11–16) The data published in this sustain­ability Anti-corruption and bribery // C  ompliance and governance report have been compiled and promatters (page 11–16) cessed with the greatest care. However, Social matters // Identified as being immaterial we are unable to completely rule out to the non-financial report within the meaning of the law the possibility of transcription errors. Responsibility in the supply chain // S ustainable selection of ­suppliers (page 50–53) To provide better readability, we consistently use the term “employee” in the sustainability report. This refers to all Social matters were identified as being immaterial to Brenntag our employees of any gender. within the meaning of the law and were therefore not included in the NFB. We have reported on the social activities and BOUNDARIES OF MATERIAL TOPICS wide-ranging involvement of our employees in the CommuPURSUANT TO GRI (103-1) nity chapter on page 54. In addition to the aspects covered by The diagram on page 59 shows the the law, Brenntag has identified “Responsibility in the supply boundaries of the material topics purchain” as being material within the meaning of the law. As the suant to the GRI (103-1). The relevant market leader in chemical distribution, we believe we have GRI standards covered by each topic are a responsibility to promote the non-financial aspects within also indicated. For topics that are not the chemical industry’s supply chain. covered by the GRI guidelines, we have referred directly to the corresponding DATA BASIS management approaches in the report This sustainability report covers Brenntag AG, which is includand, if necessary, to our website as an ed in the consolidated financial statements, as well as the fully additional source of information. We consolidated subsidiaries which are also included, along with have combined the management apstructured companies. For information on the group of conproaches for the GRI-relevant standards solidated companies and consolidation m ­ ethod, see page 110 and presented them for economic, and page 115 as well as the list of companies included in the ­environmental and social topics. consolidated financial statements on page 175 of Brenntag’s 2019 Annual Report. Any deviations from these parameters As a result of the materiality analysis are indicated in the relevant section of this s­ ustainability performed in 2019, the following overreport. view shows an updated presentation of the material topics and boundaries. The reporting period for this sustainability report covers the 2019 financial year (January 1, 2019 to December 31, 2019) of the Brenntag Group and follows on from the Sustainability Report for the Financial Year 2018, which was published in April 2019. Any deviations regarding the reporting periods for individual data and contents are noted separately. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2019 TABLE OF CONTENTS REPORT PROFile 59 MATERIAL TOPIC RELEVANT RELEVANT RELATED GRI STANDARD 2016 OR MANAGEMENT APPROACH FOR WITHIN THE OUTSIDE THE ADDITIONAL MATERIAL TOPICS ­ORGANIZATION ORGANIZATION SUSTAINABLE GOVERNANCE Compliance and governance // GRI 205: Anti-corruption // GRI 206: Anti-competitive Behavior // GRI 307: Environmental Compliance // GRI 406: Non-discrimination // GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining // GRI 408: Child Labor // GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor // GRI 410: Security Practices // GRI 411: Rights of Indigenous Peoples // GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment // GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling // GRI 418: Customer Privacy // GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance Sustainable growth // GRI 201: Economic Performance // p. 2–4, 6–17, 18–21 // Brenntag 2019 Annual Report p. 35–36 // https://www.brenntag.com/corporate/en/about-brenntag/­ strategy-and-organisation/vision-and-values/index.jsp Climate adaptation // p. 44–47 Sustainable selection of suppliers // GRI 204: Procurement Practices // GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment // GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION Safe handling of chemicals // GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety // GRI 306: Effluents and Waste Climate protection // GRI 302: Energy // GRI 305: Emissions Waste and packaging // GRI 306: Effluents and Waste Water and effluents // GRI 303: Water // GRI 306: Effluents and Waste Sustainable products and solutions // GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety // GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling // p. 18–21, 49 EMPLOYEES AND COMMUNITY Occupational health and safety // GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety HR development and training // GRI 404: Training and Education A respectful and supportive work environment // GRI 401: Employment // GRI 402: Labor/Management Relations // GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity // GRI 406: Non-discrimination // GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Social commitments // GRI 413: Local Communities BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2019 60 PRACTITIONER’S REPORT INDEPENDENT PRACTITIONER’S REPORT ON A LIMITED ASSURANCE ­ENGAGEMENT ON NON-FINANCIAL REPORTING1) TO BRENNTAG AG, ESSEN PRACTITIONER´S RESPONSIBILITY We have performed a limited assurance engagement on the Our responsibility is to express a ­limited separate non-financial group report, which comprises the assurance conclusion on the Non-­ information marked with a blue line and the ­abbreviation financial Report based on the assurance “NFB” next to the line, in the company’s sustainability ­report ­engagement we have performed. for the 2019 financial year (hereinafter the “Non-­financial Report”), pursuant to § 315b Abs. (paragraph) 3 HGB Within the scope of our engagement, (“Handelsgesetzbuch”: “German Commercial Code”) of the we did not perform an audit on ­external Brenntag AG, Essen (hereinafter the “Company”) for the p ­ eriod sources of information or expert from 1 January to 31 December 2019. ­opinions, referred to in the Non-­financial Report. RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS The executive directors of the Company are responsible for We conducted our assurance engagethe preparation of the Non-financial Report in accordance with ment in accordance with the I­nternational §§ 315c in conjunction with 289c to 289e HGB. Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (Revised): Assurance Engage­ This responsibility of Company’s executive directors includes ments other than Audits or Reviews of the selection and application of appropriate methods of non-­ Historical Financial Information, issued financial reporting as well as making assumptions and estiby the IAASB. This Standard requires mates related to individual non-financial disclosures which are that we plan and perform the ­assurance reasonable in the circumstances. Furthermore, the ­executive engagement to allow us to conclude with directors are responsible for such internal control as they limited assurance that nothing has come have considered necessary to enable the preparation of a to our attention that causes us to believe Non-­financial Report that is free from material misstatement that the Company’s Non-financial Report whether due to fraud or error. for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2019 has not been prepared, INDEPENDENCE AND QUALITY CONTROL OF THE AUDIT FIRM in all material aspects, in accordance We have complied with the German professional proviwith §§ 315c in conjunction with 289c sions regarding independence as well as other ethical to 289e HGB. requirements. In a limited assurance engagement the Our audit firm applies the national legal requirements and assurance procedures are less in extent professional standards – in particular the Professional Code than for a reasonable assurance engagefor German Public Auditors and German Chartered ­Auditors ment, and therefore a substantially lower (“Berufssatzung für Wirtschaftsprüfer und vereidigte Buch­ level of assurance is obtained. The assurprüfer“: “BS WP/vBP”) as well as the Standard on Quality ­Control ance procedures selected depend on the 1 published by the Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer (Institute of practitioner’s judgment. Public Auditors in Germany; IDW): Requirements to quality control for audit firms (IDW Qualitätssicherungsstandard 1: Anforderungen an die Qualitätssicherung in der Wirtschaftsprüferpraxis – IDW QS 1) – and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. 1) P  ricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH has performed a limited assurance engagement on the German version of the separete non-financial group report and ­issued an independent assurance report in German language, which is authoritative. The following text is a translation of the independent assurance report. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2019 TABLE OF CONTENTS Practitioner’s Report 61 Within the scope of our assurance engagement, we perINTENDED USE OF THE ASSURANCE formed amongst others the following assurance procedures REPORT and further activities: We issue this report on the basis of the engagement agreed with the Company. // O btaining an understanding of the structure of the The assurance engagement has been sustainability organization and of the stakeholder performed for purposes of the C­ ompany engagement and the report is solely intended to in// Inquiries of personnel involved in the preparation of the form the Company about the results of Non-financial Report regarding the preparation process, the limited assurance engagement. the internal control system relating to this process and selected disclosures in the Non-financial Report The report is not intended for any third // Identification of the likely risks of material misstatement parties to base any (financial) decision of the Non-financial Report thereon. Our responsibility lies only // Analytical evaluation of selected disclosures in the with the Company. We do not assume Non-financial Report any responsibility towards third parties. // Comparison of selected disclosures with corresponding data in the consolidated financial statements and in the Frankfurt am Main, 17 April 2020 group management report // Evaluation of the presentation of the non-financial PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH information Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft ASSURANCE CONCLUSION Based on the assurance procedures performed and assurance Nicolette Behncke evidence obtained, nothing has come to our attention that Wirtschaftsprüfer causes us to believe that the Company’s Non-financial Report (German public auditor) for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2019 has not been prepared, in all material aspects, in accordance with ppa. Juliane von Clausbruch §§ 315c in conjunction with 289c to 289e HGB. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2019 62 GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI STANDARD AND DESCRIPTION REFERENCES COMMENTS AND ONLINE RESOURCES UNGC GRI 101: Foundation 2016 SR: p. 7–10, 57–59 GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 Organizational profile 102-01 Name of the organization Brenntag AG 102-02 Activities, brands, products, and services SR: p. 6–7 www.brenntag.com AR: p. 34 102-03 Location of headquarters Messeallee 11, 45131 Essen, Germany 102-04 Location of operations SR: inner fold-out page AR: p. 175–183 102-05 Ownership and legal form AR: p. 9, 34 102-06 Markets served AR: p. 43–45 102-07 Scale of the organization SR: inner fold-out page AR: fold-out page, p. 96–97 102-08 Information on employees and SR: p. 32–33 6 other workers 102-09 Supply chain SR: p. 6–7, 50–53 102-10 Significant changes to the organization SR: p. 50–53 In the reporting period, there were no significant changes and its supply chain AR: p. 34, 39–40 to the supply chain. 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach AR: p. 36, 75–77 102-12 External initiatives SR: p. 14–15, 36, 38, 53 102-13 Membership in associations https://www.brenntag.com/media/documents/sustainability_reports/­brenntag_ list_of_memberships_20150630.pdf Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker SR: p. 2–4 Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and SR: p. 6–7, 10–15 https://www.brenntag.com/corporate/en/about-brenntag/strategy-and-­ 10 norms of behavior organisation/vision-and-values/index.jsp Governance 102-18 Governance structure AR: p. 12–17, 18–20, 24–31 Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups SR: p. 17 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Due to its large number of international locations and the broad range of 3 ­labour regulations applicable to these locations, Brenntag does not record this data in a consolidated Group-wide format. 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders SR: p. 16–17 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement SR: p. 16–17, 50–53, 54–56 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised SR: p. 7–9, 16–17, 18–21 Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated AR: p. 109, 175–183 ­financial statements 102-46 Defining report content and topic SR: p. 7–9, 57–59 ­boundaries 102-47 List of material topics SR: p. 8, 59 102-48 Restatements of information SR: p. 45, 58 AR: p.103–109 102-49 Changes in reporting SR: p. 57–59 AR: p. 103–109, 110–112 102-50 Reporting period SR: p. 57 102-51 Date of most recent report 2019 102-52 Reporting cycle annually 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding SR: p. 66 the report 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with Core the GRI Standards 102-55 GRI content index SR: p. 62–65 102-56 External assurance SR: p. 60–61 SR: Brenntag Sustainability Report for the Financial Year 2019 AR: Brenntag 2019 Annual Report BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2019 TABLE OF CONTENTS GRI CONTENT INDex 63 GRI STANDARD AND DESCRIPTION REFERENCES COMMENTS AND ONLINE RESOURCES UNGC ECONOMIC GRI 103 Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and SR: p. 59 its Boundary AR: p. 35–36 103-2 The management approach and its SR: p. 6–10 ­components AR: p. 35–36 103-3 Defining report content and topic SR: p. 7–10, 11–16 ­Boundaries AR: p. 40–46 GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016 201-1 Direct economic value generated and AR: fold-out page, distributed p. 94, 129 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and AR: p. 129, 145–152 other retirement plans GRI 204: Procurement Practices 2016 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers SR: p. 50–53 Local and regional purchasing is of only minor significance for the business model of a chemical distributor, in particular in the area of commodities. GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related SR: p. 11–12 Within the scope of internal audits, a total of 26 Brenntag companies were 10 to corruption reviewed in relation to corruption risks, etc. in the reporting year. 205-2 Communication and training about anti-­ SR: p. 11–12, 15–16 10 corruption policies and procedures 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and SR: p. 12 10 actions taken GRI 206: Anti-competitive Behavior 2016 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, AR: p. 84–85 anti-trust, and monopoly practices ENVIRONMENTAL GRI 103 Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and SR: p. 59 its Boundary 103-2 The management approach and its SR: p. 6–10, 18–21, 35–39, ­components 44–49 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach SR: p. 9, 16–17, 18–21, 35–39, 44–49 GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization SR: p. 45 7, 8 302-3 Energy intensity SR: p. 45 8 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption SR: p. 44–47 8, 9 GRI 303: Water 2016 303-1 Water withdrawal by source SR: p. 47–48 7, 8 303-2 Water sources significantly affected by SR: p. 47–48 8 withdrawal of water GRI 305: Emissions 2016 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions SR: p. 45 7, 8 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions SR: p. 45 7, 8 305-4 GHG emissions intensity SR: p. 45 8 GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method SR: p. 49 Waste volumes are not recorded or consolidated on a Group-wide basis at 8 Brenntag. 306-3 Significant spills SR: p. 38, 48–49 In the reporting period, there were three additional significant spills through 8 which liquid chemicals were discharged into the environment. The chemicals were immediately removed and there was no damage to the environment. SR: Brenntag Sustainability Report for the Financial Year 2019 AR: Brenntag 2019 Annual Report BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2019 64 GRI STANDARD AND DESCRIPTION REFERENCES COMMENTS AND ONLINE RESOURCES UNGC GRI 307: Environmental Compliance 2016 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws The Brenntag Group paid fines of approx. EUR 5,000 in the reporting period due 8 and regulations to non-compliance with environmental regulations. GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 2016 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using SR: p. 50–53 8 environmental criteria SOCIAL GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and SR: p. 59 its Boundary 103-2 The management approach and its SR: p. 6–17, 23–28, 39–42 ­components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach SR: p. 9, 23–28 GRI 401: Employment 2016 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover SR: p. 27, 33 Brenntag reports the total number and ratio of new employees as well as 6 the total number and ratio of employee turnover by region. 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees SR: p. 30–31 Due to our company’s decentralized and international structure, it is not possible 6 that are not provided to temporary or to provide a complete list of the benefits which our employees receive. For this ­part-time employees reason, only a few examples are provided in this report. GRI 402: Labor/Management Relations 2016 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding Brenntag informs its employees of impending operational changes at an early 3 ­operational changes stage and comprehensively, while complying with applicable national and ­international notification periods. GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2016 403-2 Injuries, occupational diseases and SR: p. 39–42 work-related fatalities GRI 404: Training and Education 2016 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and SR: p. 26–30 Brenntag offers its employees target group-specific and individual measures transition assistance programs and training at a global, regional and local level and provides them either in conventional events attended in person or through online training events. The global e-learning management system provides employees with an opportunity to enhance their knowledge and skills independently and efficiently. 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular Annual feedback meetings take place for all Brenntag employees in which the performance and career development employees’ performance is considered and their goals and personal expectations reviews as well as individual development measures are discussed. GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and SR: p. 24–25, 30–31, 32–33 Brenntag reports its employee structure by region and age group. The age group 6 ­employees AR: p. 24–31 structure does not include any employees in the North America region – age data have not been fully recorded for all employees due to North American legislation. Valid evaluation of this data is therefore not possible. 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of SR: p. 31 The recruitment, remuneration and development of employees solely reflect 6 women to men their qualifications and abilities in relation to their respective duties. GRI 406: Non-discrimination 2016 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective SR: p. 13, 16 Brenntag reports on the total number of confirmed compliance incidents. For 6 actions taken confidentiality reasons, we do not disclose the exact number of complaints by type. Accordingly, we do not explicitly report the number of complaints relating to discrimination. GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 2016 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right SR: p. 13–14, 29, 50–53 As part of our TfS membership, we request that our suppliers undergo sustain3 to freedom of association and collective ability assessments, which also include a review of protection of the right of bargaining may be at risk association and the right to collective bargaining. Brenntag’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics as well as our Supplier Code of Conduct also require the protection of human rights, equal treatment and fair working conditions. SR: Brenntag Sustainability Report for the Financial Year 2019 AR: Brenntag 2019 Annual Report BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2019 TABLE OF CONTENTS GRI CONTENT INDex 65 GRI STANDARD AND DESCRIPTION REFERENCES COMMENTS AND ONLINE RESOURCES UNGC GRI 408: Child Labor 2016 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk SR: p. 10–12, 13–16, 50–53 5 for incidents of child labor GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor 2016 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk SR: p. 10–12, 13–16, 50–53 4 for incidents of forced or compulsory labor GRI 410: Security Practices 2016 410-1 Security personnel trained in human rights Brenntag will review the relevance of this aspect. 1 policies or procedures GRI 411: Rights of Indigenous Peoples 2016 411-1 Incidents of violations involving rights of We have not received any reports on incidents for the reporting period. 1 indigenous peoples GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment 2016 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human SR: p. 10–12, 13–14 1 rights reviews or impact assessments 412-3 Significant investment agreements and For every company acquisition, aspects such as compliance and employment 2 contracts that include human rights clauses agreements are examined in addition to commercial factors as part of due or that underwent human rights screening diligence. We disclose information about these transactions in the annual report (page 39–40). For information on the due diligence process on acquisitions, please see our website at https://www.brenntag.com/corporate/de/nachhaltigkeit/­ management-nachhaltigkeit/compliance/index.jsp. GRI 413: Local Communities 2016 413-1 Operations with local community SR: p. 54–56 Brenntag does not systematically assess the impact of its community and social 1 ­engagement, impact assessments, and activities. development programs GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using SR: p. 50–53 Within the framework of its HSE Group guidelines, the Brenntag Group has also social criteria specified processes and criteria for dealing with subcontractors that carry out construction, repair and maintenance work at Brenntag locations. Their purpose is to prevent accidents and incidents, enable work activities to be performed safely and protect the health of subcontractors. GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 2016 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the There were no incidents during the reporting period. health and safety impacts of products and services GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling 2016 417-1 Requirements for product and service SR: p. 38–39 ­information and labeling 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning There were no incidents during the reporting period. product and service information and labeling 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning There were no incidents during the reporting period. marketing communications GRI 418: Customer Privacy 2016 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning SR: p. 10–12 Brenntag reports on the total number of confirmed compliance incidents. breaches of customer privacy and losses of For confidentiality reasons, we do not disclose the exact number of complaints customer data by type. Accordingly, we do not explicitly report the number of complaints relating to data protection measures. GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance 2016 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations AR: p. 84–85 in the social and economic area SR: Brenntag Sustainability Report for the Financial Year 2019 AR: Brenntag 2019 Annual Report BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2019 66 IMPRINT Issuer Concept and text Brenntag AG Corporate Development, Brenntag AG Messeallee 11 Kirchhoff Consult AG, Hamburg, Germany 45131 Essen, Germany T +49 (0) 201 6496 0 Design and layout F +49 (0) 201 6496 1010 Kirchhoff Consult AG, Hamburg, Germany info@brenntag.de www.brenntag.com Print WOESTE DRUCK + VERLAG GmbH & Co KG, Contact Essen, Germany Brenntag AG Corporate Development Production management Dr Dirk Eckert Labude. corporate products, Essen, Germany T +49 (0) 201 6496 1317 sustainability@brenntag.de Picture credits Page 19: © Tina Klarskov Olesen/ALUMICHEM Project Management/Editor-in-chief Page 49: © www.temm.ch/M. Eberhard Dr Dirk Eckert Other pictures: Brenntag Corporate Development, Brenntag AG Katharina Kasper This Sustainability Report is a translation of the Corporate Development, Brenntag AG original German version. In case of any differences only the German version is binding. BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2019 BRENNTAG AG SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2019 BRENNTAG AG Messeallee 11 45131 Essen Germany www.brenntag.com
