2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT The 2019 Sustainability Report of Nornickel The report covers operations of the Nornickel Group Each year, the Company’s Report undergoes external Group (the “Report”) is the sixteenth public noncompanies (“Nornickel Group”, “Nornickel”, or assurance procedures, including independent financial report prepared by MMC Norilsk Nickel the “Company”). For the purposes of this Report, professional assessment of the Report’s compliance and addressed to a wide range of stakeholders. Nornickel Group shall refer to MMC Norilsk Nickel with the GRI Standards and the RSPP public and the entirety of operations of the Nornickel Group verification procedure. 102–50 companies. Unless otherwise specified or required 102–56 by the context, the terms “Company”, “Group”, “Nornickel” or “the Group companies” shall mean The Report conforms to the GRI Sustainability Nornickel Group. Quantitative indicators for certain Reporting Standards (Comprehensive The Social Policy Department of MMC Norilsk areas of sustainable development pertain to the option), constitutes a UN Global Compact Nickel and a dedicated working group comprising Group’s specific operations in accordance with the communication on progress, and discloses the representative of the Group’s key companies Scope of Data Collection appendix. Company’s contribution to achieving the UN supervised the preparation of the Report. The Sustainable Development Goals up to 2030. 102–46 Report has been approved by MMC Norilsk Nickel’s Management Board and Board of Directors. 102–54 102–32 The content of the Report has been determined in accordance with the requirements of the applicable In producing the Report, the following standards and guidelines, with the Company’s documents were also used: GRI Mining and stakeholders being engaged in the process. For Other sources of information about Metals Sector Supplement, Guidance on Social material topics of the Report, please see the Map of Nornickel Group: Responsibility ISO 26000:2010, Reference Material Topics appendix. Performance Indicators of Russian Union Corporate website: www.nornickel.ru of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs (RSPP), 102–46 Nornickel’s ESG Strategy, ESG Databook Accountability Standards AA1000SES (2015) and www.nornickel.ru/investors/esg/ AA1000AP (2018), the UNCTAD Guidance on core During preparation of the Report, there were no indicators for entity reporting on contribution Nornickel’s annual reports: significant changes in the report boundaries and the towards implementation of the UN Sustainable www.nornickel.ru/investors/reports-and-results/ list of material topics compared to the 2018 Report. Development Goals, and recommendations of However, the Report contains updates of the data for Interactive version of the 2019 Sustainability Report: the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial previous years, which is indicated in the text. https://csr2019.nornickel.ru Disclosures (TCFD) set up by the Financial Stability Board (FSB). 102–48 102–49 102–48 DISCLAIMER APPROVED The Report discloses the Company’s short–, by the Board of Directors of MMC Norilsk Nickel, medium–, and long–term goals, objectives, and Minutes No. GMK/10-pr-sd dated 7 April 2020 plans. Plans and intentions are provisional and subject to a number of economic, political, and APPROVED legal factors that are beyond the Company’s by the Audit and Sustainable Development Committee control. As a result, actual future performance of MMC Norilsk Nickel’s Board of Directors, may differ from the forward-looking statements Minutes No. 3 dated 26 March 2020 contained in this Report. APPROVED by the Management Board of MMC Norilsk Nickel, Minutes No. 7 dated 25 March 2020 102–32 NORNICKEL SUPPORTS UN Global Compact and Sustainable Development Goals With a number of landmark events occurring in 2019, Nornickel reiterated its immediate commitment to smart digital technologies in production. Nornickel was among the first companies in Russia to initiate digital transformation of its business processes. It is actively using digital technologies to tackle challenging production tasks and was first in Russia to employ Industry 4.0 technologies. We have firmly embraced the path of innovative development working closely with the younger generation. Digital technologies are essential in increasing efficiency and helping the Company to achieve the goals of sustainable development_ CONTENTS 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 5 Statement of the President 122 Compliance with 267 Appendices and Chairman the UN Global Compact of the Management Board 268 GRI content index 124 Commitment to human rights 7 Our 2019 highlights 281 Scope of data collection 131 Labour relations 9 About Nornickel Group 282 Map of material GRI topics 181 Anti-corruption (aspects) 10 Assets 190 Environment 283 GRI indicators 11 Core companies and business units 298 UNCTAD indicators 230 Regional development 12 Production chart 301 TCFD disclosures 235 The Company’s contribution 13 Key social and environmental 302 List of abbreviations to the development of local projects communities 303 Glossary 237 Budget payments 304 Stakeholder dialogue minutes 14 Strategy 238 Employment of local population 305 Stakeholder recommendations 16 Mission and values 239 Cooperation development 307 Opinion of RSPP Council 17 Corporate strategy on Non-Financial Reporting 240 Infrastructure development 22 Sustainability approaches 310 Independent assurance report 245 Development of local 24 Nornickel and UN Sustainable communities Development Goals 311 Contacts 252 Corporate volunteer programme 39 Management 255 Support for sports projects The 2019 Sustainability Report 43 Sustainability management of Nornickel Group conforms 259 Support for cultural projects and initiatives to the GRI Sustainability Reporting 54 Risk management framework Standards and is a report 69 Corporate security 260 Assessment of social on the progress of compliance programmes with the United Nations (UN) Global 71 Economic efficiency 261 Transport accessibility Compact principles that discloses 76 Stakeholder engagement the Company's policy towards achieving the UN Sustainable 96 Supply chain management 264 Awards and accolades Development Goals up to 2030. 111 Innovations 264 Awards of MMC Norilsk Nickel 113 Digital technology 266 Awards of the Group © Nornickel Group, 2020. 121 Transparency companies All rights reserved. 102–14 Dear shareholders, investors, consumers, and colleagues, Statement It is a great pleasure for me to present Nornickel’s of the President 2019 Sustainability Report. and Chairman Last autumn, our management team shared Nornickel’s revised strategic vision until 2030 with the investor community. The document titled of the «Expanding the Horizons of Sustainable Growth» outlines several key Management areas, including a comprehensive environmental programme, growth of the core business, upgrade of the processing facilities, and personnel and Board infrastructure development in the regions where the Company operates. We take a responsible approach to environmental protection. The comprehensive environmental programme is set to reduce sulphur dioxide emissions tenfold by 20251. To this end, Nornickel started to roll out solutions capturing harmful emissions on a par with the best available technologies globally. The updated Sulphur Programme also includes the upgrade of existing nickel and copper smelting facilities. Investments are already underway in the Norilsk Industrial District and on the Kola Peninsula. Assessment of the climate change impact on the Company’s operations is also an important focus area of our sustainable development. It stands to note that our metals are widely used in solutions mitigating the negative climate impact of key emission sources around the world. The comprehensive environmental programme supports sustainable growth of our core business and development of our unique resource base in the Norilsk Industrial District, Chita Region, and on the Kola Peninsula. By 2030, the Company plans to ramp up ore mining by more than 2.5 times compared to 2017. To facilitate ore processing and metal production, the Company will modernise and build concentration, smelting, and refining facilities. We invest in infrastructure projects that supply resources to our core business, including projects to develop our energy and gas assets. Today, Nornickel is one of the most profitable companies among major global diversified mining groups. We actively introduce digital technologies of process control and best management practices across the value chain. 2019’s strong performance and our distinct competitive edge have helped to strengthen the Company’s robust position in the market and secure our continued investment in sustainable development. Having joined the UN Global Compact three years ago, we remain fully committed to its Ten Principles regarding human rights, labour standards, the environment and anti-corruption. 1 Compared to 2015. Digital Nornickel 2019 5 As in previous years, in 2019 we made significant progress in developing our human capital, which is our key asset. Similar to other business areas, our focus is on boosting the efficiency of our personnel, while also improving engagement and enhancing our corporate culture. Alongside all these efforts, Nornickel has maintained a high level of employee social support. The Company has increased reimbursements for the cost of round trips to and from the place of vacation, health resort treatments and healthcare, reinforcing its position as one of the industry’s most attractive employers. Wages and salaries, which the Company always pays on time and indexes on an annual basis, remain among the highest industry-wide and average over RUB 110,000. It goes without saying that health and safety is also a top priority for Nornickel. It is our commitment to work unstintingly to ensure that all our workplaces are safe. The Company management views occupational safety excellence and zero injuries as key strategic objectives and runs dedicated health and safety programmes to make sure we achieve them. Today, Nornickel is one of the most profitable companies among major global diversified mining groups 2019’s strong performance, coupled with current macroeconomic trends has helped to strengthen the Company’s robust position in the market and secure our continued investment in sustainable development. We can say outright: we take pride in our Company. Nornickel has always kept pace with change, and the projects initiated in the last decade will place us on a par with the industry’s global tech leaders Vladimir Potanin President, Chairman of the Management Board MMC Norilsk Nickel Digital Nornickel 2019 6 Our 2019 highlights 102–7 Digitalisation and automation 6.73 RUB bn — spent on digital and automation projects (up +55% y-o-y) 85 digitalisation and automation projects implemented 362 RUB mln Financial effect of the Digital lab Environment 1 Consolidated revenue. 39.5 ₽₽ 2.22 0.17 RUB bn — environmental t/RUB mln1 air pollutant emissions TJ/RUB mln1 energy consumption expenditures and costs (down 16% y–o–y) (down 19% y–o–y) (up 21.6% y–o–y) 2018 32.4 2018 2.64 2018 0.21 2019 39.5 2019 2.22 2019 0.17 Digital Nornickel 2019 7 Labour 0.32 10.3 ₽₽ 118.8 ₽₽ LTIFR RUB bn invested in occupational RUB thousand average monthly (vs 0.23 in 2018) health and safety(down 2.8% y–o–y) salary at Nornickel (up 6.5% y–o–y) 2018 0.23 2018 10.6 2018 111.6 2019 0.32 2019 10.3 2019 118.8 Development of local communities 192.4 27.6 640 social projects ₽₽ ₽₽ worth 664.4 RUB bn paid to budgets RUB bn spent on social programmes, of various levels1 charity, and social infrastructure ₽₽ (up 66.4% y–o–y) (down 10.7% y–o–y) RUB mln funded since 2014 2018 115.6 2018 30.9 as part of the World of New Opportunities programme 2019 192.4 2019 27.6 1 Tax and non–tax payments include all taxes paid, net of VAT and dividend income tax, as well as insurance payments and customs duties. Position in the Industry 37 2,193 countries mt of ore geography measured and indicated of supplies resources Pd Ni Pt Rh Co Cu 41% of palladium 24% of high–grade 11% of platinum 9% of rhodium 3% of cobalt 2% of copper market nickel market market market market market # 1 # 1 # 4 # 4 # 8 # 11 Digital Nornickel 2019 8 About Nornickel Group 102–1 102–2 Norilsk Nickel Group is Russia’s leading metals and mining company, the world’s largest producer of palladium and refined nickel, and one of the biggest producers of platinum, copper and cobalt. Nornickel’s core operations include prospecting, exploration, mining, concentration and processing of minerals along with the production, and sales of non-ferrous and precious metals. The Group’s products are supplied to more than 30 countries across the world. Nornickel’s products Ni Pd Pt Co Cu Nickel Palladium Platinum Cobalt Copper Rh Au Ag Ir S Rhodium Gold Silver Iridium Sulphur Te Se Ru Tellurium Selenium Ruthenium Nornickel’s contribution to the national economy in 2019 0.8% Nornickel’s share 2.9% Nornickel’s share in Russia’s 13.4% Nornickel’s share in Russia’s in the national GDP industrial output metals production 2.9% Nornickel’s share 60,000 >80 of the Company's employees companies comprise in Russia’s exports permanently reside and work Nornickel Group beyond the Arctic Circle Nornickel is the largest industrial player in the Russian Arctic. Around 60,000 of the Group’s employees permanently reside and work beyond the Arctic Circle. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 9 Assets 102–4 Production units of the Group are located in three countries – Russia, Finland and South Africa1. Its core businesses are based in Russia and have a vertically integrated structure. The main production sites in Russia are: • Polar Division of MMC Norilsk Nickel (“Polar Division”); • Kola Mining and Metallurgical Company (“Kola MMC”); • Bystrinsky Mining and Processing Plant (“Bystrinsky GOK”), which had entered the precommissioning stage in 2017 and was approved for commissioning in 2019. The Company’s Polar Division, its key resource asset, is located on the Taimyr Peninsula (Krasnoyarsk Territory) beyond the Arctic Circle. It is linked to other regions by inland waterways (the Yenisey River), marine transport (the Northern Sea Route) and air transport. Kola MMC is located on the Kola Peninsula beyond the Arctic Circle. It is the Company’s key nickel refinery and the leading industrial facility of the Murmansk Region completely integrated into the transport infrastructure of the Northwestern Federal District. Bystrinsky GOK is located in the Gazimuro-Zavodsky District of the Trans-Baikal Territory and is linked to other regions by rail. In Finland, the Group operates Norilsk Nickel Harjavalta processing Nornickel’s Russian and third parties’ feedstock. In South Africa, the Company owns 50% of Nkomati, a nickel mine developed jointly with African Rainbow Minerals. Nornickel runs a global network of representative and sales offices in Russia, China, the USA, and Switzerland. In addition to geology, energy, logistics, and support businesses, the Group comprises Gipronickel Institute, an R&D facility based in St Petersburg with branches in Norilsk and Monchegorsk. In total, the Group counts over 80 companies. 1 Also see the 2019 IFRS financial results at: www.nornickel.ru/files/ru/results/ras/2019/12m–2019–konsolidirovannaya– finansovaya–otchetnost–za–god–zakonchivshijsya–31–dekabrya–2018–g–v–rublyah.pdf • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 10 Core companies and business units NORNICKEL GROUP PRODUCTION EXPLORATION TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS SUPPORT FUNCTIONS Polar Division Norilskgeologiya Polar Transport Division Pechengastroy Kola MMC Vostokgeologiya Arkhangelsk Transport Division Kolabyt GRK Bystrinskoye Intergeoproekt Murmansk Transport Division Norilsk Production Support Complex Bear Creek Krasnoyarsk Transport Division Norilsknickelremont Bystrinsky Transport Division Polar Construction Company NordStar Airlines Nornickel — Shared Services Centre Yenisey River Shipping Company Taimyr Fuel Company RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT FUEL AND ENERGY Norilsk Airport Gipronickel Institute Taimyrenergo Lesosibirsk Port Norilskgazprom Krasnoyarsk River Port Arctic–Energo Norilsk Avia Norilsk–Taimyr Energy Company Nornickel–YRSС Norilsktransgaz Norilsk–TAVS Norilskenergo (MMC Norilsk Nickel’s branch) DISTRIBUTION AND SALES FOREIGN ASSETS HEAD OFFICE Normetimpex Norilsk Nickel Harjavalta MMC Norilsk Nickel’s (Finland) Head Office Мetal Trade Overseas AG Nkomati (South Africa) Norilsk Nickel Asia Ltd. (Hong Kong) Norilsk Nickel USA, Inc. Norilsk Nickel Metals Trading (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Digital Nornickel 2019 11 Production chart NORNICKEL GROUP OF DISSEMINATED COPPER–NICKEL PRODUCTION SULPHIDE ORES CONCENTRATION PRODUCTION SALES SMELTING REFINEMENT REFINING CUPRIFEROUS AND DISSEMINATED ORE COPPER PLANT (МЗ) ** PGM CONCENTRATOR OF PRECIOUS METALS RICH, CUPRIFEROUS AND DISSEMINATED ORE (PART OF COPPER PLANT) GULIDOV KRASNOYARSK MINES NON–FERROUS METALS PLANT*, Polar Division and Bear Creek OKTYABRSKY TALNAKH COPPER CONCENTRATE NICKEL SMELTING OF URALINTECH CONCENTRATOR TANK–HOUSE TAIMYRSKY NICKEL CONCENTRATE THICKENED NICKEL NORILSK CONCENTRATE KOMSOMOLSKY NICKEL–PYRRHOTITE CONCENTRATE OWN SALES CONCENTRATOR NADEZHDA NETWORK METALLURGICAL PLANT ** MAYAK METAL–BEARING PRODUCT FROM TALNAKH CONCENTRATOR PRODUCTS te ZAPOLYARNY Co ra nv nt THIRD–PARTY FEEDSTOCK er n ce NICKEL te rm co er SKALISTY att pp PALLADIUM e Co COPPER REFINING PLATINUM DISSEMINATED ORE Converter matte SMELTING SHOP COBALT MINES SHOP IN NICKEL RHODIUM SEVERNY ZAPOLYARNY COPPER–NICKEL IRIDIUM CONCENTRATOR CONCENTRATE Crushed converter matte, Kola MMC KAULA–KOTSELVAARA BRIQUETTES nickel concentrate RUTHENIUM LOW-GRADE NICKEL CONCENTRATE SILVER GOLD SELENIUM TELLURIUM NICKEL REFINING SULPHUR THIRD–PARTY FEEDSTOCK FACILITY IN FINLAND SODIUM SULPHATE NN Harjavalta SODIUM CHLORIDE GOLD–IRON–COPPER ORE OPEN PITS * Precious metals produced by Polar Division MAGNETITE, COPPER, are refined at Gulidov Krasnoyarsk VERKHNE-ILDIKANSKY BYSTRINSKY GOK GOLD CONCENTRATE GRK Bystrinskoye Non-Ferrous Metals Plant and Uralintech under tolling agreements. Precious metals BYSTRINSKY—2 produced by Kola MMC are refined at Gulidov Krasnoyarsk Non-Ferrous Metals MEDNY CHAINIK (PLANNED) Plant under tolling agreements. YUZHNO-RODSTVENNY (PLANNED) ** Production facilities implementing flagship projects under the comprehensive environmental programme. Geological exploration Ancillary Service and support (fuel and energy, transport, logistics, support and other businesses) operations R&D Digital Nornickel 2019 12 Key social and environmental projects Social and economic partnership Social Portrait of a City NORNICKEL GROUP Resident survey Transport Arctic Wave festival Quality of life of R&D discoveries Culture Zero Negative Environmental Sports Impact campaign Science, education Environment Pasvik Reserve ZAPOLYARNY #@ Lapland Reserve MURMANSK #@ Social and economic partnership MONCHEGORSK #@ agreement with regional authorities Murmansk We Are the City! social Agreement with the Federal Agency Region technologies forum (organiser) for Ethnic Affairs (FAEA) on cooperation aimed at providing Curling Arctic Cup Russian junior and adult support to the indigenous peoples international cross-country skiing championship of the North competition (general sponsor) Taimyrsky Agreement to support and develop Relocation Dolgano-Nenetsky Tver Rally of Social Entrepreneurs the volunteer movement in the to regions with Municipal District Region from the North Trans-Baikal Territory favourable Imandrа Viking Fest climatic Putoransky Agreement on SME support of Nordic culture conditions Nature Reserve in the Trans-Baikal Territory MOSCOW #@ Memorandum on cooperation in DUDINKA #@ promoting promising sports projects Russian Ice Hockey Federation CSKA professional basketball club (partner) (general sponsor) NORILSK #@ World of New Opportunities Tula charitable programme Region Multimedia Art Museum All Russian Federation Reconstruction of Norilsk Airport Our Home and My Home employee (patronage assistance) of DanceSport and Acrobatic housing programmes Cooperation with nature Relocation to regions Rock'n'Roll (partner) Russian Futsal Association with favourable climatic conditions We Are the City! social technologies Corporate volunteer programme (general partner) Night Hockey League forum (organiser) Norilsk Nickel Futsal Club # Let’s Do It! environmental marathon Russian Olympic Committee (general partner) Sulphur Project(sulphur dioxide capture (general sponsor) @ Eco–rally (partner) World Legends Hockey at the Company’s existing and developed Increase of the Taimyr HPP production sites) League (partner) 8th Ecological Forum Cascade capacities “Corporate Responsibility to the Future. Russian Curling Federation Programme to build local treatment facilities Saratov Technology for Society and Nature Zero Negative Environmental Region Impact campaign Land rehabilitation programme SOCHI #@ (organiser) Golden Mask theatre festival (partner) Arctic Wave festival of R&D discoveries Rosa Khutor Ski Resort (sponsorship) Norilsk Development Agency Corporate sports competitions Zapolyarye Health Krasnoyarsk Territory Resort Rosgonki and KRASNOYARSK #@ Trans-Baikal Territory Sochi Autodrom Krasnoyarsk Economic Forum (general partner) Relict Oaks State Reserve Science Festival in Krasnoyarsk CHITA #@ 29th International Winter Universiade in Krasnoyarsk in 2019 (general partner) First technological cluster for kids Federation of Northern Multisport Races in the Trans-Baikal Territory Science Festival in Chita Digital Nornickel 2019 13 Strategy As part of the updated strategy, Nornickel plans to cut SO2 emissions by 85% at Kola MMC by 2021 and by 90% at Polar Division by 2025. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 14 Strategy The key drivers behind Nornickel’s updated strategy are our new ambitious long-term targets for production growth to address increasing demand in our core markets and facilitate the shift to clean mobility. Achievements Horizons Standarts In 2019, we extended our To enable a deeper SDG sustainability strategy to 2030, integration into our strategy, highlighting the key trends in 2019, we performed for the coming decade. an in-depth analysis of SDGs These include unlocking and matched them, among the potential of our unique other things, against our current resource base through continued strategy, material risks, goals development of Tier I assets, and commitments, investments support of global shift to clean in relevant projects mobility, and an ambitious green and best peer practices. modernisation of facilities on the Taimyr and Kola Peninsulas. Projects Investments in SDG-related projects accounted for 22.1% of the Group’s consolidated revenue for 2019. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 15 Mission and values The Company seeks to foster a group-wide corporate culture of mutual respect, trust and openness shared by every employee. This will help us effectively implement our strategy based on sustainable development principles.1 102–16 Our mission Through the efficient use of natural resources and equity, we supply mankind with non-ferrous metals, which make the world a more reliable place to live in and help people realise their aspirations for development and technological progress. Nornickel’s corporate values Reliability Ability to address any challenges to ensure success for the business Growth Effective production ramp-up and upgrade, leverage of groundbreaking technologies and development of our people Collaboration Commitment and ability of our employees to achieve goals and objectives through teamwork Professionalism Ability to ensure a sustainably strong performance Responsibility Desire to honour our commitments and take on responsibility for our decisions Efficiency Delivering against our targets in due time and at minimum cost 1 See also the Business Ethics Code at nornickel.com/files/en/corporate_documents/policies/ business_ethics_code.pdf • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 16 Corporate strategy Adopted in 2013, our growth strategy primarily aims to unlock the resource potential of the Taimyr and Kola Peninsulas, improve the Company’s operating efficiency and raise the quality of investment and capital management. In 2013–2017, we ran a number of strategic initiatives that fundamentally changed the Company’s technological landscape. In 2017, we completed the first cycle of our development strategy. As a result, Polar Division upgraded dramatically its concentration facilities and reconfigured its metal production processes, with Nickel Plant shut down. This significantly reduced the Company’s environmental footprint in the region. In 2018, we reaffirmed our ambition to grow further as an advanced, efficient and environmentally responsible company and presented Nornickel’s strategic priorities in sustainable development and growth areas for the medium and long terms. In 2019, we extended our sustainability strategy to 2030, highlighting the key trends for the coming decade. These include unlocking the potential of our unique resource base though continued development of Tier I assets, support of global shift to clean mobility, and an ambitious green modernisation of facilities on the Taimyr and Kola Peninsulas1. 1 For more details about Nornickel’s updated strategy, please see the Investor Day presentation at: nornickel.com/files/en/investors/cmd/2019/CMD-2019_Norilsk-Nickel-full.pdf • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 17 Strategic priorities The next development stage will centre around an unprecedented environmental initiative seeking a staged adoption of the best SO2 capturing practices and transition to green production. We are developing a programme to take into account climate change. In particular, it will help us select climate scenarios, develop approaches and assess risks and opportunities affecting our operations, design relevant management initiatives, evaluate our climatic impact, and embed key non-financial risks into strategic planning. We will also continue working towards the migration to new international sustainability reporting standards and enhancing the quality of climate change-related disclosures. The Board of Directors reviews climate risks while discussing the Company’s Environmental Development Framework and progress reports on major investment projects and treats them as a priority in setting Nornickel’s targets and development strategy. 1. Production growth Strategic goals: Targets: • accelerated output growth • a 75–150%1 increase in mining volumes on the Taimyr Peninsula • expanding the long-term • stepping up metal output (2030+)2 investment programme Nickel 15—30% Copper 20—40% PGM 30—95% 2. Comprehensive environmental programme Strategic goals: Targets: • dramatic reduction Reduction of SO2 emissions3 of sulphur dioxide emissions • maintaining the lowest-in-class Polar Division Kola site carbon footprint By 2023 by 45% By 2021 by 85% By 2025 by 90% By 2030 by 95%+ 1 Subject to Arctic Palladium implementation. 2 Compared to the base year (2017). 3 Compared to the base year (2015). • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 18 Contribution to the global agenda for sustainable development The key driver behind Nornickel’s updated strategy are our new ambitious long-term targets for production growth to address increasing demand in our core markets and facilitate the shift to clean mobility. The Company will continue to expand its presence in new market segments and industries that are likely to generate demand for its products in the future. One of such fast growing industries is production of materials for electric vehicles and batteries. — Thanks to our diligent focus on strategy execution over the last six years and favourable commodity market trends, we were able to deliver one of the industry’s highest shareholder returns. Now is the time to take the next step towards realising even greater ambitions, both in terms of business growth and environmental protection. We are confident that Nornickel will play a vital role in global transitioning to green economy, in particular to clean vehicles. In this context, we are set to make our own assets increasingly green to respond to this new mindset. Vladimir Potanin President and Chairman of MMC Norilsk Nickel Management Board • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 19 Clean mobility 2030 megatrends Nornickel’s potential to support the advance of low-carbon economy through 2030 • Growing manufacturing of Supplying sufficient resource to produce: autocatalyst-loaded vehicles • 25–40 mln PGM-loaded autocatalysts1 (including hybrids) • Tightening of emission standards. K Potential reduction of air pollutants by 170—270 mt2 • Growing number of electric 3.5–5.5 mln nickel-rich EV battery packs3 vehicles K Potential reduction of CO2 emissions by 50—100 mt4 1 Company estimate based on 2030E PGM production and 5g PGM loading per catalyst (rounded). 2 Company estimate based on 6.8-tonne savings (CO, NOx, hydrocarbons) per catalyst lifecycle (rounded). 3 Company estimate based on 50-kg nickel loading per EV battery pack (high-nickel ternary cathode-based). 4 Company estimate based on up to 18-tonne carbon dioxide savings per EV lifecycle run on renewable energy as compared to ICE. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 20 Efficiency programme Our mid-term strategic priority is the efficiency and safety improvement programme rolled out across the entire production chain. The programme aims at boosting performance, increasing labour productivity, enhancing industrial safety and transforming corporate culture. • In 2018–2019, the Company implemented a number of milestone projects: • roll-out of advanced mine planning, including simulation modelling; • improving equipment utilisation rates; • full-scale roll-out of digital control centres; • continuous improvement programme in action with initiatives to increase equipment utilisation rates, debottleneck existing assets across the value chain, etc. Key non-financial performance highlights in 2019: • obtaining permission to launch Bystrinsky GOK, one of the Company’s most advanced, hi-tech eco-friendly facilities; • replacing the fifth of the seven turbines at the Ust-Khantayskaya HPP as part of green modernisation; • maintaining injury rates below the average among global mining peers and the Company’s five-year average. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 21 Sustainability approaches When working towards its strategic goals, Nornickel seeks to align its approaches with the key sustainability principles: • unconditional respect for human rights; • comprehensive measures to support indigenous peoples of the North; • lower impact on the climate; • support of low-carbon economy. Nornickel considers social responsibility and commitment to the principles of sustainable development as key operational priorities for business development, community and investor relations, and environmental impact management. 103–2 The Company became one of the first Russian companies to sign up, in 2005, to the Social Charter of the Russian Business adopted by the Russian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs (RSPP). In 2016, MMC Norilsk Nickel joined the UN Global Compact, which marked the transition to a new strategic development cycle. Nornickel’s support for sustainable development initiatives and standards 102–12 102–13 Standard/initiative Nornickel UN and the International Labour Organisation Declaring support and aligning its by-laws accordingly conventions UN Global Compact Supporting officially National Global Compact Network Association Member (Russia) Sustainable Development Goals of the UN 2030 Declaring support and aligning governance practices Agenda accordingly ISO 14001:2015 Compliance of MMC Norilsk Nickel, Gipronickel Institute (ISO 9001:2015), Kola MMC, and Norilsk Nickel Harjavalta ISO 9001:2015 management systems with the standards OHSAS 18001:2007 / ISO 45001:2018 Compliance of MMC Norilsk Nickel and Norilsk Nickel Harjavalta management systems with the standard ISO 26000:2010 Declaring support and providing reports GOST R ISO 26000-2012 Declaring support and providing reports AA1000AP, AA1000SES Declaring support and providing reports • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 22 Nornickel’s support for sustainable development initiatives and standards 102–12 102–13 Standard/initiative Nornickel International Platinum Group Metals Association Member, co-chair of the IPA Security Committee (IPA) International Information Security Research Member Consortium Nickel Institute Member Since 2017, Nornickel’s Head of Marketing has been chairing the Institute’s Board of Directors. World Wildlife Fund (WWF) Ranking among the leading environmentally responsible mining companies in Russia according to the WWF National Association of International Information Member and supporter Security Security Charter for Critical Industrial Facilities Charter developer, member and signatory FTSE4Good Index Inclusion in the FTSE4Good Emerging Index Sustainalytics Assigned independent ESG ratings MSCI Social Charter of the Russian Business Member and signatory Anti-Corruption Charter of the Russian Business Member and signatory RSPP Responsibility and Transparency index and One of the index leaders (in 2014–2019) Sustainable Development Vector index RSPP Committee on Corporate Social Responsibility Member and Demographic Policies Environmental Charter of the Krasnoyarsk Territory Signatory GRI Community Organisational member • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 23 Nornickel and UN Sustainable Development Goals In 2015, the United Nations adopted the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development setting 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) for the global community and 169 associated targets. Since the SDGs cannot be achieved by the efforts of only governments or public organisations, the UN encourages businesses to focus on the SDGs in their operations and report on their progress. We fully support the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the UN SDGs, consistently integrating them into our by-laws and everyday practices. In our public and non-financial reports for 2016–2019, we disclosed key sustainability targets and performance against relevant UN SDGs. 103–2 Nornickel’s products as enablers of achieving UN SDGs Nornickel is a leader of the Russian metals and mining industry. In this role, we meet Russia’s and global economy’s growing need for materials to manufacture products that can boost the quality of life. 102–15 Supplied to 37 countries, our products are in strong demand in power generation, electronics, transportation, mechanical engineering, construction, consumer goods, healthcare, food, chemical and other industries. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 24 Platinum group metals (PGM) are used as catalysts to manufacture key chemicals, including agricultural fertilisers, which are essential for supplying the planet’s growing population with foods. Platinum and palladium along with their co-metals are widespread in medicine, particularly in its forefront areas such as oncology and production of pacemakers and other implants. The majority of our metals can be found in the most common electronic products, and PGM plays a vital part in reducing air pollutant emissions. It will be impossible to reduce air pollution as planned or combat climate change as set out in the Paris Agreement unless hybrid cars with PGM catalysts gain popularity in the coming decades. Development of renewable energy is also contingent on stainless steel, nickel alloys and fibreglass as key structural materials used in wind and solar farms, as well as on conductive pastes for solar cell surfaces. That said, high-quality stainless steel cannot be made without nickel, and no conductive paste for solar batteries is produced without silver. Apart from renewable generation, metals produced by Nornickel allow for an ecofriendly energy storage. The technology uses nickeland cobalt-based batteries or gases (hydrogen or methane) whose storage and processing are dependent on PGM. Hence, our products make a great contribution to the green economy worldwide, which, apart from propelling us towards sustainable development goals, creates new opportunities and advantages for Nornickel as a leading PGM producer. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 25 Nornickel’s contribution towards the achievement of the UN SDGs In 2018, we reviewed our key projects and initiatives, aligning them with the UN SDGs. The review included a survey of stakeholders, which identified 12 SDGs of the greatest importance for the Group and linked them to the most relevant projects and programmes. In 2019, we strengthened our effort to enable a deeper SDG integration into our strategy. To this effect, we performed an in-depth analysis of SDGs and matched them, among other things, against our current strategy, material risks, goals and commitments, investments in relevant projects and best peer practices. As a result, we identified 6 most relevant SDGs: Goal 3: Good health and well-being; Goal 8: Decent work and economic growth; Goal 9: Industry, innovation and infrastructure; Goal 11: Sustainable cities and communities; Goal 12: Responsible consumption and production; Goal 13: Climate action. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 26 Nornickel’s key projects linked to SDGs in 2019 SDGs Projects • Implementation of health improvement and wellness programmes for employees and their families* • Voluntary health insurance for employees and their families* • Comprehensive environmental programme for the Norilsk Industrial District (the Sulphur Programme) integrated into the Roadmap to Reduce Air Pollutant Emissions in Norilsk (approved by Deputy Prime Minister of the Russian Federation on 28 December 2018) and the Fresh Air national project** • Implementation of current occupational safety measures (providing employees with individual and collective protective equipment, special food and milk, maintenance of health centres, first-aid posts, medical units, mandatory checkups, health and safety training and skills improvement, etc.)* • Air protection projects (activities) required by the Environmental Action Plan (EAP, section I) other than the Sulphur Programme** • Water conservation projects (activities) required by the Environmental Action Plan (EAP, section II)** • Waste management projects (activities) required by the Environmental Action Plan (EAP, section III)** * Part of Public Health domain (Russia’s National Projects) ** Part of Environment domain (Russia’s National Projects) • Training and development of Nornickel Group’s employees* • Corporate scholarships for university students and internships with Nornickel Group’s companies* • The World of New Opportunities charity programme: grants for educational institutions and projects* * Part of Education domain (Russia’s National Projects) • Implementation of investment projects aimed to improve water management (water cycle optimisation, wastewater treatment etc.) and water supply* • Water conservation projects (activities) required by the Environmental Action Plan (EAP, section II)* * Part of Environment domain (Russia’s National Projects) • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 27 Nornickel’s key projects linked to SDGs in 2019 SDGs Projects • Rollout of the Automatic System for Commercial Accounting of Power Consumption across Polar Division* • Implementation of energy efficiency and energy saving projects (initiatives) required by the Energy Saving and Energy Efficiency Programme and/or the Programme for Improving Performance and Reducing Per Unit Costs* • Delivery of investment projects aimed to develop power and heat generation, electrical grids and heat networks** * Part of Environment domain (Russia’s National Projects) ** Part of Housing & Urban Environment domain (Russia’s National Projects) • Ensuring decent compensation for labour* • Securing employees’ involvement in social partnerships* • Programmes to improve the social and living conditions for employees of Nornickel Group • Implementation of current occupational safety measures (providing employees with individual and collective protective equipment, special food and milk, maintenance of health centres, first-aid post, medical units, mandatory check-ups, health and safety training and skills improvement, etc.) • Implementation of health and safety activities required by the Comprehensive Plan for Labour Conditions Improvement, Labour Protection, Health and Recreation Activities, and Occupational Safety • Ensuring employees’ involvement in improvement of the health and safety system* • Delivery of the Operating Unit’s investment projects (concentration and downstream) * Part of the Labour Productivity and Employment Support domain (Russia’s National Projects) • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 28 Nornickel’s key projects linked to SDGs in 2019 SDGs Projects • Upgrading and retooling Talnakh Concentrator to increase its total ore capacity to 18 mtpa • Projects aiming to develop local communities’ infrastructure (including transport accessibility improvement): • Projects implemented under public-private partnerships* • Projects implemented under agreements with local administrations* • Delivery of investment projects aimed to develop power and heat generation, electrical grids and heat networks • Research and development (R&D) and feasibility studies aimed to update the Nornickel Group’s Development Strategy, expand production and protect the environment** • Investments in the development of transportation and logistics assets • Construction and reliability improvement of the fibre optic communication line in Norilsk* * Part of Housing & Urban Environment domain (Russia’s National Projects) ** Part of Environment, Science, and Digital Economy domains (Russia’s National Projects) • Implementation of the complementary corporate pension plan for former employees moving from the Norilsk Industrial District • Relocation assistance to new employees* • Implementation of the Cooperation Agreement between the Russian Ministry of Regional Development, Krasnoyarsk Territory, Norilsk Municipality and MMC Norilsk Nickel to relocate people living in Norilsk and Dudinka (Krasnoyarsk Territory) to Russian regions with better climate and socioeconomic conditions • Implementation of the Our Home and My Home social programmes (purchase of apartments for employees in various Russian regions) * Part of the Labour Productivity and Employment Support domain (Russia’s National Projects) • Comprehensive environmental programme for the Norilsk Industrial District (the Sulphur Programme) integrated into the Roadmap to Reduce Air Pollutant Emissions in Norilsk (approved by Deputy Prime Minister of the Russian Federation on 28 December 2018) and the Fresh Air national project* • Air protection projects (activities) required by the Environmental Action Plan (EAP, section I) other than the Sulphur Programme* • Waste management projects (activities) required by the Environmental Action Plan (EAP, section III)* • Other environmental protection activities required by the Environmental Action Plan (EAP, section IV)* * Part of Environment domain (Russia’s National Projects) • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 29 Nornickel’s key projects linked to SDGs in 2019 SDGs Projects • Comprehensive environmental programme for the Norilsk Industrial District (the Sulphur Programme) integrated into the Roadmap to Reduce Air Pollutant Emissions in Norilsk (approved by Deputy Prime Minister of the Russian Federation on 28 December 2018) and the Fresh Air national project* • Air protection projects (activities) required by the Environmental Action Plan (EAP, section I) other than the Sulphur Programme* • Waste management projects (activities) required by the Environmental Action Plan (EAP, section III)* • Other environmental protection activities required by the Environmental Action Plan (EAP, section IV)* * Part of Environment domain (Russia’s National Projects) • Cooperation with nature reserves (support for research and educational projects at the Pasvik, Lapland, and Relict Oaks nature reserves, Joint Directorate of Taimyr Nature Reserves, etc.)* * Part of Environment domain (Russia’s National Projects) • Anti-corruption measures in operating Russian subsidiaries of the Group • Raising awareness of its anti-corruption practices among of the Nornickel Group’s employees • Cooperation with federal legislative and executive authorities, civil society institutions, and the business community • Reporting on the Company’s contribution towards the achievement of the UN SDGs in line with the UNCTAD guidance • UN Global Compact membership and related reporting • Support for corporate volunteering • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 30 Correlation between current costs and capital expenditures associated with SDG projects in 2019 Соотношение текущих затрат и капитальных вложений на проекты, связанные с ЦУР, в 2019 году Goal 3 12.9 Goal 7 1.9 Goal 8 60.9 Российские предприятияGoal 9 4.4 Зарубежные предприятия 2017 2017 Goal 11 9.2 77 991 959 2018 2018 74 926 975 Goal 12 9.2 2019 72 787 2019 928 0 Goals 4, 6, 20000 10, 15, 17 40000 600001.6 80000 0 500 1000 0 20 40 60 80 Количество проектов, направленных на достижение ЦУР Доля текущих затрат и капитальных вложений на проекты, связанные с ЦУР, в консолидированной выручке за 2019 год Goal 3 7 Share of current costs and capital expenditures associated with SDG projects in consolidated revenue for 2019 Goal 4 3 Goal 3 2.8 Goal 6 2 Goal 7 0.4 Goal 7 3 Goal 8 13.5 Goal 8 7 Goal 9 1.0 Goal 9 7 Goal 11 2.0 Goal 10 4 Goal 12 2.0 Goal 11 4 Goals 4, 6, 10, 15, 17 0.4 Goal 12 4 0 5 10 15 Goal 15 1 Goal 16 2 • Goal 17 5 About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 31 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Goals 4, 6, 10, 15, 17 1.6 0 20 40 60 80 Number of SDG Количество projects проектов, направленных на достижение ЦУР Goal 3 7 Goal 4 3 Goal 6 2 Goal 7 3 Goal 8 7 Goal 9 7 Goal 10 4 Goal 11 4 Goal 12 4 Goal 15 1 Goal 16 2 Goal 17 5 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Investments in SDG-related projects accounted for 22.1% of the Group’s consolidated revenue for 2019. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 32 Nornickel’s contribution towards the achievement of UN SDGs 103–2 UN SDG By-laws related to SDG Key results and plans Report sections integration describing specific SDG-related projects and initiatives Occupational Health and Achievements of 2019: For more details, Safety Policy please see the Labour ca. 24,000 employees and their Relations section. Environmental Impact family members covered by health Assessment Policy improvement and wellness programmes Relevant Collective bargaining 71,500 employees of the Group targets: agreement companies covered by voluntary health 3.4. insurance plans Insurance Policy 3.6. Plans for 2020: Interregional cross-industry 3.9. agreement for the key 24,200 employees and their family players of the copper and members to be covered by health nickel and supporting improvement and wellness programmes industries 73,800 employees of the Group companies to be covered by voluntary health insurance plans HR management strategy Achievements of 2019: For more details, please see the Labour Equal Opportunities 90,814 employee-sessions held as part Relations section Programme of Nornickel’s staff training, retraining, and the Regional professional development and Relevant Development section. improvement initiatives targets: 350 university students covered 4.4. by Nornickel’s corporate scholarship programmes 71 educational projects supported under the World of New Opportunities programme (with a grant fund of RUB 242.5 mln) Plans for 2020: 430 university students to be covered by Norilsk Nickel’s corporate scholarship programmes 56 educational projects to be supported under the World of New Opportunities programme (with a grant fund of RUB 208.5 mln) • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 33 Nornickel’s contribution towards the achievement of UN SDGs 103–2 UN SDG By-laws related to SDG Key results and plans Report sections integration describing specific SDG-related projects and initiatives Environmental Policy Achievements of 2019: For more details, please see the Environment 56.3% of wastewater treated to standard section. quality at treatment facilities 87.2% of total used water recycled and Relevant reused targets: 6.3. Mission and values Achievements of 2019: For more details, please see the Environment Strategy 3,184 TJ fuel and energy savings section. resulting from energy consumption Renewable Energy Sources reduction and energy efficiency Policy Relevant improvement initiatives targets: 10 MW increase in installed generation 7.1. and/or transformer capacities 7.3. Plans for 2020: 10 MW increase in installed generation and/or transformer capacities • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 34 Nornickel’s contribution towards the achievement of UN SDGs 103–2 UN SDG By-laws related to SDG Key results and plans Report sections integration describing specific SDG-related projects and initiatives Human Rights Policy Achievements of 2019: For more details, please see the Labour Working Conditions Policy RUB 118,800 average monthly salary Relations section. Occupational Health and 83% of employees covered by collective Safety Policy agreements Relevant targets: Freedom of Association 26 social facilities commissioned after Policy renovation 8.2. Policy Regarding Support 0.32 LTIFR 8.4. for Small and Medium Plans for 2020: 8.5. Enterprises 89 social facilities to be commissioned 8.8. Environmental Policy after renovation Environmental Impact At least a 67% reduction in total injuries Assessment Policy vs the 2013 level Mission and values Achievements of 2019: For more details, please see the Environment Strategy 2.2 t of air pollutant emissions / RUB mln section, the Innovations of consolidated revenue (down 16% y-o-y) Local Community Relations section, and the Policy Regional Development Relevant targets: Environmental Policy section. 9.1. Environmental programme 9.4. 9.5. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 35 Nornickel’s contribution towards the achievement of UN SDGs 103–2 UN SDG By-laws related to SDG Key results and plans Report sections integration describing specific SDG-related projects and initiatives Equal Opportunities Achievements of 2019: For more details, Programme please see the Labour RUB 398.4 mln of complementary Relations section corporate pensions paid to former and the Stakeholder employees Relevant Engagement section. 496 apartments purchased to relocate targets: people to regions with better climate 10.7. and socioeconomic conditions 352 people covered by the new employee relocation assistance programme Plans for 2020: RUB 521,2 mln of complementary corporate pensions to be paid to former employees 542 apartments to be purchased to relocate people to regions with better climate and socioeconomic conditions Environmental Policy Achievements of 2019: For more details, please see the Environment Environmental programme RUB 1.5 bn invested in the Sulphur section. Programme Environmental Impact Assessment Policy Plans for 2020: Relevant targets: RUB 21.6 bn to be invested in the Sulphur Programme 11.6. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 36 Nornickel’s contribution towards the achievement of UN SDGs 103–2 UN SDG By-laws related to SDG Key results and plans Report sections integration describing specific SDG-related projects and initiatives Information Policy Achievements of 2019: For more details, please Regulation see the Environment 36 mt of waste generated in 2019, with section. Biodiversity Conservation 97% of non-hazardous class 5 waste Policy 62.5% of waste recycled in-house Relevant Environmental Policy targets: Environmental programme 12.2. 12.4. 12.5. 12.6. Mission and values Achievements of 2019: For more details, please see the Environment Strategy Volume of GHG emissions section (Scope 1 and 2) — 9.9 mt of CO2 Renewable Energy Sources equivalent (down 1.7% y-o-y) Policy Share of renewable energy in total electricity consumption — 44.5% (up 0.9 p.p. y-o-y) Plans for 2020: Volume of GHG emissions (Scope 1 and 2) — 10 mt of CO2 equivalent Environmental Policy Achievements of 2019: For more details, please see the Environment Environmental Impact RUB 11 mln of financial aid allocated to section. Assessment Policy nature reserves across the Company’s footprint Biodiversity Conservation Relevant Policy Plans for 2020: targets: RUB 9.6 mln of financial aid to be 15.1. allocated to nature reserves across the 15.5. Company’s footprint • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 37 Nornickel’s contribution towards the achievement of UN SDGs 103–2 UN SDG By-laws related to SDG Key results and plans Report sections integration describing specific SDG-related projects and initiatives Anti-Corruption Policy Achievements of 2019: For more details, please see the Anti-corruption No confirmed incidents of corruption1 section. 100% of operating business units are implementing anti-corruption activities Relevant targets: 100% of the Norilsk Nickel Group’s employees are made aware of its anti16.5. corruption practices Plans for 2020: The Company is committed to preventing corruption 100% of operating business units will be implementing anti-corruption activities 100% of the Norilsk Nickel Group’s employees will be aware of its anticorruption practices Environmental Policy Achievements of 2019: For more details, please see the Statement Environmental Impact 23 working bodies (committees, expert of the President and Assessment Policy and working groups, etc.) established Chairman of the by public organisations and government Relevant Management Board authorities where Norilsk Nickel Group is targets: section and the represented Regional Development 17.16. 18,000 volunteers supported by the section. Norilsk Nickel Group Reporting on the progress resulting from accession to the UNGC Plans for 2020: Reporting on the progress resulting from accession to the UNGC 1 Confirmed incidents of corruption are indictments on corruption charges subject to the Criminal Code of Russia. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 38 Management 58% EBITDA margin • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 39 Management Nornickel considers social responsibility and commitment to the principles of sustainable development as key operational priorities for business development, community and investor relations, and environmental impact management. Achievements Horizons Programmes In 2019, we joined the Technology Breakthrough is an Hyperledger Project, a global ongoing programme to introduce collaboration hosted by the Linux advanced digital technology Foundation, one of the largest in mine engineering, as well and most reputable technology as in planning and operational consortia supporting the creation control of mining activities. of sustainable open source ecosystems. Projects In October 2019, Nornickel helped host Russia’s first ever In 2019, as part of its efforts Hyperledger Bootcamp, a major to build a talent pipeline, educational and networking event Nornickel signed a trilateral for IT professionals and startups, agreement to launch a master’s as well as representatives programme in blockchain of large companies involved at the Moscow Institute of in IT development and support. Physics and Technology (MIPT). The agreement was signed at the St Petersburg International Economic Forum. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 40 — Nornickel is at a stage where we are ready to take a big step not only towards solving the issue of SO2 emissions, but also to join the global environmental agenda. We cannot just keep on doing business as usual, even though our reserves are vast, our financial and operating performance is encouraging, and our return on invested capital is industry-leading. The Company has finished putting together an industrial development and subsoil use strategy for the coming ten years. The strategy needs to include sustainable development requirements and parameters in the face of growing climate risks, societal expectations for greater transparency and investor demands. The idea is to show how the Company responds to these challenges and what changes it triggers in production and financial modelling. This vigilant approach, taking into account climate risks, will undoubtedly further compliment our existing competitive strengths. We cannot disregard the potential tightening of legislative and regulatory requirements already imposed on industrial companies by the government (automatic accounting of emissions, quotas, etc.), either. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 41 Given the circumstances, we should disclose full information on what impact the transition to a low-carbon economy will have on us and how we envisage a strategy for reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. Importantly, Nornickel currently leads the pack among M&M companies in terms of total GHG emissions. We are considering disclosure in our sustainability report in line with the TCFD (the FSB Task Force on ClimateRelated Financial Disclosures) recommendations and planning to further develop non-financial reporting in the following periods. The management understand the need for these measures and is ready to convince Nornickel’s employees not only to comply with the existing environmental programme unconditionally, but, most importantly, to take strategic and tactical steps that can effectively reduce the environmental footprint all along our production chain. We have already established a senior team under my supervision and have given it executive powers. One of their first tasks is to develop climate change scenarios. Gareth Penny Chairman the Board of Directors of MMC Norilsk Nickel • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 42 Sustainability management Corporate governance Nornickel’s corporate governance framework is designed to take into account and balance the interests of shareholders, the Board of Directors, managers, employees, and other stakeholders. 102–26 Our key approaches and principles serving as a basis for an effective governance framework draw on the applicable Russian laws, including the Corporate Governance Code recommended by the Bank of Russia. Nornickel’s governance framework relies on the following principles: • equitable and fair treatment of every shareholder; • support for the shareholders to let them exercise their rights and lawful interests in the most reasonable and convenient manner; • professionalism and leadership of the Board of Directors, and involvement of independent directors in governance; • strategic management by the Board of Directors, its efficient control over executive bodies, and oversight of the risk management and internal control framework; • sound, bona fide and efficient management of the Company’s day-to-day operations by executive bodies accountable to the Board of Directors and the General Meeting of Shareholders; • compliance with the Russian laws and the national laws of the countries of operation; • corporate social responsibility; • strong business ethics; • zero tolerance to corruption, and effective anti-corruption measures; • full, transparent, reliable and timely disclosure; • robust internal controls, internal and external audits; • active collaboration with investors, creditors, and other stakeholders in order to increase the Company’s assets and market capitalisation. 102–25 • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 43 These principles are reflected in Nornickel’s official documents, including the Articles of Association, Regulations on the Board of Directors, Information Policy Regulations, Anti-Corruption Policy, and other by-laws1. 102–27 102–28 Governance structure 102–18 102–20 AUDIT COMMISSION INDEPENDENT AUDITOR confirmation confirmation reporting reporting GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS election reporting election reporting Corporate Governance, Strategy Nomination and Remuneration Committee Committee PRESIDENT, CHAIRMAN reporting BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE MANAGEMENT BOARD Budget Audit and Sustainable Committee Development Committee assignment reporting assignment reporting reporting assignment reporting election reporting CORPORATE MANAGEMENT INTERNAL AUDIT SECRETARY BOARD DEPARTMENT MANAGEMENT BOARD The documents are available on the corporate website at nornickel.com/investors/disclosure/ 1 corporate-documents/#corporate-codes-and-policies • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 44 99.77 % Pursuant to MMC Norilsk Nickel’s Articles of Association, its governance bodies are: In the reporting year, • the General Meeting of Shareholders, the Company’s supreme governance the attendance rate body; of the Board • the Board of Directors, a collegial governance body in charge of strategic management and oversight of the executive bodies; • the Management Board and the President that represent the collegial and sole executive bodies of Nornickel, respectively, and manage day-to-day operations. In 2019, we enabled the sign-up to the Shareholder’s Personal Account in our Registrar’s mobile app using a unified identification and authentication system. This was done as part of our efforts to make information more accessible to our shareholders. The Board of Directors meets as and when required, but at least once every six weeks. In 2019, the Board of Directors met on a quarterly basis to review the Company’s financial results, progress against the strategy, the management’s HSE reports, and operational performance reports. In 2019, the Board of Directors of MMC Norilsk Nickel considered 129 matters, including 29 deal approvals, 76 corporate governance matters, 12 economic and financial matters, 1 social and environmental matter, and 11 other matters. 102–19 102–29 102–31 102–33 102–34 In the reporting year, the attendance rate of the Board meetings was 99.77%. In overseeing the Company’s management, financial and business affairs, the Board of Directors may instruct the management team on individual matters and monitor implementation of resolutions and tasks. Authorised executives are vested with powers and responsibilities to address economic, environmental and social matters and may delegate their powers to other employees based on their competences and functions. 102–20 102–21 The reporting year saw an external assessment of the Board of Directors performance in 2018. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 45 The Board of Directors has four committees. Committees Directors Chairman Share of directors of the Board of Directors Independent Non-executive Independent Non-executive Audit and 5 + + 60% 40% Sustainable Development Committee Budget Committee 5 + 60% 40% Strategy Committee 5 + + 80% 20% Corporate 5 + + 60% 40% Governance, Nomination and Remuneration Committee The President and the Management Board are the Company’s executive bodies. In the reporting period, the position of the Company’s President was held by Vladimir Potanin who concurrently chaired the Company’s Management Board. As at the end of 2019, Vladimir Potanin had held the position of the President (CEO before 2015) for 7 years and 13 days. Operational sustainability management The governance and executive bodies of MMC Norilsk Nickel and its subsidiaries are in charge of implementing the Company’s sustainability goals and objectives within the scope of their functions and in accordance with the applicable laws and internal regulations1. All executive efforts are coordinated by MMC Norilsk Nickel’s Management Board, President, and a number of executive committees: the Budget Committee under the Management Board, Health, Safety and Environment Committee, Investment Committee, Nomination and Remuneration Committee, and Charity Committee. 1 For details, please see our corporate website at nornickel.com/investors/disclosure/ corporate-documents/. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 46 Compliance with the key international standards in quality and HSE Company Compliance External audits Certification scope of the management in 2019 system with international standards MMC Norilsk ISO 9001:2015, Surveillance Production, project management, storage, delivery, Nickel ISO 14001:2015 audit including by sea, and sales (nickel, copper, cobalt, precious materials, sulphur, selenium, tellurium) Kola MMC ISO 9001:2015, Recertification Mining and processing of ore, production of nickel, ISO 14001:2015, audit copper, cobalt, their compounds, precious metal OHSAS 18001:2007 concentrates, sulphuric acid Gipronickel ISO 9001:2015 Surveillance R&D, design, engineering surveys, engineering and Institute audit environmental activities, project management in mining, concentration and smelting, and relevant inspection methods; development of standards for non-ferrous metal industry products and their inspection methods; development of reference standards for the composition of non-ferrous metal industry products Norilsk Nickel ISO 9001:2015, Surveillance Manufacturing of nickel and cobalt products Harjavalta ISO 14001:2015 audit ISO 45001:2018 Certification audit • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 47 Operational management 102–18 102–20 SENIOR EXECUTIVES UNITS SUSTAINABILITY BY–LAWS MANAGEMENT BOARD SAFETY • Operating Unit • Strategy and Business Development Unit • Health and Safety Strategy • Investor Relations Department • Occupational Health and Safety Policy FIRST • Corporate Governance, Asset Management • Corporate health and safety standards VICE PRESIDENTS and Legal Affairs Unit • Social and Working Conditions Standard for employees • Unit of Economics and Finance of MMC Norilsk Nickel SENIOR • HR, Social Policy and Public Relations Unit • MMC Norilsk Nickel’s Information Security Policy VICE PRESIDENTS • Government Relations Unit • Non-industrial Assets and Energy Unit VICE PRESIDENTS • Corporate Security Unit • Internal Control and Risk Management Unit ENVIRONMENT • Executive Office PRESIDENT, • Sales, Procurement and Innovation Unit • Environmental Policy CHAIRMAN OF THE • State Secret Protection, Mobilisation • Biodiversity Policy MANAGEMENT BOARD and Special Communications Department • Environmental Impact Assessment Policy • Renewable Energy Sources Policy INTERNAL AUDIT DEPARTMENT SOCIETY • Business Ethics Code • Human Rights Policy • Freedom of Association Policy • Indigenous Rights Policy • Local Community Relations Policy • Equal Opportunities Programme • Working Conditions Policy • Anti-Corruption Policy • Quality Assurance Policy • Information Policy Regulations • Charity Regulation • Policy Regarding Support for Small and Medium Enterprises • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 48 Nornickel’s management team is made up of professionals with extensive experience. In 2019, seven managers of Nornickel made it to Russia’s Top 1000 managers annual ranking published by the Russian Managers Association in collaboration with the Kommersant publishing house. Pavel Platov, Nornickel’s Corporate Secretary, received the Director of the Year 2019 award in the Corporate Governance Director category. Larisa Zelkova, Senior Vice President for HR, Social Policy and Public Relations, was named the winner in the individual PR Director of the Year category of the largest communications award in Eastern Europe and Central Asia — Eventiada IPRA Golden World Awards. We have created an extensive regulatory framework of over 20 internal documents to help integrate sustainability aspects into our management practices and day-to-day operations of our functional units. Our management systems are aligned with best international practices and standards. For many years, we have been successfully running the Corporate Integrated Quality and Environmental Management System (CIMS). In 2017 we also kicked off an efficiency improvement programme seeking, among other things, to introduce innovative management approaches. In 2020, we will continue to develop and bring our by-laws in line with the best practices in corporate governance and business ethics. Remuneration Remuneration of members of the governing bodies Key principles and mechanisms of remunerations due to the governing bodies are set out in the the by-laws of the Company.1 Nornickel’s remuneration framework is continuously and closely monitored by the Board of Directors. 102–35 102–36 102–37 The Board of Directors’ annual remuneration is set out in the Remuneration Policy for Members of the Board of Directors1 approved by the General Meeting of Shareholders. 1  nornickel.com/investors/disclosure/corporate-documents/ • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 49 The annual remuneration for non-executive directors includes: • base remuneration of USD 120,000 for the Board membership; • additional remuneration of USD 50,000 for membership in a committee of the Board of Directors; • additional remuneration of USD 150,000 for chairing a committee of the Board of Directors; • reimbursement of expenses incurred by directors in discharge of their duties. In 2019, the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders established remuneration for the Chairman of the Board of Directors, an independent director, in the amount of USD 1 mln per year, paid on a quarterly basis in equal instalments in roubles at the exchange rate of the Bank of Russia on the last business day of the reporting quarter1. KPIs used by the Company to assess the senior executives’ performance reflect the achievement of Nornickel’s strategic objectives. According to the Company’s Articles of Association, decisions on remuneration and reimbursement payable to the Company’s President and members of the Management Board are reserved to the Board of Directors. The remuneration of senior executives consists of the base salary and bonuses. Bonuses are linked to the Company’s performance, including both financial (EBITDA, free cash flow) and non-financial indicators (workplace injury rates, labour productivity). Specifically, at least 20% of collective corporate KPIs are linked to a reduction in the Group’s total number of reported injuries; in case of fatal accidents, 20–30% of the annual bonus is not paid to the heads of production units (including the COO). 1 This amount is after taxes withheld in accordance with the applicable Russian laws. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 50 Employee performance management system Performance management 103–3 404–3 Nornickel has been operating a performance management system for six years, with assessment relying on key performance indicators (KPIs), including occupational safety, efficiency improvements and capital management. The KPIs factor in cross-functional interests of process participants. In 2019, the KPI-based assessment covered 11,300 employees. The system helps streamline evaluation criteria, enables the management and employees to align the current year’s priorities with performance indicators of the Company/divisions/subsidiaries and link an employee’s performance to their pay level. The performance assessment runs as an automated subsystem of the existing MIS. As at the year-end, the system covered 28 Nornickel’s divisions and subsidiaries. In 2020, it will be rolled out at the remaining facilities of the Group. Competency management In 2019, the corporate and management competencies model was used to assess candidates at the recruitment stage, evaluate employee performance and potential, and add them to the talent pool. The outcome of evaluating the managerial and leadership potential served as a key criteria for selecting managers with strong career growth prospects. In 2019, we developed and integrated a 360-degree corporate and management competency review into the MIS as a module. The automated assessment exercise can be rolled out at all our sites to secure uniform approaches to personnel assessment and development. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 51 In terms of professional competency management, the reporting year saw us define knowledge and skill requirements for the Industrial and Occupational Health and Safety function, Polar Division’s and Kola MMC’s metallurgical operations and the operating unit at Polar Transport Division. We developed a bank of test questions and evaluated the level of employees’ professional competencies. In 2019, the Company continued to develop and train the talent pool, and highpotential executives from our facilities were trained under Nornickel’s Leaders corporate programme. In 2020, we plan to continue rolling out the automated corporate and management competency assessment system at the Company’s sites. As part of it, we will start automating professional competency management processes, while also making those related to organising and holding HR committee meetings, and selecting high-potential managers fully automated. We will also proceed with the diagnostics and management of professional skill development across our operations. Our plans include building a professional competency model for a number of functions and operations, such as transportation, HR management, geology and surveying, concentration, repairs, gas extraction and supply. About 3,500 employees are expected to complete professional competency tests in 2020. Competency assessment in 2019 Competencies Participants Outcome Assessment of potential, current Managers from a number Successors for 150 managerial performance and development of the Group’s key operations positions determined prospects of middle and top 109 high-potential managers trained managers under Nornickel’s Leaders corporate programme A 360-degree corporate and 444 managers from Development activities, tools and management competency review the Head Office functions methods selected for the participants using the in-house model and a number of the Group’s key assets Assessment of professional 635 managers and Areas for personal and professional competencies for managers and the white-collars development identified blue-collar staff at the Head Office and mining operations • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 52 Employees covered by assessment in Russia, FTEs Indicator Blue-collar White-collar Managers Group total employees employees Competency assessment Male 198 236 1,549 1,983 Female 15 108 348 471 Total 213 344 1,897 2,454 KPI-based assessment Male 27 2,058 4,208 6,293 Female 8 3,331 1,698 5,037 Total 35 5,389 5,906 11,330 Assessment of employees in Russia, % of average headcount Indicator Blue-collar White-collar Managers Group total employees employees Competency assessment Share of employees covered 0.4% 2.6% 18.1% 3.4% by competency assessment Share of male employees covered 0.5% 3.8% 19.4% 3.7% by competency assessment Share of female employees 0.1% 1.6% 13.8% 2.4% covered by competency assessment KPI-based assessment Share of employees covered 0.07% 41.05% 56.26% 15.6% by KPI-based assessment Share of male employees covered 0.07% 33.25% 52.74% 11.9% by KPI-based assessment Share of female employees 0.08% 48.00% 67.43% 25.5% covered by KPI-based assessment • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 53 Risk management framework We have put in place an effective risk management framework. Key objectives: • increase the likelihood of achieving the Company’s goals; • make resource allocation more efficient; • b oost the Company’s investment appeal and shareholder value. The risk management framework is based on the principles and requirements of the Russian and international laws and professional standards, including the Corporate Governance Code recommended by the Bank of Russia, ISO 31000 (Risk Management) and COSO ERM (Enterprise Risk Management — Integrated Framework). We have formalised our risk management structure, allocating relevant roles and duties to all employees. The Board of Directors defines the principles and approaches to organising a risk management framework and oversees its performance. 102–30 For more details on the risk (including financial risk) management framework and initiatives, please see MMC Norilsk Nickel Annual Report for 2019. We continuously improve and develop our corporate risk management framework. The key focus areas are set forth in the relevant roadmap in line with standards, international risk management practices, maturity models of risk management processes, and recommendations of the management and Board of Directors. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 54 Key risk management participants and their functions 102–29 102–30 KEY FUNCTIONS: • Approval of the Risk Management Policy • Supervising the risk management performance KEY FUNCTIONS: • Approval of the Company's Risk Appetite Statement (annually) • Continuous management of strategic risks • Reporting on Top 20 risks (quarterly) • Reporting on strategic risks (annually) • Drafting and updating the risk management methodology • Review and approval the risk management • Developing quantitative risk roadmap and assessing assessment using implementation progress (annually) BOARD simulation modelling • Review of reports on strategic and key OF DIRECTORS • Developing a business continuity operational risks (annual/quarterly) management framework AUDIT • Assessing risk management efficiency • Educating and training employees AND SUSTAINABLE (annually) in hands-on risk management DEVELOPMENT RISK MANAGEMENT practices COMMITTEE SERVICE KEY FUNCTIONS: INTERNAL RISK OWNERS KEY FUNCTIONS: AUDIT (MANAGEMENT AND EMPLOYEES) • Risk identification, assessment • Independent and impartial assessment and management as part of of risk management efficiency an integrated model (annually) • Risk management integration in business processes • Maintaining a business continuity framework • Reporting on key risks within the scope of competencies (quarterly) • Drafting risk management documents for functions • Risk-oriented decision-making • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 55 Our main achievements in risk management for the last three years: • Developing and approving a risk management package, including policies, regulations, function-level SOPs, and business continuity planning guidelines. • Listing the Group’s key risks. The Board’s Audit and Sustainable Development Committee and the Management Board regularly review a strategic risk map and a list of Top 20 risks. Following the assessment, the boards make management decisions, including drafting and approval of risk management plans. • Including key business units in the corporate risk management framework. Subsidiary risk reports are subject to analysis at all levels and subsequent consolidation in the Head Office on a regular basis. • The Board of Directors’ approval of the Risk Appetite Statement to be updated annually going forward. • Drafting and approval of business continuity plans for the most critical production and infrastructure risks. Actions to be taken under the 2020+ risk management roadmap: • Embark on risk management automation and fine-tuning early risk warning procedures based on a GRC approach. • Perform regular self-diagnostics and assessment of the risk management framework for compliance with the best global practices. • Start developing key risk indicators as part of GRC introduction. • Roll out simulation modelling to investment risk assessment. • Broaden the business continuity management scope to include nonproduction processes (IT, security, staffing). • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 56 New risk management Traditionally, new risks arise from exposure to external threats. These risks are often hard to analyse and prevent due to the lack of information. Effective control over newly identified risks is important for securing our stability in the long run, managing changes and maintaining our competitiveness in metals markets. We assess and manage new risks with due regard to their potential effects, the speed of materialisation and our actual ability to prevent and/or mitigate such risk events. New risks are identified and monitored, at the initial stage, by in-house professionals, including risk experts that pre-identify and evaluate risks in all areas of our business. Risk owners start acting on new risks following the assessment of the Company’s exposure and the necessary response measures. When dealing with new risks, we focus mainly on their prevention and mitigation. The steps we take include introducing relevant controls, such as business continuity plans for external risks that may negatively affect our production operations and business processes. These controls help strengthen Nornickel’s resilience to critical situations that occur in the external environment. New risks are subject to regular assessment, including the review and analysis of their materiality for the Company. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 57 Insurance Insurance is one of the key tools for managing risks and finances and protecting the assets of the Company and its shareholders against any unforeseen losses related to its operations, including due to external hazards. The Group has centralised its insurance function to consistently implement uniform policies and standards supporting a holistic approach to managing insurance policies and fully covering every risk at all times. Every year, we approve ensure an comprehensive insurance programme that defines key parameters by insurance type and key project. Nornickel runs a corporate insurance programme that covers assets, equipment failures and business interruptions across the Group. Our corporate insurance policies are issued by major Russian insurers in cooperation with an international broker. This helps us make sure that our risks are underwritten by highly reputable international re-insurers. The same principles of centralisation apply to our freight, construction and installation, aircraft and ship insurance arrangements. The Group companies, as well as its directors and officers, carry business and third-party liability insurance. To secure optimum insurance terms, we follow the best mining industry practices in this domain. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 58 Map of key sustainability risks Map of key sustainability risks High 2 The map of key sustainability risks defines the most 3 significant risks in terms of their sources and their Risk effect* on objectives effect on the likelihood 1 of achieving strategic goals. 4 Drafted in accordance with international risk 5 6 7 8 management standards, this document reflects changes in risk materiality in the reporting year. Low Internal Risk source ** External p R isk level higher 1 1l RiskУжесточение of toughened environmentalтребований экологических requirements Оценк vs the previous year вырос 2 Производственный травматизм 2 l Workplace injury risk с прош 3 Риски информационной безопасности q R isk level lower 3 l Information security risk 4 Перерыв в энергоснабжении производственных подразделений vs the previous year Оценк социальных 4 l Riskи of объектов power blackouts at production andпромышленном в Норильском social facilities районе по сра 5 Комплаенс–риск in the Norilsk Industrial District (NID) с прош l  Risk level unchanged vs the previous year 5 6 Социальный l Compliance riskриск *** 7 Нехватка водных ресурсов Оценк 6 p Social risk*** не изм 8 Растепление грунтов 7 l Risk of insufficient water resources по сра с прош 8 l Soil thawing risk * Риск (risk): Влияние неопределенности на достижение целей (ISO/ГОСТ Р 31000) ** Источник риска (risk source): Элемент, который отдельно или в сочетании с друг может повлечь за собой риск (ISO/ГОСТ Р 31000) *** Компания реализует комплекс дополнительных мероприятий, направленных на с (см. описание риска) * Risk: The effect of uncertainty on objectives (ISO / GOST R 31000) ** Risk source: An element which alone or in combination has the potential to give rise to risk (ISO / GOST R 31000) *** The Company is taking a number of additional measures to mitigate this risk (see risk description) • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 59 Climate risks Climate change and global warming may impact our operations in the long run. This impact may manifest in the form of weather anomalies or irreversible changes of climatic conditions. 201–2 Physical effects of climate change (physical climate risks) that may affect our operations include soil thawing and drought. As part of our management strategy, we take a series of steps to monitor and control these risks. We also take into account climate transition risk, including market-related, toughening of environmental regulations and compliance risks. With high consumption of electricity from renewable sources, large percentage of reused and recycled water and one of the industry’s lowest CO2 emission metrics, we are well positioned to keep this risk at an acceptable level. Apart from threats, materialised climate risks may ultimately bring us new opportunities due to strong demand for metals needed to build a low-carbon economy. The Board’s Audit and Sustainable Development Committee regularly analyses risk data, including information on climate change risks published in the Norilsk Nickel Group’s quarterly risk reports. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 60 Key sustainability risks This section presents key non-financial risks linked to our sustainability priorities, which are safety, security, environmental protection and social responsibility. For more details on other risks, please see our Annual Report for 2019. 102–15 Risk Description Mitigants 1. Risk of toughened Toughening of environmental requirements, including To manage this risk, environmental procedures to obtain environmental permits and the Company: requirements closer government oversight of compliance in this • implements an environmental area. action plan to reduce emissions Key risk factors: and discharges, and to ensure timely waste management; • Emphasis placed by domestic and international communities on environmental protection and • involves its employees in sustainable development; working groups of dedicated committees, regional ministries • increasing changes in environmental laws and and government agencies; regulations. On 1 January 2019, for example, the environmental permits framework saw new • takes part in joint projects with requirements on an integrated environmental nature reserves located in the permit and a new system of standards that sets out Company’s regions of operation. technological limits; • technological limits related to the treatment of mine water and industrial effluents. The Company’s strategic priorities and/or goals affected by the risk: • Ensuring the Company’s and its business units’ compliance with laws, regulations, corporate standards and business practices Risk assessment Risk Risk source Risk level effect on change objectives y-o-y medium combined none • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 61 Risk Description Mitigants 2. Workplace Failure to comply with the Group’s health and safety Pursuant to the Occupational injury risk rules may result in threats to the employee health Health and Safety Policy and life, temporary suspension of operations and approved by the Company’s property damage. Board of Directors, the Company: Key risk factors: • continuously monitors compliance with health and • Unsatisfactory organisation of operations; safety requirements; • process disruption; • improves the working conditions • exposure to hazardous factors; for its own and contractors’ • non-compliance with health and safety laws with employees deployed at the respect to timely licensing of hazardous production Company’s production facilities, operations. including by implementing new technologies, labour saving The Company’s strategic priorities and/or goals solutions and enhances industrial affected by the risk: safety at production facilities; • Health and safety • provides staff with certified stateof-the-art personal protective Risk assessment equipment; Risk Risk source Risk level • carries out preventive and effect on change therapeutic interventions to objectives y-o-y reduce the potential impact of hazardous and dangerous high internal none production factors; • regularly trains and instructs employees, assesses their health and safety performance, and conducts corporate workshops, including with the use of special simulator units; • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 62 Risk Description Mitigants 3. Information Potential cyber crimes may result in an unauthorised To manage this risk, the Company security risks transfer, modification or destruction of information undertakes to: assets, disruption or lower efficiency of IT services, • comply with applicable Russian business, technological and production processes laws and regulations with respect of the Company. to personal data and trade secret Key risk factors: protection, insider information, and critical information • Growing external threats; infrastructure; • unfair competition; • implement MMC Norilsk Nickel’s • rapid development of IT infrastructure and Information Security Policy; automation of production and business processes; • categorise information assets and • employee and third party wrongdoing. assess information security risks; The Company’s strategic priorities and/or goals • raise employee awareness in affected by the risk: information security; • Reducing the threats to information security and • protect assets using technical of cyber attacks on process control systems means and manage information access. Risk assessment Risk Risk source Risk level effect on change objectives y-o-y high combined none • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 63 Risk Description Mitigants 4. Power blackouts A failure of key equipment at the generating To manage this risk, at production and facilities and transmission networks may result in the Company: social facilities in power, heat and water shortage at key production • operates and maintains the Norilsk Industrial facilities of the Company’s Polar Division and social generating and mining assets District (NID) facilities in the NID. as required by the technical Key risk factors: documentation, industry rules, regulations, and laws; • Isolation of the NID’s power system from the national grid (Unified Energy System of Russia); • timely constructs and launches transformer facilities, timely • harsh weather and climatic conditions, including low replaces transmission towers; temperatures, storm winds, snow load; • timely upgrades (replaces) TPP • length of power, heat and gas transmission lines; and HPP power units’ equipment; • wear and tear of key production equipment and • timely upgrades and renovates infrastructure. trunk gas and condensate The Company’s strategic priorities and/or goals pipelines and gas distribution affected by the risk: networks. • Delivery against the metal production plan; timely shipments to customers; • Social responsibility: creating a safe and comfortable living environment for local communities in the Company’s regions of operation. Risk assessment Risk Risk source Risk level effect on change objectives y-o-y medium internal none • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 64 Risk Description Mitigants 5. Compliance risk The risk of legal liability and/or legal sanctions, To manage this risk, significant financial losses, suspension of the Company: production, revocation or suspension of licences, • makes sure that the Company loss of reputation, or other adverse effects arising complies with the applicable from the Company’s non-compliance with laws; the applicable regulations, instructions, rules, standards or codes of conduct. • defends its interests during surveillance inspections or in Key risk factors: administrative offence cases; • Changes in legislation and law enforcement • uses pre-trial and trial remedies practices; to defend its interests; • discrepancies in rules and regulations; • includes provisions protecting • considerable powers and a high degree of discretion its interests in contracts signed; exercised by regulatory authorities; • implements initiatives to combat • potential violation of legal requirements corruption, money laundering, by the Company’s business units. and financing of terrorism and proliferation of weapon of mass The Company’s strategic priorities and/or goals destruction. affected by the risk: • Ensuring the Company’s and its business units’ compliance with laws, regulations, corporate standards and business practices Risk assessment Risk Risk source Risk level effect on change objectives y-o-y medium combined none • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 65 Risk Description Mitigants 6. Social risk Escalating tensions among the workforce due To manage this risk, to the deterioration of social and economic the Company: conditions in the Company’s regions of operation. • strictly abides by the collective Key risk factors: bargaining agreements made between the Group’s companies • headcount / staff composition optimisation projects; and employees. In 2018, • rejection of the Company’s values by some MMC Norilsk Nickel signed employees and third parties; a new collective bargaining • limited ability to perform annual wage indexation; agreement for 2018–2021; • dissemination of false and inaccurate information • actively interacts with regional about the Company’s plans and operations among and local authorities, and civil the Group’s employees; society institutions; • reallocation of spending on social programmes and • fulfils its social obligations charity. under public-private partnership agreements; The Company’s strategic priorities and/or goals affected by the risk: • runs the World of New Opportunities charity programme Social responsibility: aimed at supporting and • partnership with regional and local authorities promoting regional public to develop social infrastructure required to create initiatives; a safe and comfortable living environment for local • implements the Norilsk Upgrade communities; project to introduce innovative • facilitating the professional and cultural solutions for sustainable social development of employees and building of the talent and economic development of pool in the regions of operation; the region. • running regular charity programmes and projects. Risk assessment Risk Risk source Risk level effect on change objectives y-o-y medium combined higher • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 66 Risk Description Mitigants 7. Risk of insufficient Water shortages in storage reservoirs of the To manage this risk, water resources Company’s hydropower facilities may result in failure the Company: to achieve necessary water pressure at HPP turbines • builds a closed water circuit to leading to limited power production and drinking reduce water withdrawal from water shortages in Norilsk. external sources; Key risk factors: • performs ongoing hydrological • Abnormal natural phenomena (drought) caused monitoring to forecast water level by climate change. in rivers and water bodies; The Company’s strategic priorities and/or goals • in cooperation with the Federal affected by the risk: Service for Hydrometeorology and Environmental Monitoring • Delivery against the metal production plan; timely (Rosgidromet) sets up permanent shipments to customers; hydrological and meteorological • Social responsibility: creating a safe and comfortable monitoring stations to ensure living environment for local communities more accurate water level in the Company’s regions of operation. forecasting in its regions of operation; Risk assessment • dredges the Norilskaya River and Risk Risk source Risk level reduces energy consumption at effect on change the production facilities, should objectives y-o-y the risk materialise; • replaces equipment at HPPs medium external none to increase electricity output by improving the performance of hydroelectric units (implementation in 2012–2021). • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 67 Risk Description Mitigants 8. Soil thawing Loss of pile foundation bearing capacity, To manage this risk, deformation of buildings and structures the Company: leading to their destruction. • regularly monitors the condition Key risk factors: of foundation beds for buildings and structures built on • Climate change, average annual temperature permafrost; increase (over the last 15–20 years); • runs geodetic control of changes • increased depth of seasonal thawing. in buildings’ positions; The Company’s strategic priorities and/or goals • monitors soil temperature at affected by the risk: buildings’ foundations; • Delivery against the metal production plan; timely • monitors the facilities’ shipments to customers; compliance with operational • Social responsibility: creating a safe and comfortable requirements for crawl spaces; living environment for local communities in the • develops recommendations and Company’s regions of operation. corrective action plans to ensure safe operating conditions for Risk assessment buildings and structures. Risk Risk source Risk level effect on change objectives y-o-y medium external none • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 68 Corporate security Nornickel is a global metals and mining leader and a strategically important company in most regions where it operates. This makes corporate security a priority area for the Group’s operations. The corporate security system is managed based on a number of programmes to maintain economic, corporate, information, facility and transportation security along with transparency in procurement and contractor selection. We pay special attention to supporting socially significant investment and environmental projects. Development and implementation of group-wide security measures fall under the remit of the Corporate Security Unit, acting in line with the Russian laws, applicable international regulations, internal standards and guidelines. We take part in major international forums dedicated to information security issues, where we initiated a project to establish regional contact groups for cyber security in 2019. In July 2019, the United Nations’ Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC) approved a resolution on combating international organised crime and its links to illicit trafficking in precious metals. To a considerable degree, it factors in Nornickel’s practical experience, including unique R&D solutions of the Company’s Office for Chemical Forensic Analysis designed to identify products containing PGM metals. In Russia, Nornickel is actively engaged in public-private partnerships to maintain high security levels and enhance social stability at its facilities and in the regions of operation. Our representatives are involved in developing proposals to harmonise the security laws. As at the end of the reporting year, we administered more than 30 drafts regulations on transport security, combating terrorism and other security aspects. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 69 Also, the Company is expanding cooperation with law enforcement and supervisory authorities. Nornickel representatives participate in public and advisory boards of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, Investigative Committee, Transport Prosecutor’s Office and the Federal Security Service, and in interagency working groups. In 2019, we carried out 57 joint drills, 178 training exercises, as well as four dedicated tactical drills together with the Federal Security Service, Ministry of Internal Affairs, EMERCOM, and the Ministry of Defence. We also piloted a system of analytical situation centres. To develop the system, the Company studied international and domestic best practices, in particular, the Secure City system. In addition, we established a comprehensive security framework at the Bobrovy Log Fun Park (Krasnoyarsk). Following the Winter Universiade 2019 in Krasnoyarsk, a number of employees of Nonickel’s Corporate Security Unit were awarded certificates of honour for their contribution to the security of sports and cultural events. The information security system of Nornickel’s Murmansk Transport Division was certified for compliance with ISO/IEC 27001:2013 international standard requirements, yet another milestone in 2019 for us. Successful certification confirms Nornickel’s strong information security practices, high adaptability and efficiency of measures taken to boost the resilience of its corporate infrastructure and production processes to cyber threats. Nornickel’s special Corporate Security Department at Moscow State Institute of International Relations (MGIMO) worked actively: in the new academic year, the department introduced a number of new special teaching courses, including International Legislation and Law Enforcement Practice in PublicPrivate Partnerships, based on the experience of Nornickel Group and other Russian corporations and relevant case studies. The department also prepared the first Russian textbook in this field called “Corporate Security Fundamentals”. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 70 Economic efficiency Economic efficiency is essential for us to meet our strategic goals and deliver on our commitments to shareholders, employees, local communities and other stakeholders. 103–3 The key factors driving the improvement of Nornickel’s economic performance are investment and profitability management, initiatives on increasing the shareholder value, and best-in-industry shareholder returns. In 2019, our consolidated revenue grew by 16% y-o-y to USD 13.6 bn thanks to increased output of all the key metals and higher palladium and nickel prices. EBITDA climbed 27% y-o-y to USD 7.9 bn on the back of higher revenue and strict operating expenses control, while EBITDA margin totalled 58%. There was downward pressure on EBITDA stemming from USD 190 mln of provisions towards the shutdown of metallurgical facilities on the Kola Peninsula. EBITDA of Bystrinsky GOK, which was fully launched in September 2019, amounted to USD 349 mln. In 2019, our CAPEX decreased by 15% to USD 1.3 bn due to the completion of a number of large investment projects in 2018. Net debt to EBITDA went down to 0.9 times as at the end of 2019. Our stable financial position is confirmed by investment grade ratings from Moody’s, S&P Global and Fitch. In February 2019, Moody’s upgraded Nornickel’s credit rating to Ваа2, outlook stable, following an increase in Russia’s country ceilings for foreign currency debt to the same Baa2 level and an upgrade in Russia’s sovereign credit rating to Baa3 (investment grade), outlook stable. Also, Nornickel received the highest creditworthiness rating according to the Russian national scale (ruAAA, outlook stable) from the RAEX (Expert RA) rating agency. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 71 As at the year-end, we had credit ratings from the three leading international rating agencies and the Russian RAEX: • Fitch Ratings: BBB– / Stable • Standard & Poor’s: BBB– / Stable • Moody’s: Baa2 / Stable • Expert RA: ruААА/Stable. In 2019, budgets of various levels saw the Group companies pay RUB 47.73 mln in fines under 412 imposed sanctions, including 21 for environmental impact, 26 for breach of labour laws, and 365 imposed on other grounds. 307–1 419–1 103–2 Financial highlights Indicator 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Revenue, RUB bn 506.1 548.6 536.8 728.9 877.8 Gross profit, RUB bn 277.0 270.8 270.2 408.2 542.1 EBITDA, RUB bn 247.3 257.3 236.4 389.2 513.7 EBITDA margin, % 50 47 44 53 58 Net profit, RUB bn 104.0 167.4 127.4 187.8 387.6 Assets, RUB bn 974.5 998.3 958.3 1,059.5 1,205.5 Total CAPEX1, RUB bn 103.3 113.6 116.7 99.2 85.3 1 Includes costs paid in Russia for new construction projects, expansion, retrofit or upgrade of existing facilities, acquisition of machinery and equipment, R&D and other expenses, as well as housing and amenity construction. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 72 Direct economic value generated and distributed1 201–1 Indicator, RUB bn 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 1. Direct economic value generated 521.2 554.9 541.0 734.6 884.6 2. Economic value distributed, 554.2 512.7 519.0 684.6 918.4 including: • Operating expenses 175.7 194.6 194.1 228.5 239.1 • Community investments 7.0 7.4 17.7 12.9 14.4 and charity 2 • Payroll and other employee 104.5 114.2 120.4 128.8 136.8 remuneration and benefits, including payroll taxes • Payments to providers of capital 222.0 133.4 128.6 243.1 383.7 (interest, dividends)3 • Gross tax payments, excluding 45.0 63.1 58.3 71.3 144.4 payroll taxes 3. Economic value retained (1–2) -32.9 42.2 22.0 50.0 -33.8 1 Calculated on an accrual basis under the IFRS. The Company used an in-house calculation methodology developed in line with the GRI Standards. 2 Excluding CAPEX. 3 Taking into account dividends accrued. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 73 Indicator Number of Number of Amount of non-financial fines paid fines, RUB '000 sanctions Total fines and non-financial sanctions 414 412 47,732.6 Environmental laws and regulations 41 21 1,890.0 Anti-competitive behaviour and breach of antitrust laws 1 1 50.0 Non-compliance with labour laws 15 26 585.0 Non-compliance with health and safety laws 22 43 3,567.9 Non-compliance with consumer protection laws, including 1 14 320.0 with respect to product information and labelling Non-compliance with marketing (advertising) regulations 1 0 0.0 Non-compliance with regulations on the impact of products 3 3 90.0 and services on health and safety Failure to timely comply with the improvement notices issued 44 52 12,120.0 by regulatory authorities Non-compliance with fire safety requirements 15 2 380.0 Breach of sanitary and epidemiological laws unrelated to product 20 25 326.0 requirements Breach of capital construction laws 52 48 8,751.0 Breach of industrial safety laws 131 52 13,910.0 Breach of transportation security laws 12 17 780.4 Other grounds 56 108 4,962.2 • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 74 Dividend policy Our Dividend Policy aims to balance the interests of MMC Norilsk Nickel and its shareholders, enhance the Company’s investment case and market capitalisation, and ensure respect of shareholder rights. The Company put in place the Regulations on the Dividend Policy approved by its Board of Directors to ensure transparency on how dividends are calculated and paid out. When calculating dividends, we account for the cyclical nature of the metals market and for the need to maintain a high level of creditworthiness. As a result, the amount of dividends may change depending on the Company’s operating profit and leverage. Dividends paid, RUB bn Dividends paid, RUB bn 2015 154.2 2016 86.7 2017 176.2 2018 218.9 2019 265.2 0 50 100 150 200 250 300 • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 75 Stakeholder engagement Stakeholders and interaction mechanisms Effective engagement with a wide range of stakeholders is a strong contributor to Nornickel’s strategy. 102–21 102–40 102–42 102–43 As part of our operations, we seek to align and balance the interests of all stakeholders and make sure that we fully and timely disclose any material information and respond to any queries. Our key stakeholders are employees, shareholders, investors, business partners, national and local government authorities, local communities, Russian and international non-profit organisations. We identify stakeholders based on the extent to which they interact, share interests and communicate with the Company. At the centre of MMC Norilsk Nickel’s interaction with various groups of stakeholders is the Company’s evolving practice of ongoing dialogue in line with the international stakeholder engagement standards and accountability principles1, as well as the GRI guidelines. Stakeholder engagement principles and procedures are set out in MMC Norilsk Nickel’s Business Ethics Code2. The Transparency Policy of MMC Norilsk Nickel aims to provide stakeholders with complete and accurate information about our activities and ensure proper feedback. 1 AA1000AP (AA1000 Accountability Principles), AA1000SES (AA1000 Stakeholder Engagement Standard). 2 Please see the corporate website at nornickel.com/investors/disclosure/corporate-documents/. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 76 Stakeholder map 1 Effect of Nornickel Group’s operations on the stakeholder Effect of the stakeholder on Nornickel Group Russian and international Company employees Shareholders sports organisations and investors 3.0 Non-profit 2.89 2.9 organisation Investment banks (brokers) 2.522,5 2.63 Industry Analytical and rating 2.0 unions agencies 2.19 1.63 1.5 1.75 1.57 2.13 Business Suppliers associations 1.70 1.0 and contractors 1.48 1.18 0.98 1.32 2.30 Local 2.15 1.72 0.5 communities 1.5 and civil society organisations 2.35 1.72 2.29 2.56 Customers across the Company's 1.06 1.31 geographies 1.83 1.08 2.04 State-run educational 1.63 Russian 1.30 institutions 1.18 Federation 2.09 2.08 in the Company's 1.35 Council regions of operation 1.76 2.21 Territorial offices 1.74 Russian State of federal government 2.11 2.48 Duma 2.18 agencies 2.39 Local authorities Russian Government Regional government Federal ministries, authorities Russian Trilateral Commission agencies and services on the Regulation of Social and Labour Relations ENG 1  The map was put together based on surveying more than 70 of the Company’s managers and employees, as well as external stakeholders. About the Group Strategy • Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 77 102–44 Stakeholders Key interests Interaction Key interaction events of stakeholders mechanisms in 2019 Personnel Company • Social benefits and • Joint commissions, • Signing an interregional employees guarantees committees and working cross-industry groups agreement for the • Decent salaries key players of the • Discussions with trade • Favourable working copper and nickel and unions and labour councils conditions supporting industries for • Offices for operating, 2019–2022 • The Company’s stability social and labour matters as an employer (including • Employee engagement matters associated • Opinion polls survey with the shutdown of • Corporate media, production facilities) booklets, information screens and boards • Corporate intranet portals Shareholders and investors Shareholders • Capitalisation growth • Meetings (including one• Investor Day on-one meetings) and on 18 November in Bond investors • Maintaining investment conference calls London, followed by grade credit ratings Investment banks a road show in Europe • Phone calls and emails (brokers) • Dividends • Conference calls to • Disclosures through Credit, rating and ESG • Transparency of present IFRS financial presentations and press agencies information and timely statements, followed by releases on the website disclosure of key facts a road show in the USA • Road shows and Europe • The Company’s sustainable development • Investor Days • An analytical review • Timely and full disclosure of the nickel and PGM of information on the markets prepared in website of the authorised alliance with ICBC information agency and on Standard Bank the Company’s website • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 78 Stakeholders Key interests Interaction Key interaction events of stakeholders mechanisms in 2019 Business partners Suppliers and • Accessibility of • Meetings, conferences, • Registration at, and contractors procurement procedures exhibitions, hosting interaction through, the and awareness negotiations Shipment Notice Portal • Automated procurement platform (SAP-based) The Company’s • Product quality • Organising meetings • Audit of Kola MMC customers by Boliden as part of • Packaging and labelling • Annual customer surveys sustainable development • Delivery terms • Working with customers and responsible supply on matters of product policies (second party • Information support of quality audit) transactions • Processing customer • Customer tests of • Sustainable growth of complaints and grievances products with enhanced sales markets • Official meetings, properties • Registration of products conferences, exhibitions • Cobalt listing on the in sales markets • Working with customers London Metals Exchange in connection with the consumption and market growth prospects analysis • Working with regulators and exchanges • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 79 Stakeholders Key interests Interaction Key interaction events of stakeholders mechanisms in 2019 Federal authorities Russian Federation • Regulatory improvement • Working and expert • Signing an agreement Council in different areas groups, commissions and on interaction and committees cooperation in natural Russian State Duma • Environmental protection resource management • Public events Russian Government • Support for domestic with the Government producers • Permits and licences of the Krasnoyarsk Federal ministries, agencies and services • Stability in taxes • Intergovernmental Territory, Federal commissions Service for Supervision Russian Trilateral • Strengthening of Natural Resources, Commission on the enterprises’ economic and the Ministry of Regulation of Social security Natural Resources and and Labour Relations Environment of Russia • Signing agreements on interaction and cooperation with the Federal Agency for Fishery Regional government authorities and local communities Regional government • Stability in taxes • Working and expert • 29th International Winter authorities groups, commissions, Universiade of 2019 • Environmental impact committees and councils in Krasnoyarsk with Local authorities regulation Nornickel as a partner • Cooperation agreements Territorial offices • Social stability support of federal government across the Company’s • Development plans for agencies geographies the Company’s regions of operation State-run educational • Support for domestic institutions in the producers • Corporate and partnership Company’s regions programmes and projects • Training highly skilled of operation professionals to meet • Forums, conferences, Local communities business needs fairs, and round table and civil society discussions organisations in the • Joint inspections, drills and Company’s regions training exercises of operation • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 80 Stakeholders Key interests Interaction Key interaction events of stakeholders mechanisms in 2019 Russian and international non-profit organisations Business associations • Information exchange • Involvement in the • Hosting the 8th work of committees Ecological Forum Industry unions • Removal of administrative and commissions of themed «Corporate barriers Non-profit organisation Russian and international Responsibility to the • Support for domestic organisations Future. Technology for Russian and producers Society and Nature» international sports • Joint projects organisations • Stability in taxes • Signing of a joint • Events (meetings, round • Environmental protection declaration with table discussions, and industrial ecology the United Nations conferences and Industrial Development competitions) Organisation (UNIDO) to • Membership in governing run projects together, bodies and committees including those on green • Opinions, proposals, technologies in the requests metals industry • Signing of a cooperation agreement with the SME Corporation at the Russian Investment Forum to support small and medium-sized enterprises • Participation in drafting of a resolution by the United Nations Economic and Social Council on combating transnational organised crime and its links to illicit trafficking in precious metals • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 81 Dialogue with shareholders and investors The authorised capital of MMC Norilsk Nickel is made up of 158,245,476 ordinary shares with an aggregate market value of USD 48.3 bn as at 31 December 2019, representing a 62.6% increase year-on-year. The Company’s ordinary shares are traded on the Moscow Exchange (ticker symbol: GMKN), while ADRs are traded in the electronic trading system of OTC markets of the London Stock Exchange (ticker symbol: MNOD), on the US OTC market (ticker symbol: NILSY) and other stock exchanges. 102–5 102–10 2019 saw a number of changes in the shareholding structure. En+ Group Plc (later renamed into EN+ GROUP International public joint-stock company — EN+ GROUP IPJSC) acquired a controlling stake in UC Rusal Plc, which, either directly or indirectly, holds 27.8% in the Company’s authorised capital. As a result, holdings of the major shareholders as at the end of 2019 were as follows: 34.6% was held by Olderfrey Holdings Ltd and 27.8% by EN+ GROUP IPJSC, while shares and ADRs in free float held by institutional and private investors from Russia, the USA, Europe, Asia, and elsewhere represented 37.6% of the capital. In 2019, Nornickel continued its efforts to diversify the shareholder base and attract new shareholders, organising around 300 meetings with institutional investors, Investor Day in London, and conference calls to present IFRS financial statements, followed by road shows in the USA and Europe. Shareholding structure as at 31 December 2019 Olderferey Holdings Ltd* 34.6 EN+ GROUP IP JSC 27.8 Free float 37.6 0 10 20 30 40 50 Number of dialogue participants as part of the 2019 Sustainability Report campaign, ppl 1 External stakeholders 2015 21 2016 29 2017 23 2018 65 * Has the right to dispose of the share indirectly (through controlled entities) 2019 63 • 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 82 Internal stakeholders Responsible investment As more and more investors and asset managers makes choices and decisions based on responsible investment principles linked to environmental, social and governance (ESG) factors, we held around 25 meetings with ESG investors in 2019. In order to improve relations with responsible investors, analysts and agencies that evaluate companies using ESG criteria, we created a separate section on the corporate website, ESG Strategy1, with all pertinent information: Our key ESG ratings in 2019: • ISS improved the Company’s Environmental and Social ratings to 2 and affirmed the Corporate Governance rating at 4 (1 and 10 standing for low and high risk, respectively); • inclusion of Nornickel’s shares in the FTSE4Good Emerging Index confirmed, with a score of 3.0 out of 5; • ESG score by the Robeco SAM investment company improved to 37 (vs 27 in 2018); • MSCI ESG rating affirmed at B; • Sustainalytics: the Company remains rated an Average Performer, with the total score reduced to 67 (vs 69 in 2018). ESG assessment: the largest ratings and initiatives *  nornickel.ru/investors/esg/ • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 83 Dialogue with employees 103–2 As a way to improve awareness, shape a better understanding of the Company’s goals and values, and enhance the level of trust between the team and the management, we are running a number of initiatives to establish a dialogue between senior executives and the personnel. The following activities were held as part of the project in 2019: • 30 corporate dialogues • 35 communication training sessions covering more than 400 managers • 270 informal meetings • Norilsk Live, a Q&A session with the Company’s Vice Presidents • 6 video interviews with Vice Presidents A total of 5,500 Nornickel employees participated in the initiative. For more details, please see the Labour Relations section. Dialogue with authorities and non-profit organisations 103–2 Stringent compliance with Russian laws and regional and municipal regulations, respect for mutual interests, and social responsibility are at the heart of our relations with federal and local government authorities and non-profit organisations. Following the information transparency principle, we have initiated an open dialogue with local authorities to build constructive and effective cooperation. The Company is represented in 23 committees, commissions, expert and working groups established by governmental bodies in association with the business community, thus supporting socially important projects. Our representatives take part in parliamentary sessions and round table discussions organised by the Federation Council and State Duma of the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation, Government of the Russian Federation, Russian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, Chamber of Commerce and Industry of the Russian Federation, Association of Managers, etc. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 84 We take an active part in conferences, forums and business events involving policymakers and government officials, drafting hands-on proposals to optimise and develop the legal framework. Our top management regularly attends regional authorities’ public meetings to report on the results and plans of Nornickel. In December 2019, Dmitry Pristanskov, State Secretary — Vice President and Head of GR, spoke in front of the Legislative Assembly of the Krasnoyarsk Territory to present preliminary results of MMC Norilsk Nickel’s performance for nine months of 2019 and plans going forward. Over the past year, we backed a number of large international and domestic conferences and forums: • Research and Practice Conference “Transport Safety Formula. Law. Knowledge. Practice”; • 2nd Industry Conference “Water Transportation Safety”; • International Forum “Security and Safety Technologies”; • Conference “Fourth Industrial Revolution. Industry and Environment” (Norway); • Krasnoyarsk Economic Forum; • International Forum on Information Security in Garmisch-Partenkirchen (Germany); • Forum of the Central American Parliament on International Information Security and Cybercrime (Guatemala); • International Forum for the Peaceful Use of Information and Communication Technologies (Havana, Cuba). • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 85 Cooperation agreements In 2019, we signed a number of agreements with federal, regional and local authorities as well as major Russian companies. The agreements covered a wide range of social and economic issues, including infrastructure projects. Key agreements Partners Subject of agreement Ministry of Natural Resources and • Activities to reduce air pollutant emissions in Norilsk (including as Environment of Russia part of the Environment national project) Federal Service for Supervision of Natural Resources, Government of the Krasnoyarsk Territory Ministry of Industry and Trade of Russia and • Cooperation on investment projects and major environmental the Government of the Krasnoyarsk Territory protection initiatives in the Krasnoyarsk Territory Government of the Murmansk Region • Cooperation to further social and economic development of the region, development of territories in the Murmansk Region and improvement of the quality of life in the cities across Nornickel’s footprint Administration of the Tula Region • Cooperation in promoting promising sports projects, including construction of a sports centre in the Tula Region Federal Agency for Fishery • Cooperation in conserving aquatic biological resources in the regions of the Company’s operations, sharing aquaculture research data, joint workshops and other training activities Federal State Unitary Enterprise Atomflot • Cooperation in providing ice-breaking services in the Russian region of the Arctic • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 86 Relocation programme Since 2011, together with federal and regional government authorities we have been contributing to a long-term targeted federal programme to relocate people living in Norilsk and Dudinka to other Russian regions with favourable climate conditions. The programme provides financing to help families eligible for relocation under government-sponsored programmes and registered in Norilsk and Dudinka to purchase apartments. The programme runs from 2011 to 2020. Nornickel participates in the programme as a benefactor, with its donation totalling RUB 7.8 bn as at the end of 2019. During 2011–2019, more than 7,500 families purchased apartments on the “mainland” and moved there. Public–private cooperation on corporate security We traditionally liaise with government agencies, including law enforcement and supervisory agencies, to ensure corporate security and safety. 103–2 Our representatives participate in public and advisory boards of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, Investigative Committee, Transport Prosecutor’s Office, the Federal Security Service, and in interagency working groups. As a member of the International Information Security Research Consortium (IISRC), Nornickel can participate in crafting of the global information security agenda. During the year, our representatives took part in international forums and conferences supported by Russia’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Security Council. Held in Norway, Guatemala, Cuba and Singapore, the events focused on the information security of business and social facilities that are critical for national economies. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 87 In 2019, we made an emphasis on ongoing cooperation with: • the Federal Security Service of Russia on anti-terrorism and anti-sabotage security of the Group’s critical infrastructure (fuel and energy utilities, transport infrastructure, etc.); • the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Russia to prevent stealing of products and materials containing precious and non-ferrous metals, maintain security at public events and promote addiction prevention and awareness raising measures; • the Federal Customs Service of Russia to prevent cross-border smuggling of metal-bearing materials; • the Russian Ministry for Civil Defence, Emergencies and Elimination of Consequences of Natural Disasters (EMERCOM) to drill emergency responses and coordination in disaster relief operations; • the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs to foster international information security and combat international crime in illegal mining, smuggling and trafficking of precious and non-ferrous metals. As part of the 28th session of the UN Commission on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice held in Vienna in May 2019, Nornickel presented its report titled “Technology Solutions to Prevent and Combat Illegal Trafficking of Precious Metals”. In 2019, we continued to strengthen our cooperation with the Security Council of the Russian Federation by contributing to the work of the National Association of International Information Security (NAIIS). The Club of Information Security in Industry (part of MMC Norilsk Nickel) is one of the Association’s founding organisations, with both Nornickel and the Russian Security Council represented in the NAIIS governing bodies. The Company forms a key link in creating a global mechanism to ensure reliability of precious metals supplies. In this area, we successfully collaborate with the International Platinum Group Metals Association (IPA), where the Company acts as the Chair of the Security Committee since 2013, and with the United Nations Interregional Crime and Justice Research Institute (UNICRI). Among other projects, we are involved the SIRIO project of UNICRI, designed to develop recommendations on improving government and industry control over mining and trafficking of raw materials containing precious metals to ensure security of supply chains in a variety of industries taking into account key changes in technologies. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 88 Environmental dialogue Measures for reducing MMC Norilsk Nickel’s environmental footprint can be always found on the agenda of the Company and stakeholders. In the course of the year, both internal and public events feature environmental discussions. 103–2 In 2019, the following items were on the agenda of various forums and platforms: • sustainable development of regions; • preservation of ecosystems across the footprint of production sites; • industrial ecology problems. • improvement of environmental laws and regulations; • promotion of best practices in environmental protection; • environmental programmes and initiatives of Nornickel. As part of the annual Investor Day held in November 2019 in London, our management updated the investment community about Nornickel’s operating and financial performance, metals market forecast, and strategic priorities, including plans to support global shift to clean mobility and a comprehensive environmental programme. For more details, please see the Development Strategy section. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 89 Ecology was also at the top of the agenda at multiple international and domestic forums backed by Nornickel and attended by government representatives, captains of industry, investors, experts, and analysts: • St Petersburg International Economic Forum; • International Forum “The Arctic: Territory of Dialogue”; • Global Manufacturing and Industrialisation Summit (GMIS–2019) (UN); • 21st International Environmental Congress “Atmosphere 2019”; • 2nd International R&D Conference “Problems of Maintaining Health and Ensuring Sanitary and Epidemiological Well-Being in the Arctic”; • Conference “Best Available Techniques in Russia: Achievements and New Challenges”; • International Conference “Technological and Organisational Innovations in Comprehensive Waste Management”; • International Conference on Managing Mining Waste; • 8th Ecological Forum «Corporate Responsibility to the Future. Technology for Society and Nature»; • Russian Water Congress; • Cross-Industry Conference “Role of Water in Industry”; • Environmental Forum “National Environment Project: State Priorities, Business Opportunities”. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 90 MMC Norilsk Nickel maintains active dialogue with various levels of the government and the professional community on matters of application and improvement of the regulatory framework governing environmental protection. In 2019, the key venues for discussion were: • parliamentary hearings on the implementation of Federal Law No. 219-FZ of 21 July 2014 On Amendments to the Federal Law on Environmental Protection and Certain Legislative Acts of the Russian Federation; • meeting in the Ministry of Natural Resources “Problems of Issuing Comprehensive Environmental Permits”; • meetings of the Russian Government’s working group on implementing the regulatory guillotine mechanism in environmental protection and use of natural resources; • meetings of the working group of the RSPP’s Committee on Natural Resources Management and Environment focusing on the use of fishery regulations to limit industrial impact on water bodies; • 3rd Climate Forum of Cities held by the Government of Moscow; • round table discussion and seminar of the Delovaya Rossiya All-Russian Public Organisation titled “Strategy of Reduced Greenhouse Gas Emissions. Global Experience and Potential in Russia”; • open discussion of the Climate Partnership of Russia titled “Carbon Tax in Russia: Reality and Prospects”; • workshop by KPMG titled “Climate Change: Risks and Opportunities Related to Low-Carbon Model Initiatives”; • annual corporate workshop «Environmental Legislation: Problems and Implementation Practices». • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 91 Our representatives are closely involved in developing key draft laws on natural resources management, environmental protection, environmental impact fees, environmental charges, and amendments to laws on preferential conditions for investments in the Arctic. Throughout 2019, our employees were active participants of working groups on improving informational and technical reference books on the best available techniques. In line with changes in environmental protection laws, we started preparations to obtain a comprehensive environmental permit for Polar Division and two sites of Kola MMC. The first stage was an ad-hoc review of sources of negative environmental impact and development of internal technological limits on pollutant emissions and discharges. In May 2019, the visitor centre of the Pasvik Nature Reserve hosted a meeting on bilateral Russian-Norwegian cooperation in the area of environmental protection, attended by members of the Norwegian Parliament and representatives of Kola MMC. During the meeting, the participants learned more about projects implemented as part of the Kolarctic Cross-Border Cooperation Programme and included in the Working Programme of the Russian-Norwegian Cross-Border Cooperation. The participants also noted that initiatives implemented by Kola MMC had helped reduce air emissions in the Pechengsky District by more than 40% over the past five years. Over the years, we have successfully used volunteer movements to promote dialogue on environmental protection with our employees and local communities. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 92 One of the largest and most important annual projects of the programme is the Let’s Do It! environmental marathon. In 2019, the marathon celebrated its fourth anniversary. Some of the most exciting events of Let’s Do It! included: • large-scale environmental festival comprising a give-away shop, lecture club, and a venue to exchange plastic for environmentally friendly products; • urban improvement of a number of city spaces, including through the use of recycled materials; • new workshop on plastic recycling, where anyone can make use of a shredding machine and a furnace to craft something useful out of bottles and caps they have collected. Also, the 2019 environmental marathon saw a variety of environmental awareness raising events, clean-up days, and other volunteer initiatives. In June 2019, we held an environmental campaign to mark the World Environment Day as a way to reduce our environmental footprint. The smelting capacities of Nadezhda Metallurgical Plant and Copper Plant were suspended for one hour. In keeping with the tradition, metallurgical operations of Kola MMC also supported the campaign as the smelting and conversion section (one reverberatory furnace, two converters and one anode furnace) of the Metallurgical Shop in Monchegorsk was idled for one hour during the day shift, along with three ore-thermal furnaces and two converters of the smelting shop in the town of Nickel. In November 2019, Kola MMC took part in the Zero Negative Environmental Impact campaign, supported by the Bellona environmental organisation and the Government of the Murmansk Region. On 29 November, ore-thermal furnace No. 3 of the smelting shop in the town of Nickel was suspended for eight hours. The temporary shutdown was used for necessary repairs with no negative impact on the production plan. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 93 Dialogue on public non-financial reporting 102–43 102–46 Each year starting from 2003, the Company has been engaging in dialogues with stakeholders while drafting sustainability reports. In 2019, Moscow-based Blagosfera community centre hosted a presentation of Norilsk Nickel Group’s 2019 Sustainability Report. For the first time ever, the Report was presented in a digital format: senior managers made a presentation live-streamed on the corporate YouTube channel. The presentation included discussions of important matters related to the Company’s efforts in sustainable development, social responsibility, environmental impact management, and community and investor relations. The live stream, which involved international and Russian scientists and experts on sustainability, was joined by residents from across the Company’s regions of operation to ask their questions about Nornickel’s major projects. The event was also attended by members of the business community, NGOs, universities, government agencies, and the media. Since 2014, these dialogues have also been staged as part of the We Are the City! social technologies forum. While preparing the 2019 Sustainability Report, we engaged in dialogues with stakeholders in Zapolyarny and Norilsk. Involved in those activities were employees of Nornickel in regions of operations, local authorities, businesses, NGOs, and experts on sustainable development. These dialogues helped identify the Sustainable Development Goals most relevant for the Company and the regions where it operates. The dialogues were held in the new format of a quiz session, with participants watching the effects of digital transformation in the context of municipalities of the North. The event discussed case studies focused on the SDGs that are most relevant for the Company’s operations in the digitalisation area, and also helped provide advice on how to deliver further progress. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 94 0 10 20 30 40 50 Number of dialogue participants as part of the 2019 Sustainability Report campaign, ppl 1 External stakeholders 2015 21 2016 29 2017 23 2018 65 2019 63 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 Internal stakeholders 2015 56 2016 50 2017 55 2018 26 2019 27 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 Dialogue participants by territory, 2019 Sustainability Report campaign, % Murmansk region 53 Norilsk Industrial District 47 0 50 100 1 External stakeholders are representatives of regional and local authorities, communities, and nonprofit organisations, while internal stakeholders refer to managers of various levels from the Head Office, Polar Division, and Kola MMC. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 95 Supply chain management Supply chain is a set of interrelated resources and processes leveraged by Nornickel to create value all the way from obtaining goods, materials and services to delivering end products to the consumers. Supply chain management at Nornickel seeks to ensure continuous operation of the Group’s companies, high product quality and reliability of shipments to customers. 102–9 We continuously improve the efficiency of our supply chain by adopting international best practices and standards and through business process optimisation and automation. Key elements of Nornickel’s supply chain LOGISTICS SUPPLY PRODUCTION SALES CUSTOMER • Procuremen Product quality • Plan management • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 96 Supply Given our diverse businesses and geography of operations, the supply management function is designed to fully cater to the Company’s resource needs in a timely and efficient manner securing seamless operation of all production units and negotiating the best available procurement terms. The importance of Nornickel’s supply function is dictated by the impact it has on: • achievement of the Company’s strategic goals. Supply management plays a crucial role in the programme to enhance efficiency and cut costs; • occupational health and safety. The quality of sourced products and timely supplies have a material impact on occupational health and are directly linked to the workplace safety; • environment. An environmental impact is exerted throughout the life cycle of sourced products (production, transportation, storage, use and disposal) and is directly linked to demand planning, inventory management and logistics; 103–2 • financial performance of the Group companies across the footprint. As we are the only or key customer for many local businesses, partnership with Nornickel gives suppliers an opportunity to ensure seamless operation of their enterprises and provides incentives for further growth; • our contribution to the professional growth and cultural development of employees. To meet the Company’s strategic environmental goals, our procurement team together with experts from other departments are looking into alternative technologies (alternative fuel and energy sources) that can reduce the Company’s environmental impact and cut costs. The current tender procedure, in particular, includes a criterion of the supplier’s readiness to participate in the Company’s alternative energy initiatives. As part of a pilot project to build compressed natural gas infrastructure in the Norilsk Industrial District (NID), we signed business agreements to purchase special vehicles that run on eco-friendly fuels (liquefied natural gas) for production sites across the NID. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 97 This pilot project is an example of procurement experts working in crossfunctional teams that implement Nornickel’s programmes and investment projects aiming to move the NID special vehicle fleet over to fuel gas. Being a part of our cross-functional groups facilitates the professional growth and cultural development of employees. This helps them pick up teamwork skills and learn to find solutions together. Information exchange within the remit of each of the Company’s business units offers different perspectives on problems, with all the opinions and interests factored in to provide a solid basis for reliable decisions. Other venues for professional skill development are trade fairs and conferences, while Nornickel’s training programmes aim to broaden employees’ knowledge relevant to their jobs in procurement (in 2019, our specialists attended the Corporate Purchases: Practices conference at Skolkovo, the bauma trade fair in Munich, and Quorum’s 15th Corporate Supply Management Conference for Procurement Directors). As part of arranging and streamlining our work on returning materials and equipment after use (dismantling), the Procurement Department works within its remit to determine the list of the equipment and materials to be returned and involve the suppliers in the programme of returning them, including ferrous, non-ferrous, and precious metals scrap and waste, for reuse in our production process. The involvement of suppliers in the Trade-in programme helps us cut and optimise our business costs. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 98 Procurement management The Company’s procurement process is certified for compliance with ISO 9001 and ISO 14001. Our procurement activities are based on formalised procedures and policies, Business Ethics Code of MMC Norilsk Nickel, the Company’s Anti-Corruption Policy, Regulation on the Product Procurement Procedure, and other by-laws of the Company. In our purchasing activities, we exercise a unified approach to both centralised procurement and procurement organised independently by the Head Office, branches, and Group enterprises. Depending on the expected purchase price, procurement can be organised either as a bidding procedure (tender), simple procurement, or simplified procurement. Procurement procedures may involve collective procurement bodies, such as the tender committee, tender commissions of the Head Office, procurement and tender commissions of the branches and Group companies. In 2019, the Company signed over 3,000 contracts for centralised procurement of materials and equipment worth around RUB 51.2 bn1. Procurement management REQUIREMENTS PROCUREMENT LOGISTICS FEEDBACK PLANNING CHANNELS AND SUPPLY Higher • Formalised procedures MANAGEMENT and policies efficiency in • See the suppliers transportation • Procurement section at nornickel.com automation • Material and technical • Conferences procurement plan • Equal competitive with suppliers opportunities • Inventory • Communications management • Combating corruption via the SRM platform framework and other abuses 1 Net of VAT. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 99 We have adopted category procurement policies. These documents outline common mandatory principles and approaches for purchasing items of a certain category and aim to mitigate operational and financial risks and costs, reduce working capital, make supplies more reliable, and improve the delivery cycle. As at the end of 2019, a total of 37 category procurement policies were in place, including three adopted in the same year. In 2019, the Company purchased ca. 53% of supplies for core operations based on category procurement policies. In the reporting year, the tender committee and tender commissions of the Head Office in charge of material and equipment purchases, full-cycle projects and IT products carried out procurement for over RUB 32.7 bn1. The Company’s tender committee focuses on improving procedures for identifying reliable suppliers of quality products at a fair market price. Stronger competition and procurement automation To handle both centralised (through MMC Norilsk Nickel) and decentralised (at the Group’s Russian business units) procurement activities, we use SAP SRM, an automated system for supplier relationship management. Seven companies from Nornickel Group were connected to this system in 2019. Creating effective feedback mechanisms, which are also SRM-based, is one of the Company’s priorities for supplier relationship development. To stay informed about and take part in Nornickel’s procurement procedures, suppliers can access Nornickel’s SRM system and talk to experts about any type of product to be purchased. Sign-up for the system is free, imposing no additional obligations and no need to use a digital signature on the users. As at the end of 2019, over 3,200 potential suppliers were registered and licensed to work in the system. Apart from that, the Company leverages independent bidding platforms, such as Fabrikant.ru and B2B-Centre. These solutions help improve the transparency of supplier selection and enhance the competitive environment as part of the procurement procedures. In 2019, the Sales, Procurement, and Innovation Unit held a conference to discuss procurement efficiency, new opportunities driven by SAP ERP, environmental and NID development projects, as well as progress towards performance improvement and lean production. 1 Excluding purchases under large-scale environmental initiatives. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 100 Supplier selection Nornickel has in place a multi-level supplier assessment system that complies with ISO 9001:2015 Quality Management System. The Company applies a life cycle costing approach to selecting suppliers, which includes the costs of ownership and subsequent utilisation, and follows formalised procedures which are based on the following principles: • equal competitive opportunities for suppliers; • comparison of business proposals from qualified suppliers according to pre-approved, objective and measurable criteria; • division of procurement functions and responsibilities by roles; • a multi-step process of procurement decision-making. • the results of the qualification-based selection and suppliers of the costliest items are approved by the collective procurement body comprising representatives from various functions of the Company. Compliance with the above supplier selection criteria makes the decisionmaking process transparent and maximises the Company’s benefits by helping to reasonably choose the best available offer. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 101 92.8% Nornickel pays close attention to developing relations with manufacturers of equipment and materials, as they ensure the Company’s ability to meet its strategic targets. We are committed to working with more local suppliers. share of domestic To this end, we developed a centralised pilot testing procedure enabling suppliers in 2019 us to promote competition and phase out imported equipment with that manufactured locally. Foreign suppliers are mainly engaged for delivering unique equipment or systems that do not have Russian alternatives. In 2019, the Company completed 24 pilot tests, 16 of which were deemed successful (including 12 pilot tests of Russian-made materials and equipment). As at the end of 2019, 22 pilot tests were in progress. The Company established crossfunctional commissions to identify promising areas for scheduled pilot tests aimed at achieving import substitution. Fig. Breakdown of the Group's suppliers and contractors, number of companies Resident Non-resident 2016 2016 540 38 2017 2017 513 37 2018 2018 457 35 2019 463 2019 36 0 100 200 300 400 500 600 0 10 20 30 40 50 Revenue from key metal salesin 2019 by region, % Nickel Europe 41.3 Asia 39.2 North and South America 12.6 Russia and CIS 6.9 0 10 20 30 40 50 Palladium Europe 37.5 Asia 29.3 North and South America 31.6 Russia and CIS 1.6 0 10 20 30 40 50 • Copper About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 102 Europe 82 In 2019, the Company’s Procurement Department and the Investment and Industry Department under the Yaroslavl Region government signed a production cooperation memorandum to implement locally developed hi-tech solutions at Nornickel sites. The meeting minutes envisage: • measures to compile a list of relevant products and their application areas/projects; • assessment of local goods’ compliance with specifications and import substitution requirements of the Norilsk Nickel Group companies; • competitive selection of vendors and suppliers; • pre-qualification of vendors and suppliers. All our procurement activities rely on the regulated procedures and policies and are in full compliance with federal laws on procurement of goods, works and services by certain types of legal entities. Supplier feedback channels To maintain an ongoing dialogue with suppliers, our website has a dedicated Suppliers page, which provides key information on the Group’s procurement principles and procedures and planned material requirements. The page also features announcements and invitations to participate in the Company’s tenders. Our procurement experts make up an active part of the professional community in relation to the respective procurement areas, attending industry exhibitions and participating in conferences organised by professional communities. Creating effective feedback mechanisms is one of our priorities in developing supplier relations. We have put in place SAP SRM, an automated solution for supplier relationship management. This gives the suppliers continuous access to information relating to the Company’s procurement procedures. Over 3,200 potential suppliers are currently registered and licensed to work in the system. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 103 Integration of responsible management and sustainable development principles into the supply chain In our relationships with suppliers, we aim to create shared information environment and values. An ESG clause is incorporated into the standard agreement with suppliers and contractors. We adhere to a number of codes of conduct applied by our business partners and devised by foreign manufacturers. Nornickel evaluates the business reputation, reliability and solvency of potential counterparties to mitigate risks. Requirements planning and supply management Material requirements are determined based on production plans and the needs of other business lines. At the planning stage, the Company defines health, safety and environment, as well as other mandatory and optional product and supplier requirements, including availability of certificates, permits, and licences. The resulting data are used to create a material and technical procurement plan. Accurate planning and availability of stock are key to uninterrupted operations at Nornickel Group. At the same time, we pursue inventory optimisation to minimise our working capital. Nornickel’s procedure for requirements planning and inventory management is governed by the internal regulation on Procurement Plan Development, Review and Approval, as well as the Implementation Standard of Inventory Management System for Materials and Supplies at MMC Norilsk Nickel. In 2019, Nornickel executives achieved further progress in improving inventory management and streamlining planning and procurement processes. Following the full-scale roll-out of optimisation across the Company’s major assets, the reporting year saw a significant decrease in surplus inventories (by 9%, or RUB 1.5 bn) for core and investment operations. Total inventories (excluding materials in transit) in the same perimeter went down 7% or RUB 4.5 bn. Our management focuses on preventing the accumulation of slow-turnover inventories by further streamlining business processes. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 104 Control of non-financial factors in supplier relations 103–2 Procurement By-laws and other Control stage control tools of non-financial factors Procurement Scope of supply/work: legal and regulatory requirements of the Company, l l l l initiation mandatory and recommended specifications of products and services, covering health, safety and environment, etc. Procurement documents: provisions for no signs of bankruptcy, overdue l l l l taxes and charges, and no criminal records in the biographies of top managers Procurement policies for certain product categories may specify quality l assurance procedures for supplies Procurement Qualification of suppliers: default risk assessment and compliance with the l l l l procedure Company’s initial requirements (scope of supply/work, specifications, etc.) Corporate Security’s checks into business reputation, reliability, and l solvency of potential counterparties Analysis and evaluation of bids submitted, including track record of similar l projects and qualifications of key employees Contracting Inclusion of an anti-corruption clause in the contract l procedure Inclusion of product and service specifications in the scope of supply/work l l l l Contract Corporate Procedure for Organising and Conducting High-Hazard l performance Operations: control over contractors’ compliance with health and safety by suppliers requirements Control over compliance with the Company’s initial requirements (scope of l l l supply/work, specifications, etc.) and environmental regulations during work and upon acceptance Key non-financial factors: l  Quality of products, l  Environmental l  Occupational health l  Legal works and services protection and safety compliance • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 105 Product quality and supply reliability 102–2 We at Nornickel Group have achieved utmost efficiency in our production operations to provide the volumes, quality, and product range1 that meet the needs of society while also fully complying with all applicable laws and HSE requirements. In 2019, the management systems of MMC Norilsk Nickel and Gipronickel Institute successfully passed surveillance audits, while the systems of Kola MMC were subjected to a recertification audit. At Norilsk Nickel Harjavalta, inspection audits focused on ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 compliant management systems, and an ISO 45001 certification audit was carried out on its occupational health and safety management system. A total of 130 employees underwent training in quality management, including 13 in the Head Office, 43 at Polar Division, 28 at Kola MMC, two at NORMETIMPEX and 44 at Norilsk Nickel Harjavalta. FACTORS ENSURING RELIABILITY AND CONTINUITY OF NORNICKEL'S PRODUCT SHIPMENTS Efficient self– developed Close coordination between Corporate cargo fleet product delivery planning marketing, production and delivery and monitoring system units ISO–certified management Feedback loop with customers Highly qualified staff system in Nornickel Group that enables prompt response to their proposals, inquiries, and complaints 1 Our products fall in the category of those that change their properties almost completely when used as intended: nickel is generally used in steels and alloys; copper is mostly used in construction and manufacturing of electric and electronic devices; cobalt is used in electrical engineering and chemical industries as well as alloy production; platinum and palladium as chemical compounds are mainly used in autocatalysts; selenium is used in metallurgy, chemical, electrical engineering and glass industries; tellurium is used in solar batteries and photovoltaics and thermoelectrical materials; nickel and cobalt salts are used in a variety of industries. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 106 We have put in place the Corporate Integrated Quality and Environmental Management System. Polar Division’s M00k copper cathodes (GOST 859-2014 and GOST 5462001) are certified in the GOST R certification system for compliance with the applicable product regulations and are registered on the London Metal Exchange (LME) under the NORILSK brand. Kola MMC’s nickel cathode brands of SEVERONICKEL COMBINE H-1Y and SEVERONICKEL COMBINE H-1 are registered on the London Metal Exchange and Shanghai Futures Exchange. In 2018, nickel cathodes were registered on the LME under the NORNICKEL brand, with the NORILSK I electrolytic cobalt following suit in 2019. With a purity rate in excess of 99.8%, Kola MMC’s premium electrolytic cobalt grades are unrivalled in Russia. Globally, only a handful of companies can match this level. Corporate Integrated Management System (CIMS) • Continuous enhancement of operational excellence • Competitive products and services OBJECTIVES OF CIMS • Guaranteed occupational safety, quality and reliability of supplies • Alignment with consumer needs and expectations • Quality Policy • Environmental Policy KEY REGULATIONS • Occupational Health and Safety Policy • Nornickel Group´s internal standards • GOST, GOST R • ISO 9001:2015, ISO 14001:2015, ISO 14001:2018, KEY RUSSIAN OHSAS 18001:2007 AND INTERNATIONAL • Rules and regulations of the European Union, World Trade STANDARDS Organisation, London Metal Exchange and Shanghai Futures Exchange • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 107 Products offered by Norilsk Nickel Harjavalta Oy, in particular, nickel brands of NORILSK NICKEL HARJAVALTA CATHODES and NORILSK NICKEL HARJAVALTA BRIQUETTES, are also registered on the LME. The Company’s goods are labelled to keep the customers and carriers informed about key properties of the products (including those meant for exports). The labelling rules are set out in product-specific regulations and take into account the GOST 4192-96 (Labelling) requirements and contractual obligations. In 2019, the Company faced no major fines for a failure to comply with product supply rules and requirements. Sales policy In sales, we seek to build long-term strategic relationships with key market players. When it comes to nickel products, our sales strategy focuses on achieving a balance between supplies to stainless steel manufacturers and to other industry stakeholders. 102–4 102–6 As the world’s largest producer of palladium, we continue to implement the strategy of entering into direct long-term contracts with end customers to ensure sustainable and strong demand for platinum group metals. For details on our sales policy, please see the 2019 Annual Report. In 2019, our customer base exceeded 400 entities (mostly industrial companies). Nornickel sells its products in all key markets, with its footprint spanning 37 countries as at the end of 2019. Customer satisfaction monitoring Buyers of the Company’s key products are surveyed to assess their satisfaction on an annual basis, while those purchasing sulphuric acid are asked to complete relevant questionnaires once every three years. Compliance with contractual obligations is audited and analysed on an ongoing basis. Survey results provide insights into the effectiveness of customer satisfaction initiatives over the past year and help identify more areas for improvement. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 108 The key to positive survey results is maintaining or exceeding target customer satisfaction level at 2.50 points (out of 3 points). Surveys must cover key customers accounting for at least 50% of total product sales. According to the 2019 survey, the customer satisfaction level stood at 2.70 points. In 2019, we received 39 complaints and grievances about product or service quality and achieved out of court settlement for all of them by meeting the demands of customers (23 complaints were deemed unfounded). As at the end of 2019, two grievances were still being processed, with remedial action plans developed to address 17 complaints (including six that had been rejected). Markets and production volumes1 Market Price Company’s environment trend production volume Nickel reduction of growth 228.7 kt market shortages Palladium reduction of strong growth 2,922 koz market shortages Platinum growth of moderate 702 koz market oversupply decline Сopper reduction of decline 499.1 kt market shortages 1 For details on the Company’s key metal markets, please see the 2019 Annual Report at nornickel.ru/investors/disclosure/annual-reports/2019. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 109 0 100 200 300 400 500 600 0 10 20 30 40 50 Revenue from key metal salesin 2019 by region, % 102–6 Nickel Europe 41.3 Asia 39.2 North and South America 12.6 Russia and CIS 6.9 0 10 20 30 40 50 Palladium Europe 37.5 Asia 29.3 North and South America 31.6 Russia and CIS 1.6 0 10 20 30 40 50 Copper Europe 82 Asia 7.8 North and South America 2.7 Russia and CIS 7.6 0 20 40 60 80 100 Platinum Europe 91.4 Asia 5.1 North and South America 2.3 Russia and CIS 1.2 0 20 40 60 80 100 • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 110 Innovations R&D and innovation play a major role in taking forward Nornickel’s strategic priorities, from expanding our production to improving efficiency and reducing environmental impact. For the most part, these key areas of development are handled by the Company’s two dedicated business divisions — Gipronickel Institute (part of the Group) and Nornickel Digital Lab. On top of that, we have an R&D Panel in place set up back in 2013 to improve the quality of decision-making in the R&D process. Gipronickel Institute is one of Russia’s largest research and engineering centres for mining, metallurgy, concentration and processing of minerals that is in charge of Nornickel’s R&D and feasibility studies. The institute is engaged in developing standard operating procedures (SOPs) as well as upgrading and supporting all key operations, including ore mining, concentration, pyrometallurgy and hydrometallurgy. Among the highlights of 2019, the United Nations Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC) approved a resolution “Combating transnational organised crime and its links to illicit trafficking in precious metals” that leveraged Nornickel’s singular technology to identify PGM-bearing items, which testifies to the strength of our R&D team. Nornickel Digital Lab was established in 2018 to focus on research based on digital technologies. The lab tracks new technologies and emerging business models, collects, collates and analyses digital initiatives, and prototypes new solutions that will help streamline our processes and eliminate production bottlenecks and inefficiencies. The lab team includes engineers with extensive hands-on experience, highly qualified mathematicians and IT specialists. In two years since inception, Nornickel Digital Lab accumulated over 130 concepts, with over 30 initiatives being under active development and 16 completed and pending potential implementation. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 111 Among the lab’s key 2019 projects was collaboration with the South-West State University to develop industrial exoskeletons for the mining industry1. Made of light and durable aviation aluminium, Nornickel’s industrial exoskeletons reflect biomechanics of human movement. They transfer the load from the human’s spine to their own metal framework. Workers put on exoskeletons over their workwear and adjust them with belts. Our initial tests showed that one worker wearing an exoskeleton is as productive as three workers exposed to heavy manual labour. Exoskeletons are most useful in operations with heavy hand tools, laying pipes, loading and unloading, and installing metal structures. According to preliminary estimates, the use of such exoskeletons may greatly improve both employee productivity and safety. The basic exoskeleton design may feature an integrated Global Navigation Satellite System (GLONASS), a sensor for load measurements, and additional lights. In 2019, we displayed our industrial exoskeletons at an advanced technology exhibition visited by Russia’s President Vladimir Putin and organised by the Agency for Strategic Initiatives (ASI) as part of the National Technology Initiative for Russia’s leadership in global technology markets by 2035. As at the end of 2019, pilot tests of exoskeletons were run at Norilsk Mining and Metallurgical Plant, Talnakh Concentrator and other Company facilities. Some partner industrial companies also had an opportunity to conduct on-site tests of our exoskeletons and provide their feedback. In 2020, Nornickel plans to continue commercial testing of industrial exoskeletons with a potential to subsequently expand their production based on the testing results and demand for this solution. 1 For more details on Nornickel Digital Lab’s projects, please see the Digital technology section. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 112 Digital technology The development of digital technology is one of the most significant trends shaping today’s economy. Digital solutions have the potential to significantly impact the global division of labour and become a key factor in increasing labour productivity in the medium term. Nornickel leads the charge among Russian industrial producers in bringing digital technology to production and takes an active part in building the national legal and regulatory framework in this area, which is also one of the key aspects of the Digital Economy national project. Vladimir Potanin, President of MMC Norilsk Nickel since 2018, has chaired the working group of the Russian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs for coordination of legislative and regulatory efforts in the realm of digital economy. The key elements of Nornickel’s digital transformation: • introduction of automated management systems; • digitalisation of mining management processes; • development of business solutions based on the distributed ledger (blockchain) technology; • other projects in industrial robotics, the Internet of Things (IoT), big data analysis, digital twins and other innovations. In 2019, we signed a number of cooperation memoranda with Russian and foreign companies from various industries and focused on collaboration with major market players to share experience in leveraging artificial intelligence, machine learning, blockchain and other advanced technology to eliminate bottlenecks and improve safety at our industrial facilities. The opportunities of the sharing economy tested by us in the course of such cooperation will enable industrial companies to monetise their know-how, while also helping them significantly accelerate innovative development and manage their internal R&D processes effectively. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 113 Digital innovation in mining management Technology Breakthrough is an ongoing programme to introduce advanced digital technology in mine engineering, as well as in planning and operational control of mining activities. The Digital Mine project is one of the key initiatives of the programme, which seeks to boost operating efficiency of underground mining by: • centralising planning and control of mining operations based on real-time data analysis; • developing an automated system for shift-to-shift planning of mining operations over a ten-day horizon. The project will bring a number of positive benefits for Nornickel, enabling the Company to enhance safety of underground operations and provide training opportunities for employees (simulation-based training, management skills training), and also supporting the creation of new jobs (such as a remote control operator of self-propelled drilling rigs / load-haul dumpers, etc.) in the long term. — We already monitor around 80% of our production processes in real time. All of our mines can effectively track their current production indicators at cycle-level granularity. We are now considering possible roll-out of 5G or LTE networks to support our dynamic production environment. This will bring connectivity to the most remote parts of the mine and enable real-time data transmission by all underground equipment. Sergey Dyachenko First Vice President and COO at MMC Norilsk Nickel: • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 114 Early in the project, communications and tracking infrastructure was set up for locating people and equipment underground, including a fiber-optic network and a wireless data transmission system, with tags worn by all mine personnel or installed in all mining equipment to track their movement. As at the end of 2019, state-of-the-art operational control centres supporting 24/7 real-time mining operations monitoring were launched at five mines of Polar Division (Oktyabrsky, Taimyrsky, Komsomolsky, Skalisty and Mayak). In 2020, Nornickel plans to launch similar centres at Kola MMC’s Severny Mine. Nornickel is also working on the Automated Mining Management System project to enable real-time performance monitoring of shift assignments, with data transmission devices installed on load-haul-dump vehicles, self-propelled drilling rigs and underground electric locomotives. The system greatly accelerates data exchange, which, in turn, can help increase the volume of ore mined, cut costs, and boost efficiency of human resource management. Launched at Kola MMC’s Severny Mine in late 2019, the Automated Mining Management System is planned to be rolled out at Polar Division’s Oktyabrsky, Skalisty and Komsomolsky mines in 2020. On top of that, many mines are now testing electronic job orders. As part of this exercise, electronic logs, which are being gradually introduced in our operations, are filled out online by our mine experts based on visual inspection and assessment of each section’s condition to record any ongoing changes. At the end of shift, these logs can be used to generate job assignments for mechanics, power engineers and other employees. Nornickel is also developing: • independent drones capable of taking video deep inside a mine without GPS guidance. These devices contribute to occupational safety; • a robotic system equipped for laser scanning and capable of autonomous navigation in the mine. The robot can do high-quality 3D mine surveying, including hard-to-reach areas, and the results can be integrated into the MGIS. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 115 Automated management systems Nornickel is actively introducing automated management systems at its enterprises to streamline procurement, financial and HR processes. In addition to covering the Company’s Head Office, Kola MMC and Bystrinsky GOK, in 2019 the SAP ERP system was also launched at Polar Division. In addition, we have developed an ERP roll-out roadmap that defines the list of enterprises to join the centralised system over the next several years and schedules respective timelines. In 2020, an SAP ERP system is planned to be launched at transport divisions and other sites of MMC Norilsk Nickel. — In 2019, Nornickel completed the roll-out of an ERP system across its operations in the Norilsk Industrial District, which became one of its most ambitious business automation projects. The project was successfully completed in just 18 months despite the impressive scale of coverage, geographical remoteness of production assets, and severe climatic conditions of the Far North. It won the gold award in the Business Transformation category at SAP Quality Awards — 2019, and we are extremely proud to see it recognised by the expert community. Sergey Malyshev Senior Vice President and CFO at MMC Norilsk Nickel: • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 116 In early 2019, Nornickel launched a project to automate insurance premium adjustments reporting based on a new HCM solution — the Report Management System (RMS). The decision to develop this system came in response to Order of the Federal Tax Service of Russia No. ММВ-7-11 / 551 dated 10 October 2016 that required the Company to report adjustments to prior-year statements to the Federal Tax Service. Its launch opens up opportunities for businesses to produce reporting without manual adjustments and reduces the time for their preparation. Today, the RMS solution is used across three of Nornickel’s enterprises, whose aggregate headcount exceeds 12,000 employees. Commercialising innovation in collaboration with SAP In 2019, Nornickel Digital Lab began cooperation with SAP with a view to commercialising Nornickel’s innovations. In the same year, the lab released two proprietary solutions built on SAP’s open source software and offered them for sale through a special platform of the German manufacturer: • conveyor contaminant video identification system for concentration facilities; • thermal imaging short circuit video identification system for copper electrolysis shops. Both solutions can help significantly increase productivity by preventing production shutdowns associated with the need to fix technical issues. The lab’s conveyor contaminant identification project won the golden award at the MineDigital Competition held as part of the MINEX Russia 2019 mining forum. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 117 Blockchain Tokenisation of assets Thanks to embracing and using distributed ledger systems (blockchain) and the tokenisation technology, Nornickel, as the industry’s digital leader, has gained a number of significant competitive advantages, including security, speed, transparency, higher liquidity of digitised assets, lower costs, provenance and confirmed quality of metal-bearing products, and a potential to attract a new class of investors. Nornickel is one of the first industrial companies to embark on the concept of selling tokenised products with ambitious goals of offering a wider range of options, managing sales policy in an efficient manner by using modern digital technologies, identifying new markets, and attracting funding on more favourable terms. The key infrastructure for data implementation will be a tokenisation platform, which is currently developed in partnership with IBM, a global IT leader. Industry majors have been invited to pilot the contract tokenisation feature. Another promising practical application of blockhain in the industry is ensuring a higher value chain transparency as part of implementing the responsible production and consumption concept. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 118 Engagement with the professional community In 2019, we joined the Hyperledger Project, a global collaboration hosted by the Linux Foundation, one of the largest and most reputable technology consortia supporting the creation of sustainable open source ecosystems. Hyperledger is an open source collaborative effort created to advance crossindustry blockchain technologies as well as to build a framework for efficient global corporate and research partnerships to promote the most successful solutions. In October 2019, Nornickel helped host Russia’s first ever Hyperledger Bootcamp, a major educational and networking event for IT professionals and startups, as well as representatives of large companies involved in IT development and support. The participants had an opportunity to get together in an informal setting to share expertise, get insights into the key open source trends and case studies, and exchange experience in new project and technology development. Among them were executives of the Hyperledger Project’s global team as well as representatives of Norilsk Nickel, Sberbank, Russian Railways, Intel, Oracle, various startups, and major educational institutions offering programmes in technical majors. Nornickel’s specialists participated in a number of sessions as speakers and invited experts. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 119 Digital talent pipeline In 2019, as part of its efforts to build a talent pipeline, Nornickel signed a trilateral agreement to launch a master’s programme in blockchain at the Moscow Institute of Physics and Technology (MIPT). The agreement was signed at the St Petersburg International Economic Forum between Nornickel, MIPT and IBM, a global leader in digital technology and blockchain. The initiative is designed to provide career incentives to students, while also supporting innovative competence building on a national scale, fostering an environment for the best practices sharing with contribution from industry leaders, and passing on IT experience to subsequent generations. — Nornickel’s strategy seeks to develop its talent pool in cooperation with Russia’s leading technical universities resulting in new competencies with a focus on digital technology. We will prepare today’s students to meet tomorrow’s challenges, so that they can joint Nornickel and help reinforce the Company’s growth and efficiency. In addition to training specialists, a newly set up educational centre will support R&D in technology and the roll-out of promising solutions across Nornickel’s projects. Sergey Batekhin Senior Vice President — Sales, Procurement, and Innovation • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 120 Transparency Enhanced transparency and reliable access to information for all stakeholders are the main principles guiding Nornickel Group in its operations. The Company has in place the following key documents governing transparency: • Information Policy Regulations • P rocedure for the Interaction between MMC Norilsk Nickel’s Officers and Russian and International Mass Media. We provide our stakeholders with material information as per the requirements of the Russian law and annually increase the scope of disclosure on all aspects of our operations, which range from production activities to social and economic projects in the regions of operation. We have been keeping up with our commitment to regularly inform the public about our strategy and mission, policies, key events and performance, as well as make clear our position on certain topics. In the application of our information policy (as approved by the Board of Directors), we are guided by the principles of regularity, timeliness, accessibility, reliability, completeness, balance, and impartiality. Our annual disclosures span production activities, financial performance, and social policy, as well as the environmental situation in areas adjacent to the Company’s facilities, including our mitigation projects and сorrective actions along with their effect on the environment. We seek to constantly improve the quality of information provided in annual reports and reports on sustainable development. The key channels used to relay information to the stakeholders and the public are the Company’s official website nornickel.com, press conferences, briefings, conference calls, and stakeholder meetings and dialogues. We make sure to explain the Company’s position on events (including emergencies) that call for comments, including through press conferences, briefings, or press releases. To that end, we have put in place an efficient media communications system. Over the past year, the number of media publications about Nornickel increased by 6% compared to 2018 and exceeded 100,000. In 2019, outlets focused mainly on the production and financial performance of the Company, our updated strategy, relations with local communities, the 2019 Universiade, the Sulphur Programme status, and social and charitable programmes and initiatives. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 121 UN Global Compact RUB 9.6 bn spent on social programmes and employee benefits in 2019 • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 122 Compliance with the UN Global Compact Our human capital is the basis of our success. With this in mind, Nornickel seeks to create an attractive employee value proposition to help its people fully develop their potential and to boost the shared sense of engagement towards achieving the Company’s goals. Achievements Recognition Standarts In 2019, Nornickel was named We are consistently building Russia’s Best Employer by Forbes our anti-corruption and in their Global 2000: The World’s compliance framework based Best Employers ranking. on zero tolerance to any form of corruption. HeadHunter ranked Nornickel No. 4 among the top 100 best employers in Russia. Numbers In 2019, the Group’s total environmental protection expenditures stood at RUB 39.5 bn. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 123 Commitment to human rights UN Global Compact Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Respect for human rights is a fundamental value for Nornickel, key to ensuring sustainable development of the Company and its stakeholders alike. As a socially responsible business, a major employer and a taxpayer operating in the territories with a mature legal culture, the Company respects and promotes human rights and freedoms in line with internationally recognised norms and practices. In particular, Nornickel complies with the applicable laws of the Russian Federation and other countries of its operations and respects both international standards for human rights protection and labour standards set out in the International Bill of Human Rights, the International Labour Organisation Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work and the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. The Company’s commitment to respect human rights is reflected in its Human Rights Policy1, and other by-laws governing HR, environmental, social and other matters. 1 Approved by MMC Norilsk Nickel’s Board of Directors on 18 September 2017 (Minutes No. GMK/31-pr-sd) • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 124 Focus area Regulations Respect for • Human Rights Policy human rights • Anti-Embezzlement Regulations • In-House Investigation Regulations • Business Ethics Code • Equal Opportunities Programme • Working Conditions Policy Personal data • Information Security Policy protection • Personal Data Policy • Procedure for Identifying and Categorising Information Assets The Company does not tolerate any forms of discrimination and does not use forced or child labour, giving every employee an equal opportunity to exercise their labour rights regardless of gender, race, nationality, origin, financial, social, and occupational status, age, domicile, religion, political beliefs, and other circumstances not related to professional qualities. The Company is also committed to addressing socially significant issues in all regions of its operations. No operations are run in, and no raw materials are procured from, areas involved in military conflicts. The Company’s President is responsible for ensuring that Nornickel respects human rights. The Company’s management and employees are committed to complying with Russian and international laws and the Company’s by-laws on human rights. The Company has a clear governance structure with a defined hierarchy for reporting and escalating concerns about human rights issues. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 125 In 2019, there were Nornickel regularly assesses the potential impact of its operations on human rights. On top of addressing human rights risks and ensuring full compliance no incidents involving with applicable requirements, the Company also implements best practices human rights violations (signs employment contracts and collective bargaining agreements, creates at Nornickel. favourable work and rest conditions for employees) and expects its suppliers and contractors to respect human rights throughout their operations. All of the Company’s new projects are vetted for compliance with national and international legislation and are subject to a comprehensive human rights review, including an impact assessment. These checks involve over ten of Nornickel’s functions. Information on alleged human rights violations is collected via Nornickel’s Corporate Trust Service, employee questionnaires, and sentiment surveys among local population. The Company guarantees confidentiality for whistleblowers and respondents. Report statistics are reviewed by the Audit and Sustainable Development Committee of the Board of Directors on a quarterly basis. Nornickel’s human rights protection process1 COMMUNICATIONS ANALYSIS AND ASSESSMENT CONTROL CORRECTION AND IMPROVEMENT REPORTING UPDATING 1 For more details, please see the Human Rights Policy https://www.nornickel.com/investors/disclosure/corporate-documents/#corporate-codes-andpolicies • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 126 Respect for human rights across Nornickel’s operations Key human rights1 Nornickel’s by-laws Nornickel’s contribution Policy Regarding Support for Small and Medium Occupational Health and Safety Policy Environmental Impact Assessment Policy Equal Opportunities Programme Freedom of Association Policy Local Community Relations Policy2 Renewable Energy Sources Policy Business Ethics Code Working Conditions Policy2 Enterprises Environmental Policy Indigenous Rights Policy* Human Rights Policy Personal Data Policy Biodiversity Policy Right to life, freedom, and privacy, freedom from arbitrary arrest In 2019, the Company’s health and safety indicators were some of the best in the metals and mining industry, with LTIFR standing at 0.32 Right to health and medical assistance Right to protection from The Company does not tolerate discrimination on any grounds discrimination Right to freedom of association The Company maintains a social partnership framework, with collective and collective bargaining agreements covering 83% of the workforce The average salary paid to Nornickel’s employees is well above Russia’s average. The Company takes steps to secure jobs for vulnerable Right to work and to fair and adequate remuneration population groups and people with disabilities. Women have equal rights to men The Company complies with the Russian Federation employment laws that Other labour rights (fair and are in line with the UN documents ratified by Russia. favourable working conditions, social support, reasonable work In 2019, Nornickel was ranked No. 1 by Forbes Russia in its Top 50 schedule, ban on forced labour, employers rating. regular paid vacations) Forced labour is forbidden 1 According to the International Bill of Human Rights, the Indigenous and Tribal Peoples Convention of the International Labour Organisation, and the Constitution of Russia. 2 The above by-laws put forward similar requirements for the Company’s contractors • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 127 Respect for human rights across Nornickel’s operations Key human rights1 Nornickel’s by-laws Nornickel’s contribution Policy Regarding Support for Small and Medium Occupational Health and Safety Policy Environmental Impact Assessment Policy Equal Opportunities Programme Freedom of Association Policy Local Community Relations Policy2 Renewable Energy Sources Policy Business Ethics Code Working Conditions Policy2 Enterprises Environmental Policy Indigenous Rights Policy* Human Rights Policy Personal Data Policy Biodiversity Policy The Company runs a wide range of training courses for all of its personnel Right to education categories, providing career guidance and targeted support to educational institutions across its geographies Child labour is forbidden. The Company respects and protects the rights of mothers and pregnant Protection of family, maternity women. and childhood Its social programmes in the fields of housing, healthcare, and culture aim to support and provide leisure opportunities for families The Company does not restrict the freedom of movement of its Freedom of movement employees. It reimburses round trip travel expenses and baggage fees as part of the benefits package The Company does not implement or plan to implement projects related Right to shelter, right to own to taking land from the population and forced relocation. No disputes with property the local population over land use were recorded The Company continuously works to reduce its environmental footprint Right to a healthy environment and implements a comprehensive environmental policy The Company supports projects aimed at preserving the traditional lifestyle and culture of Taimyr’s indigenous peoples while fostering their social and economic development. It includes organising air transportation, supplying construction materials and diesel fuel, and Rights of indigenous peoples staging festivals and cultural events. In 2019, the Company’s spending on support for indigenous northern minorities amounted to ca. RUB 31 mln. In 2019, there were no violations of the rights of indigenous minorities by the Company • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 128 Nornickel’s projects on Interaction with indigenous northern minorities support for indigenous Nornickel respects the rights, traditions, long-standing values and interests northern minorities were of indigenous northern minorities inhabiting the Company’s regions presented at the 18th of operation. Nornickel’s operations and companies located in traditional Session of the United settlement areas of indigenous northern minorities include Polar Transport Division, Norilskgazprom and Norilsktransgaz. Representatives of the Group Nations Permanent companies are members of indigenous northern minority commissions set up Forum on Indigenous by local authorities. Issues. Nornickel’s key commitments to further strengthen and develop relations with indigenous northern minorities that benefit both parties are set out in the Indigenous Rights Policy , which is aligned with the Indigenous and Tribal Peoples Convention of the International Labour Organisation. Nornickel’s commitments to indigenous northern minorities include: • respecting indigenous lands; • supporting indigenous practices of using natural resources; • engaging in renewable biological resources restoration programmes; • helping to preserve indigenous traditions; • promoting indigenous trades; • providing social support to indigenous peoples with a view to achieving modern living standards. The Company also contributes to the preservation of the indigenous languages of the North. In 2019, the Company partnered with the Year of Indigenous Languages forum in Khanty-Mansiysk, part of the UN’s international celebration. 1  https://www.nornickel.com/investors/disclosure/corporate-documents/#corporate-codes-andpolicies • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 129 In 2019, the Company’s Together with the Arctic Development Project Office and the Siberian Federal University, Nornickel is supporting the initiative to create a written language spending on support for the Enets people. This is the last people in the Siberian Arctic having no for indigenous northern written language officially. According to the census of 2010, there are only minorities amounted 221 people of that ethnicity. By now, a written language has already been to ca. RUB 100 mln. created, and we are currently discussing with federal agencies its integration into educational programmes and alignment with the requirements of the educational system. In 2019, the Arctic Development Project Office received support from the Company to publish an Enets alphabet book with a workbook for 1st grade students. Every year, organisations representing indigenous communities take part in Nornickel’s World of New Opportunities charitable programme. The Company has already supported the projects on preserving the national Dolgan and Nenets languages, promoting the Nenets oral literature, preserving national costumes, creating an ethnographic park, promoting a healthy lifestyle, and other initiatives. In an attempt to preserve the national traditions and culture of indigenous northern minorities, the Company helps stage annual professional festivals for tundra inhabitants on the occasion of the Reindeer Herder’s Day and the Fisherman’s Day and provides presents and prizes for the winners in the competitions held as part of festivities. To that end, the Company normally purchases items that enjoy the greatest demand among locals, including tents, gasoline power generators, household equipment, outboard motors, inflatable boats, GPS navigators, sleeping bags, and binoculars. Additionally, the Company is a key participant in the Northern Supply Haul programme, with its fleet delivering coal, diesel, and construction materials to remote settlements on the Taimyr Peninsula. It also supports indigenous peoples of the North by organising air transportation and food supplies. Nornickel also participates in the Comfortable Taimyr project in line with its agreement with the Taymyrsky Dolgano-Nenetsky Municipal District authorities. Under the project, the Company is to fund the construction of 2,500 sq m of housing in the Tukhard settlement, where dilapidated housing stock is a serious issue. In 2020, we will continue working on the projects aimed at supporting and developing the regions inhabited by the indigenous ethnic minorities of the North. Key scheduled projects include participation in the Reindeer Herder’s Day and the Fisherman’s Day celebrations, charitable support at the request of Taimyr and Tazovsky District municipal authorities, implementation of certain target projects proposed by the winners of the Socially Responsible Initiatives Competition in 2019, and ensuring air deliveries as part of the patronage assistance programme. The Company’s financial contributions are expected to remain unchanged. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 130 Labour relations UN Global Compact Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Our approach to HR management Our human capital is the basis of our success. With this in mind, Nornickel seeks to create an attractive employee value proposition to help its people fully develop their potential and to boost the shared sense of engagement towards achieving the Company’s goals. 103–2 KEY HR MANAGEMENT PRIORITIES Building a skilled Training and developing our staff Improving productivity and balanced team Creating a talent pool Enhancing our incentive Implementing our social system policy • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 131 To assess the quality of HR management and ensure its efficiency, the Company continuously monitors HR metrics and reviews staff costs, productivity levels, impacts of its social and adaptation programmes, and employee engagement survey results. 103–3 HR management responsibilities are allocated among Nornickel’s various governing bodies and business units in line with their terms of reference. Governing body Responsibilities Corporate Governance, Nomination • Considering HR management priorities and key internal regulations and Remuneration Committee of the • Monitoring effectiveness of the HR management process Board of Directors President • Implementing the HR management strategy Senior Vice President for HR, Social • Overseeing the development and implementation of the HR strategy Policy and Public Relations HR Department • Developing and implementing the HR strategy • Participating in the development and implementation of the Company’s social policy Social Policy Department • Developing and implementing the social policy, and social and charitable programmes HR functions of the Group companies: • Implementing HR and social policies at Group companies • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 132 Key HR management regulations: • P  rinciples and provisions of the international law, standards of the International Labour Organisation, national laws of the countries of operation • T  he Constitution and the Labour Code of the Russian Federation • Nornickel’s Equal Opportunities Programme • Nornickel’s Freedom of Association Policy • Nornickel’s Working Conditions Policy • Nornickel’s Personal Data Policy • Nornickel’s Talent Pool Regulation • N  ornickel’s Procedure for Assessing Employee Performance • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 133 Staff composition The Group’s average headcount in 2019 was 73,715 employees, of which 98.7% were employed at its Russian companies. The average headcount decrease across the Russian operations by 2.9% y-o-y was due to the continued implementation of the programme to improve productivity and reduce costs. The headcount1 of the Group’s Russian companies as at the year-end stood at 74,543 employees, with most of them working full time (>99%) and on permanent contracts (>96%). As at the end of 2019, there were 830 employees working on civil contracts. 102–8 Our average headcount Nornickel’s Russian companies Nornickel’s foreign compa 2017 2017 77,991 2018 2018 74,926 2019 72,782 2019 0 25,000 50,000 75,000 100,000 0 500 e headcount ussian companies Nornickel’s foreign companies 2017 Group personnel structure by territory 1 , % 77,991 959 2018 Norilsk Industrial 74,926 975 District (NID) Kola Peninsula Industrial District 16.8 72,782 2019 933 (Murmansk Region) Krasnoyarsk Territory 4.4 00 50,000 75,000 100,000 0 500 (excluding1000 NID) Trans-Baikal Territory 4.2 Moscow and other regions 7.7 of Russia Group personnel structure by territory 1 , % Outside Russia 1.2 Norilsk Industrial District (NID) 65.7 0 10 20 3 Kola Peninsula Industrial District 16.8 (Murmansk Region) Krasnoyarsk Territory 4.4 (excluding NID) Headcount of the Group's foreign operations Trans-Baikal Territory 4.2 Moscow and other regions 1 7.7 and external part-timers. Including salaried employees Europe of Russia Asia 16 Outside Russia 1.2 • North America 10 About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact 0 10 Regional 20 development 30 40 Australia Appendices 50 60 70 Digital Nornickel 20195134 Africa (SAR) 0 25,000 50,000 75,000 100,000 0 500 1000 Group personnel structure by territory 1 , % Norilsk Industrial District (NID) 65.7 Kola Peninsula Industrial District 16.8 (Murmansk Region) Krasnoyarsk Territory 4.4 (excluding NID) Trans-Baikal Territory 4.2 Moscow and other regions 7.7 of Russia Outside Russia 1.2 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 Headcount of the Group's foreign operations Europe 320 Asia 16 North America 10 Australia 5 Africa (SAR) 577 0 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 Personnel structure by education, % General secondary education 25.8 Basic vocational education 17.3 Secondary vocational education 20.2 Undergraduate higher education 0.2 Higher education 36.5 0 10 20 30 40 50 1 Structure of salaried staff as at 31 December 2019. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 135 Personnel structure by gender and category in 2017–20191 Category Managers White-collar employees Blue-collar employees Year/gender Male Female Male Female Male Female 2017 8,200 2,559 5,846 7,024 42,562 11,799 2018 8,017 2,639 6,047 6,911 40,502 10,810 2019 7,979 2,518 6,189 6,940 38,842 10,314 Personnel structure by gender and age, % Age Up to 30 30–50 Over 50 Year/gender Male Female Male Female Male Female % 12.4 3.7 45.5 19.6 13.0 5.8 Key personnel turnover indicators 401–1 Indicator 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Employments 15,607 15,166 11,262 14,901 13,805 Employee inflow ratio2, % 19.1 18.8 14.6 19.9 18.8 Separations 14,277 15,413 15,232 16,918 13,832 Employee turnover3, % 10.7 10.5 10.3 10.2 10.5 Voluntary turnover4, % 8.0 6.8 7.7 7.5 8.2 Employee outflow ratio5, % 17.1 19.2 20.0 22.6 18.8 1 Unless otherwise specified, the indicators included in this report represent the Group’s Russian operations. 2 The ratio of new employments to total employment as at the end of the period. 3 The ratio of resignations, dismissals for breach of labour discipline, and negotiated terminations, to the average headcount for the year. 4 The ratio of all resignations to the average headcount for the year. 5 The ratio of all separations to total employment as at the end of the period. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 136 The Company is a major employer in the Norilsk Industrial District and the Kola Peninsula and as such has a significant impact on these regions’ labour markets. In hiring personnel, we assess all candidates based on their work experience, qualifications, and education. 103–2 In 2019, the Company employed 551 new permanent staff members from other regions of Russia. The share of top executives from among local communities was 98.9% across the Group’s Russian companies in 2019. 202–2 The share of employees from among local communities1 was 99.7% across the Group’s companies in 2019. Strong employer brand In 2019, Nornickel was named Russia’s Best Employer by Forbes in their Global 2,000: The World’s Best Employers ranking: • 36th among the top 2,000 employers globally • the only Russian company to make the top 100 list The Group was also named No. 1 employer in the metals and mining industry among students and industry professionals according to Universum’s global ranking of the most attractive employers. HeadHunter ranked Nornickel No. 4 among the top 100 best employers in Russia. 1 Employees from among local communities refer to the workers who are residents of the country where the relevant Group company is incorporated. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 137 Commitment to employee rights Respect for employees and their rights lies at the heart of Nornickel’s business. The Company employees’ working hours are set by internal labour regulations approved by the Company with due regard to the opinion of the trade union. The Company has a standard working week of 40 hours as determined by the applicable Russian laws and regulations. Employees involved in harsh, hazardous and/or dangerous work enjoy a reduced working week of not more than 36 hours. Women employed in the Far North and equivalent areas are accorded 36 hours of work per week unless reduced by Russian laws and regulations. The Company arranges for accurate time and attendance control for each employee. Nornickel does not tolerate child labour in any form, including the involvement of minors below 18 in hazardous and/or dangerous work. The Company strictly complies with the applicable regulations prohibiting women’s exposure to harsh and dangerous work in the mining industry. At the same time, we provide our employees with equal opportunities to develop their professional potential. Employee performance is evaluated on a fair and impartial basis, and recruitment and promotion decisions are tied exclusively to professional abilities, knowledge, and skills. The Company implements programmes for development and social support of its employees, upholding their rights in respect of social security, education, family welfare, shelter, freedom of artistic expression, and participation in cultural life. Social partnership framework Nornickel Group companies have a social partnership framework in place, which operates to reconcile the interests of employees and their employing organisations on matters pertaining to social and labour relations. The Company performs its obligations in compliance with the Labour Code of the Russian Federation, collective bargaining agreements, the interregional crossindustry agreement for copper and nickel producers and their supporting industries for 2019–2022, and joint resolutions. We also follow the Freedom of Association Policy approved by the Board of Directors. 102–41 103–2 • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 138 In labour relations, employee interests are represented by social and labour councils and trade unions. All the Group’s major companies operating in the Norilsk Industrial District and Murmansk Region have in place social and labour councils representing workers. Chairs of the local councils make up the Social and Labour Council of MMC Norilsk Nickel and the Social and Labour Council of Kola MMC. The Group companies have collective decision-making bodies representing the employer, employees and trade unions, including collective bargaining commissions, labour dispute commissions, social benefits commissions, social insurance commissions, health and safety commissions, social and labour relations commissions, etc. The Trade Union of MMC Norilsk Nickel Employees, an interregional public organisation that includes territorial trade unions and trade unions of the Group companies, represents the Group’s employee interests on the interregional level. The trade unions of transport and logistics divisions are members of the Yenisey Basin Trade Union of Water Transport Workers (Krasnoyarsk, Russia). The Group companies are parties to 21 collective bargaining agreements covering 83% of the Group’s average headcount. As at the end of 2019, 9.5% of all the Group’s employees were represented by trade unions, while 79% were members of social and labour councils. The absence of strikes and lockouts involving the Company’s personnel testifies to the effectiveness of Nornickel’s employee interactions and its social policy at large. In order to develop interregional social partnerships, Interregional CrossIndustry Association of Employers “Union of Copper and Nickel Producers and Their Supporting Industries” and the Trade Union of MMC Norilsk Nickel Employees signed an interregional cross-industry agreement for copper and nickel producers and their supporting industries for 2019–2022. The agreement regulates social and labour relations between the employers who are members of the association and their employees and sets out common approaches to employee remuneration, compensation and benefits, work and rest schedule, health and safety, dismissals and other matters. As at the end of 2019, the agreement applied to 22 Group companies, including MMC Norilsk Nickel, covering 89% of the Group employees. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 139 Offices for operating, social and labour relations In addition to the Corporate Trust Service, the Company has offices for operating, social and labour relations in place. They are primarily tasked with response to employee queries, control of their processing, and prompt resolution of conflicts. The offices regularly monitor the climate within the teams, enabling the Company to address any arising issues in a timely manner. In 2019, the Group companies operating in the Norilsk Industrial District ran 24 offices that received some 40,000 queries from employees (74%), former employees (25%) and local communities (1%). They focused on social and working matters (75.4% of queries), legal matters (23.5%) and other topics (1.1%). Development of digital platforms and services In 2019, Nornickel launched a virtual assistant called Nika (a chat bot) — a convenient application for employees to get instant access to Nornickel’s corporate information and services 24/7. Our employees of all levels can use it on their mobile devices to view payslips for any period, check data on completed or upcoming business trips, request any employment-related or financial documents (such as employment confirmation letters, personal income tax (2-NDFL) statements or copies of employment history records), view holiday entitlement in days or the annual leaves schedule. Executives can also use the application to approve employees’ business travel requests and expense reports. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 140 Incentives and rewards Nornickel has a robust employee incentive programme with both financial and non-financial rewards designed to retain top talent and motivate our employees to enhance their performance and help drive the Company’s business growth. The use of financial rewards is governed by the Company’s remuneration policy. Nornickel’s grading system is designed to maximise its return on investment in human capital and to attract, engage and retain top talent. Grading relies on the point factor method of job evaluation that takes into account knowledge and skills, the complexity of tasks, and the level of responsibility. Remuneration package across the Group’s Russian operations in 2019, % REMUNERATION PACKAGE SALARY 92% BENEFITS 8% FIXED PART 73% VIRABLE PART (BONUS) 27% REGULAG BONUS 11% ONE-OFF BONUS 16% Remuneration policy goals Remuneration policy principles • Attract and engage talent • Internal equity — remuneration management is based on job description and evaluation in line with the existing grading system. Nornickel uses a uniform • Retain talent grading system covering all positions in the Company. • Promote a productivity • External competitiveness — remuneration is set in line with the labour market mindset data adjusted for the company’s area of activity and location and depending on • Ensure administrative the job grade efficiency and transparency • Performance-based incentives — pay level review is based on annual • Ensure compliance with legal performance assessment requirements • Simplicity of the remuneration system — pay level calculation and review procedures are transparent, and every employee knows how to improve their remuneration. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 141 Average monthly salary in Nornickel Group, RUB ’thousand 2015 84.9 2016 94.2 2017 104.1 2018 111.6 2019 118.8 0 25 50 75 100 125 150 Key compensation indicators in 2019, by region 202–1 Region Remuneration Average monthly Share of regional Minimum Statutory Social support to employees facing redundancies due to closure of production facilities package, RUB salary, RUB payroll in total monthly minimum Sanitary and amenity ‘thousand ’thousandSports and payroll, wellness % compensation wage to statutory 2019 2019 minimum 22 1 monthly TOTAL TOTAL 222 wage1, % 18 Group 0 average 50 100 150 200 250 — 300 118.80 5 — 10 — 15 —20 Norilsk Industrial District (NID) 126.6 115.7 65.0 1.0 29,328 Catering Other Kola Peninsula Industrial 104.1 86.2 12.2 1.0 25,944 2019 District3(Murmansk Region) TOTAL TOTAL Krasnoyarsk Territory 68.8 34 58.4 2.3 5 1.0 11,280 (excluding NID) 0 10 20 30 40 0 10 20 30 Trans-Baikal Territory 101.6 97.3 3.8 1.22 16,920 Moscow and other regions2 291.2 281.2 16.7 2.48 20,195 Health and safety expenses Health and safety expenses, RUB bn Health and safety expenses per employee, RUB ‘000 2017 2017 8.7 114 2018 2018 10.6 141 2019 10.3 2019 140 0 Minimum wages 5paid by the Company 1 10are gender 12.5neutral. 15 0 50 100 150 200 2 Data provided for Moscow only. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 142 Corporate culture development As part of its human resource strategy, Nornickel seeks to develop its corporate culture with a focus on improving efficiency, accountability and employee engagement. To this end, we have set up change management teams across the Group companies to develop and implement action plans to improve their staff engagement. MMC Norilsk Nickel provides expert support to the teams, which includes regular training sessions, feedback, audits, and guidelines. To increase awareness, ensure that employees are committed to the Company’s goals and values, and improve trust between workers and leadership, the Company has been implementing a project focused on building a culture of dialogue between management and staff at all levels. In 2019 — the second year of the project — we held 30 corporate dialogue sessions, 35 communication skills training courses for managers, 270 informal meetings and a unique three-hour live stream Nornickel Live with the vice-presidents answering employee questions. In total, 5,500 people took part in these events in 2019. Employee engagement and corporate culture workshops were included in the 2019 agenda of ten conferences in various functional areas as well as the curriculum of the Company’s training programmes (Nornickel’s Leaders, Pursuing Efficiency, IamHR) and enrolled over 1,000 employees. In addition, every year, we implement a set of measures to drive employee engagement. They include a corporate employee engagement survey named “Let Everyone Be Heard“ run by an international HR consultancy firm based on questionnaires and focus groups, which is followed by the review of the survey results, and implementation of improvement initiatives The 2019 survey covered more than 30 Norilsk Nickel companies and was completed by 39,300 of the total 73,000 employees invited to participate. Its completion rate exceeding 60%, which means that the results of the survey are representative of the Group as a whole. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 143 Based on the 2019 survey results, employee engagement across the Group grew by 6 p. p., with the highest growth of 10 p. p y-o-y achieved in the top management category. The survey is followed by the review of the results and development and implementation of follow-up initiatives. In 2019, over 850 such initiatives were introduced in order to improve employee engagement Employee awards To foster engagement and recognise employee achievements, the Company offers non-financial incentives and rewards of various categories and levels. These include government awards, ministry and agency awards, regional and municipal awards, as well as the awards granted by MMC Norilsk Nickel and the Norilsk Nickel Group companies. The Company rewards employees for their outstanding performance, innovations that drive growth, add economic value or deliver meaningful efficiency gains for the Group or a Group company, and efforts that go beyond formal agreements and contribute to the Company’s success. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 144 The Company has a range of corporate awards designed to celebrate employee achievements. In 2019, the Award Policy introduced nine new special titles of honour: • Best Young Talent • Best Start of the Year • Change Leader • Best Health and Safety Head • Best Health and Safety Line Manager • Best Health and Safety Specialist • Best Health and Safety Compliant Worker • Best Inventor • Corporate Life Leader In addition to a corporate award, the employee receives a one-off bonus. MMC Norilsk Nickel’s badge of honour, the highest corporate award, entitles its owner to a one-off payment, as well as a lifetime corporate pension. The best employees may be nominated for agency (industry) and government awards. The Company welcomes the recognition of its employees’ accomplishments by the government and its agencies and proudly nominates them for various awards to highlight their prodigious operational and management achievements, and significant contribution to production growth. In 2019, a total of 3,696 Company employees were awarded, including 47 and 207 employees honoured with government and ministry/agency awards, respectively; 1,262 employees receiving awards from regional and municipal authorities; and 309 and 1,871 employees granted corporate awards by MMC Norilsk Nickel and the Group companies, respectively. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 145 Personnel development Training We need to make sure that we have highly skilled and competent workforce to support the Company’ production upgrades, onboard new technology and leverage innovations. This is why continuous training plays a key role in Nornickel’s personnel development. 103–2 404–2 Our training programmes cover all functional areas and and all employee categories. MMC Norilsk Nickel has the Model Regulation on Professional Training in place, which the Group companies use as a basis to develop their internal training regulations. The Group’s employees can benefit from free staff training, retraining, skills improvement, and internship programmes funded by the Group companies. The Company engages external education providers (universities, professional development institutions, research institutes, training centres, and consultants), and also trains employees at its own corporate training centres. The Group’s key training hubs are the Norilsk Nickel Corporate University (Norilsk) and the Kola Staff Development Centre (Monchegorsk), which provide training to more than 52,000 employees a year. In April 2019, 54 managers completed the Nornickel’s Leaders corporate development programme, which focuses on project work to improve process efficiency across the Company’s business units based on lean manufacturing. Its results were presented by the programme participants to Nornickel’s leadership as part of their last training module. In September 2019, the Company launched Nornickel’s Leaders 2.0 — the second course of the programme — in response to high demand both from the employees and business leaders. It welcomed 55 managers most of whom were selected through a competitive admissions process (three applicants per place for entry in June 2019). In June 2019, we launched Pursuing Efficiency — a corporate development programme for middle management focused on training management skills, developing a leadership mindset, exploring tools for continuous improvement, and getting insights into people management practices. The 10-month programme is available in three cities, including Norilsk, Monchegorsk and Krasnoyarsk, and enrolls 139 employees. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 146 The progress of all programme participants is monitored through the assessment of their activity and engagement levels in the classroom, commitment to completing homework between the modules, project work performance, participation in online training, and other criteria. A dedicated training portal can be used by the students to view the programme calendar, choose a convenient training session date, complete the task, chat with the trainer and other participants, and check their current rating. In March 2019, Nornickel’s IamHR corporate programme for the professional development of HR employees was completed by students. It was designed to strengthen HR management capabilities, improve interaction between business lines and HR functions, and introduce the most advanced solutions and best practices in HR management. The students used their takeaways from the programme to put together a Guide to Employee Management featuring a selection of efficient HR management practices and tools. Job interview and dismissal handling workshops were part of the corporate development programmes for managers. In October 2019, the Company launched a pilot IamHR regional training programme for HR specialists across the Group companies, starting with Kola MMC. In addition, we also run a number of training programmes on corporate culture and organisational values covering all employees across the board. Managers are offered an advanced hand-on workshop of corporate culture. In 2019, over 50 workshops were held and attended by more than 500 executives. The programme translated into a much better alignment of employee behaviour with corporate values Group-wide, with a 1.5–2 times increase in average alignment revealed by the management team survey. 62% of the respondents agreed with the statement “Decisions of my direct supervisor are aligned with the Company’s values” (a 7 p. p. increase y-o-y). Our Values is the Company’s training course designed to build a roster of in-house experts to provide training in corporate values and to roll out their expertise across the Group. Following a competitive selection of candidates, we had short-listed and trained 75 internal coaches, who subsequently held more than 400 Our Values sessions for over 10,000 employees. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 147 Key personnel training indicators 404–1 Indicator 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Total training man-sessions, 63.1 70.0 95.0 87.5 90.8 including training, retraining and skill improvement, thousand • for blue-collar employees 35.3 37 54 43.3 40.5 • for managers 18.3 22 26 27.4 30.9 • for white-collar employees 9.5 11 15 16.8 19.4 Employees trained, thousand — — 46.3 44.0 40.4 Total training man-hours, thousand 5,824.1 5,666 6,630 4,508.7 4,655.9 Average annual training hours per 92.2 80.8 70 51.6 51.3 employee trained Average annual training hours 71.2 69.8 85 60.2 64.0 per employee (based on average headcount) • blue-collar employees — 77.9 95 62.2 69.2 • managers — 72.4 83 76.7 72.5 • white-collar employees — 31.9 44 38.7 37.5 Training costs, RUB mln 669.1 760 896 1,022.2 1,101.9 Costs per employee trained, RUB 10,589 10,841 9,459 11,687 12,133 • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 148 Talent pool To ensure availability of highly qualified managerial personnel for the Group’s operations, Nornickel relies on continuous professional development planning for its employees, builds a talent pool for leadership positions, trains and promotes pool members. In 2019, the Company continued to roll out the talent pool management programme for junior and mid-level managers at its Norilsk site. Our Corporate University successfully implements a training and development programme for talent pool members and their mentors based on cutting-edge education technologies and a combination of classroom and online tuition. It has also put together a compendium of essential tools and techniques for talent pool members and mentors to help build and develop employees’ leadership skills and support them along their career paths. Professional development projects for target personnel categories Target category Project Priorities Coverage in 2019, thousand employees Highly qualified “Mentor • Professional skills competitions 7.6 workers Academy” • Mentor training • Corporate forum of mentors “Recognition” • Participation of Nornickel’s best workers in WorldSkills Russia, a skills competition Line managers “Foreman • Foreman of the Year contest and quizzes for foremen 4 (foremen) University” Young employees Movement • Quizzes and contests of the NIKоNN intellectual game club 18 aged 18 to 35 of young • “Creativity” (contests, festivals and team stand-up professionals competitions) “Leader” • “Induction and Career Guidance” (support for young employees, meetings with school students) • “Initiatives” (contest of projects to address social issues) • “Leader of the Year”, an annual competition for the most promising young talent teams • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 149 In 2019, our Norilsk site facilities continued the roll-out of the Talent Pool automated management system based on SAP HCM to boost talent pool management efficiency and enable data consolidation into a single database. Over the year, Nornickel also launched a comprehensive succession planning programme for senior leadership roles at Polar Division, Kola MMC and other Norilsk site operations Career guidance and recruitment of young talent Nornickel actively connects with young graduates, students and schoolchildren as part of its leadership, internship and career guidance programmes designed to assist the Company in attracting the best talent. Our key talent engagement initiatives include the Career Start internship programme, the Conquerors of the North case competition, and the First Arctic leadership programme. We closely cooperate with higher educational institutions and have cooperation agreements in place with 25 universities across Russia. The Company prioritises the following majors: • underground (subsurface) ore mining; • mine surveying; • mineral processing; • mining electrification and automation; • mine and underground construction; • industrial and civil construction; • ground vehicles, hoisting/conveying and road machinery; • mining machinery and equipment; • power and electrical engineering; • operation of transportation vehicles and systems. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 150 In 2019, our Career Start programme welcomed 322 students who completed their field and pre-graduation internships at Nornickel’s facilities, with 93 of them subsequently hired by the Company. During the year, 90 best students were on scholarships awarded by Nornickel. In 2019, the Company launched its first-ever head office internship programme, inviting top Moscow-based students to take part in paid internships at its Moscow office. The programme showed a record high conversion rate ending in full-time employment for 78% of the interns. Nornickel places a strong emphasis on promoting engineering education in Russia, helping to boost interest in engineering careers among young people. In 2019, we supported “Cup Technical” and “Metal Cup: Industry 4.0” — Russian and international case competitions among students of technical universities. They challenged students to develop solutions to business cases dealing with Nornickel’s operations, giving them valuable insights into the Company’s business. Also, we run a number of career guidance initiatives for schoolchildren. They include Arctic.PRO R&D Winter School, Arctic Wave festival of R&D discoveries, IMake engineering marathon, School of Urban Competencies and the School Break educational project — all attended by over 29,500 schoolchildren annually. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 151 Social policy Nornickel Group offers its employees — many of whom work beyond the Arctic Circle — a wide range of benefits and social care support. They are provided on an ongoing and consistent basis, taking into account employee feedback. To make changes to the existing programmes, develop new ones or discontinue the programmes that have achieved their goals and objectives, the Company carries out a thorough and comprehensive review of the situation with due regard to its opportunities and the employees’ interests. The social package includes the following benefits and compensations: • health resort treatment and vacation to employees and their families at subsidised prices; • payment of return travel to and from a place of vacation for employees in the Far North and equivalent areas, and their families, including associated baggage fees; • voluntary health insurance; • one-off financial aid to employees experiencing certain major life events or hardships; • additional employee pensions and other types of social benefits under the existing collective bargaining agreements and internal regulations. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 152 Social expenses and benefits, RUB mln 2019 2020 Indicator Plan Actual Plan Health resort treatment and 1,969 1,907 2,011 vacations of employees and their families Reimbursement of round trip travel 3,269 3,150 3,474 expenses and baggage fees to employees and their families Pension plans 1,220 953 1,174 Housing programmes 3,113 329 3,184 Relocation assistance to new 322 150 224 employees Social projects for employees 657 898 1,057 (development of target categories, sporting events and holiday celebrations) Voluntary health insurance1 808 753 986 Financial aid and additional benefits 260 178 274 to retired and former employees and their families Other payments and social expenses 1,371 1,259 2,080 (healthcare services, severance pay, etc.) Total expenses related to social 12,989 9,577 14,464 programmes and benefits for employees 1 Including personal accident insurance. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 153 Health improvement programmes The harsh climate of the Far North and the nature of operations at the Group’s facilities require special care for the health of employees, putting health improvement and wellness programmes among the priorities of Nornickel’s corporate social policy. For many years, the Company has been implementing programmes of rehabilitation and health resort treatment for its employees and their families. Key health improvement programmes Participants Participants in 2018 in 2019 Zapolyarye Health Resort (Sochi), 13,296 14,177 including: • joint programme with Rosa Springs 2,270 3,655 Health Resort Kolsky Health and Spa Centre 1,693 1,692 (Monchegorsk) Non-corporate health resorts, including: 2,071 1,305 • Rossiya and Belokurikha health resorts 582 755 (Altai Territory) • Primorie Holiday Centre (Gelendzhik) 0 496 • other non-corporate health resorts 1,489 54 Vacations for children (including Anapa 1391 1,418 and Bulgaria) International vacation programme 6,180 5,502 (Bulgaria, China) Total participants 24,631 24,094 • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 154 In 2019, an average Co-Funded Pension Plan Programme 201–3 participant contribution Nornickel’s employees are offered an opportunity to join the Co-Funded amounted to 3.04% of Pension Plan, a corporate private pension programme. As at the end of 2019, the employee’s salary or it covered 12,300 employees across 22 Group companies, with over 5,500 the Company’s monthly retirees already receiving pensions. average of RUB 3,500. The programme provides for two pension plans: Parity and Corporate. Under the Parity Plan, pension savings are co-funded by the employee and the Company on a par (equal) basis. The Corporate Plan is designed for highly skilled employees and/or employees with highly sought-after occupations; within this plan, Nornickel finances private pension plans for such employees Participants of the Co-Funded Pension Plan, by region Indicator 2019 2019 2020 Plan Actual Plan Total participants 15,473 12,304 13,895 Norilsk Industrial District (NID) 12,688 9,972 11,103 Kola Peninsula Industrial District 2,760 2,313 2,767 (Murmansk Region) Moscow and other regions of Russia 25 19 25 Co-Funded Pension Plan highlights Indicator 2019 Total Company costs, RUB ’thousand 491,472.1 Participant’s contribution Average contribution per participant, % of wages 3.06 Average monthly contribution per participant, RUB thousand 3.5 Company’s contribution under the Parity Plan Average contribution per participant, % of wages 3.04 Average monthly contribution per participant, RUB thousand 3.5 • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 155 Housing programmes In 2019, Nornickel continued implementing a combined Our Home / My Home corporate social programme. It covers employees of Polar Division, Polar and Murmansk Transport Divisions, Kola MMC and 20 more Group companies operating in Norilsk, the Taimyrsky Dolgano-Nenetsky Municipal District and the Murmansk Region. Since the start of the programme, 3,826 apartments have been provided to the Company’s employees. To do so, Nornickel purchases ready-for-living apartments in various Russian regions at its own expense and provides them to eligible employees under co-financing agreements. The Company pays up to a half of the apartment cost (but in any case no more than RUB 3 mln), with the rest paid by the employee within a certain period of employment with Nornickel Group (from five to ten years). The cost of housing remains unchanged for the entire period of the employee’s participation in the programme. Property titles are registered at the end of the employee’s participation in the programme, but the employee may move in immediately after receiving the apartment. In 2019, Nornickel launched Your Home — a new housing programme based on similar arrangement as the Our Home / My Home programme, i.e. payment by instalments and up to a half of the apartment cost (but no more than RUB 3 mln) covered by the Company. The only difference is that the title to Your Home properties is registered right after the purchase but is burdened with a lien to be held by the seller until the employee fully pays up the entire cost of the apartment and their participation in the programme ends. The apartments are purchased by the Company in the Moscow and Tver regions and the city of Yaroslavl and allocated to employees after their commissioning upon completion of construction. Nornickel also runs the Corporate Social Subsidised Loan Programme aimed at providing interest-free loans to the Company’s employees to make a down payment and reimbursing a certain share of interest on their mortgage loan. Overall, more than 400 employees have taken part in the programme since inception. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 156 Support to new employees Nornickel provides orientation support to newly employed staff relocating to Norilsk and the Taimyrsky Dolgano-Nenetsky Municipal District, including young specialists, workers, engineering staff and managers. It also offers them financial assistance and reimburses relocation expenses, baggage fees, and living costs for the first three years. On top of that, the Company also pays a one-time relocation allowance to support employees at the new place of work. With 352 employees joining the relocation support programme in 2019, it now has a total of 1,512 participants. Sporting and mass public events programme «Nornickel promotes sports and a healthy lifestyle to recharge the corporate team spirit and maintain a positive work environment. It organises sporting events and competitions attended by its employees, their families, and the local community. We team up with various sports federations, which in turn contribute to the development of sports in the regions where the Company operates by providing training support (for coaches and instructors), giving master classes, and promoting a healthy lifestyle. The events run by the Company include the annual Polar Division Olympics, Kola MMC Olympics, Norilsk Nickel Ski Track health marathon, “Dad, Mum and I — a Sporty Family” corporate competition, swimming, ice hockey, futsal, volleyball, basketball, alpine skiing, snowboarding competitions, and sport events dedicated to the Metallurgist Day and other high days and holidays. To promote amateur hockey, Norilsk hosted the Night Hockey League in the 2019/2020 season, with 10 teams comprising Nornickel employees among the participants. In 2019, about 30,500 employees and local residents took part in the corporate mass sports events, spartakiads and sports initiatives held by the Group companies. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 157 Support of employees with disabilities The Company makes efforts to recruit people with disabilities in line with the requirements of the Russian law and ensures necessary working conditions, including work and rest schedule, annual and additional paid leaves, and specialised workspace equipment. As per the employment quotas that vary depending on the region and company size, the share of such employees may come up to 2% of the average headcount. Programmes supporting former employees and their families The ongoing support of its former employees is part of the Company’s corporate social policy. The Company’s Veterans programme has been designed to support unemployed pensioners who permanently reside in Norilsk. The terms of participation depend on the employee’s length of service or permanent disability status. Financial aid is paid from the charitable contributions made by the Company. The former employee financial aid programme establishes the amount of the benefit paid upon retirement by reference to the employment period. The Pensioner Financial Aid Fund grants financial aid to former employees who retired prior to 10 July 2001 provided they had been employed by the Company’s units for more than 25 years and permanently reside outside of the Norilsk Industrial District. The Fund relies on voluntary monthly contributions from employee salaries and equal charitable contributions from the Company’s budget. The Company also provides targeted assistance to its former employees and their families to pay for health improvement and medications, funeral services, and helping in financial distress. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 158 Improvement of social and working conditions At Nornickel, we place a strong emphasis on improving the living and working conditions of our people and strive to create a comfortable working environment. The Group companies operate more than 2,200 sanitary, amenity, sports and fitness, catering, healthcare, and recreational facilities with a total area of over 350,000 sq m. From 2003, the Group has been implementing the programme to improve social and working conditions. Since its launch, we have overhauled 279 social facilities and purchased 419 relocatable buildings, investing a total of RUB 5,539.1 mln1. In 2019, the programme covered nine divisions and Group’s Russian companies located in Norilsk, the Taimyrsky Dolgano-Nenetsky Municipal District and the Murmansk Region. They completed the overhaul of 26 social facilities, including 3 catering facilities, and purchased 11 relocatable buildings to be used by employees to change, warm up and take meals. The Company renovated a total 7,484.5 sq m and improved social and working conditions for more that 2,800 employees. Total costs amounted to RUB 662.9 mln, including RUB 557.5 mln invested in design and overhaul, and RUB 105.4 mln spent on equipment. 1 All financial metrics in this report include VAT. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 159 Average monthly salary in Nornickel Group, RUB ’thousand 2015 84.9From 2020, the programme is expected to see a considerable increase 2016 in financing, with additional funds allocated to the repairs of both social 94.2 facilities and common use areas (entrance checkpoints, entrance groups, 2017 halls, flights of stairs, corridors). To create a comfortable working environment 104.1 for our people, we are now developing a single exterior and interior design 2018 111.6 that will be implemented throughout our production facilities from concept entrance checkpoints to the individual workplaces. Planned overhauls will 2019 118.8 cover over 80 social facilities. 0 25 50 75 100 125 150 The programme is planned to be implemented in three-year periods and is estimated to cost more than RUB 4 bln over the course of 2020–2022. During this time, the Company expects to repair and equip over 250 social facilities. Social support to employees facing redundancies due to closure of production facilities Sanitary and amenity Sports and wellness 2019 2019 22 1 TOTAL TOTAL 222 18 0 50 100 150 200 250 300 0 5 10 15 20 Catering Other 2019 3 TOTAL TOTAL 34 5 0 10 20 30 40 0 10 20 30 Health and safety expenses Health and safety expenses, RUB bn Health and safety expenses per employee, RUB ‘000 2017 2017 8.7 114 2018 2018 10.6 141 2019 10.3 2019 140 0 5 10 12.5 15 0 50 100 150 200 • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 160 Social support to employees facing redundancies due to closure of production facilities In late 2019, the Group decided to shut down its smelting facilities in the town of Nickel on the Kola Peninsula with a view to ensuring compliance the environmental regulations and improving environmental conditions in the Pechengsky District of the Murmansk Region. The smelting production closure will affect 660 employees of Kola MMC (Smelting Shop and support services) and Pechengastroy. In December 2019, Nornickel developed a programme of social support for the smelting operations personnel facing redundancies, making the commitment to support them in relocating to a new place of residence, retraining, and further employment. This commitment was agreed with the Social and Labour Council and trade union organisations of Kola MMC and Pechengastroy. In addition, in 2020 the Company will launch its dedicated Nornickel Employment Centre that will focus on providing comprehensive support to the workers facing redundancy due to the smelting operations closure (including information, consulting, and career guidance support) and cooperating with the divisions of Nornickel Group, regional authorities and employers in the Murmansk Region on employment opportunities for its redundant workers. Any staff-related measures will be taken in compliance with the requirements of labour and employment legislation and our social support program. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 161 Key social support programme benefits 1. Employees re-employed by other Nornickel Group’s companies shall be entitled to: • reimbursement of rental costs associated with relocation to another city; • retention of the salary level achieved by the time of being made redundant (for a calendar year); • reimbursement of the cost of relocation for the employee and their family; • reimbursement of associated baggage fess; • priority right to participate in the Group’s subsidised loan programmes with a view to purchasing housing at the new place of work; • training / retraining / certification of qualifications for a new occupation/role at the cost of the Company; 2. Employees made redundant shall be entitled to: • severance payment of six months of their average salary (as well as additional payments for retired employees, socially disadvantaged categories of workers and participants in the Succession Programme); • early eligibility to a corporate pension for participants of corporate pension programmes subject to their eligibility to a pension based on old age, disability or long service; • reimbursement of the cost of relocation for the employee and their family; • reimbursement of associated baggage fess; • financial assistance in purchasing housing under the Our Home /Your Home programmes; • retention of the VHI policy for a calendar year from the date of dismissal. 3. The Succession Programme, which provides for the training of the employee facing redundancy by another Company employee who has reached the retirement age, with the payment of severance pay to the mentoring employee upon the training completion. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 162 Occupational health and safety Occupational health and safety is one of Nornickel’s strategic priorities. As a company engaged in mining, concentration and smelting operations, running many hazardous production facilities, and using various hazardous substances in its processes, we are aware of our responsibility for life and health of production workers, both our own and those employed by contractors. Nornickel’s Occupational Health and Safety Policy gives precedence to the life and health of employees over operational performance while also demonstrating the Company’s commitment to creating a safe and healthy environment and fostering sustainable employee motivation for safe workplace behaviour. Zero work-related fatalities and an ongoing reduction in overall workplace injuries are the Company’s key strategic priorities in OHS. Health and safety management Occupational health and safety (OHS) at Nornickel is governed by Russian laws, international regulations and standards, and internal policies and regulations. 103–2 • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 163 OHS regulations: • Applicable  Russian laws aligned with international laws, including conventions of the International Labour Organisation • Occupational Health and Safety Policy • Occupational Health and Safety Strategy • Corporate OHS standards (16 in total) • O HS sections in collective bargaining agreements for the Group’s Russian operations • Regulations and guidelines for all production processes • P roject implementation plans and specifications for repair, construction and installation works • H ealth and safety guidelines for specific jobs and types of work at all of the Company’s facilities • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 164 Occupational health and safety responsibilities are allocated among Nornickel’s various governing bodies and business units in line with their terms of reference. Governing body Responsibility Board of Directors • determining the Company’s priorities and approving the OHS plans • monitoring the Company’s OHS performance on a quarterly basis First Vice President • organising and coordinating OHS activities and COO • reporting to the Board of Directors HSE Committee • improving the efficiency of OHS organisation and prevention initiatives • strengthening managers’ and experts’ responsibility for creating a healthy and safe working environment • assessing the efficiency of OHS initiatives • improving the OHS management system HSE Department • developing OHS initiatives and monitoring compliance with the applicable legislation • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 165 Contractor safety management 103–2 Contractor operations (repair, construction and installation works at the existing facilities) are classified as high-hazard and governed by the respective corporate standard. Work permits, operations certificates and work execution plans (process sheets, guidelines, etc.) must contain safety requirements to be met when organising and performing work. The Company checks compliance with these requirements during each shift. Prior to commencement of work, contractors’ staff receive pre-job and ad hoc health and safety briefing, including security measures set forth in work execution plans. In 2018, Nornickel developed and introduced a dedicated standard to improve control and safety of work performed by contractors at its facilities. The standard sets out relevant requirements applicable to contractors at the selection stage and onwards. In 2019, we consistently implemented it and monitored compliance with its requirements. In particular, we held joint inspections of compliance with safety requirements at work, and OHS council (committee) meetings involving contractor representatives. In case of failure to comply with OHS requirements, contractors were fined. The total amount exceeded RUB 11 mln in 2019. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 166 Occupational health and safety certification As at the year-end 2019, the Group’s key production facilities were OHS certified. In 2019, the Company began preparing for OHS certification for ISO 45001:2018 Occupational Health and Safety Management System. As part of the preparations, we held external diagnostic audits, workshops for the top management and managers of different functions, as well as master classes on audits of occupational health and safety management systems, with practical training sessions for internal auditors hosted by our production sites. In addition, we developed a new Regulation on the Company’s Health and Safety Management System taking into account the requirements of ISO 45001:2018, and the certification authority conducted a preliminary audit of the H&S system documents. Kola MMC OHSAS 18001 Polar Division GOST R 54934-2012 (Russian standard identical to OHSAS 18001) Norilsknickelremont GOST 12.0.230-2007 (interstate standard identical to ILO-OSH 2001) • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 167 84.9 2016 94.2 2017 104.1 2018 OHS system development and mitigation of key risks 111.6 2019 118.8 As part of our strategic goal to reduce the occupational injury rate, the Company seeks to continuously improve the elements of its occupational 0 25 50 75 100 health 125 and safety 150 framework. The reporting year saw the Company continue implementing an automated system for OHS process management monitoring that was put on stream in Polar Division, Bear Creek and Norilsknickelremont. In 2020, it is expected to be rolled out across a number of transport, supply and fuel subsidiaries. The system is based on a modern (proactive) risk management model that Social support to employees facing redundancies due to closure of production facilities provides for active identification of hazardous factors in existing technological Sanitary and amenity processes and analysis of root Sportscauses of accidents and enables: and wellness 2019 2019 22 • reflection of real working conditions 1 and processes, identification TOTAL of the most significant risks in terms of safety for each of production TOTAL 222 operations and working areas; 18 0 50 100 150 200 250 300 0 5 10 15 20 • identification of materialised and potential risks during registration and investigation of incidents, and accounting for violations and discrepancies; Catering Other • prevention of possible incidents based on the retrospective analysis of risks 2019 3 and previous hazardous situations, accidents, incidents; TOTAL TOTAL • planning, 34control and evaluation of the effectiveness of risk5 mitigation measures. 0 10 20 30 40 0 10 20 30 Health and safety expenses Health and safety expenses, RUB bn Health and safety expenses per employee, RUB ‘000 2017 2017 8.7 114 2018 2018 10.6 141 2019 10.3 2019 140 0 5 10 12.5 15 0 50 100 150 200 • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 168 As part of a Technological Breakthrough programme launched to improve production efficiency and safety, the Company has also introduced or is at the final stage of implementing: • radio and positioning systems that control and accurately locate employees and equipment in underground mines; • 3D VR simulators for training and skill control, including in health and safety; • remote control of stationary equipment, which reduces the number of people in hazardous areas; • mining supervision and control projects designed to provide real-time information about mining operations, identify deviations and take preventive measures. To improve the safety of mining operations, in 2019 Nornickel actively rolled out solutions to minimise manual labour in unsupported areas of the mine, and implemented new methods of temporary and protective anchorage support in mines. Also in 2019, the Company installed additional protection for special-purpose machinery used for lifting workers in the process of underground capital construction and mine preparation works, and installed additional structures to prevent employees from falling from heights. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 169 Provision of personal protective equipment As the Group’s employees are exposed to hazardous and harmful workplace factors (underground work, operation and maintenance of mining equipment and heavy self-propelled vehicles, extreme climate, etc.), it provides them with personal protective equipment (PPE) in addition to implementing technical and organisational safety measures. 403–3 To supply comfortable best-in-class PPE in line with the corporate standard, the Company’s production sites run preliminary tests on PPE, including the most advanced equipment from leading manufacturers. To effectively monitor safe working behaviour, the Company makes employees with a track record of up to three years wear red helmets with the word “Warning” and protective clothing with “Warning” badges. In 2019, the Group purchased personal protective equipment for a total of RUB 2,399 mln, or RUB 39,000 per employee provided with the free PPE, including RUB 914 mln, or RUB 50,000 per employee spent by MMC Norilsk Nickel. Employees working in contaminated conditions are supplied with wash-off and decontaminating agents free of charge. Special assessment of working conditions In 2019, the Company carried out a special assessment of working conditions at Polar Division, Bear Creek, Pechengastroy, GRK Bystrinskoye, NTEC, Norilskgazprom, and at other production facilities, in accordance with the Federal Law On Special Assessment of Working Conditions. It covered more than 12,000 workplaces and over 22,000 employees, with expenses across the Group standing at around RUB 13 mln, including over RUB 3 mln for MMC Norilsk Nickel. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 170 Prevention of occupational diseases To prevent occupational diseases, Nornickel exercises regular health monitoring of personnel. Employees undergo compulsory pre-employment, regular and ad hoc medical examinations and check-ups organised at the Company’s expense. Those that have contact with hazardous materials are subject to additional examinations held at least once in five years by occupational pathology centres or other organisations authorised to conduct pre-employment and regular check-ups. These serve to assess occupational health fitness and determine if the disease is job-related. In 2019, the Group’s costs related to medical examinations and maintenance of medical aid posts amounted to RUB 294 mln and RUB 247 mln, respectively. The Company’s facilities have their own medical aid posts to perform pre-shift and pre-trip check-ups and provide medical assistance to employees upon request. To automate the preand post-shift check-up process, the Company implements an electronic health check-up system. It was put into operation at Polar Division, Kola MMC, GRK Bystrinskoye, and Norilskgazprom. The Company put in place contactless breath alcohol screening devices to prevent intoxicated employees from accessing production facilities. The devices are running at Polar Division (mines, Copper Plant), Bear Creek, GRK Bystrinskoe and Norilsk Production Support Complex. The Company provides employees working in harmful and hazardous conditions with free foods, milk, and other equivalent food products for therapeutic purposes in compliance with the applicable Russian legislation and corporate policies. In 2019, food and milk costs across the Group amounted to RUB 1,194 mln. In case of hazardous production factors identified as part of a special assessment of working conditions, the Company provides affected employees with free personal protective equipment, including respiratory protection (respirators, gas masks), hearing protection (earmuffs, earplugs), eye protection (glasses/goggles with UV filters, visors), skin protection (gloves, protective and regenerative creams, protective outwear). • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 171 OHS control and prevention To improve safety culture and prevent workplace injuries, Nornickel regularly takes control and prevention measures, including: • second-party OHS management audits (cross-company audits of the Group companies involving the OHS heads and experts from other Group companies); in 2019, we conducted 81 cross-company OHS audits, a twofold increase year-on-year; • internal OHS management audits; • OHS monitoring at each facility, including multi-phase production site control and ad hoc, targeted and comprehensive OHS inspections; • safety behaviour audits; • compliance and certification audits as part of the OHSAS 18001 management system; • independent external audits of the OHS management system and occupational safety culture Starting 2019, the Company holds the Engineer’s Day. During the event, senior managers of the production companies and divisions are engaged in issuing work orders by line managers, and assess the quality and completeness of pre-work briefing, control and prevention work, including safety behaviour audits, and line managers’ communication with their subordinates. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 172 Health and safety performance indicators for accident prevention Indicator 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Audits conducted: by health and safety committees > 33 > 33 > 31.5 > 30.8 > 30.9 >29.8 (thousand) Target audits conducted by managers, 7.7 8.4 6.8 8.7 9.7 9.6 senior specialists and committees of the Group’s facilities and business units (thousand) Ad hoc audits (thousand) 6.3 8.1 8.8 15.3 15.7 15.5 Comprehensive audits of health and safety 160 163 167 221 149 126 and relevant management systems Coupons removed from the books of 4.4 3.9 3.4 2.9 2.2 1.8 employees violating health and safety requirements (thousand) Employees subject to disciplinary action 6.9 8.3 8.8 7.9 6.8 6.3 for the violation of health and safety requirements (thousand) Employees with reduced bonus payments > 14 > 15 > 15 > 13.6 > 13 > 11.9 (thousand) Total reductions (RUB mln) > 67 > 56 > 55 > 74 > 70 > 69 Employees incentivised for health and >5 >9 >5 > 5.6 > 6.4 > 6.5 safety involvement and lower workplace injury rate as per the audit results (thousand) Total rewards (RUB mln) > 35 > 78 > 51 > 41 > 52 > 57 • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 173 Health and safety competitions In 2019, we launched team and individual competitions in occupational health and safety in line with the newly developed HSE standard. Team competitions were held across seven groups of Nornickel’s production facilities. Results of individual competitions were announced with the following awards granted: • Best Health and Safety Head; • Best Health and Safety Line Manager; • Best Health and Safety Specialist; • Best Health and Safety Compliant Worker. The Company also runs an ongoing Safe Work communications programme. In 2019, it focused on: • media support of key OHS initiatives; • demonstration of the management’s commitment to occupational safety (media publications, management meetings with employees); • updating OHS information on the corporate portal; • covering OHS competitions and announcing the best OHS manager, expert, and workplace; • making employees aware of the existing OHS situation in the Company, accidents, investigations, and actions taken. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 174 Engagement of employees in safety management 403–1 Most of the Group companies have in place joint health and safety committees (councils) made up of the management, employee and trade union representatives. The Group companies operating such joint committees employ over 66,800 people (around 91% of the Group’s total headcount). Authorised representatives of trade unions and staff in occupational health and safety (1,026 employees) were elected to participate in preventive activities across the Group’s production units. In 2019, they took part in over 22,000 audits and submitted more than 7,000 health and safety improvement proposals. Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 403–4 The Group and most of its production companies entered into collective bargaining agreements with employee representatives (including trade union organisations). The collective bargaining agreements contain relevant occupational health and safety provisions and cover over 62,000 of the Group’s employees (approximately 84% of the Group’s total headcount). OHS training One of the key strategies to increasing occupational safety is improving OHS qualifications of staff. To this end, Nornickel organises regular briefings on and training courses in occupational health for its employees. In 2019, OHS pre-certification briefing, basic training and certification covered 33,000 employees of the Group, including more than 11,000 from MMC Norilsk Nickel. The Group’s health and safety training expenses exceeded RUB 86 mln, including RUB 45 mln spent by MMC Norilsk Nickel. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 175 Polar Division, Polar Construction Company, Kola MMC, Norilsk-Taimyr Energy Company, Norilsknickelremont, Bear Creek, Norilsk Production Support Complex, and Pechengastroy use comprehensive Pre-Shift Examiner systems designed to test and consolidate the knowledge of applicable safety requirements for different disciplines. Employees are required to pass a test before starting their work shift. In 2019, we redesigned a dedicated induction OHS training course for new employees and employees with a track record of up to three years (according to the new corporate standards and methods of OHS risk identification, assessment, and management). In 2019, 3,422 employees completed training programmes. Opportunities to improve OHS qualifications are offered to managers and specialists, with Norilsk Nickel Corporate University holding dedicated workshops with contributions from an external consultant. Another notable educational workshop was held in April 2019 in Sochi as part of the Russian Health and Safety Week. It covered the production system, lean manufacturing and 5S methodology. Nornickel also actively develops interactive training. In 2018, we introduced dedicated interactive training courses for six mining jobs (LHD operator, hole driller, production face miner, electric locomotive driver, blaster, tipple operator) in order to provide health and safety briefings. In 2019, we developed and launched another six modules (crusher operator, conveyor operator, slinger, electric and gas welder, dock operator, furnace operator). Workplace injuries The Group’s Health and Safety Strategy, which was reviewed and approved by the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors in 2014, lays out plans to reduce production-related accidents in absolute terms every year, pursuant to Russian labour laws. Bringing fatal production-related accidents down to zero is one of the strategic objectives to be reached in the course of implementing the Health and Safety Strategy. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 176 In 2019, the Company failed to improve its LTIFR due to increased number of accidents reported by Norilsknickelremont (from 1 to 6), Pechengastroy (from 1 to 3) caused also by reallocation of equipment maintenance and repair responsibilities within the Group, and by GRK Bystrinskoye (from 1 to 4) as part of its ramp-up. Nonetheless, workplace injury rates in 2019 were still below the industry average and the Company average for the last five years. All workplace accidents are investigated in accordance with applicable Russian laws. Investigation results serve as a basis for developing measures to be taken promptly to eliminate the root causes. In order to define priority paths for further improvement of the corporate health and safety management system and mitigate injury and accident risks across Nornickel’s key assets, an independent company has been assessing the level of the Company’s industrial safety culture every year since 2014. During the six years, our safety culture level (a Bradley Curve indicator) improved from 1.4 to 2.77. Improvements in the safety culture metrics were driven by greater personnel involvement in occupational health and safety, OHS leadership exemplified by the management, and stronger risk assessment and management expertise. Safety culture maturity (Bradley Curve) 2.63 2.77 2.5 2.1 2.3 1.4 March 2014 March 2015 December 2015 November 2016 December 2017 May 2019 Reports received in 2019 (total 481)by type of reported abuse Payroll abuses 74 Production-related abuses 118 Technology, health and safety 99 abuses (excluding environment) Corruption 1 Commercial and contractual 37 abuses Labour disputes 98 Social issues 15 Conflict of interest (pre-conflict situation) • 18 About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 177 Embezzlement 21 Fatalities by accident and work type in 2019 403–2 By type Number of cases Total workplace fatalities across the Group 9 by accident type: Falling from a height 1 Moving objects 2 Extreme temperature related injuries 1 Explosion 1 Other 4 by work type: Mining 5 Repair and maintenance 2 Other 2 Key workplace injury indicators Indicator UoM 2015 2016 20171 2018 2019 FIFR 0.12 0.11 0.08 0.05 0.08 LTIFR 0.62 0.35 0.44 0.23 0.32 Total workplace injuries as per Russian labour laws No. 88 56 61 32 44 Fatal workplace injuries No. 14 13 9 6 9 Minor injuries No. 411 719 719 1,043 1,000 Potentially dangerous incidents No. 976 1,845 1,711 2,270 2,219 Occupational diseases No. 271 339 361 318 290 Total workplace accidents among the contractors’ No. 19 17 16 19 9 employees engaged across the Group’s sites, as per Russian labour laws • including fatalities No. 5 7 1 2 1 1 According to the court ruling, a fatal accident that took place back in 2017 was registered in 2019 (thus increasing FIFR, a fatal-injury frequency rate.). • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 178 Emergency preparedness The Group operates over 300 hazardous production facilities, and uses various hazardous substances in its processes. These facilities comply with Federal Law No. 116-FZ On Industrial Safety of Hazardous Production Facilities dated 21 July 1997 (“Federal Law No. 116-FZ”), and ensure preparedness for emergencies, including emergency containment and response. The underlying document for emergency containment and cleanup plans is the Regulation on Containment and Elimination of Accident Consequences at Hazardous Production Facilities approved by Resolution No.730 of the Russian Government dated 26 August 2013. They are approved by heads (deputy heads) of production units that operate such facilities, and heads of regional emergency rescue services and units. The plans are reviewed and approved in a timely manner, their effective periods being: for underground mining facilities 6 months for open-pit mining and concentration facilities 1 year for hazard class 1 facilities1 2 years for hazard class 2 facilities1 3 years for hazard class 3 facilities1 5 years 1 Excluding facilities specified in the first two lines of this table. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 179 In order to ensure readiness for containment and cleanup at hazardous production facilities, Polar Division signed contracts with a professional mine rescue unit for mine rescue services and the maintenance of auxiliary rescue teams’ equipment. Auxiliary mine rescue teams were set up at Polar Division’s and Kola MMC’s hazardous production facilities (hazard classes 1 and 2) engaged in underground mining operations, as required by Federal Law No. 116-FZ and the Procedure for Establishing Auxiliary Mine Rescue Teams approved by the EMERCOM’s order No. 765 dated 29 November 2013. MMC Norilsk Nickel provisions for emergency containment and cleanup at its hazardous production facilities (with Polar Division allocated RUB 50 mln, Kola MMC − RUB 20 mln, and Norilsk Production Support Complex, Bear Creek, GRK Bystrinskoe — RUB 5 mln each). The Polar Division, Bear Creek, Norilsk Production Support Complex, GRK Bystrinskoe and Kola MMC hazardous facilities put in place surveillance, warning, communication and support systems to be fully prepared for emergency containment and cleanup. Mines are equipped with radio and positioning systems for employees, and telemetry systems for underground machinery to track their locations. Hazard class 1 and 2 facilities operate local emergency warning systems. Emergency preparedness system at hazardous production facilities EMERGENCY CONTAINMENT AND CLEANUP PLANS AT HAZARDOUS PRODUCTION FACILITIES (HAZARD CLASSES 1,2,3) Agreements with professional Auxiliary mine rescue teams Drills involving employee Provisioning for emergency emergency rescue services at Polar Division and Kola MMC and emergency rescue containment and cleanup and organisations across services at hazardous production the Company´s footprint facilities Monthly training and exercises in near-real conditions NORILSK NICKEL GROUP COMPANIES HAVE SURVEILLANCE AND WARNING SYSTEMS, AND SYSTEMS FOR COMMUNICATION AND SUPPORT IN CASE OF AN ACCIDENT • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 180 Anti-corruption UN Global Compact Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery We are consistently Preventing and fighting corruption building our Our success and ability to deliver on strategic goals are contingent on anti-corruption the trust of shareholders, investors, partners, employees, government and compliance and other stakeholders. 103–2 framework based Nornickel’s underlying document is this area is the anti-corruption policy on zero tolerance that applies to our representatives and contractors, including foreign public to any form officials and officers of international public organisations. The respective of corruption. anti-corruption responsibilities are stipulated in agreements made with contractors or expressly provided for by the applicable laws. Russian companies in Nornickel Group adopt and implement their own anti-corruption regulations in line with the Company’s anti-corruption policy. We take all the necessary and reasonable steps to ensure our foreign operations comply with the key principles and requirements of the anti-corruption policy. Our anti-corruption initiatives are regularly covered in corporate press releases. We update the Preventing and Fighting Corruption page on our corporate website at https://www.nornickel.com/sustainability/anti-corruption/ on an ongoing basis. The page contains information on anti-corruption regulations adopted, measures taken, preventive mechanisms introduced, legal training sessions organised and law-abidance initiatives held for staff and counterparties. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 181 From April 2019, We also train our people in basic anti-corruption measures. When recruited, all employees are required to familiarise themselves with the corporate all new employees have Anti-Corruption Policy and related by-laws, and sign an addendum to their received an induction employment contract that sets out anti-corruption responsibilities. 205–2 anti-corruption briefing. Additionally, we have created a specially designed e-learning course on preventing corruption. As at the end of 2019, 100% of employees were made aware of the Group’s existing corruption prevention policies. In 2019, the dedicated training on the requirements and provisions of the corporate anti-corruption regulations covered 3,968 people. We assess corruption risks on an annual basis, conducting quarterly risk monitoring. In 2019, the assessment covered 78% of our business units. 205–1 Through the efforts of our representatives, we take an active part in developing and implementing domestic and international policies on combating corruption. Andrey Bugrov, Nornickel’s Senior Vice President, is the Company’s top executive in charge of anti-corruption practices. He holds membership in a number of Russian and international organisations that supervise this area, in particular: • Expert Council of the Presidential Anti-Corruption Directorate; • B20’s anti-corruption task forces; • Expert Council on Corporate Governance at the Russian Ministry of Economic Development; • Russian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs (as a representative engaged in groups and committees of the Business and Industry Advisory Committee to the OECD (BIAC): the Anti-Corruption Task Force and the Corporate Governance Committee). • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 182 Preventing and Fighting Corruption at Nornickel REGULATION RESPONSIBILITIES FOCUS AREAS • A  nti-corruption laws of the Russian • B  oard of Directors — determining key •  revention and management P Federation and other countries where strategic anti-corruption priorities and of conflicts of interest the Company operates overseeing their implementation • A  nti-corruption due diligence • Applicable international laws • President — organising measures of by-laws to ensure that the requirements and •  nti-Corruption Charter of the Russian A principles of the anti-corruption •  ounterparty due diligence to confirm C Business adopted by the RSPP policy are met their reliability, solvency and financial stability; anti-corruption clauses •  nti-Corruption Policy of MMC Norilsk A • C  orporate Relations Department — in contracts Nickel identifying and documenting risks related to corruption; developing • Procurement procedure • Business Ethics Code and controlling risk management measures. •  overnment cooperation, promotion G •  irectors’ Code of Corporate Conduct D of justice and the rule of law and Business Ethics • C  orporate Trust Service — providing prompt response to reports of • R  ecording and monitoring hospitality •  egulation on the Prevention and R violations, abuses and embezzlement expenses, establishing criteria for Management of Conflicts of Interest in acceptable business gifts the Company •  R Services — organising staff H training on combating corruption •  taff training in preventing and fighting S •  egulation on the Conflict of Interest R corruption Commission •  orporate Security Unit — checking C counterparties and candidates •  wareness of the Company’s A • Regulation on Business Gifts to vacancies; responding corruption management policy among to corruption incidents stakeholders • S  tandard anti-corruption agreement (appendix to the employment • H  eads of the Group’s branches and •  dopting standards and codes A contract) companies — ensuring compliance of conduct with the principles and requirements •  rocedure for Anti-Corruption Due P of the Anti-Corruption Policy • Sponsorship and charity Diligence of By-Laws Adopted by the Head Office of MMC Norilsk Nickel • Internal control of business operations and accounting • Information Policy Regulation, etc. • Monitoring anti-corruption measures • Participation in collective initiatives • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 183 Creating awareness and training employees on Nornickel’s anti-corruption prevention policies and practices in 2019, by region 205–2 Indicator Norilsk Krasnoyarsk Kola Peninsula Moscow and Trans-Baikal Total Industrial Territory Industrial other regions Territory District (excluding the District of Russia Norilsk (Murmansk Industrial Region) District) Number of employees 48,978 3,315 12,512 5,710 3,095 73,610 made aware of the Group’s corruption prevention policies and practices Share of employees made 100 100 100 100 100 100 aware of the Group’s corruption prevention policies and practices, % Number of employees 1,274 1,167 171 1,356 0 3,968 trained on corruption prevention policies and practices Share of employees 2.6 35.2 1.4 23.7 0 3.4 trained on the Group's corruption prevention policies and practices, % • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 184 Creating awareness and training employees on Nornickel’s corruption prevention policies and practices in 2019, by category Indicator Managers White-collar Blue-collar Total employees employees Number of employees made aware 10,480 14,904 48,226 73,610 of the Group’s corruption prevention policies and practices Share of employees made aware 100 100 100 100 of the Group’s corruption prevention policies and practices, % Number of employees trained 378 1,777 1,813 3,968 on the Group's corruption prevention policies and practices Share of employees trained on the Group's 3.6 11.9 3.76 5.4 corruption prevention policies and practices, % • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 185 Corporate Trust Service We rely on our Corporate Trust Service to ensure prompt response to any reports of abuse, embezzlement or other violations. The Service’s remit extends across all business units of the Company and Group companies. Report statistics are submitted to the Audit and Sustainable Development Committee of the Board of Directors and the Company’s business units on a quarterly basis. 102–17 103–2 The standard case closure time is 21 days from the report coming in and being registered, to it being closed following the review of the investigation results by the Head of Service. The exceptions are reports that require immediate action or additional investigation. If the report is found substantiated, a set of control measures is taken, and if a violation is confirmed, measures are taken to correct the situation, eliminate any negative consequences, and inform stakeholders. The principles underlying the Corporate Trust Service include guaranteed confidentiality for whistle-blowers, independent review of reports, and timely and unbiased investigation of all cases irrespective of the position and employment period of employees against whom allegations are made. We do not tolerate workplace or other retaliation against any employee who reports violations through the Corporate Trust Service or other channels. Nornickel’s Corporate Trust Service: 24/7 toll-free hotline: +7 800 700 1941 and +7 800 700 1945, e-mail: skd@nornik.ru. Information about the Corporate Trust Service is posted on the Company’s official website (www.nornickel.com), intranet site, payslips, calendars and posters with the Service’s logo. Persons in charge of the Corporate Trust Service have individual KPI targets of improving incoming reports processing. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 186 Reports received in 2019 (total 481)by type of reported abuse Payroll abuses 74 Production-related abuses 118 Technology, health and safety 99 abuses (excluding environment) Corruption 1 Commercial and contractual 37 abuses Labour disputes 98 Social issues 15 Conflict of interest 18 (pre-conflict situation) Embezzlement 21 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 Reports confirmed in 2019 (total 137)by type of reported abuse Payroll abuses 36 Production-related abuses 33 Technology, health and safety 30 abuses (excluding environment) Corruption 1 Commercial and contractual 8 abuses Labour disputes 20 Social issues 1 Conflict of interest 7 (pre-conflict situation) Embezzlement 1 0 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 * Риск участия работников Компании в коррупционных схемах с медицинскими учреждениями с целью получения личной выгоды. * Risk of Company employees participating in corruption atrrangements with medical institutions in order to obtain personal benefits. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 187 Framework for registering and reviewing reports by the Corporate Trust Service PROCESS 2019 PARTICIPANTS STATISTICS AUDIT QUARTERLY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REVIEW OF REPORT STATISTICS IN TERMS COMMITTEE OF THE GROUP’S COMPANIES, OF THE BOARD TOPICS, BREACHES OF DIRECTORS VICE PRESIDENT ONGOING FOR INTERNAL CONTROL CORPORATE TRUST AND RISK MANAGEMENT SERVICE PERFORMANCE ANALYSIS INVESTIGATION BUSINESS UNITS OF NORNICKEL PREVENTION AND THE GROUP'S AND CONTROL COMPANIES MEASURES DIRECTOR OF THE INTERNAL PROCESS APPROVAL OF THE REPORTS CONTROL MANAGEMENT ON CORPORATE TRUST DEPARTMENT AND CONTROL SERVICE OPERATION SUBSTANTIATED HEAD INITIATING ASSESSMENT 481 REPORTS OF THE CORPORATE OF IMPLEMENTED ACCEPTED FOR INVESTIGATION TRUST SERVICE PREVENTION INVESTIGATION, AND CONTROL MEASURES 137 CONFIRMED AS A RESULT OF INVESTIGATION REPORT ASSESSMENT UNSUBSTANTIATED 341 REPORTS NOT CONFIRMED OPERATOR OF THE Standard processing time – 21 days. REGISTERING For reports that require immediate response – 1 day. 1,181 REPORTS CORPORATE TRUST For reports that require additional investigation – RECEIVED INCOMING REPORTS SERVICE more than 21 days. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 188 Anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing initiatives As required under Federal Law No. 115-FZ On Anti-Money Laundering and Combating the Financing of Terrorism dated 7 August 2001, the Company implements a set of anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing initiatives («AML/CTF»). The main document regulating the Company’s procedures for AML/CTF monitoring is the Internal Control Rules on Combating Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism and Proliferation of Weapons of Mass Destruction developed in compliance with the Federal Law requirements and approved by Nornickel President’s Order No. GMK/83-p dated 26 July 2019. The key principle underlying the Company’s AML/CTF monitoring practices is the engagement of all employees, within their competences, in identifying signs of money laundering and terrorist financing activities in counterparties’ operations, and also in identifying operations subject to mandatory control. The Company runs due diligence on all potential counterparties before signing contracts with them in order to check their reliability and identify entities and persons involved in extremist or terrorist activities. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 189 Environment UN Global Compact Principles 103–2 Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Environmental management Nornickel considers environmental protection an integral part of all production processes. We comply with the applicable laws and international agreements and are committed to reducing emissions, on a phased basis, and the sustainable use of natural resources. Nornickel’s strategic goals in environmental management Focus area Goals Air pollutant (SO2) emissions Implement the comprehensive Sulphur Programme1 that aims to: • reduce SO2 emissions on the Kola site by 85%; • reduce SO2 emissions at Polar Division by 90% by 2025 and by 95% by 2030. 1 Pollution reduction targets set as compared to the base year 2015. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 190 Environmental management priorities: • Phased reduction of pollutant air emissions, primarily sulphur dioxide and solids • Development of waste disposal sites to reduce human impact on the environment • Progressive reduction of effluents into water bodies • Biodiversity conservation across regions of operations • Zero pollution in maritime cargo transportation and vessel operation • Sustainable use of natural resources and introduction of eco-friendly technologies • Involvement with environmental public-private partnership projects Environmental management responsibilities are distributed among different governance bodies in line with their competencies. Body Responsibilities Board of Directors 102–30 • approves environmental policies. First Vice President, • oversees preparation of initiatives and compliance with environmental laws; Chief Operating Officer • assesses the environmental management system; • submits reports to the Board of Directors. HSE Committee • analyses and improves the environmental management system and assesses effectiveness of initiatives. HSE Department 201–2 • ensures compliance of the Company’s operations with the applicable environmental laws, environmental policy and ISO 14001:2015; • mitigates administrative and financial risks related to environmental protection. Production units • implement environmental initiatives and prepare federal statistical and corporate reports. Sulphur Project PMO • develops measures as part of the Sulphur Programme and monitors their progress. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 191 Key environmental management regulations: • Russian environmental laws; • Nornickel’s Environmental Policy; • Environmental Impact Assessment Policy; • Biodiversity Policy; • Renewable Energy Sources Policy; • Established maximum permissible environmental impact and its limits; • Plans for reducing pollutant emissions; • Plans for reducing pollutant discharges. The Environmental Management System is part of the Group's integrated quality and Corporate Integrated Quality and Environmental Management System (CIMS), which enables the Group to harmonise environmental and quality management initiatives with operations of other functions (production management, finance, health and safety, etc.). This approach is beneficial both for environmental security and for an overall performance across the Company. The Group's core companies are certificated under ISO 14001:2015 Environmental Management Systems • MMC Norilsk Nickel • Kola MMC • Norilsk Nickel Harjavalta • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 192 In 2019, we conducted a number of internal audits. For this purpose we engaged specially trained and competent personnel in line with international standards and our by-laws. The reporting year saw: • 19 internal audits at the Head Office; • 14 internal audits at Polar Division’s subsidiaries; • 28 internal audits at Kola MMC; • 22 internal audits at Murmansk Transport Division; • 18 internal audits and one corporate audit at Polar Transport Division. The Company has drafted and keeps updating a register of corporate and internal auditors. Precautionary approach In accordance with its Investment Project Risk Management Regulations, Nornickel analyses risks and assesses impacts and potential consequences using qualified expert review during both project initiation and implementation. In the event material risks are identified, mitigation initiatives are developed, and a decision may be taken to abandon the project. During a state expert review, FEED documents for all the ongoing projects undergo mandatory assessment for compliance with the applicable law. 102–11 When planning our operations, we ensure compliance with the applicable Russian environmental laws and regulations. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 193 Environmental protection expenditures In 2019, the Group's environmental protection expenditures stood at RUB 39.5 bn, up 21.6% y-o-y. The largest spending items were current environmental protection expenditures (RUB 21.6 bn) and capital investments to ensure environmental protection and sustainable use of natural resources (RUB 17 bn). 103–2 307–1 In 2019, we paid a total of RUB 1,890,000 in environmental fines, 40.7% less y-o-y, and received 41 improvement notices from regulators. Environmental costs and expenditures, RUB mln Expenditure item 2016 2017 2018 2019 Current environmental protection expenditures 15,405.17 20,907.06 19,161.00 21,579.19 Capital investments to ensure environmental 9,567.83 4,981.95 12,607.28 17,006.12 protection and sustainable use of natural resources Charges for permissible and surplus emissions 745.77 626.79 695.18 886.90 (effluents) and disposal of production and consumption waste Charges paid by the Company to remedy 4.19 244.31 1.53 0 damages arising from non-compliance with environmental laws (excluding environmental fines) Environmental expenditures and costs 25,722.96 26,760.11 32,464.99 39,472.21 • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 194 Sulphur Programme Sulphur Programme is a comprehensive environmental initiative implemented as part of Nornickel’s strategy. It aims to drastically reduce SO2 emissions from the Company’s operations to meet the maximum permissible levels. The Kola project envisages: • the shutdown of smelting capacities in Nickel resulting in zero SO2 emissions in the cross-border area; • upgrade of nickel production facilities with a shift to the leaching technology (implemented in 2019); • upgrade of Zapolyarny Concentrator, including the construction of an additional flotation circuit and loading facility; • sales of low-grade Kola concentrate. For the high-grade Kola concentrate, market alternatives will be considered. However, we prioritise our own smelting capacities at Polar Division subject to productivity improvements / debottlenecking initiatives. Sulphur Programme roadmap Year 2020 2021 2023 2025 Strategic goal 2030+ Region Kola site Polar Division Initiatives Optimise Fully shut Complete the Launch the Capture lowsmelting down smelting anchor project Sulphur grade SO2 gases, operations in operations in to capture Programme at including converter Nickel settlement Nickel and the furnace gases Copper Plant to gases, at Nadezhda Copper line at at Nadezhda capture furnace Metallurgical Plant Kola Refinery Metallurgical and converter Plant gases Targets1 Reduce SO2 Reduce SO2 Reduce SO2 Reduce SO2 Reduce SO2 emissions in emissions at Kola emissions at emissions at emissions at Polar Nickel and site by 85% Polar Division by Polar Division by Division by 95+% Zapolyarny by 45% 90% 50% 1 Pollution reduction targets set as compared to the base year 2015. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 195 To achieve these objectives, we plan to build the following capacities at Polar Division’s Nadezhda Metallurgical Plant by 2023: • two lines of SO2 capturing from flash furnaces and sulphuric acid production; • limestone preparation and neutralisation lines (sulphuric acid into gypsum); • gypsum storage (3 km away from the plant); • supporting infrastructure. To raise the stakeholders’ awareness, we opened a Sulphur Programme showroom at Nadezhda Metallurgical Plant. The showroom uses the latest exhibition technology. The exhibits include: • architectural models of the facilities to be used to capture sulphur dioxide at the plant; • building models with augmented reality elements to demonstrate solutions and technology; • interactive stands providing information about the existing projects, Polar Division, Nadezhda Metallurgical Plant and the Company’s other environmental initiatives; • screens with information videos about the projects. At Polar Division’s Copper Plant, we intend to roll out ready-made solutions used for the NMP project subject to the production facility specifications, and launch a continuous converting facility. We also plan to relocate the project back to Copper Plant, leaving enough space at NMP to unlock strategic optionality for capacity expansion. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 196 Performance indicators Environmental impact indicators Air emissions, t / RUB mln 1 Water withdrawal, thousand m³ / RUB mln 2015 2015 4.08 0.69 2016 2016 3.53 0.60 2017 2017 3.44 0.63 2018 2018 2.64 0.49 2019 2019 2.22 0.36 0 1 2 3 4 5 0 0.25 0.5 0.75 1 Water consumption, thousand m³ / RUB mln Effluents, thousand m³ / RUB mln 2015 2015 2.81 0.28 2016 2016 2.67 0.26 2017 2017 2.50 0.28 2018 2018 1.94 0.23 2019 2019 1.53 0.16 0 0.5 1 1.5 2 2.5 3 0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 Pollutants in effluents, t / RUB mln Waste generation, kt / RUB mln 2015 2015 0.30 0.07 2016 2016 0.35 0.06 2017 2017 0.40 0.06 2018 2018 0.32 0.04 2019 2019 0.24 0.04 0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0 0.025 0.05 0.075 0.1 1 All figures in the table are given per RUB mln of consolidated revenue. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 197 Air protection Polar Division's various operations impact the environment in the Norilsk Industrial District. Over 60 pollutants are emitted into the air in this area. While annual emissions of over 30 pollutants are below 1 tonne per each of them, the key pollutant — sulphur dioxide — accounts for around 98% of all emissions. 103–2 413–2 To communicate its environmental efforts to the people of Norilsk, Polar Division has been running an automatic toll-free enquiry service offering short-term forecasts on the environmental situation in the city. Kola MMC’s operations have environmental implications mostly for Monchegorsk and Zapolyarny towns and Nickel settlement in the Murmansk Region. The key pollutants resulting from copper and nickel feedstock processing are sulphur compounds and dust which contains heavy non-ferrous metals such as nickel and copper. Reduction of air emissions is the key objective pursued by the Company's operational units as part of environmental management and environmental performance enhancement. The key regulatory document in this area is the Roadmap to Reduce Air Pollutant Emissions in 2018–2023 approved by Rosprirodnadzor for Polar Division. The roadmap takes into account the current state of emission sources following the shutdown of Nickel Plant and the completed reconfiguration stages at Polar Division. It covers major projects (Sulphur Programme projects at Copper Plant and Nadezhda Metallurgical Plant, and the converter upgrade at Copper Plant), which, subject to completion in due time, will allow Nornickel to keep emissions down to maximum permissible rates. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 198 Air pollutant emissions, kt 305–7 Polar Division 2015 1,883.24 2016 1,787.57 2017 1,705.00 2018 1,789.01 2019 1,819.18 0 500 1000 1500 2000 2500 Kola MMC 2015 169.79 2016 132.90 2017 121.90 2018 117.45 2019 110.79 0 25 50 75 100 125 150 175 200 Other business units and divisions 2015 10.49 2016 15.97 2017 19.25 2018 20.17 2019 22.69 0 5 10 15 20 25 • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 199 Air pollutant emissions, kt Sulphur dioxide 2015 2,009.11 2016 1,877.97 2017 1,784.97 2018 1,869.62 2019 1,898.14 0 500 1000 1500 2000 2500 Nitrogen oxides 2015 9.84 2016 10.12 2017 11.4 2018 11.22 2019 10.31 0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 Solids 2015 20.67 2016 14.3 2017 13.42 2018 14.51 2019 13.31 0 5 10 15 20 25 Other pollutans 2015 23.9 2016 34.05 2017 36.36 2018 31.28 2019 30.9 0 10 20 30 40 • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 200 In 2019, the Group’s pollutant emissions increased by 1.3%, while emissions per RUB 1 mln of revenue were down by 16%. Kola MMC reduced its emissions by 5.7%. Polar Division’s emissions in 2019 totalled 1,819.2 kt , up 30.2 kt (1.7%) y-o-y, mainly due to increased sulphur dioxide emissions. The rise in sulphur dioxide emissions was largely driven by a higher sulphur input in the metal-containing feedstock processed at Nadezhda Metallurgical Plant’s pyrometallurgical facilities during the reporting period. In 2019, total pollutant emissions at Polar Division were 177.1 kt below the permitted level. We continued to bring emissions gradually down to below the maximum permissible concentration levels set for MMC Norilsk Nickel’s Polar Division. We also carried on with our efforts to improve control over emissions during unfavourable weather conditions. During the reporting period, over 250 emission control interventions were performed at Nornickel’s metallurgical operations. SO2 emissions at Kola MMC, kt Nickel 56.6 Zapolyarny 2.9 Monchegorsk 39.8 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 Greenhouse gas emissions in 2017–2019 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions, mt of CO2 2017 10.2 2018 9.9 2019* 9.8 0 2 4 6 8 10 12 Indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions, mt of CO2 1 2017 With NO measured as NO2. 0.1 2018 • 0.1 About the Group Strategy Management 2019* UN Global Compact Regional development 0.1 Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 201 Polar Division invested over RUB 900 mln in 2019 to overhaul and repair gas cleaning units, dust exhausting units and dust collectors, which resulted in the reduction of dust emissions from stationary emission sources at: • Copper Plant (Smelting Shop 1); • Nadezhda Metallurgical Plant (Smelting Shop 1, Feedstock and Charge Makeup Shop, Elemental Sulphur Production Shop 1). • Talnakh Concentrator (Crushing Shop, Grinding and Flotation Shop); • Mayak and Oktyabrsky mines (surface backfilling preparation complex). As part of the comprehensive upgrade of nickel refinery in 2019, the Group completed the phased transition from electrolytic nickel refining to electrowinning. The new method reduces operating costs and metal losses in production, improves the product quality and reduces air emissions of sulphur dioxide and nickel-containing dust. In addition, the Zapolyarny site continued its concentrator upgrade, which includes the construction of a facility to separate lowand high-grade concentrate, a new building for low-grade concentrate dehydration and shipment to third-party consumers. The completion of this project is a prerequisite for closing smelting operations in Nickel in accordance with the Sulphur Programme. The year also saw repairs completed of the gas duct used to transport gases from the smelting units in the metallurgical shop to the sulphuric acid section of the Refining Shop in Monchegorsk. In 2019, over 260 m (15 sections) of the 1.25 km duct was replaced. With the new gas duct on stream, the metallurgical shop can significantly increase off-gas recycling, ramping it up during adverse weather conditions to ensure better air quality at the production site and in Monchegorsk. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 202 In 2019, Nornickel’s Investment Committee gave the go-ahead for projects to cut emissions and improve environmental conditions at Kola MMC’s Monchegorsk site. The Company plans to upgrade the 4th technological system in the sulphuric acid section and replace electrostatic precipitators (ESPs) in the dust collecting chamber of the Refining Shop, with total investment standing at RUB 6.2 bn. The upgrade will see the construction of a new sulphuric acid production line, bringing the design capacity to 75,000 nm3/h, a more than 1.5 fold expansion. Cutting-edge equipment will be installed, with all metal pipework, gas ducts and acid tanks to be replaced with durable acid-resistant plastic alternatives. The total project costs are estimated at RUB 3.1 bn. On top of that, ca. RUB 3 bn will be spent to replace ESPs used for gas treatment in the Refining Shop’s fluidised bed furnaces. A new gas cleaning building is to be constructed as part of the initiative. It will feature 4 four-stage ESPs to increase the amount of impurities removed from sulphur-rich gases. Running simultaneously, the two projects will make Kola MMC’s sulphuric acid production considerably more efficient while also reducing air emissions. Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions In light of an increasing exposure to climate risks worldwide and investors’ growing focus on this topic, Nornickel is working hard to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions, switch to renewable energy, and improve overall energy efficiency. 201–2 We use low-carbon fuels (mostly natural gas) in our production and power generation processes. We also generate renewable energy at our Taimyr HPP Cascade. Electricity produced by the HPPs accounts for 44.5% of the Group’s total power consumption. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 203 We have adopted a proactive approach in responding to GHG regulatory risks in Russia and abroad by: • keeping record of GHG emissions; • developing and implementing a corporate GHG emission management system; • disclosing information on GHG emissions on a voluntary basis; • monitoring domestic and international climate regulations; • assessing the prospects of GHG reduction. The Company’s governing bodies examine on a quarterly basis climate change risk data published in Nornickel Group’s quarterly risk reports. As one example, the Board of Directors reviews climate risks while discussing the Company’s programmes tracking climate changes and progress reports on major investment projects and treats them as a priority in setting Nornickel’s targets and development strategy. The Company initiates and takes part in climate change events, such as the 8th Ecological Forum themed «Corporate Responsibility to the Future. Technology for Society and Nature.» In December 2019, we held a training for our employees on financial disclosures based on TCFD recommendations, attended by representatives of various Head Office departments. In 2019, we assessed GHG emissions of the Group’s facilities in line with the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard. GHG emissions amounted to some 10 mt of CO2 equivalent1. Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) account for the bulk of all emissions. Indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2) amount to no more than 1.25% of the total GHG emissions (Scope 1 and 2). 305–1 305–4 1 An estimate that includes carbon dioxide (СО2) and methane (СН4) emissions. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 204 The Group expects to stabilise GHG emissions at up to 10–12 mtpa SO2 emissions at Kola MMC, kt of CO2 equivalent by bringing to fruition the planned production expansion and upgrade projects and implementing a major programme to improve environmental performance. Nickel 56.6 Zapolyarny 2.9 In 2020, the Company will prepare information on Nornickel’s GHG emissions, with a breakdown by production site and segment. We39.8 Monchegorsk are also planning to assess other indirect GHG emissions (Scope 3) in line with the GHG Protocol 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard. To comply with the Russian environmental and GHG regulations, the Company is on course to update our assessment of the GHG emissions sources and the corporate regulatory documents in accordance with Orders No. 300 and No. 330 of the Russian Ministry of Natural Resources. Greenhouse gas emissions in 2017–2019 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions, mt of CO2 2017 10.2 2018 9.9 2019* 9.8 0 2 4 6 8 10 12 Indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions, mt of CO2 2017 0.1 2018 0.1 2019* 0.1 0 0,05 0,1 0,15 0,2 GHG emission intensity (Scope 1 and 2), t of CO2 / RUB mln of consolidated revenue 2017 18.7 2018 13.8 2019* 11.2 0 5 10 15 20 25 * The assessment includes Q4 2019 estimates. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 205 Use of ozone-depleting substances The Group neither produces nor uses ozone-depleting substances (ODS), except for extremely limited amounts used as a chemical agent for laboratorybased chemical analysis as well as for filling and topping compressors in air conditioning units and carbonated water machines that produce water used as a cooling agent for mediumand lowtemperature refrigerating equipment. The Company reports on the use of such substances to the Russian Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment as required. 305–6 There were no ODS emissions in 2019. Protection of water bodies The Group uses water from surface and underground sources for its drinking, production and process supply needs as well as for community and shipping needs. Water is withdrawn in compliance with the pre-approved limits, without any major impacts on water bodies. No water is withdrawn from either the Ramsar Wetlands or from other protected natural areas. 103–2 306–5 The Company’s effluents generally do not exceed the pre-approved limits, including admissible impact limits, or have any major impact on biodiversity of water bodies and related habitats. In 2019, the Group’s water withdrawal1 went down by 10.5% y-o-y and totalled 319.4 mcm. This was mostly associated with a decrease in power generation and a resulting drop in water consumption to cool turbine generating units at NTEK’s TPP 2. Besides, the natural inflow of mine water decreased by 7.6 mcm at Polar Division and Bear Creek and by 6.3 mcm at Kola MMC. 1 Water withdrawal is measured with flow metering instruments. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 206 Total water withdrawal1, mcm 303–1 Polar Division and Norilskenergo 2015 102.49 2016 96.41 2017 100.14 2018 82.82 2019 69.63 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 110 NTEC 2015 267.87 2016 249.93 2017 251.98 2018 269.47 2019 240.23 0 30 60 90 120 150 180 210 240 270 300 Kola MMC 2015 27.93 2016 35.53 2017 31.73 2018 32.82 2019 27.95 0 10 20 30 40 50 1 T  he total for Polar Division, Norilskenergo branch and other operations of the Group includes water withdrawal from NTEC. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 207 Total water consumption, mcm Polar Division 2015 574.17 2016 533.67 2017 512.32 2018 463.5 2019 461.22 0 50 100 150 200 250 300 350 400 450 500 550 600 650 NTEC 2015 634.9 2016 719.02 2017 620.74 2018 709.11 2019 656.48 0 200 400 600 800 1000 Kola MMC 2015 171.32 2016 170.52 2017 169.34 2018 171.58 2019 156.49 0 50 100 150 200 Other Group operations 2015 41.26 2016 40.6 2017 39.37 2018 67.94 2019 69.35 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 208 Total effluents, mcm Polar Division and Norilskenergo 2015 39.52 2016 38.67 2017 45.29 2018 34.98 2019 23.7 0 10 20 30 40 50 NTEC 2015 73.55 2016 77.76 2017 78.16 2018 91.56 2019 74.56 0 20 40 60 70 80 100 Kola MMC 2015 23.48 2016 22.59 2017 22.27 2018 25.59 2019 22.07 0 10 20 30 Other Group operations 2015 3.9 2016 4.53 2017 1.83 2018 12.32 2019 22.02 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 209 In 2019, we reused and recycled 87.2% of all water consumed, up 1.5 p.p. y-o-y. Water withdrawal made up 30% of total water consumption. In 2019, the Group’s effluents were down 13.4% y-o-y to 142.3 mcm. This was mainly due to a 17 mcm decrease in the discharge of standard-quality treated water used to cool turbine generating units at NTEK’s TPP 2. 306–1 Pollutants in effluents totalled 210.6 kt, down 9.4% y-o-y. Pollutants in effluents discharged by Polar Division and Norilskenergo (branch of MMC Norilsk Nickel) decreased by 0.3 kt to 72.7 kt. Kola MMC’s effluents dropped by 13,8% y-o-y, mainly due to a decrease in discharge from mines and surface sources. In 2019, we continued implementing our plan to bring effluents in Norilsk gradually down to maximum permissible discharge rates for each controlled pollutant: • work is underway to draft tertiary treatment procedures for utility wastewater from Copper Plant; • a wastewater treatment technique was developed to treat industrial effluents at discharge point No. 41 of Nadezhda Metallurgical Plant; • water basin, cooling tower No. 2 at Copper Plant, water recycling system and distribution chambers were hot commissioned, and discharge point No 37 was shut down as a result; • as part of the Mayak Mine Water Treatment Project, technologies were developed to treat Mayak Mine's drained water, with work underway to build drained water treatment facilities. In 2019, Kola MMC developed operating procedures for treating Severny Mine's drained water. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 210 Waste management Over 95% of the Group's production waste is classified as hazard class 5 (non-hazardous) waste. This includes rock and overburden, tailings, and metallurgical slags. To minimise the environmental impact, mining waste and tailings are stored at special waste disposal sites and are used (utilised) at the Group’s facilities or as part of third-party operations. Mining waste and tailings are used to make filling compounds or smelting fluxes, construct and reinforce tailing dumps or railroad groundwork, as road filling, etc. MM3 103–2 All of the Group’s waste disposal sites are listed on the national disposal site register. The sites are regularly monitored in line with designated environmental programmes. Tailings dumps are monitored additionally as required by safety standards for hydraulic structures. Production and consumption waste is treated in accordance with waste generation standards and waste disposal limits. In 2019, the Group’s total waste generation increased by 5.7 mt y-o-y driven by higher production volumes at Bear Creek. The increase in waste recycling in 2019 was attributable to the use of mining waste and tailings by Kola MMC for the construction of dam shores for the concentrator’s tailing dump. In 2019, the amount of waste recycled by the Group increased by 5% y-o-y, accounting for 63% of all generated waste. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 211 Waste generation, mt 306–2 Polar Division 2015 22.27 2016 22.57 2017 23.26 2018 15.17 2019 15.62 0 10 20 30 Kola MMC 2015 11.37 2016 10.61 2017 8.61 2018 8.31 2019 7.85 0 2 4 6 8 10 12 Other Group operations 2015 0 2016 0.09 2017 0.06 2018 6.7 2019 12.95 0 5 10 15 • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 212 In-house waste disposal, mt Polar Division 2015 13.22 2016 15.18 2017 17.75 2018 15.79 2019 14.34 0 5 10 15 20 Kola MMC 2015 5.59 2016 4.97 2017 3.01 2018 2.46 2019 4.25 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Other Group operations 2015 0 2016 0 2017 0 2018 3.38 2019 4.17 0 1 2 3 4 5 • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 213 Over the last five Tailing dump safety1 years, there have been We take tailing dump safety very seriously and monotor their condition no industrial safety and reliability on a regular basis. incidents involving tailing dumps. Our tailing dumps comply with Russian laws and have all permits and expert documentation in place required for the commencement of construction. Additionally, we developed mandatory safety criteria to operate each tailing dump and had them approved by regulators. Every facility has a safety monitoring system that encompasses internal production control and environmental monitoring. Tailing dumps are also inspected for stability by competent independent organisations certificated by Rostechnadzor. All hydraulic structures are subject to ongoing comprehensive monitoring for industrial safety. The operating personnel and the environmental service conduct quarterly internal audits. In addition, the Company and Rostechnadzor carry out annual inspections of hydraulic structures prior to freshets. Our employees operating tailing dumps take relevant annual training and are assessed by Rostechnadzor. 1 M  ore details on the safety of tailings dumps is available on the Company's website at https://www.nornickel.ru/files/ru/investors/esg/Norilsk_Nickel_tailings_report_RUS_final.pdf • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 214 Tailing dump Location Status Hydraulic structure Date of the last class / waste hazard independent audit class Tailing dump of 5 km from Talnakh active tailing dump Class 2 / class 5 February 2019 Talnakh Concentrator, Concentrator site (first construction Polar Division phase completed, second construction phase in progress until 2023) Tailing dump 12 km from NMP site active tailing dump Class 2 / class 4 April 2016 of Nadezhda (first modernisation Metallurgical Plant, phase completed) Polar Division Lebyazhye tailing 8 km from Norilsk active tailing dump Class 2 / class 5 March 2018 dump Concentrator site Tailing dump No. 1 2.5 km from Norilsk active tailing dump Class 2 / class 5 March 2018 Concentrator site Tailing dump, 2.5 km from the active tailing dump Class 1 / class 5 October 2019 Zapolyarny Zapolyarny Concentrator Concentrator tailing site section, Kola MMC Tailing dump of 4.5 km from Bystrinsky active tailing dump Class 2 / class 5 August 2019 Bystrinsky GOK Concentrator Tailing dump of 1 km from the smelting Decommissioned in No class September Concentrator No. 2 shop in Nickel 1995. Under liquidation assigned due to 2018 in Nickel, Kola MMC since 2001. decommissioning The liquidation is to be completed in 2030. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 215 Biodiversity conservation We seek to minimise any potential negative impact of our operations on biodiversity. Our activities in this area are mainly governed by the applicable Russian laws and the Biodiversity Policy approved by MMC Norilsk Nickel's Board of Directors. 103–2 The Policy focuses on land rehabilitation, cooperation with nature reserves, and reproduction of aquatic bioresources. The Let’s Do It! environmental marathon plays an increasingly important role and brings together thousands of our employees and local community members to support nature reserves, clean up certain areas, transplant young trees, and carry out other environmental initiatives. In the reporting year, we staged the fourth edition of the marathon in Norilsk, with a total of 250 volunteers (29 teams) from 45 Nornickel units and 22 partner organisations taking part. They arranged over 100 events involving more than 3,000 town residents. The initiatives included collecting around 20 t of waste, festivals, workshops, improvement of several urban facilities, creating a plastic processing lab and building an eco-trail. The Company awarded three winning teams with certificates enabling them to attend teambuilding events. In 2019, Monchegorsk hosted a Catch the Eco Wave environmental quest, which saw over 140 participants. During the marathon, volunteers implemented a number of large-scale projects, including the arrangement of an eco-trail and informations boards in the Lapland Biosphere Reserve and development of an eco-trail in the Pasvik Nature Reserve. From 17 to 19 October, the Caucasus Nature Reserve in Sochi welcomed 72 most active marathon participants from Norilsk, Moscow, Nickel, Zapolyarny, Monchegorsk and Chita as part of a three-day eco-rally. Nornickel volunteers from across the Company's regions of operation took part in a strategic session and workshops, shared their experience and built a bison trail. The trail is an interactive platform raising awareness about the life of bisons. It will serve as a highlight of the reserve's new visitor centre. The Company also supports programmes aimed at studying and preserving rare and endangered species listed on Russia’s Red Data Book, including Siberian bighorn sheep, polar bears, lesser white-fronted geese and others. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 216 Land rehabilitation We are developing the Oktyabrskoye, Talnakhskoye and Norilsk-1 Deposits on the Taimyr Peninsula, Zhdanovskoye, Zapolyarnoye, Kotselvaara and Semiletka Deposits on the Kola Peninsula, and the Bystrinskoye Deposit in the TransBaikal Territory. Pursuant to the Russian laws, design documents for capital construction projects, including field development, must have a section describing environmental protection and monitoring initiatives to track changes across the ecosystem resulting from ongoing development, construction or accidents. We have field development, mine liquidation and land rehabilitation project documents in place for all of our deposits, with special provisions set aside for rehabilitation activities. The project design documents provide for layouts, slopes, hydraulic and irrigation structures, and other technical measures. Importantly, our deposits are in commercial development, exploration or production test stages with liquidation or abandonment not expected until 2050. We traditionally take part in urban greening projects in Norilsk, Dudinka, Monchegorsk, Zapolyarny, and Nickel. Together with local authorities and volunteers, we launched a disturbed area reclamation programme to clean up and improve public spaces and areas around motorways, protect water bodies and water reserves, and revamp tourist camping sites. In 2003, Kola MMC started implementing land rehabilitation initiatives in line with recommendations of nature reserves. Since then, the company has planted over one million trees and bushes over an area of about 100 ha, including as part of a pilot project run jointly with Kola Science Centre of the Russian Academy of Sciences. The project seeks to restore damaged land adjacent to our production site in Monchegorsk. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 217 Environmental protection and monitoring measures taken during the deposit life cycle 304–3 MM1 ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING OF CHANGES IN THE ECOSYSTEM COMPONENTS State and public environmental • Environment analysis review and environmental impact Environmental Impact assessment Assessment (EIA): • Potential negative impact mitigants • Review of layout options • Monitoring programmes and technology • Public discussions with local communities ABANDONMENT EXPLORATION OR ENHANCED AND COMMERCIAL PROSPECTING PILOT PRODUCTION RECOVERY SHUTDOWN PRODUCTION DEVELOPMENT OF REMAINING TESTING RESERVES ENVIRONMENTAL MEASURES TAKEN: PROTECTION OF AIR, SUBSOIL RESOURCES, PLANT AND ANIMAL SPECIES, HABITATS, WATER RESOURCES, WATER LIFE, LAND RESOURCES AND SOIL; WASTE MANAGEMENT WASTE REMOVAL AND DISPOSAL, LAND REHABILITATION AND IMPROVEMENT MEASURES Disturbed and rehabilitated land area in 2019, ha MM1 Indicator Total Including: during during during disposal during other mining construction of solid domestic activities and industrial waste Total disturbed area, 16,437.8 14,286.81 430.75 591.84 1,128.4 beginning of period Total rehabilitated area 50.74 50.74 0 0 0 Total disturbed area 154.52 53.02 0 101.5 0 in the reporting period Total disturbed area, 16,638.9 14,289.27 430.75 693.34 1,225.52 end of period • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 218 Cooperation with nature reserves Kola MMC is located 15 km from the Pasvik Nature Reserve and 10 km from the Lapland Biosphere Reserve, while Polar Division's sites are some 80–100 km away from the buffer zone of the Putoransky Nature Reserve. Bystrinsky GOK lies 160 km away from the Relict Oaks State Reserve (Trans-Baikal Territory). In 2019, our operations did not produce any significant impact on areas that are in the relative vicinity to the nature reserves and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. Our cooperation with nature reserves primarily focuses on developing research and technology and supporting their social, volunteering and environmental awareness programmes. 304–1 304–2 Putoransky State Nature Reserve The Putoransky Reserve has been on the UNESCO world heritage list since 2010. This is one of the biggest nature reserves in Russia with a total area of nearly 1.9 million ha. The reserve is part of the Joint Directorate for Taimyr Nature Reserves, which also includes the Taimyrsky and Big Arctic reserves, as well as the Purinsky and Severozemelsky natural protected areas. The Directorate implements environmental projects selected under Nornickel’s World of New Opportunities charitable programme to support socially important initiatives. The projects focus on raising environmental awareness, environmental protection, engagement of local communities, land improvement, and landscaping. In 2019, the Directorate excelled in the contest of socially responsible initiatives held under the World of New Opportunities programme. As a winner it received from the Company funding of RUB 4.5 mln to implement a project called “Friends of Taimyr Nature Reserves: Clean Ayan”. The project aims to bring together Taimyr's volunteers to restore the environment in the central part of the Putoranа Plateau as a way to preserve and enhance the region's appeal for tourists. As part of the project, in summer the local volunteering community and the Directorate collected 638 steel drums and several hundreds of kilogrammes of old metal scrap, which had accumulated around Lake Ayan. The grant allocated by Nornickel was used to transport a dedicated team by air to a hard-to-reach section of Putoranа, set up a camp near the southern shore of the lake and clean the area. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 219 Among the contest winners were also the following environmental projects: • Eco-patrol (raising environmental awareness of the local community, primarily among children and the youth, through participation in dedicated activities) — RUB 500,000 grant • Eco-trail, an interactive out-of-town platform within the Ol-Gul ski lodge set to become a venue for mass cultural and educational events, mostly environment-related — RUB 3.4 mln grant. Pasvik Nature Reserve The Pasvik State Nature Reserve is featured as one of the Wetlands for the Shadow List of Ramsar Sites under the name of Fjarvann — Schaanning’s Field Base. It covers a total area of over 14,000 ha. Pasvik is the only Russian nature reserve holding the EUROPARC Federation’s certificate, which is awarded to the best protected areas worldwide. Such certification is an important prerequisite for international cooperation with foreign nature reserves. Since 2006, the Reserve has been carrying out an assessment of the natural environment in the area of Pechenganickel Plant (including Zapolyarny, Nickel and their suburbs, as well as the Pasvik State Nature Reserve), and developing a long-term environmental monitoring programme. The Reserve is also working on several projects that received grants under the World of New Opportunities charitable programme. The projects seek to reach out to Russian and Norwegian audiences and cover a variety of topics, including traditional use of natural resources, raising environmental awareness among schoolchildren, and promoting research. Nornickel supports scientific research carried out by the nature reserve, its efforts to protect natural and cultural heritage, promote tourism and environmental education. The Company also helps run an international natural historical open-air museum on the Varlam island. In 2019, we financed the purchase of a unique mobile environmental lab. Pasvik’s Visitor Centre built with our support is an international platform for academic forums and educational activities focused on environmental protection issues. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 220 Red List species found in the Pasvik, Lapland and Putoransky Nature Reserves, pcs 304–4 Indicator Pasvik Lapland Putoransky On the IUCN Red List, 36 23 13 of which Critically Endangered (CR) 0 0 0 Endangered (EN) 1 1 1 Vulnerable (VU) 2 0 3 Near Threatened (NT) 1 0 1 Least Concern (LC) 32 22 8 On Russia’s Red Data Book, 22 24 14 of which 1 — Endangered 1 0 0 2 — Decreasing Number 8 11 0 3 — Rare 11 12 3 4 — Uncertain Status 1 1 8 5 — Rehabilitated and 1 0 3 Rehabilitating On the Murmansk Region’s 117 165 13 and Krasnoyarsk Territory’s Red Data Books • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 221 Lapland State Nature Reserve With an area of 278,000 ha, the Lapland Biosphere Reserve is one of the largest protected areas in Europe and also one of Russia's oldest nature reserves (founded in 1930). In 1985, it was included in the UNESCO Network of Biosphere Reserves. In 2002, Kola MMC and the Lapland Biosphere Reserve signed contracts for the development of a methodology to reclaim disturbed natural environments in the areas affected by permanent emissions from Severonickel Plant and monitoring of the Monchegorsk District and the Lapland Biosphere Reserve. Research results provided a basis for further rehabilitation of disturbed lands and for sanitary and fire protection improvements in forest areas. We supported the creation of several eco-trails, including the first eco-trail for children called “A Curious Child out in the Woods”, and publication of books on the reserve founders. We also provided aid to a socially important project called “In the Land of the Flying Stone”. This is an educational exposition dedicated to the northern nature and the traditions of Sami, an ethnic minority residing on the Kola Peninsula. Rybachy and Sredny Peninsulas Natural Park In the Rybachy and Sredny Peninsulas Natural Park, environmental routes and information facilities are developed on the territory covering over 83,000 ha under an agreement between the Company and the Murmansk Region Government. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 222 Trans-Baikal Territory reserves The oak grove in the Gazimuro-Zavodsky District is Siberia’s only grove of natural origin that has survived to the present day. The grove streches 30,000 ha along the Argun River. As part of the agreement with the region's government, Nornickel provides financial aid in effectively protecting and exploring the ecosystems within the Relict Oaks State Reserve. We financed the acquisition of video monitoring devices and camera traps for the reserve. We also plan to help put in place research facilities and run educational programmes for children and adults. Reproduction of aquatic bioresources We provide annual financing for initiatives seeking to breed valuable fish species, including those listed on Russia’s Red Data Book, and release them into natural water bodies. Every year, certain populations of juvenile Siberian sturgeon and grayling are released into the Yenisey River in the Krasnoyarsk Territory; Atlantic salmon is released into the Umba River in the Murmansk Region. Specialised fish farms and research institutions are engaged in promoting these initiatives. The reporting year saw 4,000 European whitefish fingerlings released into Lake Lumbolka (Kola Peninsula) as part of an effort to artificially reproduce aquatic bioresources. From 2017 to 2019, we organised the release of some one million (201,000 in 2019 alone) juvenile Siberian sturgeon fingerlings into the Yenisey. Over the last three years, our investments in these initiatives exceeded RUB 110 mln, including RUB 23.6 mln spent in 2019. That was the largest release of valuable fish species we had ever facilitated. In 2020, we plan to carry on with breeding and release projects. Another green project to restore and preserve fish populations will run in the Trans-Baikal Territory. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 223 Impacts from transport operations The Company's fleet is regularly inspected for ship safety and compliance with licence requirements by the authorities of Russian ports and ports of call, Russian Maritime Register of Shipping, Federal Service for Transport Supervision, and Rospotrebnadzor’s Directorate. The Group's transport and logistics units have all the necessary environmental permits and strictly adhere to the applicable environmental regulations by: • ensuring that air pollutant emissions from mobile sources do not exceed the maximum permissible concentrations; • purchasing marine fuels from vendors that have all the required documents on fuel quality as confirmed by an independent laboratory; • certifying onboard wastewater treatment plants on an annual basis to prevent pollution and contamination of water bodies and marine environment; • transferring oil-containing water to specialist contractors at sea ports; • transferring waste promptly to specialist contractors for utilisation, treatment or disposal to prevent negative environmental impacts; • treating their food waste and dry waste onboard in compliance with MARPOL 73/78. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 224 Impacts from transport operations Fleet Transported products Social and environmental Outcome responsibility Group’s own fleet • Products of the Group • Compliance with international No significant companies conventions, codes, guidelines, environmental Russian laws, regulations impact produced • Products procured and requirements by the Company's to meet the Group’s freight and personnel internal needs • Four freight-forwarding licences, transportation all environmental permits in place • Commercial and social cargo • Multi-stage control from the Group companies, other transportation participants and supervisory bodies • Security and industrial health and safety management systems in place at facilities Fleet chartered by • Norilsk Nickel Group’s • Compliance of the fleet's the Group's Metal products environmental parameters with Trade Overseas the requirements of international environmental conventions • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 225 Impacts from foreign operations Norilsk Nickel Harjavalta has all the necessary environmental permits and operates a certified integrated management system that meets the requirements of ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001. Norilsk Nickel Harjavalta’s main environmental impact consists in the emissions of ammonia (NH3) and nickel (Ni), and discharges of nickel, sulphates (SO42) and ammonia ions (NH4+). In 2019, Norilsk Nickel Harjavalta met all permit requirements for emissions, discharges and waste disposal volumes. Lower waste volumes resulted from switching to the Company’s own feedstock, which is less contaminated with impurities as compared to third-party materials. The increase in effluents and pollutant emissions was driven by the growing output. Environmental impact metrics of Norilsk Nickel Harjavalta Indicator 2017 2018 2019 Industrial wastewater ('000 m³) 899 988 961 Pollutants in industrial wastewater (t) • Ni 0.5 0.6 0.5 • SO4225,853 30,189 30,497 • NH4+ (rebased to nitrogen) 60.3 70 62 Total water consumption (mcm)*1 11.1 11.8 11.5 Total air pollutant emissions (t) 70.7 85.2 39.6 • Ni 1.7 1.2 1.6 • NH3 69 84 38 Waste generation (kt) 5.5 2.8 5.7 Waste disposal (kt) 0.8 1.1 1.3 Power consumption (GWh) 182 209 195 Power consumption for heating/cooling (GWh) 145 150 142 Steam consumption (GWh) 235 327 230 Environmental expenses, USD mln 1.0 0.7 2.7 1 Over 95% is water withdrawn from surface sources (Kokemaenjoki River). • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 226 Energy saving and energy efficiency Most of our production facilities and workforce operate or live in the harsh Arctic climate. We use an integrated approach to the energy infrastructure development, combining goals of reliability improvement with those of lowcarbon economy. We make continuous efforts to reduce consumption of such fuels as diesel fuel, coal and natural gas, as well as to provide our subsidiaries with reliable and efficient energy sources in the long term. 103–2 Our priority renewable source of energy is hydropower generated at the UstKhantayskaya and Kureyskaya HPPs (491 MW and 600 MW of installed capacity, respectively). The use of other renewables such as solar, geothermal and wind energy is constrained by geographic factors, such as long polar night and unsteady wind intensity. NORNICKEL´S FUEL AND ENERGY ASSETS NTEC NORILSKTRANSGAZ Supplies electric power, heat and Transports natural gas and condensate water to Norilsk and all facilities produced by Norilskgazprom in the Norilsk industrial District and Taimyrgaz NORILSKGAZPROM TAIMYRGAZ Develops the Severo–Soleninskoye Gas Develops the Pelyatkinskoye Gas Condensate Field, Yuzhno–Soleninskoye Condensate Field* Gas Condensate Field and the Messoyakhskoye Gas Field * On 1 March 2019, Taimyrgaz ceased its operations due to reorganisation in the form of a merger with Norilskgazprom. ARKTIK–ENERGO Arktik-Energo is Kola MMC´s default supplier based in Monchegorsk • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 227 Energy consumption by the Group, TJ 302–1 302–3 No. Indicator 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 1 Fuel consumption 161,710 172,425 156,5681 148,910 144,772 2 Energy from renewable sources (HPPs) 17,027 11,856 12,414 14,877 15,058 3 Electricity and heat procurement from 15,528 8,968 10,483 10,931 11,331 third parties 4 Electricity and heat sales to third parties 17,918 19,882 19,503 18,926 18,766 5 Group's total energy consumption 176,347 173,367 159,962 155,792 152,395 (1 + 2 + 3 – 4) Energy intensity, GJ / RUB mln2 348 316 298 214 174 Fuel consumption by the Group, TJ Indicator 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Fuel consumption 161,710 172,425 156,568 148,910 144,772 Natural gas 145,266 151,081 134,709 129,335 125,329 Coal 4,170 2,132 1,460 1,660 2,087 Diesel fuel and fuel oil 12,274 15 423 15,221 13,788 13,535 Gasoline and aviation fuel3 — 3,789 5,178 4,127 3,820 1 The 2017 figures were revised due to adjustments in the calculation methodology and actual data on diesel fuel and fuel oil consumption. 2 RUB mln of consolidated revenue. 3 Consolidated data has been reported since 2016. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 228 To achieve its energy development goals and targets, we run investment projects approved by the Investment Committee. In 2019, we continued to enhance the reliability of generating equipment, grid and gas transportation infrastructure and boost gas output. In 2019, as part of a large-scale equipment replacement, the Ust-Khantayskaya HPP put on stream the fifth hydroelectric unit, increasing its total installed capacity to 10 MW. The new units boast better reliability and a service life of at least 50 years. Each year, we develop and implement organisational and technical action plans to save fuel, heat, power and water. Fuel and energy savings resulting from energy consumption reduction and energy efficiency improvement initiatives 302–4 No. Indicator Including Polar NTEC Kola MMC Bear Creek Division 1. Total savings, TJ 1,955 211 956 62 including: 1.1. • Electricity 302 6 234 42 1.2. • Heat in water and steam 435 162 0 20 1.3. • Fuel 1,218 43 721 0 including: 1.3.1. • Coal 0 0 25 0 1.3.2. • Natural gas 1,218 43 0 0 1.3.3. • Diesel fuel and fuel oil 0 0 697 0 • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 229 Regional development RUB 192.4 bn tax and non-tax payments to budgets in 2019 • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 230 Regional development Nornickel is one of the major employers and taxpayers in Russia. The Company makes a significant contribution to the development of local communities by implementing a range of social programmes that address current and potential future issues. Achievements Horizons Prospects We work with regional In Norilsk, we launched SME development institutions (most Business Navigator, a free notably Norilsk Development website for entrepreneurs Agency, or NDA) to build who want to launch a business infrastructure that would enable or take it to the next level accelerated development across our footprint. The NDA’s mission is to lay the foundation for Numbers accelerated development of the city’s service-based economy as In 2019, we spent RUB 9.6 bn a way of improving Norilsk’s living on social programmes standards and promoting local and employee benefits. products and services on external markets. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 231 Krasnoyarsk Territory Area 2,366,800 sq km Population 2,874,026 people Mineral resources Industry Nornickel’s performance in the Krasnoyarsk Territory • Oil, gas, coal, platinum and • Non-ferrous metallurgy • Taxes and other payments: PGMs, copper, nickel, cobalt, RUB 104.2 bn • Mining lead, zinc, bauxite, gold, silver, • Headcount: iron • Solid fuel–based power and 52,000 hydropower generation • Average monthly salary: RUB 112,000 • Employee-related social expenses: RUB 2,808.1 mln Key areas of cooperation with the Krasnoyarsk Territory Economic Social Environmental • Cooperation on major • Improvement of the existing • Implementation of cutting-edge investment projects sports infrastructure and green technologies in the Krasnoyarsk Territory construction of new state• Restoration and landscaping of-the-art facilities in the • Heat and power supply to the of urban territories Krasnoyarsk Territory communities and companies • Development of Taimyr’s specially of the Norilsk Industrial District • Support for vocational and protected natural areas supplementary education • Implementation of the • Organisation and backing Northern Supply Haul • Implementation of the of environmental campaigns programme in the Arctic World of New Opportunities programme, supporting and • Development of transport promoting regional public and the telecommunication initiatives infrastructure • Construction of modern housing and utilities, city and village improvement initiatives • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 232 Murmansk Region Area 144,900 sq km Population 748,056 people Mineral resources Industry Nornickel’s performance in the Murmansk Region • Apatite, nickel, iron, copper, • Mining • Taxes and other payments: cobalt, palladium, platinum RUB 19.9 bn • Metallurgy and PGMs, peat • Headcount: • Fishing 12,300 • Average monthly salary: RUB 86,200 • Employee-related social expenses: RUB 551.2 mln Key areas of cooperation with the Murmansk Region Economic Social Environmental • Implementation of investment • Implementation of the • Cooperation on environmental projects in the region World of New Opportunities protection, preservation programme, supporting and of the Kola Peninsula's natural • Development of production promoting regional public ecology and landscapes capacities initiatives • Promotion of tourism • Social and economic • Ensuring heat supply in the Murmansk Region development of municipalities to communities across that are home to Kola MMC's • Organisation and backing Kola MMC's footprint production sites of environmental campaigns • Development of social • Development of the transport entrepreneurship infrastructure in the Arctic • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 233 Trans-Baikal Territory Area 431,900 sq km Population 1,065,785 people Mineral resources Industry Nornickel’s performance in the Trans-Baikal Territory • Copper, uranium, • Mining • Taxes and other payments: molybdenum, titanium, gold, RUB 3.2 bn • Production and distribution tungsten, iron, zinc, silver, of electricity, gas and water • Headcount: lead, coal 3,300 people • Non-ferrous metallurgy • Average monthly salary: • Machinery and equipment RUB 97,300 manufacturing • Employee-related social expenses: • Food production RUB 29.6 mln Key areas of cooperation with the Trans-Baikal Territory Economic Social Environmental • Bystrinskoye Deposit • Training of mining industry • Development of the Relict Oaks development. Over the first employees State Reserve located in the 10 years of Bystrinsky GOK region • Support and development operation, the Company plans of the volunteer movement to contribute around RUB 18 bn to the territory’s budget • Improvement of urban areas in tax payments • Improvement of Bystrinsky GOK’s transport accessibility • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 234 The Company's contribution to the development of local communities Nornickel is one of the major employers and taxpayers in Russia1. The Company makes a significant contribution to the development of local communities by implementing a range of social programmes that address current and potential future issues. The Group’s key regions of operation in Russia include the cities of Norilsk and Monchegorsk, the Taimyrsky Dolgano-Nenetsky Municipal District of the Krasnoyarsk Territory, the Pechengsky District of the Murmansk Region, the Tazovsky District of the Yamal-Nenets Autonomous Area, and the Gazimuro-Zavodsky District of the Trans-Baikal Territory. Saratov hosts Nornickel’s Shared Services Centre. In the Tver Region, the Company is engaged in the construction of housing for its employees under My Home and Our Home programmes. 203–2 THE GROUP‘S OPERATIONS AS ABACKBONE OF LOCAL ECONOMIES CONTRIBUTION TO ECONOMIC INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT DEVELOPMENT: DEVELOPMENT: OF LOCAL COMMUNITIES: • Bridge and road • Regular charitable • Budget payments reconstruction programmes • Employment of local • Land improvement • Support for sports population and culture projects • Cooperation development • Housing construction • Corporate volunteering • Development of social • Construction and reconstruction of sport, • Vocational training infrastructure as part cultural,entertainment sponsorship of the Group operations (power, transport, and research facilities • Activities of the Norilsk food retail) • Provision of access to Development Agency highspeed internet connection in Norilsk • Smart City initiative 1 The information presented in this section refers to the Group's Russian operations. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 235 Spending on social, charitable and social infrastructure programmes1, RUB mln 203–1 1,303 3,536 2,246 2015 18,277 8,593 1,044 1,555 1,738 2016 5,250 2,598 23,616 11,294 1,407 1,329 1,138 6,738 767 2017 25,979 14,405 1,349 1,582 795 7,185 1,224 2018 30,897 15,693 4,417 1,583 5,071 1,436 1,264 2019plan 26,626 12,988 3,449 2,418 7,812 1,185 3,400 2019actual 27,579 9,578 3,747 1,857 11,615 661 562 2020plan 35,275 14,464 3,274 4,700 0 5,000 10,000 15,000 20,000 25,000 30,000 35,000 40,000 Social Charity Sponsorship Repair and Investments Breakthrough programmes 203–1 (sports maintenance in social projects infrastructure and benefits projects) of social and social projects for employees infrastructure infrastructure 203–1 development 203–1 1 The 2019 plan was updated in the reporting period and therefore may vary from the data presented in the 2018 Sustainability Report. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 236 Budget payments Changes in the tax and non-tax payments for 2019 vs 2018 were due to higher income taxes resulting from a higher taxable base. Tax and non-tax payments1 to local, regional and federal budgets, RUB bn Budget 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Total tax and non-tax payments, 88.7 91.5 100.3 115.6 192.4 including to • Federal budget 11.9 14.1 14.3 18.3 31.8 • Krasnoyarsk Territory 43.6 41.6 47.8 55.9 104.2 consolidated budget • Norilsk budget 5.5 4.7 5.0 5.2 8.0 • Murmansk Region budget 8.2 7.8 8.2 10.6 19.9 • Trans-Baikal Territory budget2 — — 0.9 1.2 3.2 1 Tax and non-tax payments include all taxes paid, net of VAT and dividend income tax, as well as insurance payments and customs duties. 2 Payments to the Trans-Baikal Territory budget have been presented separately since 2017. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 237 Employment of local population The Company provides ample career guidance and job opportunities for local communities across its key regions of operation. To boost employment in Norilsk, MMC Norilsk Nickel and Norilsk Employment Centre signed an agreement aimed at retraining those out of work for the most needed blue-collar jobs. The main target audience of career guidance events are children and young people under 35 years old. The Company builds partnerships with educational organisations and engages young workers, while also providing robust support for talented teachers, engineering training and whipping up interest in engineering and blue-collar jobs. Nornickel also provides financial support to Norilsk's institutions of secondary and higher vocational education by buying books and specialised equipment for students, contributing to the maintenance works, and thus improving the quality of training. The Company primarily focuses on the training of specialists for the most in-demand jobs. Unemployment in key communities1 Unemployment rates 2018 2019 2019/2018, ∆ Norilsk 0.7% 0.6% -0.1 p.p. Taimyrsky Dolgano-Nenetsky 0.9% 0.8% -0.1 p.p. Municipal District Krasnoyarsk Territory 0.8% 0.8% — Monchegorsk 2.2% 2.2% — Zapolyarny 2.1% 2.0% -0.1 p.p. Nickel 2.5% 3.3% +0.8 p.p. Murmansk Region 1.5% 1.7% +0.2 p.p. 1 As at the end of the reporting year. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 238 Cooperation development As part of its social and economic partnership agreements, Nornickel has been cultivating cooperation with the companies of the Krasnoyarsk Territory and the Murmansk Region. Integration of local businesses into the Group’s production chain (mainly through long-term contracts) contributes to the economic development of the regions, particularly by supporting small and medium-sized businesses. Cooperation development in figures Indicator 2018 2019 Krasnoyarsk Murmansk Krasnoyarsk Murmansk Territory Region Territory Region Procurement tenders for goods and services 1,516 673 1,863 501 held by the Company Locally awarded procurements as a share 57.7 49.5 59.8 41.7 of tenders held by the Company, % The Group’s spending on local procurements, 12,503.8 1,792.8 15,661.9 1,743.5 RUB mln including • services 9,434.8 1,579.8 1,636.6 304.7 • materials 2,209.7 213 13,124.1 1,438.8 • food supplies 859.3 0 901.2 0 • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 239 In 2019, Infrastructure development the Company spent RUB Nornickel is actively involved in the development and renovation of social infrastructure, looking to create accessible and comfortable environments for working and living in the regions. 2.1 bn A key focus in the reporting year was the continued landscaping of the Dolgoye Lake embankment in Norilsk in cooperation with the municipal authorities. The project is implemented in stages and is scheduled to complete on social infrastructure in 2021. Its concept includes installation of sportsand playgrounds, setting development projects. up ski, roller blades, bicycles and other rentals, construction of a boat station, a café, a skate park, and a roller rink, outfitting the area with street lights and furniture, paving and landscaping. The Company has invested a total of RUB 210.7 mln in the project since its launch. On top of that, the Company provides funding to maintain and expand the existing regular passenger and luggage bus service under Cooperation Agreement No. 88-751/16 dated 24 March 2016 (subsidising passenger bus services provided by the Norilsk Production Association for Passenger Transport). Nornickel’s expenses on these initiatives totalled RUB 195.1 mln in 2019. Podsolnukh store chain The Podsolnukh store chain, a part of Nornickel Group, takes its fair share of the retail market in the Norilsk Industrial District with nine stores, including one hypermarket. The SKU range of the chain includes socially significant food products (vegetables, fruit, grains, dairy products, meat, canned foods, eggs, sugar, etc.) that are offered at substantially lower prices than in other regional stores. The average retail prices in the Podsolnukh store chain grew notably slower than the official inflation rate. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 240 Key social infrastructure development projects in 2019 Region Focus area Projects Krasnoyarsk Land improvements • Landscaping of the Dolgoye Lake embankment in Norilsk Territory • Routine repairs and equipment purchases for public institutions Sports • Construction of a multi-purpose sports and recreation centre for team sports in Norilsk • Supporting Norilsk-based sports organisations and institutions (including equipment purchases); implementing sports development projects Culture and • Supporting Norilsk-based culture and art organisations and institutions education Transportation • Subsidising passenger bus services in Norilsk • Reconstruction of Norilsk airport Housing • Implementation of the Comfortable Taimyr project to build housing in Tukhard, Taimyrsky Dolgano-Nentsky Municipal District Society • Provision of free hot meals for the low-income population of Norilsk • Helping organise and run professional festivals for tundra inhabitants, the Reindeer Herder's Day and the Fisherman's Day • Supporting local organisations that help disabled or rehabilitated people • Financing summer recreation for kids from special extra-familial child care institutions • Supporting Norilsk NPOs by funding their statutory activities, hosting anniversary commemorations and festivals, forums and conferences, organising city-wide events and campaigns • Supporting a local religious organisation, the Orthodox parish of the Joy of All Who Sorrow Cathedral in Norilsk • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 241 Region Focus area Projects Trans-Baikal Land improvements • Completing the reconstruction of Dekabristov Square in Chita Territory • Implementation of the Green Trans-Baikal project to create comfortable living conditions factoring in the environmental and climate aspects of the area • Implementation of projects for social and economic development of the Gazimuro-Zavodsky District Sports • Supporting youth sports • Implementing the Future of the Trans-Baikal Territory project to promote healthy lifestyle, physical education and mass sports Education • Launch of Quantorium, a children’s high-tech park • Implementation of the Territory of Growth, and Successful School for Successful Future projects seeking young talent and aimed at developing children’s potential • Renovating the 2nd floor lobby of the children’s art centre Society • The Trans-Baikal Legacy project to promote the residents’ achievements and provide a positive influence on young people and the community in general, which will help engage more people in socially impactful activities, including public organisations and NPOs • “I remember, I am proud!” programme (hosting thematic exhibitions and festivities including those to celebrate the World War II Victory Day on 9 May) • Developing the Growth Trajectory youth movement and the volunteer movement and supporting creative youth projects • Erecting a memorial to the Trans-Baikal residents killed while on military duty • Completing the development of the Relict Oaks State Reserve • Supporting the Veteran Council Culture • Trans-Baikal International Film Festival • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 242 Region Focus area Projects Murmansk Land improvements • Reconstructing the Leningradskaya embankment in Monchegorsk Region • Co-funding the city road network reconstruction • Office refurbishment for the Monchegorsk Society for the Disabled • Printing house refurbishment for the regional public charity foundation BlagoDat • Festive decorations for the Monchegorsk Central District Hospital Society • Establishing the Second School educational centre in Nickel Sports • A multi-purpose outdoor sports ground for the Delfin sports centre Culture • Building a modern cinema in Zapolyarny in cooperation with Russia's Cinema Foundation Contribution to the social and economic development of Nickel In November 2019, to ensure environmental compliance and address ecological issues in the Pechengsky District of the Murmansk Region, the Company decided to shut down its smelting facilities in the town of Nickel. Together with district, regional and federal authorities, members of the local community, and Russia’s Monotowns Development Fund, Nornickel identified the key priorities of a strategy to support continued social and economic development in the Pechengsky District, including: • establishment of new enterprises based on traditional business models (fish processing, bakery, cheesemaking, brewing, recycling and packaging, manufacturing of construction materials, etc.); • establishment of a diverse industrial park housing production facilities with a small environmental footprint; • development of a service economy and tourism (opening service shops and production facilities, building tourism infrastructure, and creating world-class tourism products); • transformation of the social and cultural environment spearheaded by the Second School Centre. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 243 The final version of the Nickel development strategy should be adopted in 2020, with the first stage expected to require around RUB 400 mln in funding. The establishment of the Second School Centre, a specialised development institution, was a remarkable event for Nickel. In 2019, the Second School Centre developed into a genuinely multifunctional public space for some 500 cultural and educational projects and events encouraging social activity among the Pechengsky District population, such as: • art exhibitions and creative meetings, • theatrical performances, • quiz games and intellectual competitions, • family and children's parties. Members of the Pechengsky District community also took part in several international social and cultural projects, including the Tromsø Christmas Market (Norway), Quiet Life exhibitions in Vardø, Kirkenes and Hellfjord (Norway), Cross-Border Cooperation Days, and the Spirit of Inari 2019 International Tourism Seminar (Finland). Liinakhamari Port To develop tourism in the Pechengsky District, the Company plans to build Liinakhamari Port, an integrated tourist hub that would help tourists see the sights of the Kola Peninsula and promote various types of tourism. The project’s concept is based on an integrated approach to the area's development and multi-seasonal operation. Public and private financing will be used. The project’s CAPEX will amount to RUB 24.8 bn (including VAT), with Nornickel contributing RUB 10.5 bn. The project will create over 500 jobs mostly for university graduates (HoReCa and tourist infrastructure). In total, the Pechengsky District will see more than 3,000 new jobs if we take into account the growth of related small and medium businesses. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 244 Development of local communities Charitable programmes We run World of New Opportunities, a charitable programme to encourage and promote sustainable development of local communities. The programme is designed to develop soft skills in local communities, demonstrate and introduce new social technologies, support and promote public initiatives, and encourage cross-sector partnerships. In 2019, we approved an updated, more structured and efficient version of the World of New Opportunities programme that incorporated the lessons learnt and stakeholder feedback. Key dimensions of the World of New Opportunities programme: Develop! — developing local territories through building partnerships; Invent! — fostering R&D creativity and the spirit of invention; Act! — growing the service-based economy; Create! – putting in place infrastructure to enable accelerated development and improved quality of life across the Company’s regions of operation. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 245 In 2019, approximately 45,000 people from across the Company’s regions of operation took part in the World of New Opportunities events. The key platforms were: • We Are the City! social technologies forum; • We Are the City! picnic; • All-Russian Science Festival; • Arctic Wave festival of R&D discoveries; • IMAKE engineering marathon; • School of Urban Competencies; • School Break educational project; • Imandrа Viking Fest of Nordic culture; • Rally of Social Entrepreneurs from the North. During the reporting year, we also developed online tools for interaction with local communities and implementation of the World of New Opportunities initiatives, including a World of New Opportunities app and an online platform for placing Socially Responsible Initiatives Competition bids. The World of New Opportunities app allows users to navigate through the programme, receive timely notifications about future events and register for them, meet other participants, download speaker and expert presentations, and take part in interactive surveys and quizzes. The online platform for Socially Responsible Initiatives Competition1 not only significantly simplified the bidding process, but also made bid assessment by the expert board and competition management much easier. DEVELOP! Socially Responsible Initiatives Competition Each year, we stage the Socially Responsible Initiatives Competition for nonprofit organisations to support public initiatives seeking to lay fertile ground for sustainable development in the regions of operation. In 2019, financing from the Company’s budget amounted to RUB 124.4 mln and covered 116 projects, including those aimed at developing volunteer movements, supporting socially vulnerable groups, implementing new child engagement techniques and technologies, performing renovation and restoration on public facilities, and so on. 1  nncharity.ru • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 246 In autumn 2019, a new edition of the Socially Responsible Initiatives Competition saw record-high 507 project bids. 114 projects were announced as winners, with their implementation slated for March 2020. We Are the City! social technologies forum In 2019, Norilsk, Monchegorsk and Nickel hosted the fifth anniversary iteration of the We Are the City! social technologies forum, which brought together locals, officials, businesses and journalists. The main theme of the forum’s anniversary edition was public spaces. Urbanism specialists and architects, thinkers and doers, experts from Moscow, St Petersburg, Perm, Norilsk and the Murmansk Region and other participants discussed ways to harness the communities’ creativity to add colour and life to urban locations (entrances to apartment buildings, yards and streets). The visual layout of the forum included works by local artists. The paintings of Norilsk, Monchegorsk and Nickel are the perfect illustration of ideas behind the We Are the City! event. The forum culminated in a charitable play called «Andrey Urgant’s Travel Notes about Nornickel Volunteers». The unique performance was based on true stories enacted by volunteers from among Nornickel employees. The proceeds from ticket sales worth RUB 241,440 were donated to the House with Tail animal shelter in Monchegorsk and the Giving Hope charity foundation helping stray animals in Norilsk. We Are the City! picnic This urban event served as a natural follow-up to the social technologies forum and its agenda of breathing a new life into public spaces, filling them with meaningful recreation opportunities. The picnic’s programme consisted of seven components: • intellect — interesting lectures and quizzes; • movement — exciting dances and active games; • nature — making useful items out of recycled materials and planting seeds; • art — performances and crafts; • sound — live music and instrument workshops; • physical and inner strength — yoga, martial arts, water sports; • food — culinary workshops and tastings. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 247 Around 11,200 people attended the festive events held in Norilsk, Monchegorsk, Zapolyarny and Chita. The Company’s financing amounted to RUB 27.5 mln. School of Urban Activities In 2019, the School of Urban Activities continued to teach committed and social-minded individuals how to organise large city-wide events. In the reporting year, the participants staged Imandra Viking Fest in Monchegorsk to celebrate Nordic culture. The event saw attendance of 6,500 people from 30 cities across five countries, and benefited from contributions of more than 10 historical re-enactment clubs from different Russian regions. School Break educational project During the We Are the City! social technologies forum held in February in Norilsk, we launched a new educational programme called «School Break». Its aim is to facilitate communication between children, their parents, and teachers in a joint effort to improve the education process. The project seeks to make sure that the participating teachers will pass on the newly acquired knowledge and competencies to their local schools. In 2019, the project saw the students, their parents and teachers take part in four training modules that included public lectures, on-site internships, master classes and discussions. All in all, some 489 participants joined forces to organise events for 2,400 kids using cutting-edge interactive techniques. Following the successful pilot in Norilsk, Zapolyarny and Nickel, the organisers decided to expand its geography in 2020 to cover educational facilities of Monchegorsk and Murmansk. INVENT! IMAKE engineering marathon IMAKE aims to motivate school students to get into project work and pursue inventions. The marathon is conducted in stages, whose purpose is to grow the IMAKE Inventors League – a community of inquisitive school students ready to generate ideas and turn them into prototypes. In 2019, more than 1,000 students signed up on the marathon’s website for the first stage and completed an intellectual flash game, with the winners moving on to the second stage. That one saw the participants (160 people in total) take part in a two-day engineering and scientific workshop in five cities across the Company’s footprint. In January 2020, 30 winners of the marathon will go to a seven-day winter Science Camp. 1 liga-imake.ru • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 248 Arctic Wave festival of R&D discoveries In 2019, Norilsk and Zapolyarny hosted the fourth Arctic Wave festival with the purpose of cultivating interest in research and development among the youth, supporting creative engineering ideas and innovative thinking among schoolchildren, and demonstrating the latest domestic and global scientific achievements. There were interactive displays of various R&D discoveries and exciting chemical experiments, and insightful lectures by young Russian scientists. One of the highlights of the 2019 festival was the Age of New Heroes hands-on exhibition. Visitors explored an improvised City of Heroes, helping its “denizens” with science-themed tasks and gaining new knowledge and skills to be finally titled New Age Heroes. That year’s event attracted over 4,500 people. ACT! Nornickel runs a Social Entrepreneurship course that takes the participants all the way from the development of a unique business plan to its presentation at an investment session. During the course, real businessmen assist the students with classes and homework. Five graduates of the 2019 course were awarded RUB 26.3 mln in interest-free loans to develop the following business ideas: • Martsin farm; • ophthalmology room at the Zdorovaya Semya medical centre; • Summer Snow tubing park; • LOFT charity store; • Dance Place studio. In addition, the Company organises annual Rallies of Social Entrepreneurs from the North, with the 2019 iteration having taken place in Monchegorsk and centred on tourism, service and hospitality industries. Experts from these fields got together with social entrepreneurs to exchange experience in tourism management and its different facets, including attracting and retaining customers, arranging festivals, promoting industrial tourism and extreme pastimes. CREATE! We work with regional development institutions (most notably Norilsk Development Agency, or NDA, and Second School Centre established in the Pechengsky District in December 2019 to promote social projects) to build infrastructure that would enable accelerated development across our footprint. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 249 The NDA’s mission is to lay the foundation for accelerated development of the city’s service-based economy as a way of improving Norilsk’s living standards and promoting local products and services on external markets. The Agency’s key focus areas are as follows: • Business (Norilsk as a city of developed service-based economy); • Development (Norilsk as a city of modern selling spaces); • Tourism (Norilsk as a city of tourists); • Social and Cultural Projects (Norilsk as a city of rich social and cultural life). Under the Development umbrella, in 2019 the NDA oversaw the completion of an exercise to draft an urban master plan for the next decade and the start of its implementation with the construction of a state-of-the-art city park and a public space, and the restoration of mosaic art on building façades. In the reporting year, the Norilsk master plan won the Best Territorial Planning Layout award in the International Professional Competition staged by the National Association of Members Performing Engineering Surveys and Design Documentation. As part of the Tourism workstream, we established the Arctic tourist and recreational cluster on the Taimyr Peninsula, with the list of main attractions including the Putorana Plateau (a UNESCO World Heritage Site), Norilsk, and Dudinka. As regards Social and Cultural Projects, we organised a number of big festivals and various other events with the overall attendance in excess of 70,000 people — In 2019, we continued implementing IT solutions across our social projects. For example, in Norilsk we launched SME Business Navigator, a free website for entrepreneurs who want to launch a business or take it to the next level. During the year, almost a quarter of Norilsk’s SMEs registered on the website, with close to 90% of them getting legal support and business plan calculations online, as well as choosing the tax regime and applying for property and financial aid. Larisa Zelkova Senior Vice President for HR, Social Policy and Public Relations • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 250 Social portrait of a city resident From October 2018 to February 2019, we conduced a Social Portrait of a City Resident survey to assess the current situation in the cities and identify development priorities for the next decade. What made this survey unique was the use of computational sociol ogy tools such as machine learning algorithms to analyse the interviewees’ digital profiles. The survey covered 8,078 residents of Norilsk, Monchegorsk, Zapolayrny and Nickel who contributed more that 33,000 ideas and proposals. Key resident needs: • Improved urban infrastructure and constructive dialogue on how to make the urban environment more pleasant to live in and attractive from a design perspective • Understanding the city’s development strategy and the authorities’ efforts to this end • Healthy lifestyle, illness prevention and reduction in the disease incidence rate • Opportunities for self-fulfilment and communication with experts from various professional spheres • Support for small and medium-sized businesses and entrepreneurship development • Creating a shared urban design concept, landscaping and planting of greenery • Extending pedestrian areas and walking routes • Developing healthcare and making it more accessible • Fostering tourism • Improving literacy levels in local communities • Organising diverse and appropriate leisure activities for various age groups • Addressing environmental issues The Company plans to take into account the collected feedback when designing production and social programmes for its employees and local residents. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 251 Targeted charitable support We continued providing targeted charitable donations in response to special requests from organisations. In 2014, Polar Division and Kola MMC set up dedicated charity committees to review such requests. Certain donations are also approved by the Company's management. Nornickel has traditionally supported: • entities dealing with vulnerable groups of population (veterans of World War II, disabled people, multichild families, children with special needs, financially disadvantaged citizens), • participation of local non-profit organisations and institutions in various sports competitions, creativity contests, etc.; • organising and holding professional festivals for tundra inhabitants to preserve the national traditions and culture of indigenous northern minorities. In addition to financially supporting combat survivors, World War II veterans and former law enforcement members, we send our representatives to sit on the boards of trustees of associations and foundations running a variety of military and patriotic projects (including as part of the Hero of the Fatherland programme). Corporate volunteer programme Our corporate volunteer programme aims to enhance corporate culture and social responsibility through the mutual assistance among employees and the Company's support for volunteer initiatives, charitable campaigns, and projects addressing local social issues. The volunteers focus on promoting campaigns to support kids with special needs and their families, as well as children without parental care. They also do environmental work. The shining example of fruitful cooperation between the business and local communities, Nornickel and its employees was the Plant of Goodness project, which helped harness and streamline the Company’s expertise and its vast track record of social and environmental initiatives in a structured and efficient manner. Today, this programme is implemented across the regions of Nornickel’s operations, including Norilsk, Monchegorsk, Zapolyarny, Chita and Moscow. Each year, around 500 employees volunteer as part of the Plant of Goodness project. After being volunteers for some time, our employees often come up with their own initiatives. The skills and expertise they obtain doing this kind of work help them not just in everyday life, but also in their career pursuits. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 252 In 2019, the Plant of Goodness participants: • did over 10,000 hours of volunteer work; • o  rganised more than 200 volunteer campaigns with inputs from 18,000 local residents; • d  onated over RUB 4.4 mln of personal funds towards charity. One of the largest and most important projects of the programme is the Let’s Do It! environmental marathon. Having started out as just a series of clean-up days, the marathon has come to include environmental awareness initiatives in addition to urban improvement activities. Over its history, the number of participants grew exponentially — from 100 to approximately 17,000. Some of the most exciting events of Let’s Do It! included: • large-scale environmental festival comprising a give-away shop, lecture club, and a venue to exchange plastic for environmentally friendly products; • urban improvement of a number of city spaces, including through the use of recycled materials; • new workshop on plastic recycling, where anyone could make use of a shredding machine and a furnace to craft something useful out of bottles and caps they have collected. — Our environmental project goals include landscaping and installation of a greenhouse and our own weather station, as we plan to engage children in research activities. We are happy to have volunteers from Nornickel’s Plant of Goodness lend us a hand in that. Ekaterina Protsiv Head of the Department for Social Rehabilitation of Underage Children at the Pechenga Comprehensive Social Support Centre. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 253 Also, the 2019 environmental marathon saw a variety of environmental awareness raising events, clean-up days, and other volunteer initiatives. One of the new formats we tried during the reporting year was Guide for the People. The campaign’s participants took people on partially interactive excursions and developed quests to acquaint local residents with unusual environmental projects and topics. At the start of 2019, we launched Employees’ Personal Donation Programme as part of the Plant of Goodness corporate volunteering project, which saw employees contribute money to those in need of emergency care. The recipients ranged from the region’s residents with expensive medical bills to non-profit organisations helping kids, the disabled, seniors, or animals. Once the employees were done donating money for each specific initiative, the Company added its own budget funds on top of that. In that way, the personal donation programme showed how much could be achieved when individuals and the Company join their efforts. Another highlight of the Plant of Goodness was its final 2019 event — the I am volunteer! family festival in Norilsk. It had 20 interactive sites and various master classes. The attending animal shelter organisations were able to collect 45 kg of animal food from the sympathising citizens. One of the most vibrant sights was provided by hospital clowns, who gave young patients the proverbial best medicine in the form of laughter. In total, 400 Norilsk residents attended the family festival. In just three hours, nearly 50 people showed interest in joining the Plant of Goodness programme. In 2019, we released a documentary on the Company's volunteering activities called Caring 1, which won prizes at Cannes Corporate Media & TV Awards 2020 and Los Angeles Film Awards. 1 You can view the film at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cYTf2VJ_ohE • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 254 Support for sports projects As an active supporter of sports, Nornickel sponsors major Russian and international sports organisations and provides financing for the upgrade of sports facilities, construction of sports schools and playgrounds. Support of sports organisations and competitions Russian Olympic Committee Partner International University Sports Federation (FISU) Partner Russian Futsal Association General partner Norislk Nickel Futsal Club General sponsor Ice Hockey Federation of Russia General partner Night Hockey League General partner CSKA professional basketball club General sponsor Russian Curling Federation General partner WCT Arctic Curling Cup international competition General partner All Russian Federation of Dance Sport Partner and Acrobatic Rock'n'Roll Rosgonki and Sochi Autodrom Partner • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 255 29th International Winter Universiade in Krasnoyarsk In March 2019, Krasnoyarsk hosted the 29th International Winter Universiade. As the general partner of this global sports event, we honoured the full scope of our responsibilities and commitments concerning its preparation and staging. In total, we contributed in excess of RUB 2.4 bn to the 2019 Winter Universiade. Nornickel’s role in the organisation of the universiade was highly praised by international federations, participating nations, the event’s managers and top officials of the Russian Federation. We also received a number of high-profile awards for our work (Regional Development. Best for Russia, In total, we Sport Leaders, BISPO Awards, Russia’s Best Social Projects, MARSPO Awards). The Company’s support for the universiade helped boost the international contributed image of the Krasnoyarsk Territory and its capital, promote healthy lifestyles and mass sports, and enhance living standards in the region. in excess of In addition to financial and infrastructure support, we assumed additional RUB obligations, including staff training, own volunteering programme, and helping the world discover the new image of modern Siberia. 2.4 bn In the run-up to the Winter Universiade, the Company completed a large-scale upgrade of the Bobrovy Log Fun Park. We built an up-to-the-minute athletic training facility equipped with a broadcasting system, developed an integrated to the 2019 Winter security system in line with Russian and international standards, expanded Universiade. the ski pistes and made an additional practice track, upgraded the artificial snow machinery, prepared an ambulance helicopter pad, and purchased the necessary competition equipment. Following the universiade, the Bobrovy Log Fun Park will not be brought under the public ownership. Its maintenance and further use will continue to be financed by Nornickel, adding to its long history of creating and managing multifunctional and specialised sports complexes. The new athletic training facility is already being used for basketball and futsal games and competitions. To top it off, we did extensive work promoting the 2019 Winter Universiade in the Russian and overseas media. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 256 With information support from the Euronews channel, we implemented the cross-cultural programme FOLLOW UP SIBERIA. Winners of an online creativity contest were given a unique opportunity to visit the cities of Siberia and the 2019 Winter Universiade and tell the world about the region. People from 53 countries joined the online contest during the project, with 33 photographers and travel bloggers from 19 countries taking a tour across Siberia. Nornickel Futsal Cup — New Hopes For the second year running, we organised Nornickel Cup — New Hopes, an inter-regional tournament that brought together youth teams from the Krasnoyarsk and Trans-Baikal Territories and the Murmansk Region. The winners received cups and diplomas, while the rest got memorable souvenirs. International University Sports Federation We supported the International University Sports Federation (FISU) that manages university games, thus sponsoring the international university sports movement. In September 2019, we helped organise the now traditional FISU Volunteer Leaders Academy international forum, which brought together leaders of the volunteer movement from 80 countries, representatives of sports delegations and university sports officials. The forum was held to facilitate communication between volunteers and national university sports federations, and share knowledge and experience in organising large international sports events such as the 2019 Winter Universiade in Krasnoyarsk. Russian Olympic Committee As a partner of the Russian Olympic Committee and the Russian Olympic team, we support youth and high performance sports, including by allocating a total of over RUB 1 bn for the implementation of Olympic educational programmes developed by the Russian International Olympic University. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 257 Ice Hockey Federation of Russia Under our partnership agreement with the Ice Hockey Federation of Russia, we support the development of the Red Machine national programme for comprehensive hockey training and coaching of the Russian national hockey teams for the 24th Olympic Games to be held in Beijing (China) in 2022. Another important dimension of this cooperation is the promotion of social and sports programmes in the cities across the Company’s regions of operation. CSKA professional basketball club We continue to provide support to CSKA, Russia’s most successful and wellknown basketball club. In 2019, CSKA came out as a winner in the VTB United League and for the fourth time triumphed in the EuroLeague's Final Four, the most prestigious competition on the continent. All Russian Federation of Dance Sport and Acrobatic Rock'n'Roll In 2019, we supported the All Russian Federation of Dance Sport and Acrobatic Rock'n'Roll in developing and promoting these sports. As part of the partnership, we helped grow the corporate acrobatic rock’n’roll club in Norilsk that continues to shine in the nationwide and regional competitions. Rosgonki and Sochi Autodrom In 2019, we continued our partnership with Rosgonki and Sochi Autodrom to support and promote motor racing in Russia. Rosgonki is an autonomous non-profit organisation and an official organiser of the prestigious Formula One circuit race in Russia. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 258 Support for cultural projects and initiatives The social and cultural projects implemented across our footprint help acquaint the Company’s employees, their families and local residents with the Russian cultural agenda, narrowing the gap between their quality of life and that of the people from big cities in the “mainland”. The Company rolls out its partnership programmes in cooperation with the Norilsk Development Agency and the Second School Centre, as well as through sponsorship projects. While playing a key role in corporate events and competitions attracting tens of thousands of employees and their families each year, the Company also supports prominent all-Russian cultural projects. In 2019, such projects included: • Follow up Siberia!, an international cross-cultural initiative in support of the 29th International Winter Universiade in 2019, and its sequel — FusioNNow; • Living Classics young readers competition; • Golden Mask festival, the main annual theatrical event in Russia where Nornickel acted as a sponsor; • 4th Taburetka International Literature Festival (Monchegorsk); • Media School in the Polar region, an event helping schoolchildren from across our regions of operation acquire new knowledge and skills and prepare for creative competitions and university entrance exams; • Robonickel robotics school; • a large-scale cultural and historical project titled Conquering of the North: a Millennium of Success , which was held across Russian northern territories with inputs from the leading historians and local museums; • launch of Nornickel’s play space in the Kidzania educational theme park where children can try out more than 100 professions. In addition to local museums near our production sites, we support federal museums, such as the Moscow Multimedia Art Museum, and hold our own exhibitions. In 2019, the All-Russian Decorative Art Museum hosted the Taimyr. Genius Loci exhibition, which enjoyed remarkable success. Follow Up Siberia! won the Eventiada IPRA Golden World Awards and received a prize in the Projects from Russia category at European Excellence Awards 2019, one of the leading international awards for PR and communications. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 259 Assessment of social programmes 103–2 103–3 We have a comprehensive assessment system for social programmes and projects in place. The key criterion used to select social projects for implementation is their social impact, i.e. effects they have on various aspects of life and society. The social impact is assessed throughout the life cycle of the programme or project implemented and upon their completion. Some of the principal assessment tools are target audience surveys and polls that provide information on stakeholder opinions, for example: • assessment of social climate in teams through designated meetings on social and labour issues; • annual employee engagement surveys; • annual polls among social programme participants (health resort treatment, children’s vacation, corporate gifts programmes, cultural, entertainment and sports events). Assessment of public-private partnership projects Project/agreement life cycle stages Strategy Plan Implementation Follow-up Social impact R R R R Efficiency for the Company R R R R Top management involvement Review by Board Review by Annual Report to in impact assessment of Directors and Management reporting Management Management Board’s Budget Board on Board Committee implementation and impact Assessment of regional-level R R R R impact Assessment of project-level R R R R impact Integration in KPIs R R • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 260 In addition, we assess actual performance indicators vs targets set out in the programme specifications or social and economic cooperation agreements. This applies to the regular efficiency and performance assessment of: • My Home/Our Home and Corporate Subsidised Loan housing programmes; • World of New Opportunities charitable programme; • social projects entitled to the Company's grants (both at the financing decision stage and during the implementation). We also produce a monthly report on the social climate in the regions of operations and participate in competitions to have our initiatives independently assessed and publicly recognised. Public-private partnerships are assessed at different management levels to support optimal sustainability decisions in the regions where the Company operates. Transport accessibility With our reliable state-of-the-art transport infrastructure, we are capable of meeting any freight logistics challenges and ensures continuity and sustainability of operations and well-being of local communities. Our dry cargo fleet provides year-round freight shipping services between Dudinka,Murmansk, Arkhangelsk, Rotterdam, and Hamburg sea ports. For seven months a year, we transport the bulk of socially important cargoes for the Norilsk Industrial District. In 2019, dry cargo transported by our fleet amounted to 1.5 mt, up 7% year-on-year. The Yenisey tanker is used to carry gas condensate, a by-product of gas extraction at the Pelyatkinskoye Field developed by Nornickel, to European ports and other destinations. This way we help reduce pollution from these by-products and improve local environment. The Company and other companies of the Group handle cargo in the ports of Dudinka, Murmansk, Lesosibirsk and Krasnoyarsk. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 261 Dudinka Port (Polar Transport Division) is the world’s only port flooded every year during spring high water and accessible by both sea and river vessels. In 2019, its cargo turnover totalled 3.4 mt, including more than 0.35 kt of socially important shipments. Bystrinsky Transport Division is responsible for the operation and maintenance of the 227 km Naryn (Borzya) — Gazimursky Zavod railway line (Trans-Baikal Territory). YRSC transports socially important cargoes to destinations across the Krasnoyarsk Territory. During the short period of spring floods, it delivers fuels and lubricants, food and other goods to locations with limited transport accessibility on the Podkamennaya and Nizhnyaya Tunguska rivers and in other areas, including Dikson, Russia’s northernmost settlement. The shipping company operates its own search and rescue fleet and takes part in emergency response missions on internal water routes of the Yenisey Basin. Murmansk Transport Division is responsible for local shipments in the lower reaches of Yenisey, to the north of Dudinka Port. Dudinka Port receives foods and delivers socially important cargoes for local residents, including indigenous peoples of the North, ships cargoes for the EMERCOM and transports residents of remote coastal areas. Destinations covered by NordStar Airlines include more than 30 Russian and CIS cities. With passenger traffic in excess of 1 million people per year, NordStar operates year-round direct flights from Norilsk to over 10 destinations in Russia and annually reaffirms its status of a major domestic air carrier. In 2019, NordStar carried 1.3 million passengers. It offers regular and charter flights and transports passengers to interregional budget subsidised destinations, with tickets sold at reduced tariffs. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 262 Norilsk Avia is the only air operator capable of responding to both industrial and social emergencies in the region (Norilsk Industrial District and Taimyrsky Dolgano-Nenetsky Municipal District). The Company meets regional demand for passenger and commercial traffic, including emergency ambulance flights as part of search and rescue operations within a range of up to 280 km from Norilsk Airport. According to regulations, emergency flights are a mandatory condition for all air transportation services in the region, including long-haul flights. In 2018, Norilsk (Alykel) Airport saw the upgrade of its runway finally completed during the third construction season. In 2019, we helped the airport build a patrol road, fencing, engineering infrastructure and communication networks as part of the public-private partnership formalised in the Memorandum of Intent between MMC Norilsk Nickel and the Federal Air Transport Agency. Concrete works related to the apron renovation were 95% complete as at the end of the reporting period. ?1 ?2 ?3 1 Murmansk terminal 4 4 Dudinka Port 2 Arkhangelsk Transport Division ? ?6 5 NordStar Airlines ?5 3 Arctic fleet ?7 6 Norilsk Airport 7 Norilsk Avia 8 Our transportation and logistics assets include: Krasnoyarsk transport hub • Arc7 Arctic fleet (five dry cargo vessels and one tanker), 8 Yenisey River Shipping Company two port ice-breakers (Dudinka and Avraami Zavenyagin); (YRSC) • iver fleet (623 vessels, including 198 self-propelled 9 Lesosibirsk Port vessels and 425 towed vessels); 9 10 Krasnoyarsk River Port • traction and rolling stock (118 container flatcars, 1 switch Nornickel-YRSС locomotive, 1 Yermak electric locomotive, and 1 2М62 diesel locomotive); 10 11 Bystrinsky Transport Division • port infrastructure for transshipment of cargo of all types (including dry bulk and heavy lift) from 11 any means of transport, including a site for processing explosives (one of a kind for the Yenisey river); • aircraft fleet (16 Mi-8 helicopters and 13 planes), Norilsk Airport for continuous passenger and cargo transportation in NID. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 263 Awards and accolades Awards of MMC Norilsk Nickel Investment case • The world's largest nickel producer among private companies in Q1 2019, according to RIA Rating; • Upgrade of Nornickel’s credit rating to Ваа3 (investment grade) by Moody’s, with the outlook raised from stable to positive; • Top rankings in the annual Extel Survey of investors in the following categories: Metals & Mining, CEO for Investor Relations, CFOs best for Investor Relations, Best IR professionals. Environment • Winner of the Business Leaders: Environmental Expenses category by RAEX rating agency; • Snob magazine’s “Made in Russia 2019” award in the Environment category (support of environmental activities and operations upgrade). Society • President's Award for the successful construction of Bystrinsky GOK in the Trans-Baikal Territory (21 employees awarded); • Reaffirmed leadership in the Responsibility and Transparency and Sustainable Development Vector indices from the Russian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs; • First prize for the social investment programme in the Leaders of Corporate Philanthropy in the Sustainable Development Paradigm competition organised by the Russian Donors Forum, PwC and the Vedomosti newspaper; • Forbes Global 2000: The World's Best Employers ranking (first among Russian companies, 36th among the top 2000 employers globally; the only Russian company to make it to the Top 100 list); • No. 1 in the Forbes Russia Top 50 employers list; • No. 1 employer in the metals and mining industry (Business and Engineering/ Natural Sciences) according to Universum’s global ranking of Russia's most attractive employers. • Fourth place in the list of Russia’s Top 100 Employers by HeadHunter; • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 264 • No. 1 in the Digital Media & Tools category of the Digital Communications AWARDS (for the JoinUniversiada online contest); • No. 2 in the Best Internal Communications Project category at InterComm 2019; • HR Brand of the Year award by HeadHunter (third place in the Capital category with the online game Nickel Code); • International WOW!HR accolade in the Be Cool category (for the Nornickel Contributes to Engineering Future project); • GRADUATE AWARDS 2019 (second place for the Best Schoolchildren Engagement Programme); • Russia’s Best Social Project award in the Improvement of Living Conditions and Sports and Healthy Lifestyle Promotion categories; • Cannes Corporate Media & TV Awards (a silver award for Caring, a documentary about Nornickel volunteers); • Third All-Russian Keyword award (winner in the Socially Responsible Business category). Non-financial reporting • Winner of the Moscow Exchange's Annual Report Competition (the 2018 Sustainability Report named Best CSR and Sustainability Report); • Russian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs award for recognising compliance of corporate goals, objectives and results with the Sustainable Development Goals of the UN 2030 Agenda in the Company reporting; • Visionaries. Change Management award (winner in the Best Environmental Impact Disclosure category); • Vision Awards by the League of American Communications Professionals (Nornickel’s Sustainability Report ranked in the Top 100). • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 265 Innovations • Global CIO Project of the Year Award (Nornickel R&D Digital Lab awarded for the Short Circuit Diagnostics During Electrolysis project); • MineDigital Competition, MINEX Russia 2019 (Nornickel Digital Lab awarded for the Conveyor Contaminant Identification and Smart Tailing Dump projects); • First place and a gold award in the Business Transformation Category at SAP Quality Awards 2019 in the CIS region for rolling out SAP ERP across operations in the Norilsk Industrial District; • Fourth International SAP Metals and Mining Summit (award for the First Master Data Management Innovation); • Digital Pyramid award in the Chief Digital Officer (CDO) category; • 47th International Exhibition of Inventions Geneva (first places taken by the winners of Nornickel’s young inventors competition I Make 2018 from Dudinka and Niсkel). Awards of the Group companies • Fifth Russian Hospitality Awards (Zapolyarye Health Resort named Best Medical Hotel 2018); • Another champion title in the EuroLeague (top-tier European professional basketball club competition) won by CSKA Basketball Club. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 266 Appendices • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 267 GRI content index 102–55 GRI standard Indicator Indicator Page Excluded information/comments UN sustainable RSPP Reference ISO 26000:2010 number development Performance goal Indicator GRI 101: Foundation (2016)1 GRI 102: General Organisational profile Disclosures (2016) 102—1 Name of the organisation 9 — — — — 102—2 Activities, brands, products, and services 9, 106 — — — — 102—3 Location of headquarters 311 — — — — 102—4 Location of operations 10-11,108 — — — — 102—5 Ownership and legal form 82 — — — — 102—6 Markets served 108,110 — — — — 102—7 Scale of the organisation 7 2019 Consolidated Financial Statements: — — — www.nornickel.com/ Investors / Reports and Results 102—8 Information on employees and other workers 134 — 8 3.1.1. Labour practices 102—9 Supply chain 96 — — — Fair operating practices 102—10 Significant changes to the organisation 82 2019 Consolidated Financial Statements: — — — and its supply chain www.nornickel.com/ Investors / Reports and Results 102—11 Precautionary principle or approach 193 — — — Environment 102—12 External initiatives 22, 23 — — 1.1 Organisational governance 102—13 Memberships of associations 22, 23 — — — — 1 See the About the Report section. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 268 GRI standard Indicator Indicator Page Excluded information/comments UN sustainable RSPP Reference ISO 26000:2010 number development Performance goal Indicator Strategy 102—14 Statement from senior decision-maker 5 — — — — 102—15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 24, 61 — — — — Ethics and integrity 102—16 Values, principles, standards, and norms 16 — 16 — — of behaviour 102—17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about 186 Code of Business Conduct of MMC Norilsk Nickel — — ethics (page 13): www.nornickel.com/Investors/Internal Documents and Policies Corporate governance 102—18 Governance structure 44, 48 — — — — 102—19 Delegating authority 45 — — — — 102—20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, 44, 45, 48 — — — — environmental, and social topics 102—21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, 45, 76 16 — — environmental, and social topics 102—22 Composition of the highest governance body — 2019 Annual Report: www.nornickel.com/ Investors / 5, 16 3.1.12. — and its committees Reports and Results / 2019 102—23 Chair of the highest governance body — 2019 Annual Report: www.nornickel.com/ Investors / 16 — — Reports and Results / 2019 102—24 Nominating and selecting the highest — 2019 Annual Report: www.nornickel.com/ Investors / 5, 16 — — governance body Reports and Results / 2019 Policy for Development and Approval of Voting Recommendations in respect of Candidates to the Board of Directors of MMC Norilsk Nickel (pages 3—5): www.nornickel.com Investors / Internal Documents and Policies 102—25 Conflicts of interest 43 2019 Annual Report: www.nornickel.com/ Investors / 16 — — Reports and Results / 2019 102—26 Role of highest governance body in setting 43 — — — — purpose, values, and strategy 102—27 Collective knowledge of highest governance 44 — 4 — — body • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 269 GRI standard Indicator Indicator Page Excluded information/comments UN sustainable RSPP Reference ISO 26000:2010 number development Performance goal Indicator 102—28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s 44 2019 Annual Report: www.nornickel.com/ Investors / — — — performance Reports and Results / 2019 102—29 Identifying and managing economic, 45, 55 — 16 — — environmental, and social impacts 102—30 Effectiveness of risk management processes 54, 55, 191 — — — — 102—31 Review of economic, environmental, and social 45 — — — — topics 102—32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability 2 — — — — reporting 102—33 Communicating critical concerns 45 — — — — 102—34 Nature and total number of critical concerns 45 — — — — 102—35 Remuneration policies 49 — — — — 102—36 Process for determining remuneration 49 — — — — 102—37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration 49 — 16 — — 102—38 Annual total compensation ratio — Not disclosed for personal data protection reasons — — — 102—39 Percentage increase in annual total — — — — compensation ratio Stakeholder engagement 102—40 List of stakeholder groups 76 — — — — 102—41 Collective bargaining agreements 138 — 8 3.1.4. Labour practices 102—42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 76 — — — — 102—43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 76, 94 — — — — 102—44 Key topics and concerns raised 78, 305 — — — — Reporting practice 102—45 Entities included in the consolidated financial — 2019 Consolidated Financial Statements: — — — statements www.nornickel.com/ Investors / Reports and Results 102—46 Defining report content and topic boundaries 2, 94, 281, — — — — 282 102—47 List of material topics — — — — — 102—48 Restatements of information 2 — — — — • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 270 GRI standard Indicator Indicator Page Excluded information/comments UN sustainable RSPP Reference ISO 26000:2010 number development Performance goal Indicator 102—49 Changes in reporting 2 None — — — 102—50 Reporting period 2 — — — — 102—51 Date of most recent report — May 2019 — — — 102—52 Reporting cycle — Annual — — — 102—53 Contact point for questions regarding 311 — — — — the report 102—54 Claims of reporting in accordance 2 — — — — with the GRI Standards 102—55 GRI content index 268 — — — — 102—56 External assurance 2, 307, 310 — — — — Economic performance GRI 103: Management 103—1 Material topics and boundaries See also the Scope of Data Collection appendix — — — Approach 2016 in the interactive version of the Report 103—2 The management approach and its components — 1, 5, 8, 16 — Fair operating practices 103—3 Evaluation of the management approach — — — — GRI 201: Economic 201—1 Direct economic value generated and 73 — 7, 8, 9 1.2 Performance (2016) distributed 1.3 1.4 1.6. 1.7. 201—2 Financial implications and other risks and 60, 191, 203 Risks posed by climate change are not measured 13 — Environment opportunities due to climate change financially 201—3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other 155 — — 1.8. — retirement plans 201—4 Financial assistance received from government — The Group did not receive significant government — — Fair operating grants for the 12 months ended 31 December 2019 practices Market presence GRI 103: Management 103—1 Material topics and boundaries See also the Scope of Data Collection appendix Approach 2016 in the interactive version of the Report 103—2 The management approach and its components — 1, 5, 8, 16 — Fair operating practices 103—3 Evaluation of the management approach — — — — • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 271 GRI standard Indicator Indicator Page Excluded information/comments UN sustainable RSPP Reference ISO 26000:2010 number development Performance goal Indicator GRI 202: Market 202—1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender 142 — 1, 5, 8 — — Presence (2016) compared to local minimum wage 202—2 Proportion of senior management hired from 137 — 8 — — the local community Indirect economic impacts Engagement in the life of communities and their development GRI 103: Management 103—1 Material topics and boundaries See also the Scope of Data Collection appendix — — — Approach 2016 in the interactive version of the Report 103—2 The management approach and its components — 1, 5, 8, 16 — Fair operating practices 103—3 Evaluation of the management approach — — — — GRI 203: Indirect 203—1 Infrastructure investments and services 236 — 2, 5, 7, 9, 11 — — Economic Impacts supported (2016) 203—2 Significant indirect economic impacts 235 — 1, 2, 3, 8, 10, — — 17 Anti-corruption practices Fair operating practices GRI 103: Management 103—1 Material topics and boundaries See also the Scope of Data Collection appendix — — — Approach 2016 in the interactive version of the Report 103—2 The management approach and its components — 16 — Fair operating practices 103—3 Evaluation of the management approach — — — — GRI 205: Anti205—1 Operations assessed for risks related 182 — 16 — — corruption (2016) to corruption 205—2 Communication and training about 182, 184 — 16 — — anti-corruption policies and procedures 205—3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions — None 16 — — taken • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 272 GRI standard Indicator Indicator Page Excluded information/comments UN sustainable RSPP Reference ISO 26000:2010 number development Performance goal Indicator Energy Environment GRI 103: Management 103—1 Material topics and boundaries See also the Scope of Data Collection appendix — — — Approach 2016 in the interactive version of the Report 103—2 The management approach and its components — 16 2.12 Fair operating practices 103—3 Evaluation of the management approach — — — — GRI 302: Energy 302—1 Energy consumption within the organisation 228, 290 — 7, 8, 12, 13 2.2. — (2016) 302—2 Energy consumption outside of the — Reporting not required by law 7, 8, 12, 13 — — organisation 302—3 Energy intensity 228 — 7, 8, 12, 13 2.2.1. — 302—4 Reduction of energy consumption 229 2019 Annual Report: www.nornickel.com/ Investors / 7, 8, 12, 13 — — Reports and Results / 2019 302—5 Reductions in energy requirements of products — Not applicable to the Company’s products 7, 8, 12, 13 — — and services Water Environment GRI 103: Management 103—1 Material topics and boundaries See also the Scope of Data Collection appendix — — — Approach 2016 in the interactive version of the Report 103—2 The management approach and its components — 16 2.12 Fair operating practices 103—3 Evaluation of the management approach — — — — GRI 303: Water (2016) 303—1 Water withdrawal by source 207, 283 — 6 2.3. — 303—2 Water sources significantly affected by 284 — 6 — — withdrawal of water 303—3 Water recycled and reused 285 — 6, 8, 12 2.4. — Biodiversity Environment GRI 103: Management 103—1 Material topics and boundaries See also the Scope of Data Collection appendix — — — Approach 2016 in the interactive version of the Report 103—2 The management approach and its components — 16 2.12 Fair operating practices 103—3 Evaluation of the management approach — — — — • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 273 GRI standard Indicator Indicator Page Excluded information/comments UN sustainable RSPP Reference ISO 26000:2010 number development Performance goal Indicator GRI 304: Biodiversity 304—1 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, 219 — 6, 14, 15 — — (2016) or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas 304—2 Significant impacts of activities, products, 219 — 6, 14, 15 — — and services on biodiversity 304—3 Habitats protected or restored 218 — 6, 14, 15 — — 304—4 IUCN Red List species and national 221 — 6, 14, 15 — — conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations — MM1 Amount of land (owned or leased, and 218 — 3, 12, 14, 15 managed for production activities or extractive use) disturbed or rehabilitated — MM2 The number and percentage of total sites — There are no such sites 6, 14, 15 identified as requiring biodiversity management plans according to stated criteria, and the number (percentage) of those sites with plans in place Emissions Environment GRI 103: Management 103—1 Material topics and boundaries See also the Scope of Data Collection appendix — — — Approach 2016 in the interactive version of the Report 103—2 The management approach and its components — 16 2.12 Fair operating practices 103—3 Evaluation of the management approach — — — — GRI 305: Emissions 305—1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 204 — 3, 12, 13, 14, — — (2016) 15 305—2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions — — 3, 12, 13, 14, — — 15 305—3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions — 3, 12, 13, 14, — — 15 305—4 GHG emissions intensity 204 — 13, 14, 15 — — 305—5 Reduction of GHG emissions — The Company did not assess the effect of its initiatives 13, 14, 15 — — on the reduction of GHG emissions. Such assessment is not required by law 305—6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) 206 None 3, 12, 13 — — 305—7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulphur oxides (SOX), 199, 287 — 3, 12, 13, 14, 2.6. — and other significant air emissions 15 • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 274 GRI standard Indicator Indicator Page Excluded information/comments UN sustainable RSPP Reference ISO 26000:2010 number development Performance goal Indicator Effluents and waste Environment GRI 103: Management 103—1 Material topics and boundaries See also the Scope of Data Collection appendix — — — Approach 2016 in the interactive version of the Report 103—2 The management approach and its components — 16 2.12 Fair operating practices 103—3 Evaluation of the management approach — — — — GRI 306: Effluents 306—1 Water discharge by quality and destination 210, 286 — 3, 6, 12, 14 2.7. — and Waste (2016) 2.7.2. 306—2 Waste by type and disposal method 212, 288 — 3, 6, 12 2.8. — 306—3 Significant spills — None 3, 6, 12, 14, 2.9. — 15 306—4 Transport of hazardous waste — There are no such waste or waste transportation 3, 12 — — 306—5 Water bodies affected by water discharges 206, 284 — 6, 15 — — and/or runoff Environmental compliance Environment GRI 103: Management 103—1 Material topics and boundaries See also the Scope of Data Collection appendix — — — Approach 2016 in the interactive version of the Report 103—2 The management approach and its components — 16 2.12 Fair operating practices 103—3 Evaluation of the management approach — — — — GRI 307: 307—1 Non-compliance with environmental laws 72, 194 — 16 2.10. — Environmental and regulations Compliance (2016) Supplier environmental assessment Environment GRI 103: Management 103—1 Material topics and boundaries See also the Scope of Data Collection appendix — — — Approach 2016 in the interactive version of the Report 103—2 The management approach and its components — 16 — Fair operating practices 103—3 Evaluation of the management approach — — — — • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 275 GRI standard Indicator Indicator Page Excluded information/comments UN sustainable RSPP Reference ISO 26000:2010 number development Performance goal Indicator Employment Labour practices GRI 103: Management 103—1 Material topics and boundaries See also the Scope of Data Collection appendix — — — Approach 2016 in the interactive version of the Report 103—2 The management approach and its components — 5, 8, 16 — Fair operating practices 103—3 Evaluation of the management approach — — — — GRI 401: Employment 401—1 New employee hires and employee turnover 136, 293 — 5, 8 3.1.2. — (2016) 3.1.3. 401—2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that 291 — 8 — — are not provided to temporary or part-time employees 401—3 Parental leave 294 Information is provided about employees on maternity 5, 8 — — leave and/or childcare leave Occupational health and safety Labour practices GRI 103: Management 103—1 Material topics and boundaries See also the Scope of Data Collection appendix in the — — — Approach 2016 interactive version of the Report 103—2 The management approach and its components — 16 — Fair operating practices 103—3 Evaluation of the management approach — — — — GRI 403: Occupational 403—1 Workers representation in formal joint 175 — 8 — — Health and Safety management–worker health and safety (2016) committees 403—2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational 178 No breakdown of injury rates by gender due to the 3, 8 3.1.5. diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and lack of centralised records 3.1.6. number of work-related fatalities 3.1.7. 3.1.8. 403—3 Workers with high incidence or high risk 170 — 3, 8 — — of diseases related to their occupation 403—4 Health and safety topics covered in formal 175 — 8 — — agreements with trade unions • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 276 GRI standard Indicator Indicator Page Excluded information/comments UN sustainable RSPP Reference ISO 26000:2010 number development Performance goal Indicator Training and education Labour practices GRI 103: Management 103—1 Material topics and boundaries See also the Scope of Data Collection appendix — — — Approach 2016 in the interactive version of the Report 103—2 The management approach and its components — 16 — Fair operating practices 103—3 Evaluation of the management approach — — — — GRI 404: Training and 404—1 Average hours of training per year per 148 No breakdown by gender due to the lack of 4, 5, 8 3.1.10. — Education (2016) employee centralised records 404—2 Programmes for upgrading employee skills 146 — 8 — — and transition assistance programmes 404—3 Percentage of employees receiving regular 51 — 5, 8 — — performance and career development reviews Freedom of association and collective bargaining Labour practices GRI 103: Management 103—1 Material topics and boundaries See also the Scope of Data Collection appendix — — — Approach 2016 in the interactive version of the Report 103—2 The management approach and its components — 5, 8, 16 — Fair operating practices 103—3 Evaluation of the management approach — — — — GRI 407: Freedom 407—1 Operations and suppliers in which the right — None 8 3.2.1. — of Association and to freedom of association and collective Collective Bargaining bargaining may be at risk (2016) Rights of indigenous peoples Human rights GRI 103: Management 103—1 Material topics and boundaries See also the Scope of Data Collection appendix — — — Approach 2016 in the interactive version of the Report 103—2 The management approach and its components — 1, 5, 8, 16 — Fair operating practices 103—3 Evaluation of the management approach — — — — • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 277 GRI standard Indicator Indicator Page Excluded information/comments UN sustainable RSPP Reference ISO 26000:2010 number development Performance goal Indicator GRI 411: Rights 411—1 Incidents of violations involving rights — None — 3.2.3. — of Indigenous of indigenous peoples Peoples (2016) — MM5 Total number of operations taking place — The Group does not have any formal arrangements 1, 2 — — in or adjacent to indigenous peoples’ territories, with indigenous northern minorities and number and percentage of operations or sites where there are formal agreements with indigenous peoples’ communities Local communities Engagement in the life of communities and their development GRI 103: Management 103—1 Material topics and boundaries See also the Scope of Data Collection appendix — — — Approach 2016 in the interactive version of the Report 103—2 The management approach and its components — 1, 5, 8, 16 — Fair operating practices 103—3 Evaluation of the management approach — — — — GRI 413: Local 413—1 Operations with local community engagement, — Such programmes are implemented in 4 out of — 3.3.3. — Communities (2016) impact assessments, and development 77 (5.2%) Group entities operating in Russia (the programmes Company’s Head Office, Kola MMC, Polar Division, and Nornickel – Shared Service Centre) within the reporting perimeter 413—2 Operations with significant actual and potential 198 — 1, 2 3.3.3. — negative impacts on local communities — MM6 Number and description of significant disputes — None 1, 2 — — relating to land use, customary rights of local communities and indigenous peoples — MM7 The extent to which grievance mechanisms — No disputes 1, 2 — — were used to resolve disputes relating to land use, customary rights of local communities and indigenous peoples, and the outcomes Supplier social assessment GRI 103: Management 103—1 Material topics and boundaries See also the Scope of Data Collection appendix — — — Approach 2016 in the interactive version of the Report 103—2 The management approach and its components — 5, 8, 16 — Fair operating practices 103—3 Evaluation of the management approach — — — — • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 278 GRI standard Indicator Indicator Page Excluded information/comments UN sustainable RSPP Reference ISO 26000:2010 number development Performance goal Indicator Public policy — GRI 103: Management 103—1 Material topics and boundaries See also the Scope of Data Collection appendix — — — Approach 2016 in the interactive version of the Report 103—2 The management approach and its components — 5, 8, 16 — Fair operating practices 103—3 Evaluation of the management approach — — — — GRI 415: Public Policy 415—1 Political contributions — None 16 — — (2016) Socioeconomic compliance Fair operating practices GRI 103: Management 103—1 Material topics and boundaries See also the Scope of Data Collection appendix — — — Approach 2016 in the interactive version of the Report 103—2 The management approach and its components — 5, 8, 16 — Fair operating practices 103—3 Evaluation of the management approach — — — — GRI 419: 419—1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations 72 — 16 3.4.2. — Socioeconomic in the social and economic area Compliance (2016) Emergency preparedness GRI 103: Management 103—1 Material topics and boundaries See also the Scope of Data Collection appendix — — — Approach 2016 in the interactive version of the Report 103—2 The management approach and its components — 16 — Fair operating practices 103—3 Evaluation of the management approach — — — — — MM3 Total amounts of overburden, rock, tailings, 211, 289 — 3, 6, 12 — — and sludges and their associated risks • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 279 GRI standard Indicator Indicator Page Excluded information/comments UN sustainable RSPP Reference ISO 26000:2010 number development Performance goal Indicator Closure planning — GRI 103: Management 103—1 Material topics and boundaries See also the Scope of Data Collection appendix — — — Approach 2016 in the interactive version of the Report 103—2 The management approach and its components — 1, 5, 8, 16 — Fair operating practices 103—3 Evaluation of the management approach — — — — — MM10 Number and percentage of operations with — The IFRS financial statements reflect — — — closure plans a decommissioning provision for 9% of the operations within the reporting perimeter. As at 31 December 2019, this provision stood at RUB 40,990 mln • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 280 Scope of data collection1 102–46 103–1 Information is collected on all companies of the business block Information is collected on key companies of the business block GRI topics MMC Norilsk Foreign assets2 Exploration Production Research and Support Fuel and energy Transport and Distribution and Other business Nickel’s Head development functions logistics sales units of the Office Group Economic performance3 Market presence4 Indirect economic impacts Energy5 Water Biodiversity Emissions Effluents and waste Environmental compliance Supplier environmental assessment Employment6 Occupational health and safety Training and education Freedom of association and collective bargaining Rights of indigenous peoples Local communities Anti-corruption practices Assessment of suppliers and contractors by social criteria Socioeconomic compliance Closure planning Emergency preparedness 1 The scope of data collection is set in such a way as to describe all of the Group’s material impacts. The scope has not 2 For the purposes of data collection, foreign assets mean Norilsk Nickel Harjavalta. undergone any significant changes compared to the previous reporting period. The Report provides results for all 3 As regards pension plans, the reporting perimeter includes only the Group’s business units benefiting from the Co-Funded the companies within the scope against each aspect. In addition to the Occupational Health and Safety, the working Pension Plan. group has classified the following aspects beyond the Group as material: Anti-Corruption, Product and Service 4 As regards nationality, the reporting perimeter includes all business units of the Group. Quality Compliance, Emergency Preparedness. These have been described in the Report by disclosing the Company’s 5 As regards energy conservation, the reporting perimeter includes Polar Division, Kola MMC and NTEC. approaches to implementation of responsible practices in its supply chain. 6 As regards benefits offered to employees, the reporting perimeter includes only Polar Division and Kola MMC. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 281 Map of material GRI topics (aspects) 102–46 103–1 Economic 1 Material topic with the highest priority 1. Economic performance Material topic 2. Market presence 5 Immaterial but relevant topic 14 3. Indirect economic impacts 11 4. Anti-corruption practices Integral assessment of materiality Environmental1 2 22 for stakeholders 17 and materiality 5. Energy 4 1 20 of impacts by the 23 18 Group companies 6. Water 16 13 7. Biodiversity 21 8. Sulphur dioxide and solid emissions Economic aspect 9. Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 8 25 12 9 Environmental aspect 26 10. Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) Social aspect 24 15 11. Emissions of other substances 3 7 12. Effluents 13. Waste 19 6 14. Supplier environmental assessment 15. Environmental compliance Social1 16. Employment 10 17. Occupational health and safety 18. Training and education 19. Freedom of association and collective bargaining 20. Human rights: rights of indigenous peoples 21. Local communities The Company maps out material topics in line with GRI SRS and with input from external and internal stakeholders. The materiality matrix is based on the following: 22. Supplier social assessment • opinion polls on material topics; 23. Public policy • dialogues with stakeholders; 24. Socioeconomic compliance • mass media coverage of the Company; 25. Emergency preparedness • interviews with the Company’s management. 26. Closure planning In 2019, the list of material topics of the Report was reconfirmed following polling, with no significant changes compared to the 2018 report. 1 The listed topics are covered by GRI SRS, except: • Topics 8–11 are covered by the GRI Emissions standard. For information on our stakeholder dialogues, see Appendix Stakeholder Dialogue Minutes. • Topics 12—13 are covered by the GRI Effluents and Waste standard. The proposals put forward during the dialogues will be considered for integration into the Company’s • Topic 20 is covered by the GRI Rights of Indigenous Peoples standard. practices. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 282 GRI indicators Environmental performance 303–1 Total water withdrawal Indicator, mcm Total water Including withdrawal: from surface water from underground effluents from third natural water inflow from municipal and from Norilsk-Taimyr bodies sources parties other water utilities Energy Company* (excluding NorilskTaimyr Energy Company) Group’s total 2019 319.34 227.31 26.29 20.57 36.50 8.67 95.20 2018 356.79 254.28 28.275 21.28 44.15 8.84 96.70 2017 335.64 233.46 31.88 20.67 40.59 9.04 93.58 2016 328.44 230.45 33.24 15.42 40.82 8.51 98.99 2015 348.52 254.92 28.66 21.15 34.84 8.94 96.44 Including: Polar Division 2019 69.63 0.00 0.00 13.66 12.85 0.001 43.12 and Norilskenergo 2018 82.82 0.02 0.00 15.68 22.41 0.00 44.71 2017 100.14 0.02 0.00 15.07 29.44 0.00 55.61 2016 96.41 0.02 0.00 9.78 26.15 0.001 60.46 2015 102.49 0.02 0.00 15.48 28.60 0.00 58.39 Norilsk-Taimyr 2019 240.23 212.78 26.14 1.32 0 0 0 Energy Company 2018 269.47 241.23 28.24 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 2017 251.98 220.42 31.57 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 2016 249.93 216.68 33.24 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 2015 267.87 239.21 28.66 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Kola MMC 2019 27.95 13.25 0.00 0.00 6.07 8.63 0.00 2018 32.82 11.75 0.00 0.03 12.39 8.65 0.00 2017 31.73 11.60 0.30 0.04 11.11 8.68 0.00 2016 35.53 12.39 0 0.11 14.63 8.40 0.00 27.93 12.84 0 0.12 6.19 8.79 0.00 * Included in water withdrawal from Norilsk-Taimyr Energy Company • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 283 Water sources 306–5 303–2 Branches and subsidiaries Scale of impact associated with the Group companies’ Scale of impact associated with the Group companies’ effluents water withdrawals Polar Division of MMC Norilsk Nickel Water withdrawals from the Yenisey River, water bodies of the Water bodies of the Yenisey River and Norilo-Pyasinskaya Norilo-Pyasinskaya water system and the Kara Sea do not affect water system are used to discharge wastewater Polar Transport Division of MMC Norilsk Nickel the environment and cannot change the ability of the ecosystem Krasnoyarsk Transport Division of MMC Norilsk Nickel to perform its functions Norilsknickelremont Polar Construction Company Norilsk Production Support Complex Norilskgeologiya Taimyr Fuel Company Taimyrgaz1 Yenisey River Shipping Company Norilsk Airport Norilsk-Taimyr Energy Company Norilskpromtransport Norilsk Trading and Production Association Murmansk Transport Division of MMC Norilsk Nickel Withdrawals do not affect the water sources Effluents are discharged into the water bodies (water bodies of the Barents Sea basin) of the Barents Sea basin Kola MMC 1 Taimyrgaz was reorganised and merged with Norilskgazprom on 1 March 2019. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 284 Water recycled and reused 303–3 Indicator, mcm Total water used Including Water recycled and reused as percentage utility water production Including of total water used, % water reused water recycled Group’s total 2019 1,343.53 18.76 1,324.77 30.70 1,141.32 87.2 2018 1,412.13 20.08 1,392.04 31.46 1,178.47 85.7 2017 1,342.07 18.53 1,323.54 32.64 1,105.40 84.8 2016 1,463.81 20.72 1,443.09 36.73 1,219.70 85.8 2015 1,421.41 21.29 1,400.12 40.13 1,275.62 92.6 Including: Polar Division 2019 461.22 10.51 450.71 29.40 388.69 90.7 and Norilskenergo 2018 463.50 12.13 451.37 29.25 389.50 90.4 2017 512.32 11.81 500.51 30.49 426.18 89.1 2016 533.67 12.09 521.58 34.43 442.82 89.4 2015 574.17 12.51 561.66 37.7 478.07 89.8 Norilsk-Taimyr 2019 656.49 0.91 655.57 0.89 551.06 84.1 Energy Company 2018 709.11 1.00 708.12 1.11 578.17 81.7 2017 620.74 1.00 619.74 1.05 503.43 81.3 2016 719.02 1.79 717.24 1.03 607.85 84.7 2015 634.9 2.34 632.56 0.89 537.68 84.8 Kola MMC 2019 156.49 1.67 154.82 0.14 149.98 95.9 2018 171.58 1.75 169.82 0.00 158.59 92.4 2017 169.64 1.79 167.85 0.00 157.47 92.8 2016 170.52 1.9 168.62 0.17 150.72 88.5 171.32 1.79 169.53 0.00 146.67 85.6 The Group’s total reused and recycled water is 367.0% of its water withdrawal. This percentage is largest for Polar Division (600.5%) and Kola MMC (537.1%), while at Norilsk-Taimyr Energy Company it stands at 229.8%. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 285 Total effluents1 and pollutants discharged 306–1 Indicator, mcm or kt Total effluents, mcm Including insufficiently treated contaminated untreated treated to standard standard clean (without Pollutants in effluents, kt quality at treatment treatment) facilities Group’s total 2019 142.35 26.22 35.98 4.56 75.60 210.62 2018 164.45 30.96 34.26 6.59 92.60 232.37 2017 147.55 28.63 33.52 6.13 79.26 216.63 2016 143.55 29.81 26.94 5.26 81.54 192.99 2015 140.45 29.71 27.73 5.92 77.1 153.1 Including: Polar Division and 2019 23.70 1.44 20.95 0.83 0.47 58.30 Norilskenergo 2018 34.98 3.69 28.69 1.86 0.72 72.66 2017 45.29 6.28 33.40 4.96 0.66 73 2016 38.67 6.42 26.83 4.71 0.73 71.83 2015 39.52 6.01 27.54 5.18 0.78 76.92 Norilsk-Taimyr 2019 74.56 0.00 2.10 0.004 72.46 1.13 Energy Company 2018 91.56 0.00 0.00 0.00 91.55 1.36 2017 78.16 0.00 0.00 0.01 78.15 0.392 2016 77.76 0.00 0.00 0.003 77.76 1 2015 73.55 0.00 0.00 0.00 73.55 0.48 Kola MMC 2019 22.07 21.81 0.26 0.00 0.00 124.43 2018 25.59 25.47 0.13 0.00 0.00 148 2017 22.27 22.25 0.02 0.00 0.00 142.93 2016 22.59 22.59 0.00 0.00 0.00 119.32 23.48 23.48 0.00 0.00 0.00 75.62 1 Effluetns are measured instrumentally with certified gauges and also based on the Calculation of Water Consumption and Water Discharge Guidelines and other indirect indicators as approved by the territorial office of the Federal Water Resources Agency. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 286 NOx, SОx and other significant air emissions, including their type and weight1 305–7 Indicator, kt Group’s total Polar Division Norilsk-Taimyr Energy Company Kola MMC Total amount 2019 1,952.66 1,819.18 10.65 110.79 2018 1,926.63 1,789.01 11.69 117.45 2017 1,845.55 1,705.00 11.51 121.88 2016 1,936.44 1,787.57 8.2 132.9 2015 2,063.52 1,883.24 6.33 169.79 Including: NOx 2019 10.31 0.55 7.19 1.75 2018 11.22 0.61 8.02 1.76 2017 11.40 1.56 7.88 1.23 2016 10.12 1.52 6.89 1.12 2015 9.84 1.64 6.32 1.18 SO2 2019 1,898.14 1,798.64 0.001 99.36 2018 1,869.62 1,764.65 0.002 104.82 2017 1,784.97 1,675.85 0.003 109.07 2016 1,877.97 1758.18 0.003 119.72 2015 2,009.11 1,853.92 0.008 155.05 Solids 2019 13.31 4.21 0.002 6.98 2018 14.51 5.55 0.003 7.57 2017 13.42 6.06 0.004 6.87 2016 14.3 6.18 0.006 7.38 2015 20.67 8.95 0.006 10.61 1 Air pollutant emissions are determined on the basis of the Environmental Monitoring and Industrial Control data: emissions are calculated as per the applicable methodologies using data on feedstock and equipment running time, through sampling and analysing flue gases, direct measurements with gas analysers, etc. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 287 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method, mt 306–2 Indicator Total. mt Including Polar Division Kola MMC Waste-related activity Generation 2019 36.42 15.62 7.85 2018 30.72 15.71 8.31 2017 31.93 23.26 8.61 2016 33.27 22.57 10.61 2015 33.64 22.27 11.37 Waste input from third 2019 0.63 0.57 0.00 parties* 2018 3.07 3.04 0.00 2017 0.03 0.03 0.00 2016 0.04 0.03 0.00 In-house waste recycling 2019 22.77 14.34 4.25 2018 21.63 15.79 2.46 2017 20.76 17.75 3.01 2016 20.15 15.18 4.97 2015 18.81 13.22 5.59 In-house waste treatment* 2019 0.003 0.000 0.001 2018 0.006 0.000 0.006 2017 0.001 0.000 0.000 2016 0.000 0.000 0.000 Waste transfer to third 2019 0.50 0.24 0.014 parties (for recycling or treatment) 2018 1.52 0.03 0.01 2017 0.07 0.04 0.02 2016 0.09 0.03 0.01 2015 0.041 0.024 0.017 * Calculated since 2016 • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 288 Indicator Total. mt Including Polar Division Kola MMC Waste transfer to third parties 2019 0.64 0.07 0.00 (for disposal) 2018 1.64 0.08 0.00 2017 0.11 0.07 0 2016 0.11 0.07 0.0002 2015 0.049 0.049 0.0003 Waste disposal at in-house 2019 6.03 3.22 2.81 waste disposal sites 2018 10.97 3.72 5.83 2017 12.67 7.08 5.59 2016 13.54 7.88 5.66 14.75 8.99 5.76 Waste management in 2019 by hazard class and waste type, kt MM3 Indicator, t Hazard class 1 Hazard class 2 Hazard class 3 Hazard class 4 Incl. mining Hazard class 5 Incl. mining waste Total Incl. hazard waste and and tailings classes 1—4 tailings waste (% of total) Generation 0.04 0.03 5.19 1,114.60 986.21 35,300.09 30,990.62 36,419.95 3.07% Waste input from third parties 0.00 0.01 1.35 18.71 0.00 612.45 521.17 632.53 3.17% In-house waste recycling 0.00 0.00 2.40 7.23 0.00 22,759.35 17,716.85 22,768.99 0.04% In-house waste treatment 0.00 0.02 1.99 1.21 0.00 0.05 0.00 3.27 98.33% Waste transfer to third parties 0.04 0.02 2.13 0.37 0.00 499.64 233.77 502.21 0.51% (for recycling or treatment) Waste transfer to third parties 0.00 0.02 0.00 69.08 0.00 571.21 521.17 640.29 10.79% (for disposal) Waste disposal at in-house waste 0.00 0.00 0.12 1.05 986.21 4,971.14 4,310.67 6,025.19 17.49% disposal sites • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 289 Total energy consumption by Norilsk Nickel Group, TJ 302–1 No. Indicator 2017 2018 2019 Including in 2019 electric power heat (hot water and steam) 1 Fuel used to generate heat and electric power1 and for other purposes2, TJ 156,568 148,910 144,772 х х (1) including Polar Division 26,021 24,429 21,720 х х Norilsk-Taimyr Energy Company 107,514 103,203 98,554 х х Kola MMC 9,794 8,932 8,604 х х Other operations of the Group 13,239 12,346 15,894 (2) including coal 1,460 1,660 2,087 х х natural gas 134,709 129,335 125,329 х х diesel fuel and fuel oil 15,221 13,788 13,535 х х gasoline and aviation fuel 5,178 4,127 3,820 х х 2 Energy from renewable sources (Group’s HPPs) 12,414 14,877 15,058 14,838 221 3 Electric power and heat procured from third parties 10,483 10,931 11,331 11,039 291 4 Electric power and heat sold to third parties 19,503 18,926 18,766 3,491 15,274 5 Total energy consumption by the Group (line 1 + line 2 + line 3 – line 4) 159,962 155,792 152,395 х х Electric power and heat consumption by the Group companies, TJ Indicator 2017 2018 2019 Including in 2019 electric power heat (hot water and steam) Electric power and heat consumption by the Group companies 61 963 63,691 62,994 33,338 29,655 including Polar Division 35 936 34,040 32,012 14,447 17,565 Norilsk-Taimyr Energy Company 6 489 6,446 6,214 4,163 2,051 Kola MMC 12 528 12,112 12,126 9,159 2,967 HPP share in total electric power consumption in the Norilsk 43.6% 51.4% 53.5% — — Industrial District HPP share in total electric power consumption by the Company 37.6% 43.6% 44.5% — — HPP share in total energy consumption by the Company 19.6% 22.7% 23.9% — — 1 Including fuel used to generate electric power for Norilsk. 2 All Group companies, including transportation, logistics and support functions. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 290 Social performance Benefits for employees of Polar Division 401–2 Benefits Full-time work Temporary work(1) Seasonal work Part-time work full-time work part-time work full-time work part-time work full-time work part-time work Reimbursement of vacation travel expenses + + +(2) +(2) +(2) +(2) —(3) (incl. return fare) All kinds of financial aid + + + + + + + Health resort treatment and vacations + + — — — — — Vouchers for children’s wellness recreation tours + + — — — — — Pension plans + + — — — — — Termination benefits (apart from those + + + (4) + (4) + (4) + (4) +(4) prescribed by the applicable law) (1) Work under a fixed-term employment contract. (2) According to the collective bargaining agreement and local regulations, such categories of employees are not excluded from benefits; however, in practice, travel expenses are not reimbursed since no vacation is granted to such employees. (3) According to the local regulations such categories of employees are excluded from the reimbursement of expenses associated with relocation. (4) According to the collective bargaining agreement and local regulations such categories of employees are not excluded from the reimbursement of expenses associated with relocation, it is practically possible. No severance pay is provided by mutual agreement. Benefits for employees of Kola MMC Benefits Full-time work Temporary work(1) Seasonal work(2) Part-time work full-time work part-time work full-time work part-time work full-time work part-time work Reimbursement of vacation travel expenses + + + + — — — (incl. return fare) All kinds of financial aid + + + + — — —(3) Health resort treatment and vacations + + + + — — —(3) Vouchers for children’s wellness recreation tours + + + + — — —(3) Pension plans + + + + — — —(3) Termination benefits (apart from those + + + + — — — prescribed by the applicable law) (1) Work under a fixed-term employment contract. (2) At Kola MMC, there is no seasonal work; employees do not work seasonally. (3) In-house employees doing bywork can be granted benefits by their primary employer. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 291 Headcount by type of employment, gender and region, employees Indicator 2019 Total male female Total headcount as at the latest reporting date 74,445 52,804 21,641 Contractors working under civil contracts as at the latest reporting date 830 578 252 Employees as at the latest reporting date 73,615 52,226 21,389 Employees working under fixed-term contracts (temporary and seasonal jobs) as at the latest reporting date 2,935 1,600 1,335 including in the Norilsk Industrial District 1,716 — — including in the Krasnoyarsk Territory (except for NID) 45 — — including in the Kola Peninsula Industrial District (Murmansk Region) 236 — — including in Moscow and other regions of Russia 646 — — including in the Trans-Baikal Territory 292 — — Employees working under unlimited contracts (permanent jobs) as at the latest reporting date 70,680 50,626 20,054 including in the Norilsk Industrial District 47,262 — — including in the Krasnoyarsk Territory (except for NID) 3,270 — — including in the Kola Peninsula Industrial District (Murmansk Region) 12,276 — — including in Moscow and other regions of Russia 5,069 — — including in the Trans-Baikal Territory 2,803 — — Full-time employees as at the latest reporting date 72,688 51,552 21,136 Part-time employees as at the latest reporting date 107 40 67 • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 292 New and terminated employments (by gender, age and region of operations) Employee outflow ratio by region in 2019, employees 401–1 in 2019, % Indicator 2019 Indicator 2019 New hires 13,805 Kola Peninsula Industrial District (Murmansk Region) 10.0 including male 9,862 Krasnoyarsk Territory (excluding NID) 31.6 including female 3,943 Moscow and other regions of Russia 22.4 including 29 y. o. and below 5,123 Norilsk Industrial District (NID) 18.1 including 30 through 44 y. o. 5,978 Trans-Baikal Territory 44.8 including 45 y. o. and above 2,704 including in the Norilsk Industrial District 8,608 including in the Kola Peninsula Industrial District (Murmansk Region) 1,106 including in the Krasnoyarsk Territory (except for NID) 1,021 Employee inflow ratio by region in 2019, % including in Moscow and other regions of Russia 1,870 including in the Trans-Baikal Territory 1,200 Indicator 2019 Terminated employments 13,832 Kola Peninsula Industrial District (Murmansk Region) 8.8 including male 9,926 Krasnoyarsk Territory (excluding NID) 30.8 including female 3,906 Moscow and other regions of Russia 32.7 including 29 y. o. and below 3,449 Norilsk Industrial District (NID) 17.6 including 30 through 44 y. o. 5,577 Trans-Baikal Territory 38.8 including 45 y. o. and above 4,806 including in the Norilsk Industrial District 8,864 including in the Kola Peninsula Industrial District (Murmansk Region) 1,251 including in the Krasnoyarsk Territory (except for NID) 1,046 Employee outflow ratio by gender and age in 2019, % including in Moscow and other regions of Russia 1,283 including in the Trans-Baikal Territory 1,388 Indicator 2019 Employee outflow, total 18.8 Employee outflow, male 19.0 Employee outflow, female 18.3 Employee outflow, 29 y. o. and below 23.7 Employee outflow, 30 through 44 y. o. 15.0 Employee outflow, 45 y. o. and above 19.0 • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 293 Employee inflow ratio by gender and age in 2019, % Employees on maternity and/or childcare leave in 2019 401–3 Indicator 2019 Indicator 2019 Employee inflow, total 18.8 Employees on maternity and/or childcare leave as at the year-end 1 664 Employee inflow, male 18.9 including male 51 Employee inflow, female 18.4 including female 1 613 Employee inflow, 29 y. o. and below 35.2 Employees back from maternity and/or childcare leave over the year 892 Employee inflow, 30 through 44 y. o. 16.1 including male 41 Employee inflow, 45 y. o. and above 10.7 including female 851 Occupational disease and injury rates in 2018–20191 Indicator 2018 Including 2019 Including Male Female Male Female Russian companies of Nornickel Group Fatal workplace injuries 6 6 0 9 9 0 FIFR 0.05 0.08 Lost time workplace injuries 26 21 5 35 32 3 LTIFR 0.23 0.32 Total recorded workplace injuries in accordance with the Russian labour laws 32 27 5 44 41 3 (minor + severe + fatal) Severe injuries 5 5 0 12 12 0 Occupational diseases 318 296 22 290 255 35 Occupational disease rate 2.87 2.62 Occupational injury rate 0.29 0.40 Lost day rate 53.99 31.66 Absentee rate 2.93 2.83 Total recorded workplace injuries among contractors’ employees engaged 19 19 0 9 7 2 at the Group’s sites, in accordance with the Russian labour laws including fatalities 2 2 0 1 1 0 1 FIFR stands for Fatal Injury Frequency Rate (FIFR = FIs / total number of hours worked * 1,000,000). LTIFR stands for Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR = non-fatal LTIs / total number of hours worked * 1,000,000). Occupational disease rate is the frequency of occupational diseases / total man-hours of all Company employees in the reporting period * 1,000,000. Lost day rate is the total number of lost days / total man-hours planned for the reporting period * 1,000,000. Occupational injury rate is the frequency of occupational injuries / total man-hours of all Company employees Absentee rate is the number of absentee days due to incapacity of any kind / total man-days planned in the reporting period * 1,000,000. for the reporting period * 100%. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 294 Indicator 2018 Including 2019 Including Male Female Male Female Norilsk Industrial District Fatal workplace injuries 2 2 0 6 6 0 FIFR 0.03 0.08 Lost time workplace injuries 15 12 3 21 20 1 LTIFR 0.20 0.29 Total recorded workplace injuries in accordance with the Russian labour laws 17 14 3 27 26 1 (minor + severe + fatal) Severe injuries 4 4 0 9 9 0 Occupational diseases 255 253 2 168 167 1 Occupational disease rate 3.47 2.31 Occupational injury rate 0.23 0.37 Lost day rate 66.86 37.73 Absentee rate 2.96 2.87 Total recorded workplace injuries among contractors’ employees engaged 11 11 0 7 7 0 at the Group’s sites, in accordance with the Russian labour laws including fatalities 1 1 0 1 1 0 Kola site (Murmansk Region) Fatal workplace injuries 4 4 0 3 3 0 FIFR 0.22 0.17 Lost time workplace injuries 5 5 0 3 2 1 LTIFR 0.27 0.17 Total recorded workplace injuries in accordance with the Russian labour laws 9 9 0 6 5 1 (minor + severe + fatal) Severe injuries 1 1 0 1 1 0 Occupational diseases 62 42 20 120 86 34 Occupational disease rate 3.40 6.76 Occupational injury rate 0.49 0.34 Lost day rate 14.83 13.93 Absentee rate 3.33 3.17 Total recorded workplace injuries among contractors’ employees engaged 6 6 0 1 1 0 at the Group’s sites, in accordance with the Russian labour laws including fatalities 0 0 0 0 0 0 • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 295 Indicator 2018 Including 2019 Including Male Female Male Female Krasnoyarsk Territory (excluding NID) Fatal workplace injuries 0 0 0 0 0 0 FIFR 0.00 0.00 Lost time workplace injuries 3 2 1 4 3 1 LTIFR 0.49 0.68 Total recorded workplace injuries in accordance with the Russian labour laws 3 2 1 4 3 1 (minor + severe + fatal) Severe injuries 0 0 0 1 1 0 Occupational diseases 1 1 0 2 2 0 Occupational disease rate 0.16 0.34 Occupational injury rate 0.49 0.68 Lost day rate 63.13 40.10 Absentee rate 3.6 3.60 Total recorded workplace injuries among contractors’ employees engaged 0 0 0 0 0 0 at the Group’s sites, in accordance with the Russian labour laws including fatalities 0 0 0 0 0 0 Moscow and other regions Fatal workplace injuries 0 0 0 0 0 0 FIFR 0.00 0.00 Lost time workplace injuries 1 1 0 0 0 0 LTIFR 0.15 0.00 Total recorded workplace injuries in accordance with the Russian labour laws 1 1 0 0 0 0 (minor + severe + fatal) Severe injuries 0 0 0 0 0 0 Occupational diseases 0 0 0 0 0 0 Occupational disease rate 0.00 0.00 Occupational injury rate 0.15 0.00 Lost day rate 11.24 0.92 Absentee rate 1.81 1.8 Total recorded workplace injuries among contractors’ employees engaged 0 0 0 0 0 0 at the Group’s sites, in accordance with the Russian labour laws including fatalities 0 0 0 0 0 0 • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 296 Indicator 2018 Including 2019 Including Male Female Male Female Trans-Baikal Territory Fatal workplace injuries 0 0 0 0 0 0 FIFR 0.00 0.00 Lost time workplace injuries 2 1 1 7 7 0 LTIFR 0.33 1.15 Total recorded workplace injuries in accordance with the Russian labour laws 2 1 1 7 7 0 (minor + severe + fatal) Severe injuries 0 0 0 1 1 0 Occupational diseases 0 0 0 0 0 0 Occupational disease rate 0.00 0.00 Occupational injury rate 0.33 1.15 Lost day rate 52.47 49.50 Absentee rate 1.22 1.37 Total recorded workplace injuries among contractors’ employees engaged 2 2 0 1 0 1 at the Group’s sites, in accordance with the Russian labour laws including fatalities 1 1 0 0 0 0 • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 297 UNCTAD indicators Tax and non-tax payments, total Page Disclosure status Information/comments A Economic indicators A.1 Revenue and/or (net) A.1.1: revenue 72 Disclosed RUB 877.8 bn added value A.1.2: added value — Disclosed RUB 645.5 bn A.1.3: net added value — Disclosed RUB 593.5 bn A.2 Payments to the A.2.1: taxes and other payments 237 Disclosed VAT is not included in taxes since this tax is indirect and actually paid by end consumers Government to the Government of products and services rather than by the reporting entity. VAT is also excluded from the calculation of profit (loss) and is not disclosed in the Income Statement Item 2019, RUB bn Tax and non-tax payments, total 192,4 including to the federal budget 31,8 consolidated budget of the Krasnoyarsk 104,2 Territory budget of Norilsk 8 budget of the Murmansk Region 19,9 budget of the Chita Region 3,2 A.3 New investment/ A.3.1: green investment 194 Disclosed RUB 39,472.21 mln expenditures The expenditures in question make up 4.5% of the Company’s consolidated revenue for 2019 A.3.2: community investment 236 Disclosed The expenditures in question make up 3.5% of the Company’s consolidated revenue for 2019 A.3.3: total expenditures on research and — Disclosed RUB 128.2 mln development The expenditures in question make up 0.01% of the Company’s consolidated revenue for 2019 A.4 Local supplier/purchasing A.4.1: percentage of local procurement — Partially disclosed Data is collected for materials and supplies only. As for other procurement categories, there programmes is no centralised data collection broken down by the location of suppliers. Materials and supplies procured from Russian suppliers make up 86% of total procurements in this category B Environmental indicators B.1 Sustainable use of water B.1.1: water recycling and reuse 285 Disclosed — B.1.2: water use efficiency 285 Disclosed The ratio between water withdrawal and net added value is 0.54 thousand cu m / RUB mln B.1.3: water stress 284 Disclosed No water is withdrawn in water-scarce areas B.2 Waste management B.2.1: reduction of waste generation 288 Disclosed In 2019, waste generation increased to 36.42 mt from 30.72 mt in 2018. The ratio between waste generation and net added value slightly declined from 0.066 kt to 0.061 kt / RUB mln B.2.2: waste reused, re-manufactured and 288, 289 Disclosed In 2019, the amount of waste recycled increased to 22.77 mt from 21.63 mt in 2018. The ratio recycled between waste recycling and net added value went down from 0.045 kt to 0.038 kt / RUB mln B.2.3: hazardous waste 288, 289 Disclosed In 2019, hazard classes I–IV waste generation decreased to 1,119,861.94 t from 1,207,034.99 t in 2018. The ratio between such waste generation and net added value went down from 2.61 t to 1.89 t / RUB mln • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 298 Tax and non-tax payments, total Page Disclosure status Information/comments B.3 Greenhouse gas emissions B.3.1: greenhouse gas emissions (scope 1) 204 Disclosed While the absolute value of the indicator changed only slightly, the relative amount of scope 1 greenhouse gas emissions decreased from 21.68 t to 16.48 t of CO2 equivalent per RUB mln of net added value B.3.2: greenhouse gas emissions (scope 2) 204 Disclosed In 2019, indirect GHG emissions (scope 2) declined from 0.12 mt to 0.09 mt of CO2 equivalent. The relative indicator went down from 0.5 t to 0.15 t of CO2 equivalent per RUB mln of net added value B.4 Ozone-depleting B.4.1 : ozone-depleting substances 206 Disclosed No emissions substances and chemicals and chemicals B.5 Energy consumption B.5.1: renewable energy 290 Partially disclosed The Report discloses the amount of electric power generated by HPPs and its share in total energy consumption. The current metering system does not allow for the disclosure to be made in full compliance with the UNCTAD guidelines. Along with in-house generation, Nornickel Group purchases electric power from third parties connected to Russia’s unified energy system (the share of electric power purchased on the wholesale electricity and capacity market is 32.6%). The Company accounts for 67.4% of total electric power consumption in the Norilsk Industrial District. For more details, please see the Energy Saving and Energy Efficiency section. Share of renewable energy in the Norilsk Industrial District’s total energy consumption: • Total consumption — 6,854,895 thousand kWh • HPP-generated — 3,667,368.6 thousand kWh (53.5%) Electric power sold to retail consumers and third parties in the Norilsk Industrial District: • Total — 819,496 thousand kWh • HPP-generated — 438,087 thousand kWh B.5.2: energy efficiency — Disclosed In 2019, the ratio between total energy consumption by the Group and net added value was 0.26 TJ / RUB mln С Social area C.1 Gender equality C.1.1: proportion of women in managerial — Partially disclosed HR records are not broken down by category or gender. positions The proportion of women on the Management Board is 33% (4 out of 12 members) C.2 Human capital C.2.1: average hours of training per year 148 Disclosed — per employee C.2.2: expenditure on employee training — Disclosed Expenditure on employee training per year per employee: per year per employee For all employee categories — RUB 15,139 Blue-collar employees — RUB 6,312 Managers — RUB 44,701 White-collar employees — RUB 24,553 C.2.3: employee wages and benefits with 142 Partially disclosed Data is disclosed on wages and remuneration package (excluding insurance contributions); the data breakdown by employment type and gender disclosed is broken down by region. There is no statistics on wages and benefits broken down by labour contract type, employment type, age or gender C.3 Employee health C.3.1: expenditures on employee health 168 Disclosed Expenditures on employee health and safety make up 1.2% of the Group’s consolidated revenue and safety and safety C.3.2: frequency/incident rates 177, 178 Partially disclosed The Report discloses information about the occupational injury rate and lost day rate in accordance of occupational injuries with the GRI requirements. The lost day rate is calculated on the basis of days, not hours, lost (as required by the GRI) • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 299 Tax and non-tax payments, total Page Disclosure status Information/comments C.4 Coverage of collective C.4.1: percentage of employees covered 139 Disclosed — agreements by collective agreements D Institutional area D.1 Corporate governance D.1.1: number of Board meetings — Disclosed Number of the Board of Directors meetings — 34 disclosures and attendance rate Attendance rate — 99.97% D.1.2: number and percentage of female — Disclosed The proportion of women on the Board of Directors is 7.69% (1 out of 13 members) Board members D.1.3: Board members by age range — Disclosed Disclosed in the 2019 Annual Report1 D.1.4: number of meetings of the audit — Disclosed Number of meetings of the Audit and Sustainable Development Committee — 8 committee and attendance rate Attendance rate — 100% D.1.5: compensation: total compensation — Partially disclosed The 2019 Annual Report2 discloses the total amount of compensations paid to the members per Board member (both executive of the Board of Directors. Personal compensations are not disclosed for confidentiality reasons and non-executive directors) D.2 Anti-corruption practices D.2.1: amount of fines paid or payable 73, 74 Disclosed — due to settlements D.2.2: average hours of training 184, 185 Partially disclosed No records are kept on the length (in hours) of anti-corruption training. Reporting in the Company on anti-corruption issues per year is based on the GRI standards; it means the Report discloses the number and proportion per employee of employees trained in anti-corruption policies and practices 1 https://www.nornickel.com/investors/reports-and-results/2019 2 https://www.nornickel.com/investors/reports-and-results/2019 • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 300 TCFD disclosures Section Disclosure Page Governance a) Describe the Board’s oversight of climate-related risks and opportunities 58, 188 Describe the organisation’s governance around climate-related risks b) Describe the management’s role in assessing and managing climate-related risks and opportunities 41, 42 and opportunities Strategy a) Describe the climate-related risks and opportunities the organisation has identified over the short, 59, 61-68 medium, and long term Disclose the actual and potential impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organisation’s businesses, strategy, b) Describe the impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organisation’s businesses, strategy, 18, 22, 23 and financial planning and financial planning c) Describe the resilience of the organisation’s strategy, taking into consideration different climate-related 18, 36, 37 scenarios, including a 2°C or lower scenario Risk management a) Describe the organisation’s processes for identifying and assessing climate-related risks 36, 37, 59, 60 Describe how the organisation identifies, assesses, and manages b) Describe the organisation’s processes for managing climate-related risks 56, 68 climate-related risks c) Describe how processes for identifying, assessing, and managing climate-related risks are integrated 60 into the organisation’s overall risk management Metrics and targets a) Disclose the metrics used by the organisation to assess climate-related risks and opportunities 227-229, 290 in line with its strategy and risk management process Disclose the metrics and targets used to assess and manage relevant climate-related risks b) Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2, and, if appropriate, Scope 3 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, and the related 203-205 risks с) Describe the targets used by the organisation to manage climate-related risks and opportunities 19-21, 227-229 and performance against targets • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 301 List of abbreviations ADRs American depositary receipts JSC Joint-stock company AML/CTF Anti-money laundering / counter-terrorism financing JV Joint venture BoD Board of Directors Kola MMC Kola Mining and Metallurgical Company BVC Bureau Veritas Certification KPI Key performance indicators CIMS Corporate Integrated Quality and Environmental Management System LLC Limited liability company CIS Commonwealth of Independent States LTIFR Lost time injury frequency rate CSR Corporate social responsibility MDM Master data management EAP Environmental Action Plan MMC Mining and metallurgical company EBITDA Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortisation MPE Maximum permissible emissions EMERCOM Ministry of the Russian Federation for Civil Defence, Emergencies and NAIIS National Association of International Information Security Elimination of Consequences of Natural Disasters NID Norilsk Industrial District ERP Enterprise resource planning OECD Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ESG Environmental, Social and Governance OHS Occupational health and safety EU European Union OHSAS Occupational Health and Safety Assessment System FAEA Federal Agency for Ethnic Affairs OJSC Open joint-stock company FIFR Fatal injury frequency rate PGM Platinum group metals FISU International University Sports Federation PJSC Public joint-stock company FZ Federal law PPE Personal protective equipment GDP Gross domestic product PPP Public-private partnership GOK Mining and processing plant R&D Research and development GOST State standard RSPP Russian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs GRI Global Reporting Initiative SDGs UN Sustainable Development Goals GRK Mining company SGS Societe Generale de Surveillance Group Norilsk Nickel Group TJ Terajoule HCM Human capital management UN United Nations HPP Hydropower plant UNCTAD United Nations Conference on Trade and Development HPP Heat and power plant UNESCO United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards UNGC UN Global Compact IPA International Platinum Group Metals Association UNICRI United Nations Interregional Crime and Justice Research Institute ISO International Organisation for Standardisation USA United States of America IT Information technologies VAT Value added tax IUCN International Union for Conservation of Nature VHI Voluntary health insurance • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 302 Glossary Business unit of the Company’s Head Office: department, division planning and record keeping, recruitment, adaptation, training Social partnership: framework of relationships among employees or any other unit within the organisational structure of the and development, remuneration and incentivisation, performance (their representatives), employers (their representatives), and federal Company’s Head Office and/or a unit acting in accordance with assessment, social security, etc.) in line with its development and local government authorities aimed at reconciling interests the staff schedule approved by the President of MMC Norilsk Nickel. strategy. of employees and employers on matters pertaining to the regulation of labour relations and other directly associated matters. Certification: confirming compliance of qualitative characteristics Human Capital Development Programme: set of priority measures with quality standard requirements. focused on bringing human capital to a new level in line with the Social programmes: voluntary corporate initiatives pertaining Company’s strategic goals and objectives. to employee development and motivation, creating favourable Charitable activities: the Company’s voluntary transfer of property, working conditions, promoting corporate culture and charity, and including cash, free works and services, and other support, to legal Incentivisation: tools and methods of boosting staff performance supporting local communities. These initiatives are implemented entities or individuals free of charge or on preferential terms. and productivity, motivating an employee or a group of employees on a regular basis in line with the Company’s business strategy, and to achieve corporate goals. focused on satisfying balanced requests of various stakeholders. Collective Bargaining Agreement: legal instrument governing social and labour relationships within a company or a sole trader business Local communities: population with Russian citizenship. From the management perspective, a social programme is a set and signed by the representatives of employees and the employer. of initiatives carefully planned in terms of resources, workforce and Local community development programmes: corporate social timeframes, and efficiently addressing the Company’s internal Compliance: conducting business in compliance with programmes implemented voluntarily and intended to contribute or external social objectives. the requirements of government authorities, applicable laws, to the development of local communities. regulations, guidelines and standards, including corporate policies Stakeholder engagement: the Company’s activities aimed and procedures, and ethical business practices. Mission: statement of the Company’s goals and objectives that at identifying stakeholders’ expectations and concerns and their distinguish it from its peers. engagement in the decision-making process. Corporate culture: combination of standards, values and beliefs that determine the way a company addresses the matters of internal Nornickel (Norilsk Nickel) Group: for the purpose of the 2019 Stakeholders: individuals and legal entities or their groups integration and external adaptation, guide and motivate daily Sustainability Report, MMC Norilsk Nickel and the totality having certain expectations about the Company or affected by behaviour of employees, while also transforming under its influence. of operations forming Nornickel Group. Unless otherwise specified its operations, influencing its managerial decisions while being or required by the context, the terms “Company”, “Group”, themselves influenced by such decisions. Stakeholders include Corporate social responsibility (CSR): corporate behaviour “Nornickel” or “the Group companies” shall refer to Norilsk Nickel the Company’s shareholders, investors, employees, suppliers, philosophy and concept applied by the business community, Group. contractors, consumers, trade unions and other public organisations, companies and company representatives to their activities aimed federal and local authorities, mass media, residents of areas where at meeting stakeholder expectations and ensuring sustainable Occupational disease: health disorder caused by a systematic and the Company operates, and others. development. lasting exposure to workplace factors or a combination of production-specific working conditions. Standard: regulation containing a set of requirements for activities Employee performance management framework: combination and their products. of methods, processes and procedures designed to boost employee Payroll budget: total payroll and social payments. performance in line with Norilsk Nickel Group’s corporate strategy. Sustainability Report (non-financial report): accessible, accurate and Personnel development: set of initiatives aimed at employee balanced description of the main aspects of the Company’s activities The framework also covers employee performance assessment and recruitment, adaptation, retention, and fully unlocking their competency review. and achievements pertaining to its values, goals and sustainable professional and creative potential. development policy, and addressing the matters of most importance Environmental protection and resource efficiency: corporate for the key stakeholders. This is a way of publicly informing the Risk: negative factor that might result from current processes programmes aimed at minimising the Company’s environmental shareholders, employees, partners and other stakeholders of the or future events and have a potential impact on the Company’s impact. Company’s progress towards its goals and objectives set out in its ability to achieve its goals. mission statement and strategic development plans with respect Global Reporting Initiative (GRI): independent organisation Safe working conditions: working conditions where occupational to financial and environmental stability, and social security. developing sustainability reporting guidelines and standards. exposure to harmful and/or hazardous production factors Sustainable development: concept developed by the UN that Health and safety: occupational health and safety protection system is prevented or controlled within the set limits. acknowledges the role of business in ensuring sustainable embracing legal, social, economic, organisational, technical, Senior executives: President, Vice Presidents, heads of departments development of the society; a concept of global community sanitary, hygienic, healthcare, rehabilitation and other activities. in case of the Head Office, and general directors and their deputies development taking into account interests of both present and in case of entities located in the Norilsk Industrial District and on the future generations. HR management policy: end-to-end integrated HR management system including all stages of employee-employer interaction, from Kola Peninsula. Top management: President, Senior Vice Presidents, Vice Presidents, recruitment to retirement and post-retirement support. Significant regions of operation: the Norilsk Industrial District, members of the Management Board and heads of departments Krasnoyarsk Territory (except for the NID), Kola Peninsula Industrial of MMC Norilsk Nickel; directors of branches of MMC Norilsk HR management strategy: principles, regulations and approaches District (Murmansk Region), Trans-Baikal Territory, Moscow and other Nickel and their deputies; sole executive bodies (directors, general to personnel management focused on efficient implementation Russian regions. directors) of the Group companies and their deputies. of the Company’s business strategy and providing conditions to unlock human potential in order to achieve corporate goals. Social package: set of benefits, compensations, additional payments, Young talents: graduates of universities and colleges whose poststatutory and additional services provided to employees by the graduate experience does not exceed three years. HR policy: set of standards, rules, regulations, concepts and goals determining the Company’s HR management practices (personnel employer on top of their salary. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 303 Stakeholder dialogue minutes Dialogues with stakeholders are an important part of sustainability • Decent work and economic growth. The team recommended that • Sustainable cities and communities. In this area, the speakers reporting in Norilsk Nickel Group. We hold regular stakeholder Nornickel provide its staff affected by redundancy as a result recommended that Nornickel consider arranging for or creating dialogues and take their results into consideration when determining of mine automation with employment opportunities by training automated collection points for recyclable waste and fully transition report contents and monitoring progress in achieving sustainability and retraining them so that they could pick up new skills; from printing hard copies to electronic document flow; goals. • Industry, innovation and infrastructure. • Responsible consumption and production; While preparing the 2019 Sustainability Report, we engaged in dialogues with stakeholders as part of the We Are the City! social In conclusion, the speakers stressed the need to employ the most • Life on land. technologies forum in Zapolyarny. The events attended by Nornickel effective solutions to protect automated systems from cyber attacks and server access failures. They also highlighted the importance The exchange of best international practices: the panel speakers employees, local authorities and community representatives helped noted Nornickel’s participation in the 2019 General Conference of identify the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and targets of uninterrupted power supply to prevent emergencies and production shutdowns. the United Nations. The Conference focused on promoting inclusive most relevant for the Company and the regions where it operates. and sustainable industrial development to achieve three key goals: We held the dialogues in the form of a quiz session, inviting Creating advanced IT architecture powered by blockchain creating shared prosperity, advancing economic competitiveness, the participants to study cases related to Nornickel’s digital technology, industrial automation, digitalisation, digital technologies and safeguarding the environment. The dialogue participants transformation (industrial innovation and safety, including and solutions: the panel speakers noted the important role these presented the discussion outcomes and proposed that the Company comprehensive cyber protection of transport infrastructure, creating technologies play in implementing complex projects, improving the introduce new environmental initiatives, such as clean-up days, advanced IT architecture powered by blockchain technology, production efficiency, reducing ore losses and optimising production and streamline relevant internal requirements based on the highest industrial automation, digitalisation, digital technologies and processes. international standards. solutions, environment and biodiversity, and exchange of best The team linked these objectives to the following SDGs: international practices). Each team had to link their case to a specific Dialogue minutes, Norilsk SDG and come up with recommendations on how to improve the • Industry, innovation and infrastructure. To pursue this goal, the Company’s performance in the given area or in the context Company was advised to further promote lean manufacturing МеVenue: Norilsk, We Are the City! social technologies forum of each particular case. The conclusions were presented by speakers by automating shift assignment and to partner with a global digital Date: 28 February 2020 representing each discussion panel. commerce platform; The exchange of best international practices: the panel speakers • Quality education. The speakers recommended that the Company singled out the following SDGs as the most relevant for the case: Dialogue minutes, Zapolyarny automate the selection of employees who need training and professional development and include relevant employee obligations • Partnerships for the goals, Venue: Zapolyarny, We Are the City! social technologies forum in employment contracts; • Sustainable cities and communities. Date: 15 February 2020 • Clean water and sanitation. To pursue this goal, the Company was advised to recirculate mineralised waste water from the Cleaning the city from metallurgical waste was named a number Industrial innovation: the panel speakers discussed Nornickel’s concentration process to reduce costs and promote sustainable use one priority. To address the issue of removing ferrous and nonpresentation of exoskeletons, which featured a crash course of resources; ferrous metal scrap and waste, the Company should consider in and testing of these machines at a dedicated site to showcase partnerships between its sites and SMEs. their capabilities. According to the speakers, this case could • Responsible consumption and production. Additionally, the Company needs to look into technical solutions be linked to three SDGs: Good Health and Well-being, Decent Work Environment and safety: the panel speakers focused on the to process sulphur waste into sulphur concrete and asphalt. and Economic Growth, and Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure. controversial effects of the smelting shop shutdown at Nickel site, They also highlighted industrial exoskeletons’ efficiency in solving which will help improve the environmental situation while also The environment and biodiversity: the panel speakers suggested occupational health and safety issues and recommended that the leading to job losses. introducing smart water management in Norilsk and creating Company keep working in this area. a closed loop water system relying on water filtration and reuse. This case is linked to the following SDGs: Industrial safety and comprehensive cyber protection of transport Additionally, the team made a number of proposals related to smart infrastructure: the panel speakers noted Nornickel’s progress with • Quality education. The team suggested that the Company support controls for various resources and waste, and using alternative its digital projects, including automation of mining and underground environmental education at universities, vocational and secondary energy sources. operations and development of a smart mine at Severny schools and kindergartens; (Zapolyarny). The team linked the case to the following SDGs: Creating advanced IT architecture powered by blockchain • Clean water and sanitation. The speakers proposed automating the technology, industrial automation, digitalisation, digital technologies • Good health and well-being. An unmanned mine will help minimise collection of data on potable water conditions across the Company’s and solutions: the panel speakers linked the case to the following human exposure to hazardous and harmful working conditions; regions of operation; SDGs: • Gender equality. Remote mine monitoring solutions will make • Affordable and clean energy. The Company was advised to consider • Industry, innovation and infrastructure; it possible for the Company to engage women and disabled people; using alternative or renewable power sources to improve energy efficiency and achieve environmental goals; • Climate action. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 304 In pursuance of the Climate Action goal, the Company should The team proposed organising a foresight session in Norilsk with • Quality education. In this context, the team proposed that the consider using advanced horizontal cooling technologies to prevent various stakeholders contributing to the creation of an atlas Company and the South-West State University in Kursk expand their the permafrost thawing and rehabilitate the soil cover of the tundra. of emerging jobs relevant for the Company. In future, the Company cooperation and set up a joint tech competency centre based The speakers also recommended that the Company carry on with should set up a civil university for the youth and people in need in Norilsk; joint projects on landscaping and tundra soil rehabilitation. of retraining to master new technological solutions. • Industry, innovation and infrastructure; In the context of the Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure goal, the Industrial innovation: the panel speakers highlighted the importance speakers noted the Company’s strong effort in creating new jobs and of the industrial exoskeleton project and the use of exoskeletons • Partnerships for the goals. staff retraining to promote new skills and competencies. in Nornickel’s operations. Going forward, the Company may also sell the solution to other Russian and international industry players. Industrial safety and comprehensive cyber protection of transport infrastructure: the panel speakers gave a positive assessment This case is linked to the following SDGs: of Nornickel’s leadership in certifying management systems for cyber security. The team noted that Nornickel’s key ports have put in place • Good health and well-being. To pursue this goal, the team specially designed systems to monitor the safety of cargo (including recommended that the Company consider, among other things, environmentally hazardous goods) handling and transportation. using this solution in social projects, e.g. to support people with limited mobility; Stakeholder recommendations 102–44 Recommendations Company response Recommendations Company response Recommendations based on disclosure materiality surveys Disclose voluntary turnover rates over the past four years Disclosed in the Staff Composition section From external stakeholders Disclose the ratio of water used to total water withdrawal Done, disclosed in the Appendix “GRI indicators” Include local community opinions on the Company’s Included in the Regional Development programmes in the report1 section Disclose information on harmful waste and targets Partially done. Information on harmful waste for the next year is disclosed in the Environment section and Disclose information on R&D and new technologies, Disclosed in the Innovation, Digital Appendix on GRI indicators. and occupational guidance for schoolchildren Technology, Personnel Development and Development of Local Communities sections The Company does not set targets for waste generation. Disclose information on the creation of leisure Disclosed in the Development of Local time, recreational and personal growth opportunities Communities section Disclose the number of confirmed incidents of corruption Disclosed in the Anti-corruption section for employees of Nornickel Group and local and bribery over the past four years residents Disclose findings of the human rights assessment To be done in the next reports From internal stakeholders Recommendations made by the Russian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs’ (RSPP) Council Make the English version of the Sustainability Report Done, report preparation time reduced on Non-Financial Reporting available on the Company’s website in the shortest by two months compared to 2018 Recommendations on the 2018 Sustainability Report possible time The Company’s strategy deserves a more detailed Done, the Strategy section was expanded Disclose the proportion of women in managerial Disclosed in the Appendix “UNCTAD disclosure in the Sustainability Report, and it is therefore to include information on how the strategy positions indicators” recommended to use more references to the sources correlates with the sustainability agenda Provide a detailed description of personnel training Described in the Personnel Development where the relevant information is presented in more (including climate topics). References to programmes and progress under those programmes section detail external information sources were provided Disclose the proportion of local residents among Disclosed in the Staff Composition section Nornickel is advised to continue disclosing information Done, the relevant section was expanded employees on the progress towards the UN 2030 Agenda for to include a table on actual investments in Sustainable Development, using it among other criteria the achievement of the UN SDGs, including Disclose information on public policy and stakeholder Disclosed in the Stakeholder Engagement for assessing implementation of the goals and objectives projects to deliver on strategic goals (for engagement section of the Company’s strategic priorities example, the Sulphur Programme) 1 Recommendations with respect to previous reports. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 305 Recommendations Company response Recommendations Company response It is advised that future reports describe the Company's Done, relevant information was provided Taking into account the Company's active role Done, relevant information is provided, impact on their business ethics, and social and in the Supply Chain Management section in implementing national priorities as stated among other things, in the Stakeholder environmental responsibility practices in more detail. in the Report, it would be useful to provide more details Engagement and Digital Technology sections It would be useful to provide examples of how ESG on its further participation in national projects, such aspects are monitored as part of assessing the reliability as the Environment, the Digital Economy, of business partners, and how the latter implement and the Smart City initiatives, going forward relevant policies and standards into their business practices. Taking into account the new practice of the The Company's reports generally provide full information To be done in the next reports Company's adherence to the codes of conduct devised on energy consumption and environmental impact across by foreign manufacturers, it seems reasonable all key divisions. To improve this area of disclosure, it is to describe the Company's experience in this area further advised to report on the relevant performance going forward of support functions (transportation, gas production, electricity generation) and smaller units, such as It would be appropriate to add a description of how Stakeholder dialogue minutes are used Bystrinsky GOK feedback from stakeholders is used in management to draft sustainability reports, enhance practices, namely in improving business processes and management practices and review progress Recommendations on previous reports refining social programmes against the Company’s projects and the UN Consider holding public hearings on the draft report in To be done in the next reports SDGs. Stakeholder proposals tabled as part the next reporting cycles of the dialogues are transmitted to dedicated business units for processing Provide more details on the KPI system, making a special The Report provides information emphasis on the sustainable development and corporate on progress against the efficiency The Report contains information on Nornickel’s efficiency Done. The Report provides information social responsibility KPIs improvement programme and overview improvement programme seeking, among other things, on progress against the efficiency of strategic targets (see the Strategy section). to introduce innovative management solutions. In future improvement programme and overview Data on top management KPIs (including reporting cycles, it is advisable to give more detailed of strategic targets (see the Strategy section). those related to sustainable development) information on the achievements in this area, including Data on top management KPIs (including is also available (see the section the set of KPIs related to sustainable development. those related to sustainable development) on remuneration of members of the supreme is also available (see the section on governing bodies) remuneration of members of the supreme governing bodies) • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 306 Opinion of RSPP Council on Non-Financial Reporting 102–56 The Council on Non-Financial Reporting of the Russian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs (the “Council”) established as per the Management Bureau’s Resolution dated 28 June 2007, reviewed, at the request of MMC Norilsk Nickel (the “Company”, the “Group”, “Nornickel”), Nornickel Group’s 2019 Sustainability Report (the “Report”). The Company requested the RSPP to arrange for the public verification of the Report, with the Council on Non-Financial Reporting providing an opinion on the materiality and completeness of the Report’s information about the Company’s operations from the perspective of the Social Charter of the Russian Business. The Charter sets out key principles of responsible business conduct aligned with those of the UN Global Compact, as well as domestic and international CSR standards. From 20 March to 03 April 2020, the Council members reviewed the content of the Company’s Report and issued this Opinion in accordance with the Council’s Procedure for Public Verification of Corporate Non-Financial Reports. The Council members possess all the required competencies in corporate responsibility, sustainable development and non-financial reporting, comply with the ethical requirements for independence and impartiality, and provide their personal expert opinion rather than the opinion of organisations they represent. The Report was assessed based on the below-listed criteria of information completeness and materiality. Information is considered to be material if it reflects the company’s efforts to implement the principles of responsible business conduct set out in the Social Charter of the Russian Business (www.rspp.ru). Completeness implies that the company provides a comprehensive overview of its operations, including the underlying values and strategic benchmarks, governance systems and structures, accomplishments and key results, and the stakeholder relationship framework. The procedure for the public verification of the Report factors in the Company’s application of international reporting frameworks; this Opinion does not, however, purport to assess the Report’s compliance with such international frameworks. The Company is responsible for the information and statements provided in the Report. The accuracy of the Report’s information is beyond the scope of the public verification procedure. This Opinion has been prepared for MMC Norilsk Nickel. The Company may use it for both corporate and stakeholder communication purposes by publishing the original version without any changes. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 307 CONCLUSIONS Business partnerships. The Report contains a stakeholder map, Company’s efforts to enhance the reliability of power generating specifying engagement mechanisms based on an ongoing dialogue equipment, grid and gas transportation infrastructure, boost Based on the review of the Report and the information publicly in line with international standards and corporate documents. It gas output, and save energy. It also specifies the Company’s available on the Company’s official website, and following a also covers relations with shareholders, including the dividend environmental expenditures. collective discussion of the results of the Report’s independent policy, and investors, including those focused on responsible assessment undertaken by the members of the Council on Noninvestment. The Report describes changes in the shareholding Contribution to the development of local communities. The Report Financial Reporting, the Council confirms as follows. structure and the Company’s efforts to diversify the shareholder highlights the Company’s contribution to the social and economic base and attract new shareholders. It provides details on the key development of the Krasnoyarsk and Trans-Baikal territories and Nornickel Group’s 2019 Sustainability Report covers the key areas the Murmansk Region, providing more details on tax and non-tax focus areas in HR management, including those promoting social of responsible business conduct in accordance with the principles payments to budgets of various levels, and on the financing of partnership. It discloses information about the incentive system and set out in the Social Charter of the Russian Business, and provides social, infrastructure and employment programmes. It discloses pay scale as well as corporate programmes covering social security, sufficient information about the Company’s operations in relation information about the Company’s relations with regional and staff training, occupational health and safety, corporate culture, thereto. municipal authorities under partnership agreements with a view and personnel engagement. The Report describes the Company’s efforts to implement the principles of responsible business and to implementing investment and social projects. It describes the The recommendations made by the Council following the public sustainable development in the supply chain and control of such activities of the Norilsk Development Agency established by the verification of Nornickel Group’s 2018 Report were implemented non-financial factors in supplier relations as quality of products, Company. The Report covers the details of fostering cooperation in the 2019 Report. In particular, the Report provides more works and services, HSE, and compliance. It informs that the with local producers, including small and medium businesses, information on the Company’s updated strategy and its progress Group’s contractors implemented the workplace safety standard in the regions of operation. It mentions the Company’s plans to towards the UN 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, and monitoring procedures. The Report also covers procurement, promote tourism on the Kola Peninsula. The Report provides the covers the Group’s participation in the Digital Economy national including key forms of customer interaction, quality assurance list of key social and environmental projects and programmes, project, and provides additional references to information sources, initiatives, customer satisfaction monitoring based on regular including those supporting culture, sports, social entrepreneurship, including the annual report. surveys. It describes the Company’s cooperation with government and volunteering. It mentions that the Company updated the World The Company’s 2019 Report contains relevant information relating authorities on a variety of matters, including its participation in of New Opportunities long-term programme and deployed online to the below-listed aspects of responsible business conduct. building the regulatory framework of the Digital Economy national tools for interaction with local communities and implementation of project. It provides details on the Group’s interaction with small and the programme. It includes details on a framework for managing Economic freedom and responsibility. The Report covers Nornickel social projects and assessing their performance. medium businesses as well as non-profit organisations. Group’s core lines of business, highlights its contribution to the Russian economy and the industry, and describes the Company’s Human rights. The Report highlights the Company’s commitment production assets, resource base potential and strategic priorities, Final provisions to human rights in line with the generally accepted international which Nornickel mainly pursues through innovations bringing principles and the applicable laws of Russia and other countries of The information contained herein generally describes the Group’s digital technology to production, automation projects, and the operation. It provides information about the Company’s by-laws, strategy, business practices and results in sustainable development efficiency and safety improvement programme. It traces changes including the Human Rights Policy, and the procedures for the and corporate social responsibility as well as the supporting in key financial and operational results as well as performance protection thereof relating to the HR, environmental, social and governance systems. The Report elaborates on how the Company’s highlights. It notes the commissioning of Bystrinsky GOK, one other matters. The Report also focuses on the respect of labour focus areas and projects are aligned with and contribute towards of the Company’s most advanced facilities, among its key nonrights. It mentions that the Company regularly assesses the the UN 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, while disclosing financial results. It describes the Company’s business prospects potential impact of its operations on human rights and rolls this a significant number of the Company’s economic, social and in the context of its sustainability strategy to 2030 and the practice out to all new projects. The Report declares respect for environmental performance indicators. It covers the main focus UN Sustainable Development Goals (the UN 2030 Agenda for the rights of indigenous northern minorities, including examples areas and forms of stakeholder engagement, including those used Sustainable Development), specifying key objectives and targets. of cooperation with a view to preserving national languages and as part of the reporting process. The Report outlines the Company’s priorities and corporate traditional activities and improving living and working conditions. programmes with respect to the SDGs. It describes the Group’s The Report was prepared using internationally and domestically core products which will support the low-carbon transition Environmental protection. The Report includes information on recognised reporting tools (e.g. the GRI Standards, Comprehensive going forward. The Report discloses the Company’s corporate the environmental initiative launched as part the Company’s option, GRI Sector Disclosures), which ensures comparability of governance framework and approaches to sustainable development updated development strategy which focuses on transition to the Group’s information with that of other Russian and international management. It mentions that key performance indicators are green production in line with best global practices, including SO2 companies. In drafting the Report, the Company also relied on the aligned with the remuneration payable to members of the senior capturing techniques. It mentions that the Company is developing following documents: the UN Global Compact, the UN 2030 Agenda governance bodies. the programme tracking climate changes which provides, inter alia, for Sustainable Development, ISO 26000:2010, AccountAbility for assessment of investment projects for climate risks with their Standards АА1000SES (2015) and AA1000AP (2018), the UNCTAD It informs that the Group companies were subject to external audits possible adjustments It provides information about the Sulphur Guidance on core indicators for entity reporting on contribution for compliance with QHSE ISO standards. The Report describes the Programme roadmap for 2020–2030 and the Roadmap to Reduce towards implementation of the UN Sustainable Development Goals, risk management framework, including with respect to sustainable Air Pollutant Emissions at Polar Division in 2018–2023. It also and TCFD recommendations on climate-related risk disclosures. development. It provides details on the Company’s anti-corruption mentions that the Group assessed GHG emissions of its facilities. efforts, corporate documents and procedures. The Report informs The Report presents details on the environmental management The 2019 Report is the Company’s sixteenth non-financial report, that corruption risk assessment covers virtually all the Group’s system as well as water body protection, waste management, which demonstrates its determination to consistently develop business units in addition to mandatory anti-corruption briefings for biodiversity conservation, including land rehabilitation, cooperation reporting processes and enhance transparency. The Company all new employees. with nature reserves, and reproduction of aquatic bioresources. uses various forms of independent assessment and confirmation of It includes a great number of gross and per-unit environmental disclosed information (professional audit and public verification). impact indicators of the Group’s operations. The Report covers the This reflects the Company’s commitment to keeping stakeholders informed and maintaining the high quality of disclosures. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 308 RECOMMENDATIONS While acknowledging the Report’s strengths, the Council To ensure the consistency of information contained in consecutive calls attention to some aspects of disclosures’ materiality and reports, it would be useful to keep covering the Company’s completeness, which should be addressed in the future reporting participation in major domestic and international initiatives cycles. announced in the previous periods. In particular, this applies to disclosing the nature of the Company’s cooperation with BASF The Council notes that the recommendations made following the to develop the green economy and the development status of review of the previous 2018 Report remain valid and good for use the Charter for Suppliers, with updates to be included in the next going forward. report. The Report elaborates on the Company’s input to the The Report provides sufficient information about the Company’s implementation of the UN Sustainable Development Goals. management approaches to sustainable development and its The same approach should be used to highlight the Company’s achievements across the main focus areas. In future reporting contribution towards national projects and objectives which cycles, it is desirable to pay more attention to areas of concern, corporate projects seek to achieve, including results vs targets. too. In particular, this applies to issues related to occupational If included, such information would enhance the public relevance health and diseases. To ensure a more complete disclosure, it of corporate reports and results achieved and serve as additional would be useful to describe the Company’s specific initiatives evidence of the Company’s social responsibility. to reduce injury and disease rates among its employees and contractors. While acknowledging the Report’s partially implemented approach to disclosing the Company’s performance based on plans vs actual The Company holds regular stakeholder dialogues, customer results vs targets for the next period, we recommend that going satisfaction polls and personnel engagement surveys. The Report forward the Company roll out this practice to the main focus areas highlights that these efforts translated into management decisions. and the most critical programmes. It would also be appropriate to add a description of how the management uses feedback from stakeholders, including the The report mentions the efficiency and safety improvement examples of decisions made thereon. programme as one of the Company’s strategic priorities. It also aims to increase labour productivity. It is advised that future reports The RSPP Council on Non-Financial Reporting hereby takes a cover changes in labour productivity, which is key to understanding positive view of this Report, supports the Company’s commitment performance both nationwide and company-wise. This is one to responsible business practices, notes consistency in developing of key metrics used by the Russian Union of Industrialists and the reporting process, and confirms that Nornickel Group’s 2019 Entrepreneurs (RSPP) and the Moscow Exchange in their ESG Sustainability Report has passed the public verification procedure. indices, specifically the RSPP Sustainable Development Vector index. The Report covers the Company’s efforts to reduce the impact RSPP Council of its sea transportation operations on the Arctic ecosystems. on Non-Financial Given its relevance, it is recommended going forward to disclose such performance indicators as solid (soot) emissions from sea Reporting transportation. The Report describes how the Company implements digital solutions in its production and management processes. Assuming the strong potential as well as opportunities and risks related to information technologies, it is advised that future reports reflect the results thereof both in terms of higher output and labour productivity and in the context of a broader range of sustainable development matters (better labour quality, environmental safety, etc.). The Report gives account of the Company’s framework for assessing the performance of social programmes. Given its importance for stakeholders, such information deserves a more detailed disclosure. It is advisable to include specific examples of assessments performed as well as results and takeaways, especially for the most critical programmes. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 309 Independent assurance report1 102–56 1 The auditor of the Sustainability Report was approved by the Senior Vice President for HR, Social Policy and Public Relations. • About the Group Strategy Management UN Global Compact Regional development Appendices Digital Nornickel 2019 310 102-3 102-53 Head Office Address: 15, 1st Krasnogvardeysky Drive, Moscow, 123100, Russia Telephone: +7 495 787 7667 Email: gmk@nornik.ru Social Policy Department Svetlana Ivchenko, Head of Department Telephone: +7 495 786 8390 Nornickel on social media facebook.com/NornickelRU twitter.com/NornikOfficial vk.com/nornickel_official youtube.com/user/NornikOfficial instagram.com/nornickel_official Digital Nornickel 2019 311
