1 COMMUNICATION ON PRO GRESS(COP 2020 ( ALPHA NERO FZ LLC – Dubaï Production City Plot C 07 – Dubaï – P.O. Box 485008 Tel: +97144270592 www.alpha–nero.com 2 1. STATEMENT OF CONTINUOUS SUPPORT I am pleased to confirm that Alpha Nero FZ LLC, located in Dubai, UAE supports the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. With this communication, we express our intent to advance those principles within our sphere of influence. We are committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture, and dayto-day operations of our company, and to engaging in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations. We recognize that a key requirement for participation in the Global Compact is the annual submission of a Communication on Progress (COP) that describes our company’s efforts to implement the ten principles. We support public accountability and transparency, and therefore commit to report on progress within one year of joining the Global Compact, and annually thereafter according to the Global Compact COP policy. We weren’t able to submit our Communication on Progress (COP) for the previous years since our Human Resources department was fully reorganized but will ensure from now on an annual submission as per the UNGC policy. Simon Hacker Managing Partner Alpha Nero 3 2. DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS • HUMAN RIGHTS Alpha Nero’s goal is to influence our employees and all our business partners to respect the Universal Declaration of Human rights and environmental protection. Based on our commitment, our action has been to set up a Code of Conduct (see link at the end), to make our position clear for all our suppliers, employees, and partners. The outcomes of our human rights actions are multiple: 1 – 0 case of conflict of interest. 2 – 0 cases of discrimination or harassment in the workplace. 3 – 100% of extra working hours have been paid at the right rate (25% nights, 50% weekends). 4 – 100% of personal data of our employees have been secured. 5 – 0 issues reported. 6 – 3 audits successfully passed. We have been audited by our clients; Audit SA 8000 equivalent. 7 – 1 certification awarded: ISO 9001(management quality). We have published and actively informed all our suppliers, partners, and employees of our commitment to Human Rights actions, and encourage them to commit as well. An internal system is in place where the employees are trained in regards to our commitment. • LABOUR Alpha Nero supports the UNGC principles related to labour standards in addition to following local laws on labour rights. Our written CSR guidelines and Code of Ethics regulate our policies and are compliant with UNGC principles. Based on our commitment, our action has been to set up a code of Ethics (see link at the end), to make our position clear for all our suppliers, employees and partners. 4 The outcomes of our labour actions are multiple: 1 – 3 risk assessments have been conducted in the last quarter. 2 – 1 anonymous suggestion box has been implemented. Suggestions go directly to top management. 3 – 6 people have been trained this year. It includes business skills and health & safety skills. We have a system in place that encourages employees, clients, and partners to report back if they suspect any wrongful doing in regards to our CSR guidelines, Code of Conduct, and Code of Ethics. No reports have been filed since the system has been implemented. • ENVIRONMENT Alpha Nero supports the UNGC principles related to the Environment. The principles have been included in our Environmental policy and our Sustainable Procurement Policy (see link at the end). Moreover, we are currently implementing an ISO 14001 standard allowing us to define a specific framework for relevant sustainable practices. The outcomes of our environmental actions are multiple: 1 – 3 types of environmental data captured including the liters of water used, the number of chemicals used, the C02 emission from our deliveries. We can manage pollution created by our business activities by capturing this data related to pollution levels, ensuring that our pollution levels meet with all local laws, fixing reduction targets in place, measuring levels of contamination in the surrounding natural environment. 2 – 3 categories of materials recycled this year including wood, paint, and metal, and also materials capable of being decomposed by bacteria or other living organisms. 3 – 3% to 10% is the percentage of our costs spent on energy (electricity and other fuels). 4 – 4 equipment replaced within the last 2 years. (older equipment to newer equipment that requires less energy to run). This energy-efficient upgrades of our equipment/buildings allow us to manage our energy use. 5 – 2 certifications awarded: ISO 14001 and Green Certification (environmental certifications). 5 Alpha Nero strives to minimize the environmental impact of its activities. Through the ISO 14001, we’re working along with our auditor, on policies, procedures, and best practices to further minimize our environmental impact. We have a system in place that encourages employees, clients, and partners to report back if they suspect any wrongful doing in regards to our CSR guidelines and environmental policies. No reports have been filed since the system has been implemented. • ANTI-CORRUPTION Alpha Nero supports the UNGC principles of anti-corruption. We work strongly against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Our CSR guidelines and Code of Conduct include our policies on anticorruption (see link at the end) and respond to incidents. We have a system in place for whistle-blowing for any Code of Conduct or CSR guideline violation. The outcomes of our anti-corruption actions: 1 – 100% of our employees are trained on business expectations concerning bribery and corruption. 2 – 1 Senior Manager has been named responsible for this area. 3 – 0 case of corruption actions. All of our employees, clients, and partners have been informed to report back if they suspect any wrongful doing in regards to our CSR guidelines, Code of Conduct, Environmental Policies, and Anticorruption policies. No incidents have been reported since the system has been implemented. 6 All of our policies: https://alphanero.box.com/s/d3t3lm3o1vb3hhv7dpbb74sshy3efu8w Simon Hacker Managing Partner Alpha Nero
