UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2019 CONTENTS 5 Message from the Chairman 4 An extensive and diversified offering 6 Consolidated Financial Statements 201 Business model 8 5.1. Financial statements 202 5.2. Notes to the Consolidated Financial Corporate Social Responsibility 10 Statements 207 5.3. Statutory Auditors’ report Board of Directors 12 on the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 270 Key figures 14 5.4. History of signiﬁcant consolidated items and ratios 275 1 Introduction tobthebGroup 1.1. Business sector 17 18 6 Company financial statements 6.1. Financial statements 277 278 1.2. A proﬁtable growth strategy 21 6.2. Notes to the SEB S.A. ﬁnancial statements 280 1.3. Organization and internal control 33 6.3. Five-year ﬁnancial summary 294 1.4. Risk factors 40 6.4. Statutory auditors’ report on the ﬁnancial statements 295 2 Corporate governance 2.1. Implementation framework for corporate 57 7 Information concerning the company governance principles 58 and its sharebcapital 301 2.2. Management structure 58 7.1. Information concerning the company 302 2.3. Composition, organization and operation 7.2. Information on share capital 305 of the Board of Directors 59 7.3. Financial authorizations 311 2.4. Group management bodies 85 7.4. Employee shareholding 313 2.5. Remuneration policy 86 7.5. Stock market and dividend information 316 3 Corporate Social Responsibility 3.1. Commitment and management 111 112 8 Annual GeneralbMeeting 319 8.1. Agenda for the Combined Annual General 3.2. Non-Financial Performance Statement (DPEF) 115 Meeting of 19 May 2020 320 3.3. Vigilance Plan 117 8.2. Draft resolutions and Board of Directors’ 3.4. Stakeholders 122 report to the Combined Annual General 3.5. Objectives for 2023 125 Meeting of 19 May 2020 321 3.6. Reporting process 126 8.3. Statutory auditors’ report on regulated 3.7. People matter 128 agreements 339 3.8. Sustainable innovation 155 9 3.9. Circular revolution 164 3.10. Climate action 169 3.11. Report by one of the Statutory Auditors, Additional information 343 appointed as an independent third party, 9.1. Glossary 344 on the consolidated non-ﬁnancial statement 9.2. Declaration by the person responsible included in the Group management report 181 for the Universal Registration Document 4 containing the annual report 347 9.3. Statutory auditors and audit fees 348 9.4. Cross-reference table for the Annual Commentary on the financial year 185 Financial Report, Management Report 4.1. 2019 Highlights 186 and Corporate Governance Report 349 4.2. Commentary on consolidated sales 191 9.5. Cross-reference table for the Universal 4.3. Commentary on the consolidated results 197 Registration Document 351 4.4. Commentary on SEB S.A.’s results 198 9.6. Cross-reference table, Grenelle II, GRI and global compact 354 4.5. Outlook 200 4.6. Post-balance sheet events 200 Information required for Annual financial report, pursuant to Article L. 451-1-2 of the Monetary and Financial Code are identified in the correspondence table in Chapter 9.4 page 349 II GROUPE SEB UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2019 Universal Registration Document & Annual Financial Report 2019 €7,354 million 2019 SALES The world leader in Small Domestic Equipment, Groupe SEB pursues a multi-specialist strategy with top-ranking positions in small electrical appliances and a strong global leadership in cookware. Its mission is making consumers’ everyday lives +5.8% easier and more enjoyable and contributing to better living all ORGANIC SALES GROWTH around the world. Operating in nearly 150 countries, Groupe SEB has built strong positions across continents through a product offering, both global and local, addressing consumer expectations throughout the world. This offering is enhanced by an exceptional brand portfolio. -9.4% The Group’s success is rooted in its long-term vision, committed to EVOLUTION IN NET PROFIT achieving the right balance between growth and competitiveness in order to create value for all its stakeholders. On top of the Consumer business, Groupe SEB has recently moved into the professional segment, and in particular the professional coffee market. 34 000 EMPLOYEES WORLDWIDE This Universal Registration Document has been ﬁled on April 9, 2020 with the AMF, as competent authority under Regulation (EU) 2017/1129, without prior approval pursuant to Article 9 of the said regulation. The Universal Registration Document may be used for the purposes of an offer to the public of securities or admission of securities to trading on a regulated market if completed by a securities note and, if applicable, a summary and any amendments to the Universal Registration Document. The whole is approved by the AMF in accordance with Regulation (EU) 2017/1129. GROUPE SEB UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2019 3 Message from the Chairman andǡCEO 4 GROUPE SEB UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2019 Editorial from the Chairman andbCEO 2019 marks for the Group another year of organic growth above 5%, for the sixth consecutive year. All Group geographies and all product lines posted higher revenue, generating strong financial performances, with an Operating Result from Activity up 6.5%. 2020 begins against a backdrop made of uncertainties as the Covid-19 epidemic has spread rapidly over the world. In this situation, our priority objective was to quickly implement all the appropriate measures in order to protect our employees and I would like to send a message of support and thanks to all our employees and partners concerned. Over the last few weeks, the epidemic has spread rapidly to the Group’s main markets. While China shows sign of progressive improvement, the situation has deteriorated sharply in Western Europe and on the American continent. Given the scale and complexity of this unprecedented health crisis and considerable uncertainty over the crisis exit, it’s not possible to yet precisely quantify the impacts for the full year, but revenue and Operating Result from Activity will be significantly down in 2020. Nevertheless, I remain confident in the strengh of our strategic model and the strong mobilization of our teams to get through this crisis as best as possible and resume the development of the Group in approach based on environmental and social responsibility. Thierry DE LA TOUR D’ARTAISE Chairman Chief Executive Officer GROUPE SEB UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2019 5 An extensive and diversified offering KITCHEN ELECTRICS Electrical cooking: deep fryers, rice cookers, electrical pressure cookers, informal meal appliances, waffle makers, grills, toasters, multicookers… Beverage preparation: coffee makers (filter and pod), espresso machines, electrical kettles, home beer-taps, soy milk makers… Food preparation: blenders, cooking food processors, kitchen machines, mixers, beaters… HOME AND PERSONAL CARE Linen care: irons and steam generators, garment steamers... Home care: canister vacuum cleaners with or without dust bag, steam and upright vacuum cleaners, vacuum sweepers, versatile vacuums, robots… Home comfort: fans, heaters, air treatment appliances… Personal care: hair care appliances, depilators, bathroom scales... 6 GROUPE SEB UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2019 An extensive and diversified offering COOKWARE Frying pans, saucepans, pressure cookers, bakeware, kitchen utensils, food storage containers, vacuum flasks and mugs... CONSUMER BRANDS GLOBAL REGIONAL PREMIUM BRANDS PROFESSIONAL BRANDS PROFESSIONAL BUSINESS Coffee machines Other professional equipments GROUPE SEB UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2019 7 Business model NOS RESSOURCES (1) Focus on growth ■ Strength and complementarity of our brands ■ Product innovation ■ STAFF International expansion 34,000 employees 2 19h hours/year of training per employee in average 0 38% female managers 1 9 € 7,354 M +5.8% Sales Organic growth INNOVATION AND DIGITAL A GLOBAL... > 1,500 people in the innovation community Other Asian countries 8% 3.6% of sales reinvested in innovation (2) China 45% of media investment in digital 25% Western €7,354 M Europe + 5.8% like-for-like* 38% INDUSTRY AND PURCHASING South America 4% 2/3 of products manufactured in-house North America Other EMEA countries 13% 12% 27% of production performed in Europe * Like-for-like: at constant exchange rates and scope. €1,9bn direct purchasing ACTIVITIES WITH STRONG POTENTIAL €266m invested i.e. 3.6% of sales (3) €7.4bn 11% Professional FINANCES AND SHAREHOLDING €4.8bn Sales of: €7,354m, ORfA of: €740m 58% Small electrical and profit of: €380m appliances Net debt/Adjusted EBITDA = 2.1 at 31 December 2019 31% Long-term, major shareholders Cookware 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 SOCIETY AND ENVIRONMENT 100% of sites ISO 14001 certified Optimize our industrial facilities… ~ €3 m spent on philanthropy ■ Optimize purchasing and logistics 1Code of Ethics with 18 sections, translated into 11languages ■ Improve industrial productivity ■ Simplify structures and processes (1) Data 2019. (2) Net investments in R&D, strategic marketing and design. (3) Cash outflow for capital expenditures. 8 GROUPE SEB UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2019 Business model Groupe SEB is the world leader in Small domestic equipment, a steadily growing global market, estimated at around €80bn in 2019: around €47bn for small electrical appliances, €24bn for Cookware and €9bn for the professional Coffee market. NOS AVANCÉES (1) ■ Multi-channel distribution strategy ■ Development in the professional market ■ Active acquisition policy STAFF 1 global social protection floor Workplace accidents halved 2 in 5 years (4) Presence in nearly 150 countries Leadership positions in over 25 countries INNOVATION AND DIGITAL ...AND BALANCED PRESENCE 383 patents filed Nearly 25% of sales consolidated through e-commerce Emerging countries Mature countries 45 % 55 % INDUSTRY AND PURCHASING Nearly 250 millions products made 70% of direct purchasing covered by the supplier panel TARGETED ACQUISITIONS TO STRENGTHEN ITS LEADERSHIP* Product FINANCES AND SHAREHOLDING Complementarity EMSA 2016 Swizzz Prozzz 2017 Annual organic sales growth of 8% in 5 years Wilbur Curtis 2019 Krampouz2019 10.1% operating margin Ethera 2017 Zahran 2018 FeeliGreen 2019 Profit up by a factor of 2.2 in 5 years WMF 2016 750g Int. 2018 OBH Nordica 2015 Geographical Business complementarity complementarity SOCIETY AND ENVIRONMENT * Acquisitions of the last 5 years > 500 projects supported by the Fonds Groupe SEB in 10 years Strengthen our competitiveness 94% of domestic electrical appliances … and develop our assets are mostly repairable ■ High value technological products manufactured -21.3% energy consumption on production in mature countries and logistics sites ■ Basic products outsourced (base year: 2010) ■ Focus on the circular economy (4) Lost-time injuries with temporary replacements. GROUPE SEB UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2019 9 Corporate Social Responsibility A committed Group Demonstrate on a daily basis our Empower our customers to have respect for everyone and our utility sustainable livings with our products to society and services ■ Ethics, Human Rights and governance ■ Responsible purchasings ■ Responsible employment policy ■ Working conditions ■ Social dialogue ■ Citizenship engagement Make healthy and tasty homemade Help everyone to live better food that is accessible to everyone in a healthy home, regardless ■ Products safety of their age and health ■ ■ Inclusive-design products Home made for all ■ ■ A healthy home Healthy eating & social dining ■ Sustainable cooking KEY FIGURES 100% of sites ISO 14001 certified 94% of electrical appliances are mostly repairable 10 GROUPE SEB UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility – A committed Group Make our products and services part Contribute to the ﬁght against climate of the circular economy change thanks to our low-carbon ■ Quality et sustainability strategy ■ Repairability ■ Eco-design ■ Recycled materials ■ Eco-manufacturing ■ Second life ■ Eco-logistics ■ Shared use ■ Eco-friendly workplace ■ Recycling 2019 53 Global campaign for the Code of Ethics (e-learning and training) eco-innovative projects GROUPE SEB UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2019 11 Corporate Social 3 Responsibility 3.1. Commitment and management 112 3.8. Sustainable innovation 155 Innovation and sustainable development 155 3.2. Non-Financial Performance Cooking for good 159 Statement (DPEF) DPEF DV 115 Better home life 162 3.3. Vigilance Plan 117 3.9. Circular revolution 164 Long-lasting products 164 3.4. Stakeholders 122 Products within the recycling loop 166 Shared use products 167 3.5. Objectives for 2023 125 Products with multiple lives 168 3.6. Reporting process 126 3.10. Climate action 169 3.7. People matter 128 Analysis of the Group’s greenhouse gas emissions 169 Ethical compliance 128 Targets: Short and long-term 170 Responsible purchasing 129 Eco-design 172 A responsible employment policy 131 Eco-manufacturing 173 Eco-logistics 178 Tertiary sites and IT 180 3.11. Report by one of the Statutory Auditors, appointed as an independent third party, on the consolidated non-financial statement included in the Group management report 181 DPEF The elements related to the Extra-Financial Performance Declaration are identified in the summary using the pictogram. DV DV The elements related to the Duty of Vigilance are identified in the summary with the help of the pictogram. GROUPE SEB UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2019 111 3 Corporate Social Responsibility Commitment and management 3.1. Commitment and management COMMITMENT AT THE HIGHEST LEVEL Corporate social responsibility is an essential component of Groupe Lyon region established the Mix-R network in 2018. Mix-R aims to be SEB’s strategy, and is driven by top management. For a great many an “activist for responsible companies”. It offers its members various years, Groupe SEB has been committed to an approach that strives activities to stimulate collective intelligence and joint development: to be ethical, economically profitable, socially fair and environmentally experience sharing, conferences, inter-company thematic programs, responsible. There are regular presentations on this policy to the Board promotion of proven CSR initiatives, etc. At year-end 2019, the of Directors and the Governance and Remuneration Committee is network already had 60 member companies. Over the course of the responsible for monitoring it. year, it organized a dozen or so gatherings, workshops or programs on a range of CSR-related themes: corporate challenges and risks posed In line with this commitment, the Group supports initiatives designed by climate change, youth employment, flexible purpose corporations to get a growing number of companies to begin their CSR (Corporate and reason for being, eco-design, responsible negotiation, employee Social Responsibility) journey. It is with this in mind that its Chairman, engagement, etc. This is all done in a spirit of openness and with a Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise, and four other business leaders in the desire to promote concrete initiatives. OUR EVOLVING SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY A JOINTLY DEVELOPED STRATEGY STEERING AND ROAD MAPS From 2012 to 2018, the Group’s sustainable development strategy The sustainable development strategy is implemented under the focused on the basics: ethics and Human Rights, responsible oversight of the Sustainable Development department, which employment policy, solidarity, sustainable innovation, the environment. reports to the Senior Executive Vice-president, Human Resources, Building on the work done in these various areas, the Group took who is a member of the Executive Committee. Made up of a team of another step forward in 2018 by proactively incorporating the seven people, two of whom are seconded to the Fonds Groupe SEB, challenges associated with its businesses. it coordinates and drives Group-wide participatory efforts with the support of a dedicated Steering Committee. In order to instill The new strategy, completed in 2018 and rolled out in 2019, is the sustainable development criteria at all levels of the company and result of a major internal consultation that involved the various Group on all continents, this Steering Committee is composed of around businesses and teams across a dozen countries. In line with the UN’s 20 members hailing from a variety of business areas and divisions Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), it aligns the vision of all (communications, quality/environment, innovation, purchasing, teams. It is built on four pillars that underpin the “business” challenges: logistics, marketing, etc.) and meets twice a year. The Sustainable ■ People matter: Demonstrate our respect for everyone and our Development department also relies on the network of continental benefit to society on a daily basis. Human Resources Managers who act as contacts with the countries. ■ Sustainable innovation: Empower our customers to adopt 2019 was mainly spent rolling out the four pillars of the new sustainable sustainable lifestyles thanks to our products and services: development strategy. A dozen thematic road maps were developed ■ Cooking for good: Make delicious, healthy home cooking together with the representatives of the relevant businesses along accessible to everyone, and offer consumers moments of with targets for 2023 (1). All functions were involved in the process: sharing, products and services that facilitate day-to-day cooking, Purchasing, Quality, Environment, R&D, Marketing, Brands, Health ■ Better home life: Help everyone to live better in a healthier home, and Safety, Human Resources, Production, IT and Digital, Logistics, with appropriate products and technologies, regardless of their Consumer Satisfaction, Design, etc. Each road map is built around age and health; projects with targets and quantitative indicators. Twice a year a progress report is put together by the Sustainable Development ■ Circular revolution: Make the Group’s products and services part department with the “business” contributors. of the circular economy; ■ Climate action: Contribute to the fight against climate change thanks to our low-carbon strategy in line with the 2° C scenario of the Paris Agreement. (1) These targets are specified in each relevant section of Chapter 3 (page 171), under the heading “Groupe SEB 2023 Target”. 112 GROUPE SEB UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Commitment and management In parallel, the country teams started to determine their areas of Development department also supports the local teams with project priority, in line with the direction of the new strategy. The “country” planning and aims to create a network of best practice-sharing to road maps are steered by the sustainable development contact, drive momentum. typically the subsidiary’s Human Resources Manager. The Sustainable DIALOG WITH STAKEHOLDERS Paying close attention to the Group’s “ecosystem”, the Sustainable and an employee representative, member of the European Works Development department has been holding a series of discussions Council. The meeting held at end-January 2020 mainly focused with a panel of the Group’s stakeholders since 2013, to gather their on the Group’s evolving sustainable development strategy and on opinions and suggestions about its sustainable development policy. the company’s exploration of its sense of purpose. At the previous This panel was mainly comprised of external experts: expert in meeting, in early 2019, the members of the panel had discussed the positive branding, expert in responsible consumption and sustainable corporate responsibility of the brands with a particular focus on Tefal eating, eco-design and circular economy, cooking blogger, etc., and Rowenta. 3 RAISING EMPLOYEE AWARENESS The Group uses a number of communication methods to increase Every year, a sustainable development week is organized worldwide employee awareness of sustainable development issues, including a and is a special opportunity to enlist the cooperation of employees. dedicated section on the Group’s intranet, which is regularly updated The 2019 theme was combating climate change, one of the four with news, articles in site newspapers, telexes and events. There is pillars of the Group’s new sustainable development strategy. The also the Yammer internal social network’s Sustainable Innovation proposed activities come in very different forms including, for example: community, which is a forum for discussions on sustainable innovation. awareness raising and challenges surrounding energy consumption Many sustainable development-related themes are also dealt with and reduction of waste and plastic, handing out of EMSA mugs to in the Group’s Code of Ethics, which regularly inspires training and teams to replace disposable cups, cooking workshops on cutting awareness-raising initiatives (see page 128). food wastage; awareness raising regarding waste sorting on-site; presentation of the UN Sustainable Development Goals, etc. CSR CRITERIA IN THE BONUSES OF TOP MANAGERS The remuneration of all managers who have a certain level of performance in all businesses and levels of the company, as part of responsibility comprises a variable portion related to the results of an overall value creation approach. A portion of the bonus is thus the Group and those of the entity in which they work. Since 2018, subject to the achievement of the carbon emission goals of Group the Group has been looking at environmental, social and ethical plants, to the number of workplace accidents and social compliance performance criteria when calculating the bonuses awarded to its rating awarded to Group sites in the course of social audits done in 690 top managers. The goal is to embed the Group’s non-financial at-risk areas. INTERNAL AUDIT AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT In 2013, the Audit and Internal Control department included the Code questionnaire through reporting software. This covers the same of Ethics and the Responsible Purchasing Charter in the internal checkpoints audited during on-site audits and includes the internal control manual used when auditing subsidiaries. Since 2016, the control manual and also the rules contained in the Code of Ethics Sustainable Development department has also sent it the action and the Responsible Purchasing Charter. Both sets of guidelines are plans implemented by the subsidiaries as part of the new ethical, therefore fully harmonized and ensure that the audit process is fully social and environmental audit procedure (see page 130 ). This consistent. Furthermore, when studies take place prior to company strengthens the ethical, social and environmental monitoring within acquisitions, the Strategy department conducts a review of social and all the Group’s processes. Sites that are not audited by the Audit and environmental issues using a questionnaire that covers the key points Internal Control department during the year are sent a self-assessment in the Code of Ethics. GROUPE SEB UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2019 113 3 Corporate Social Responsibility Commitment and management EXTERNAL VERIFICATION OF DATA Groupe SEB has been a pioneer in this regard since 2011, and had the completeness and fairness of the social, employmenthad a selection of corporate social responsibility indicators for related and environmental information in the Universal Registration the 2010 financial year audited by one of its statutory auditors, Document / Registration Document audited. In 2017, Groupe SEB PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit. It continued this voluntary changed its independant third party to Mazars (see a detailed commitment and PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit issued a limited description of the reporting process on page 126 and Mazars’ report assurance report for the 2011 and 2012 financial years on a selection for 2019 on page 181). Since 2010, 80 audits have been carried out of social and environmental indicators. Finally, to comply with what on 27 different sites in seven countries (Germany, France, Italy, Brazil, are now legal obligations, every year since 2013 the Group has Colombia, China and the United States). AN ESTABLISHED CSR POLICY A growing number of management companies are basing their When it comes to its CSR reputation, Groupe SEB was ranked investment decisions on the corporate social responsibility of listed 4th in the Rep Track survey, out of a panel of 200 large companies companies, or including this factor in their stock-picking process. active on the French market. This survey, conducted in 2018 with The CSR policy is regularly included in the Group’s financial 38,000 participants, is based on three aspects: working environment, communications, and the Sustainable Development department governance and social commitment. meets with investors at least once a year, at conferences or roadshows focused on non-financial performance. AWARDS NON-FINANCIAL RATING The Group’s CSR approach won numerous awards in 2018/2019, in particular for its efforts to foment the circular economy: LSA Several non-ﬁnancial rating agencies assess the ESG (Environmental, “Development of Environmental Responsibility” award, Special Social, Governance) performance of Groupe SEB. Award at the Trophées Défis RSE, award at the European Business Awards for its reparability policy (selected from among 112,000 This performance is increasingly gaining recognition by the CDP competing companies in 34 countries), etc. Tefal also won the (Carbon Disclosure Project) agency, which manages the largest Grand Prix de la Responsabilité Sociétale des Marques. Two database of company environmental data in the world. In 2019, the awards in 2019 specifically recognized its collaborative approach to Group strengthened its position in the CDP ranking, getting a B rating encourage inclusive design: the Mines ParisTech & Cegos Sustainable for its efforts to combat climate change. Development CSR award and the LSA “La conso s’engage” award. The Group’s commitments and initiatives are also assessed every The Group’s corporate sponsorship policy was also recognized by the two years by Vigeo-Eiris (2), the leading agency in Europe. Its 2020 Franco-Chinese CSR award handed out by CCI Paris-Ile-de France rating, increasing by 1 point compared to 2018, allows Groupe SEB and KPMG for the Chinese primary school development program to maintain its first place in its sector in Europe, on a panel of 40 being run by Supor over the past number of years (see page 151). companies. It is also ranked 68th worldwide (out of 4,904 companies). Giving consideration to social and environmental issues is also a Vigeo-Eiris also published a study at year-end 2018 that put Groupe winning strategy for the brands, as shown by Havas Media Group’s SEB in the top 1% of the best performing companies worldwide in Meaningful Brands study, which regularly examines the performance terms of Human Rights (see page 129). of brands with regard to the quality of life and well-being of consumers The SEB share is included in several SRI (Socially Responsible (1,500 brands in around 30 countries). In the 2017 study, two Groupe Investment) indices. The Group has kept its place in Vigeo-Eiris’s SEB brands were included in the French selection (Seb and Moulinex) Europe 120 and Eurozone 120 indices, composed of the companies for the first time. Both went straight to the top of the national brands with the highest scores based on more than 330 indicators. It also most trusted by French consumers (4th and 6th place respectively). reaffirmed its position in the FTSE4Good international index, a global In the 2019 study, Seb was still in the top 10 of the best rated brands benchmark in the field, with a score of 4/5 (Personal & household in France. goods category). The SEB share also features in Forum Ethibel’s Excellence Europe index. Finally, it is on the research panels of Gaïa Rating, Sustainalytics and Oekom, which has awarded it Prime status. (2) Vigeo and EIRIS merged in October 2015. 114 GROUPE SEB UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Non-Financial Performance Statement (DPEF) 3.2. Non-Financial Performance Statement (DPEF) In accordance with Ordinance 2017-1180 of 19 July 2017 on the disclosure of non-financial information by certain large companies and major corporate groups, the Non-Financial Performance Statement (Déclaration de Performance Extra Financière, or “DPEF”) is intended to present the measures implemented within the Group to identify and attenuate risks. BUSINESS MODEL DPEF The Groupe SEB business model is presented in pages 6-7 of this document. In order to develop the Business Model, a working group composed Sustainable Development, Strategy and Financial Communication departments were set up in 2018. After studying the recommendations of the MEDEF and different ITOs, the working group discussed key financial and extra-financial indicators representative of the performance of the Group in the long term. This subject was also the subject of discussions with General Management, which validated the Business Model at 3 the end of 2018. In 2019, following an exchange by this working group, it was decided to keep the entire content of the business model while updating the data.. RISKS DPEF DV MAPPING OF RISKS, IDENTIFICATION PROCESS to the countries in which our subsidiaries and suppliers operate. On & METHODOLOGY FOR SELECTING THE MAIN the basis of this frame of reference, the Group identified that its main RISKS (DPEF AND DUTY OF VIGILANCE) CSR risks are concentrated in the emerging countries. That is why the ethical, social and environmental audits are primarily done in these The Group’s risk management method (see methodology described high-priority areas. under “Risk Factors” Chapter 1 of the 2018 Registration Document) In order to consider both the company’s vision and stakeholder has been applied to the areas covered by the Duty of Vigilance law expectations, this identification of CSR risks was also cross-checked and the Non-Financial Performance Statement, namely: CSR risks – against the materiality matrix. The whole thing was approved by the social, environmental, societal, Human Rights and the fight against Group’s stakeholder panel in January 2018. corruption. As part of this process, the Audit and Internal Control department brought together the Group’s Sustainable Development, Legal, RISK VALIDATION PROCESS Financial Communication, Environment, Health & Safety departments (DPEF AND DUTY OF VIGILANCE) to identify and integrate these risks into the company’s overall mapping of risks already completed elsewhere. The main CSR risks were presented and validated by the stakeholder panel in January 2018 and presented to the Audit Committee in Groupe SEB operates in nearly 150 countries in a variety of complex October 2018. The main CSR risks are reviewed annually as part of economic and socio-cultural environments. The CSR risks identified the Group risk review process. are intrinsically linked to our operations but also the risks inherent GROUPE SEB UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2019 115 3 Corporate Social Responsibility Non-Financial Performance Statement (DPEF) POLICY AND KEY INDICATORS DPEF Policies and actions plans are in place to prevent, identify and attenuate the occurrence of these CSR risks; the details of these actions plans are described throughout Chapter 3. This correspondence table provides the necessary references. Area Risks Policies Key performance indicators Social and Health Protect and ensure the health and Frequency of Chap 3.5/Health societal and safety safety of the employees thanks to workplace accidents and safety/p. 141 of staff the Health and safety policy of the Rate of OHSAS 18001 Group certified entities Talent Promote recruitment, Average employee turnover attraction development and retention of rate Chap 3.5/ A responsible and talents, thanks to career and employment retention attractiveness of the Group policy/p. 131 Ethics and Corruption Ensuring ethics and transparency Rate of roll-out of Code of Chap 3.5/Ethics corruption of our business as well as Ethics e-learning training compliance/p. 129 respect for the laws through the implementation of a: • Code of Ethics – Code of Ethics training (e-learning and classroom) • an anti-corruption e-learning module planned for H2 2019 Tax evasion Ensure compliance with tax Effective tax rate Chap 1 .4/Risk regulations and obligations Factors/p. 40 in all countries where the Group is implanted Human Ensure respect Human Rights, Percentage of sites with Chap 3.5/Ethics Rights in our activities, everywhere where an overall compliance score compliance/Code of the Group is established, thanks greater than 80% Ethics/p. 129 to the implementation of: Intertek Audit of suppliers • a Code of Ethics (Group level) • a responsible purchasing policy Environmental Climate Reduce the Group impact on Rate of recycled materials in Chap 3.8/Using recycled change climate change thanks to: new products materials/p. 165 • a circular economy policy Rate of recyclability of Chap 3.8/ • the 4x20 objectives electrical products Reparability/p. 163 Rate of repairable products Chap 3.9/ Rate of Eco-production/p. 171 energy improvement of Chap 3.9/ production sites Eco-logistics/p. 175 Rate of improvement of energy Chap 3.9/ consumption by electrical Eco-design/p. 169 products Quantity of waste generated Rate of ISO 14001 certified entities Greenhouse gas emissions per manufactured finished product (scopes 1 and 2) Exclusions Because of the Group’s businesses, certain issues relating to the Decree of 24 April 2012 and Article 4 of the Law of 11 February 2016 on the fight against climate change were not considered to be relevant: the fight against food insecurity and animal protection. 116 GROUPE SEB UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Vigilance Plan 3.3. Vigilance Plan INTRODUCTION For the second consecutive year, Groupe SEB complies with law 2017The new legal requirements relating to the duty of vigilance therefore 399 of 28 March 2017 concerning the duty of parent companies and reflect the values and actions defended by the Group for many years. order-giving companies through the development of this plan. This plan restates the actions already anchored in the Group’s policies This plan presents the measures taken within the Group to identify that are the foundation of its sustainable development approach: Code risks and prevent serious harm to Human Rights and fundamental of Ethics, health and safety policy, low-carbon objectives, responsible freedoms, the health and safety of individuals and the environment, purchasing policy, and more. related to our activities as well as those of our subcontractors and The plan is the subject of dedicated monitoring. In 2019, monitoring suppliers. Corporate social responsibility has been an essential component of the and updating of the plan were coordinated by the Department of Sustainable Development. This coordination was performed within a 3 Group’s strategy for many years, and these risks have been identified working group that involved the Legal, Internal Audit and Sustainable over time and form the basis for the implementation of all the Group’s Development departments. Each department contributed to the sustainable development actions and policies. completion and update of the plan. MANAGEMENT OF RISKS OF SERIOUS HARM TO INDIVIDUALS AND TO THE ENVIRONMENT PREVENT AND MANAGE THE RISKS RELATED this training was developed jointly by various Group departments: TO HUMAN RIGHTS (DETAILED ON PAGE 129 Sustainable Development, Training, Human Resources, Quality CHAPTER 3.5) Standards & Environment, Audit and Internal Control, Purchasing, Legal, Health and Safety. This is included in the mandatory training for new employees. Ethics For employees without online access, classroom-based training The top priority when it comes to ethics is to apply the laws in force in began in 2019 and will be rolled out worldwide in 2020. Coordinated each country where Groupe SEB operates. Groupe SEB also adheres by the Human Resource managers and site managers, it focuses to the international standards set out by the UN, and particularly to on areas considered priority and on specific cases tailored to local the principles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the circumstances. fundamental conventions of the International Labour Organization (ILO) and the OECD’s guidelines for multinational enterprises. It is Human Rights also a signatory of the UN’s Global Compact and the APPLiA’s (1) Code of Conduct. Integrated in our Code of Ethics, respect for Human Rights is one of our strong commitments, which has been validated by the In order to formalize the policy and ethical values of the Group signing of the Global Compact since 2003. The Group decided in internationally, a Code of Ethics was created in 2012 to cover 18 topics. 2007 to evaluate its teams’ practices in relation to Human Rights in Translated into the Group’s 11 main languages, it has been distributed subsidiaries employing more than 10 people. Up until 2014 it used to all employees. It describes the whistleblowing procedure, including the HRCA (Human Rights Compliance Assessment) Quick Check the contact email address: ethics@groupeseb.com. self-assessment tool, developed by the Danish Institute for Human To ensure that every employee understands the key concepts of the Rights and, for sites operated by its Chinese subsidiary Supor, the Code of Ethics and knows how to act when faced with an ethical CBSSC (China Business and Social Sustainability Check). These selfdilemma, a vast training program was deployed in 2018. At yearassessments, which were carried out every couple of years or so, end 2019, 90% of 11,436 connected employees had taken the covered almost 99% of the workforce and drove improvements. online training program. In order to make it as real-world as possible, (1) Home Appliance Europe (formerly CECED: European Committee of Domestic Equipment Manufacturers). GROUPE SEB UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2019 117 3 Corporate Social Responsibility Vigilance Plan The audits (conducted once every three years) are accompanied introduced a “Health & Environment” notice which has been on by action plans to rectify any non-compliances, and sites with a Tefal/T-fal non-stick cookware for several years. This commitment compliance score of less than 70/100 must undergo a follow-up gives a guarantee that there is no PFOA (2), lead or cadmium and audit. The action plans are submitted to the Sustainable Development therefore that the coatings are safe for the consumer. department. This department shares them with the Industry ■ Unpopular substances: the Group classifies in this category department (including the Health, Safety and Environment managers), substances that, although not banned by the regulations, are the Human Resources department and the Audit and Internal Control considered by some stakeholders, such as NGOs, to be potentially department, which are therefore able to verify their implementation. hazardous. On this basis, the Group is working on plans to replace An annual summary of the audit results is also sent to the Executive a number of these substances and materials, even though they Committee. This monitoring system, similar to the one used for the are not currently covered by the regulations, in order to stay a step Group’s suppliers, allows external comparisons to be made and the ahead of future directives. Phthalates, for example, which were generating of audits that can be used in dealings with customers. added to the RoHS European Directive (3) in 2015, were already viewed as unpopular substances by Groupe SEB in 2012. Trade payables Groupe SEB bears great responsibility in terms of the manufacturing Health and safety of employees of its products under ethical conditions. It follows a responsible For several years, Groupe SEB has been developing measures to purchasing policy that includes reporting and control systems to ensure reduce the number of workplace accidents and limit the number of that its suppliers comply with its ethical, social and environmental professional illesses. It has set the following objectives by 2023: requirements worldwide. ■ cut the number of workplace accidents with days lost * (2017 base) This policy includes: by at least half, i.e. LTIRi <1.5; *With a direct link to work, including ■ Responsible Purchasing Charter; temporary workers – LTIR: Lost Time Injury Rate. ■ preliminary evaluation of suppliers; ■ 100% of plants certified to health and safety standards – OHSAS 18001/ISO 45001. ■ mapping of CSR challenges by purchasing family; The health and safety policy draws on a global network of ■ ethical, Social and Environmental Audits. 35 Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) Coordinators, who cover This policy has been continually reinforced since 2012. It is covered all of the plants and logistics sites (more than 40) in 13 countries. They by a shared road map between the Purchasing and Sustainable meet quarterly in person for France and via Skype for the other global Development departments. It is implemented by teams trained in sites. Once a year, they meet up at a Group site. These annual seminars responsible purchasing: this area is incorporated into various trainings make it possible to strengthen the international dynamic of the and events run by the Purchasing community, such as web forums, network, something that is also supported by the Yammer community that are regularly run on specific issues. (Groupe SEB social network). The Group has also undertaken to certify its health and safety management system OHSAS 18001), with 100% of its industrial and logistical entities certified at the end of 2019. PREVENT AND MANAGE THE RISKS RELATED TO HEALTH-SAFETY-SECURITY OF INDIVIDUALS ■ Safety: Groupe SEB’s safety approach is reflected in the worldwide Safety in SEB program. The 2020 road map emphasizes the involvement of employees as participants in their own safety. At Health and safety of consumers the plants, for example, safety is one of the points that is reviewed Groupe SEB is committed to offering consumers high-quality products daily by the production teams as part of the OPS (Operation that are guaranteed to be safe and harmless. In each country, the Performance SEB) initiative, via Frequent Events. Every month, all Group complies with all the standards and regulations governing the accidents occurred in the Group are summarized in a newsletter products it sells. Responsible products are the first theme addressed sent to all managers (including the Executive Committee) and to the in Groupe SEB’s Code of Ethics, evidence of the importance that it Health and Safety community. This policy has borne fruit: within five places on respect for the consumer. years (2014-2019), the number of workplace accidents with days lost has fallen by over half. Safety-specific checkpoints have been ■ Product safety: this is ensured by a set of rigorous processes incorporated into day-to-day field visits by local managers since at every stage of product development and production. During 2018. This feeds into the safety pyramid, a tool designed to detect development, each project review (RP1 to RP4) includes formal hazardous situations ahead of time to quickly remedy them so as to checking of product compliance via a series of validations listed anticipate accident risks. Since 2016, the Group has strengthened in the EMQS (Environment, Marketing, Quality and Standards) the safety culture in its tertiary (offices) and commercial entities reference document. (stores). The golden rules are systematically communicated and ■ Harmlessness: the Group is particularly vigilant when it comes some sites have introduced their own unbreakable rules. to selecting component materials, going beyond regulatory requirements. As part of its commitment to quality, the Group has (2) PFOA: Perfluorooctanoic acid is a substance used as an aid to polymerization in many polymer manufacturing processes. (3) Restriction of the use of certain Hazardous Substances. 118 GROUPE SEB UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Vigilance Plan ■ Health countries have passed specific laws. In India, for example, Groupe ■ Health plan: The Group’s international health plan, Health in SEB has introduced a very aggressive policy in the country to SEB was launched in 2016. It started with an analysis of all the prevent such behavior, ensure careful investigation of complaints or plants to identify the main health risks (dust, noise, repetitive reports, and finally protect the victims and punish those responsible. work, etc.). This inventory was used as a basis for the creation The subsidiary regularly holds awareness and training sessions on of Group standards and to define health targets, accompanied this issue for all staff. It has established a dedicated committee to by monitoring indicators. This is particularly true of ergonomics deal with sexual harassment, comprising employees and a social where the indicator measures improvements that are deemed worker from outside the company. In France, the updating of the significant using specific analysis methods, scoring grids, a internal rules of all sites makes it possible to raise awareness and to decision-making tool developed by ergonomists and the person’s reflect the new legislative provisions designed to combat all forms experience. All plants and logistics sites worldwide have taken of harassment. Thus, in 2019, each French legal entity with over steps to improve workstation ergonomics with a target of 25% 250 employees added a point of contact tasked with combating of workstations to be improved annually. sexual harassment and sexist behavior. ■ Efforts to combat musculoskeletal disorders: As an industrial group, Groupe SEB focuses a large part of its efforts on PREVENT AND MANAGE ENVIRONMENTAL RISKS combating musculoskeletal disorders (MSDs) in the upper 3 limbs, and lower back pain. The aim is to prevent them from Carbon footprint: Groupe SEB produces an average of 200 million appearing and slow their deterioration. This is a major issue products per year. At each step in their life cycle, these products for the industrial sites, particularly in Europe, exacerbated by consume natural resources and emit greenhouse gases, which the aging of the workforce and extensions to the pension age. contributes to global warming. Aware of this responsibility, the The Group’s response involves awareness-raising and training Group completed a carbon assessment of its businesses in 2016. measures, taking MSD prevention into account from the design This provided a precise image of the distribution of carbon emissions phase of products and processes as well as the carrying out of over the entire value chain (extraction of raw materials, manufacture, specific measures on the sites. transport, use, end of life) and led to the implementation of concrete — Dedicated Steering Committee: Every French plant and logistics actions to reduce the environmental impacts related to its activity. site has a Steering Committee for Musculoskeletal Disorders and As a result, ambitious goals were defined: one or more MSD Specialists who ensure that risks are taken into ■ By 2023: account upstream, at the product design stage, and downstream, by amending hard-pressed workstations. ■ 40% fewer greenhouse gas emissions per manufactured product in tons of CO2 equivalent, base year 2016), — Training programs: Since 2015, the Groupe SEB University and the Industry department have offered a training program, ■ 15% fewer greenhouse gas emissions related to the energy primarily for the methods teams, several modules of which are consumption of our products (base year 2016); devoted to combating MSDs (School of Methods). ■ By 2050: carbon neutrality (reduction and offset 100% of remaining ■ Social protection: in terms of social protection, in 2017 the carbon emissions). Group launched an initiative designed to offer its employees, This low-carbon policy led by the Quality Standards and Environment throughout the world, a high level of coverage compared with and Sustainable Development departments is organized around 3 the local context, beyond regulatory obligations. Since 2018, primary elements and involves a number of businesses. the Group has progressively rolled out a global floor for social ■ Eco-design: Eco-design of products is decisive in significantly protection and working conditions, WeCare@SEB, based on two reducing the environmental impact. Integrating recycled pillars in the first phase: raw materials, improving energy efficiency, reducing energy — life insurance:12 months of salary paid to the employee’s family consumption without compromising performance, and making in the event of death in the context of work; a product repairable and recyclable are eco-design drivers. The — medical care: coverage of hospitalizations because of accidents Group has defined an eco-design policy to act on 70% of the (capped at 70% of actual costs). A third pillar is being defined carbon impacts. This facilitates consideration of these criteria in for deployment over 2020-2021. (in € millions) Remuneration (a) the development of new products: Payroll taxes (b) Pensions 2018 World Each employee working ■ increasing the duration of use of the products: durability and under a permanent contract, whatever his/her country and reparability, hierarchical level, will benefit at a minimum from the coverages ■ using alternative/recycled materials: aluminum, plastics, stainless of this global floor. The implementation of the three pillars will steel, etc. extend until the end of 2021. ■ improving the energy performance of the products, ■ Measures to combat harassment: Groupe SEB pays very close attention to the issue of sexual harassment, an issue on which many ■ increasing recyclability. GROUPE SEB UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2019 119 3 Corporate Social Responsibility Vigilance Plan ■ Eco-packaging: Groupe SEB is careful to design packaging that ■ Eco-logistics: To reduce emissions related to the transport of guarantees its principal functions, while minimizing its environmental products and the materials and components used to manufacture impact. This is why it set 3 targets for 2023: them, the Group encourages local production, optimizes logistics ■ ZERO expanded polystyrene, circuits and is developing transport alternatives to road transport (rivers, rail) that are less polluting. Because lower empty transport ■ 90% recycled fibers in the boxes, means emitting less CO2 while reducing costs, the Group also ■ ZERO internal plastic packaging. optimizes the load rates of the transport units (trucks or shipping ■ Eco-production: Saving resources is one of the goals of the containers), particularly by reducing the size of the packages and manufacturing sites through the policy of eco-production: the empty space inside. ■ reducing energy and water consumption, ■ Resource depletion: The Group fights the depletion of natural ■ reducing and recycling waste, resources in several ways. First, it limits the consumption of water, energy and raw materials necessary to produce the products. ■ using renewable energy. Second, it places its products and services at the center of the Every year, the sites are mobilized on “eco-innovating” projects. The circular economy (extending product life and re-use, promoting goal is to highlight sustainable innovation projects and disseminate recycling and the use of recycled materials, experimenting with best practices to reduce the environmental impact. More than 150 shared product use). best practices have already been developed. ■ Air, soil and water pollution: Prevention of air, soil and water pollution is the first pillar of the Group’s environmental policy, designed to protect the ecological balance around our sites. The Group strengthened its tools in this area, putting in place an environmental risk assessment methodology common to all Group sites and defining a common standard for emergency response situations. WHISTLEBLOWING AND REPORTING MECHANISM As part of the measures introduced to ensure that the Code of Ethics’ If the answer to any of these questions is negative or if there is any commitments are properly applied, in 2012 the Group set up a doubt as to how to proceed, we ask employees to discuss the matter whistleblowing system so that any employee or person from outside with one of the three Ethics Advisers, namely: the Group can report situations that violate the Code. The system ■ the supervisor; is also shared with suppliers through the Responsible Purchasing ■ the Human Resources manager of the site, country or continent; Charter and a clause included in supplier agreements whenever these are renewed. ■ the Audit and Internal Control Director via the dedicated email address ethics@groupeseb.com. This system has been supplemented by a recently updated whistleblowing procedure. It clearly sets out the various steps for The Audit and Internal Control Director may be contacted in the event of whistleblowers to follow to exercise their right, the people to be an exceptional situation that cannot be resolved by the first two levels contacted, the information to be provided, the way in which reports of Ethics Advisers. As necessary, this person will involve the Groupe are handled, the confidentiality rules and protection for whistleblowers, SEB Ethics Committee, of which he or she is a member, together with assuming they come forward disinterestedly and in good faith. It is the Senior Executive Vice-president of Human Resources, the General explained in the Code of Ethics as well as in the new Code of Ethics Counsel, the Sustainable Development Director, and the Secretary training program and made available to employees on the Group’s of the European Group Works Committee, which represents the intranet. employees. The Audit and Internal Control Director is also Secretary of the Compliance Committee of the Groupe SEB Board of Directors, For example, when faced with an ethical dilemma, the following which annually receives a report on the ethics warnings received and questions should be asked: dealt with. Is the law being obeyed? Is the situation in line with Groupe SEB’s This whistleblowing procedure has been widely communicated values and Code of Ethics? Am I comfortable talking to my friends through the publication of the Code of Ethics, training on the Code of and family about it? Ethics and a posting on the Group’s intranet site. It is also included in the Group’s internal regulations. Thanks to this training and communication campaign on the Code of Ethics worldwide, we had 87 reports in 2019 (vs. 35 in 2018). All reports were analyzed and 41 were the subject of a detailed action plan. 120 GROUPE SEB UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Vigilance Plan MANAGEMENT, GOVERNANCE AND MONITORING OF THE PLAN DEPLOYMENT PLAN VALIDATION PROCESS BUSINESS LINE ROAD MAPS The main CSR risks and the vigilance plan were presented and The implementation of Groupe SEB’s CSR actions is based on a dozen validated by the stakeholder panel in January 2018 and presented to thematic road maps developed together with the representatives of the Audit Committee in October 2018. the relevant business lines. All business lines are therefore involved in the process: Purchasing, Quality, Environment, R&D, Marketing, Brands, Health and Safety, Human Resources, Production, IT and COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE Digital, Logistics, Consumer Satisfaction, Design, etc. Each road map is built around projects with targets and quantitative indicators. To address internal and external risks and uncertainties, Groupe SEB Twice a year a progress report is put together by the Sustainable has set up a Compliance Committee whose objective is to identify, Development department with the “business” contributors. Thus, quantify, prevent and control these risks as much as possible. these meetings also ensure regular review of the Group’s different risks This committee includes members from the: with all businesses concerned, an assessment of the actions taken, 3 discussion of the challenges encountered, and the development of ■ Audit and Internal Control department; formal corrective action plans. By involving all businesses, the Group ■ Legal department; ensures that risks are identified and known to everyone at all levels, ■ Human Resources department; and that corrective actions are applied. ■ Sustainable Development department; ■ Finance and Treasury department; and meets two to four times a year to review the actions taken, discuss the challenges encountered, and formalize corrective action plans. GROUPE SEB UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2019 121 3 Corporate Social Responsibility Stakeholders 3.4. Stakeholders Generally speaking, Groupe SEB conducts a transparent dialog with basis thanks to a dedicated section of the Group’s website and the all of its stakeholders through various communication media, annually publication of news items. Stakeholders are identified using the via the publication of the Business and Sustainable Development methodology described in paragraph 5.3.2 of the ISO 26000 standard. report and the Universal Registration Document, and on an ongoing Stakeholders Modes of dialog Employees Intranet site, welcome booklet, internal communications initiatives, Annual Appraisal Interviews Employees (managers (AAIs), employee survey (Great Place to Work), site newspapers and documents on a range and non-managers) of topics (Code of Ethics, Management Values and Practices, etc.). Future employees Website, careers site, social networks, school forums, outreach meetings, etc. Employee representatives Labor relations agenda, employee-management dialog bodies, dedicated intranet, Employee representative bodies signing of collective agreements, etc. Consumers Group and brand websites, social networks, Groupe SEB TV, media and non-media communications, marketing research, Home & Cook stores, consumer service, etc. Suppliers and subcontractors Discussions with Group and local purchasers, Responsible Purchasing Charter, Code of Ethics, annual evaluation, regulatory compliance via the EcoMundo platform, social and environmental audits, etc. Public authorities Participation in working groups, conferences, partnerships/local projects, public/private research partnerships, competitiveness clusters, etc. Shareholders Business and Sustainable Development report, Universal Registration Document, letter to shareholders, website, webzine, Annual General Meeting, information meetings, etc. Customers Distributors Code of Ethics, sales meetings, partnerships and multi-year action plans, etc. Professional associations CECED, Gifam, Unitam, Medef, Afep, Demeter, Éco-Systèmes, FIEEC and other eco-organizations, etc. Participation in working groups, involvement in governance, etc. Civil society NGOs, associations, Business and Sustainable Development report, selection and support of projects via the Fonds communities Groupe SEB or subsidiaries, partnerships, cause-related marketing products, etc. Financial and non-ﬁnancial bodies Rating agencies, financial Business and Sustainable Development report, Universal Registration Document, website, analysts, institutional investors, SRI meetings, road shows, responses to questionnaires, press releases, communication banks, funds, etc. on progress of the UN Global Compact, Investor Days, formal meetings, etc. LOBBYING ACTIVITIES Groupe SEB sees lobbying as a positive approach that consists define regulations and standards that may impact the Group’s product of communicating its opinion to the authorities about the potential designs. consequences of an action or a decision. It provides insights through In 2019, Groupe SEB continued to act to promote the circular professional associations of which it is an active member and which economy by emphasizing the importance of product reparability and intervene in the same way as other stakeholders such as consumer by continuing to demand the creation of a tax incentive to encourage associations and other NGOs. The aim is for the authority concerned sector operators to repair and use recycled materials. It also acted in by a given subject to have all the data at hand to make the best the context of the European work to promote the return of an energy decision with respect to the desired aim and expectations of the label on vacuums to guarantee that the consumer has relevant various stakeholders. The Group bases its analysis on its industry information about energy consumption and performance. Groupe expertise and its market knowledge. Since 2015, it has structured its SEB has also worked on different issues, such as: lobbying activities in the European Affairs department, reporting to its Head of Quality, Standards and Environment. The department is ■ the regulations on materials in contact with food; tasked with transmitting to the authorities the information needed to ■ the regulations on connected products; 122 GROUPE SEB UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Stakeholders ■ the development of standards on the efficient use of materials. ■ GIFAM – French Association of Household Appliance Manufacturers; To contribute to discussions about its industry, Groupe SEB plays an ■ UNITAM – Union of Homeware Manufacturers; active role in various French and European professional associations ■ APPLiA – Professional Association of European Household such as: Appliance Industry; ■ AFEP – French Association of Private Sector Companies; ■ FEC – Federation of the European Cutlery, Flatware, Holloware and ■ FIEEC – French Federation of Electrical, Electronic and Cookware Industries. Communication Industries; MATERIALITY MATRIX 18 Human Rights 16 3 14 Responsible purchasing Fight against corruption Health and Safety Importance for stakeholders 12 Respect for consumers Global social protection floor Equality and diversity 10 Employee-management dialogue Social commitment Governance Dialogue with Eco-design 8 Circular stakeholders economy Greenhouse gas Waste emissions reduction management Repairability Biodiversity Water 6 Sustainable eating Product accessibility 4 2 0 0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16 18 Importance for Groupe SEB Environmental issues Ethical issues Social issues Societal issues Consumer-related issues GROUPE SEB UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2019 123 3 Corporate Social Responsibility Stakeholders To make it easier to read the information contained in this chapter, the table below summarizes the 20 issues identified by Groupe SEB, defines them and lists the number(s) of the pages on which the issue is addressed. Challenges Definitions Page no. SDG* PEOPLE MATTER/ETHICS Human Rights Fight against any form of forced or compulsory labor, concealed work, child labor, inhuman working conditions and excessive overtime. 130 Responsible Require our suppliers to respect Human Rights and essential ethical, social and purchasing environmental principles. 130-131 Anti-corruption Prohibit strongly any kind of corruption in our relationships, not only with our commercial measures and institutional partners, but also with the Government. 132 Governance Work in favor of a more responsible governance: diversity and independence of the Board of Directors, increased female participation in key positions, transparency about the pay of executive officers, etc. Chapter 2 PEOPLE MATTER/A RESPONSIBLE EMPLOYMENT POLICY Equality Ensure equal treatment between employees. Only take into account their professional and Diversity skills when it comes to their recruitment, pay and development within the Group. 138-140 Employeemanagement Respect for freedom of association and union representation while encouraging dialog employee-management dialog on both an individual and collective basis. 140 Health and Safety Provide each employee with a safe and healthy working environment. 141-144 Global social protection floor Ensure fair pay, minimum social cover and decent working conditions for all employees. 145-146 PEOPLE MATTER/A CORPORATE CITIZEN Dialog with Take into account the expectations of all our stakeholders in the conduct of our activities: stakeholders consumers, associations/NGOs, municipalities/public authorities, suppliers, customers, shareholders, employees, etc. 115 Social Fulfill our economic and social responsibilities in the territories in which we operate: commitment creating jobs, taking part in the development of local companies and supporting local associations acting against exclusion. 151-153 SUSTAINABLE INNOVATION AND RESPECT FOR CONSUMERS Respect for Propose high-standard products with all the guarantees in terms of safety and consumers harmlessness. Be very demanding about the quality of the information given to consumers through our call centers, and via our brands’ websites and our after-sales service. 156 CIRCULAR REVOLUTION/A MORE CIRCULAR ECONOMY Circular economy Make the circular economy central to our sustainable innovations. The circular economy requires a chain structuring approach (e.g. recycling chain and reuse chain). This economic system is based on exchanges and production. At every stage of the life cycle of the products, goods and services, it aims to increase the efficiency of the resources and reduce the impact on the environment while enabling the well-being of individuals. 163-166 Reparability Facilitate the repair of our products: design, availability and price of spare parts, training of approved service centers, etc. 163-164 BETTER HOME LIFE/PRODUCTS ACCESSIBLE FOR AS MANY PEOPLE AS POSSIBLE & A HEALTHY HOME Product Promote the accessibility of the product offer to as many as possible by working accessibility on price, ergonomics and distribution networks. 161 GOOD AND HEALTHY COOKING/HEALTHY AND SUSTAINABLE HOMEMADE FOOD Sustainable eating Promote consumption modes favoring healthy and sustainable eating by innovating and supporting consumers. 160 CLIMATE ACTION/REDUCTION OF ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT Eco-design Reduce the environmental footprint of products through eco-design. 169-170 Water Limit the water consumption of our sites together with their emissions to water. 174 Waste Limit and recover waste from production by favoring solutions with a smaller impact management on the environment. 173-174 Greenhouse Reduce greenhouse gas emissions linked to the production process (optimization of gas emissions energy consumption, use of renewable energies, etc.) and the transport of products, raw 171-172; reduction materials and components. 175-177 Biodiversity Promote ordinary biodiversity and limit the impacts of our processes and products on biodiversity. 174-175 * SDG: Sustainable Development Goals. The list of all the SDGs can be found on the United Nations website: https://www.un.org/sustainabledevelopment/ 124 GROUPE SEB UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Objectives for 2023 3.5. Objectives for 2023 > 100% of employees worldwide are covered by the global employment conditions program Employment Conditions, > Cut the number of workplace accidents with time Health & Safety lost * by at least two, i.e. LTIRi < 1.5 > 100% of plants certified in accordance with health and safety standards – OHSAS 18001/ISO 45001 > 30% of women hold management positions Equity & diversity > Bring the % of female managers into line with the % of women in the Group Quality of life at work > Achieve 75% on the GPTW question: “All in all, I can say it is a great place to work” 3 > 100% of the countries in which we operate run a Solidarity corporate philanthropy program > Develop one inclusive design product range > Create one awareness program around healthy Better home life homes > One program to make homemade food accessible to everyone Healthy and sustainable > One charter to promote healthy and sustainable eating eating for recipes associated with our products > 2x the plastic 100% recycled in our products in Recycled materials France. > 50% of recycled materials in our products/packaging > Over 90% of SDA 10-year repairable products for Repairability Moulinex / Rowenta / Tefal / Seb / Calor / Krups > Experiment with different business models to give Second life our products a second life > -40% carbon intensity at our plants Factories > 100% of plants certified in accordance with the ISO 14001 Environmental Management standard > -10% carbon intensity in terms of the transport of our products Logistics > -15% carbon intensity in terms of the energy consumption of our products > Eco-packaging: • 0 expanded polystyrene Products & packaging • 90% of recycled fibers • 0 plastic packaging GROUPE SEB UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2019 125 3 Corporate Social Responsibility Reporting process 3.6. Reporting process MEASURING OF SOCIETAL, EMPLOYMENT-RELATED AND ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE Since 2002, Groupe SEB has been committed to reporting on its data, and in many areas has extended the reporting scope, including social, employment-related and environmental performance. To this new acquisitions where possible. end, it has established a set of monitoring indicators and reporting All of the indicators reported aim to track the Group’s progress in procedures that are regularly reviewed as part of a continuous relation to its corporate responsibility commitments. The procedure improvement process. The indicators and procedures are set out in for defining and/or calculating these indicators is explained whenever an internal document entitled “Reporting process for CSR steering useful or necessary. indicators”. METHODOLOGY AND TOOLS SELECTION OF INDICATORS AND GUIDELINES The Sustainable Development department coordinates the GroupThe indicators used by Groupe SEB to measure its performance in wide reporting of social, employment-related and environmental 2019 cover all of the items listed in Article 225 of French law no. 2010information. It develops formal processes for every relevant division 788 of 12 July 2010, known as the Grenelle 2 law. The Group goes and consolidates all the data collected in a specific non-financial beyond this legal requirement by reporting other indicators that fall reporting system. particularly under Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) recommendations. Based on these guidelines, which are an international standard for the Since 2012, Groupe SEB has used Tennaxia’s reporting system for reporting of non-financial information, Groupe SEB has incorporated sustainable development reporting. Its flexibility will make it easy the materiality approach within its reporting process in order to identify to incorporate future developments: adding indicators, modifying the main sustainable development priorities and the related indicators. reporting scopes, etc. It also makes it possible to create analysis reports and dashboard charts that are useful for management and In keeping with the development of national and international decision-making. Its international roll-out was completed during 2013. requirements and the Group’s philosophy of continuous improvement, it has therefore added new indicators. It has also specified the components of certain indicators to improve the reliability of published 126 GROUPE SEB UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Reporting process The processes and tools used to collect data for the various indicators vary from one theme to the next and between regions (France and World): Theme/Region France World (excluding France) Breakdown of workforce by gender, age, region Data extracted from SAP BW SAP BW data imported into and classification; external labor imported into Tennaxia (annual) Tennaxia (annual) Data compiled in a spreadsheet Data input directly into People with disabilities and imported into Tennaxia (annual) Tennaxia (annual) Data extracted from SAP Data extracted from SAP BW BW imported into Tennaxia Absenteeism rate imported into Tennaxia (annual) (annual) Data compiled in a spreadsheet Data input directly into Collective agreements and imported into Tennaxia (annual) Tennaxia (annual) Data extracted from SAP BW Data input directly into Overtime imported into Tennaxia (annual) Tennaxia (annual) Data compiled in a spreadsheet using Winlassie software then imported into Data input directly into Health Tennaxia (annual) Tennaxia (quarterly) Data compiled in a spreadsheet using Winlassie software then imported into Data input directly into 3 Safety Tennaxia (annual) Tennaxia (quarterly) Data input directly into Tennaxia Data input directly into Training (annual) Tennaxia (annual) Data input directly into Tennaxia Data input directly into Corporate sponsorship expenses (annual) Tennaxia (annual) Data input directly into Tennaxia Data input directly into Environmental data excluding direct raw materials (annual) Tennaxia (annual) Data compiled in a spreadsheet Data compiled in a Direct raw materials (annual) spreadsheet (annual) The reporting of these data involves more than 200 correspondents from different divisions on all Groupe SEB’s sites. ACCURACY AND COMPARABILITY Data on absenteeism came with a methodological limit in 2015. Due to the lack of any official international definition of absenteeism, Groupe SEB is committed to ensuring that the data it publishes are information from international subsidiaries is not subject to formal accurate by carrying out a number of consistency tests. The Tennaxia monitoring and controls at Group level. Groupe SEB has worked on reporting system provides an automatic consistency checking its own international definition in order to be able to monitor and report functionality to limit data entry errors. It also allows users to attach files on absenteeism worldwide since 2016. and add comments. Any potential inconsistencies or errors flagged Regarding Health and Safety reporting, a limitation has been identified are reviewed with the sites and corrected. The Group also strives to in the recording of work-related illnesses on a global scale. Some legal maintain uniformity across its reports, presenting its indicators over systems (such as Germany) recommend medical secrecy and figures a period of three years when data are available. are therefore unavailable and treated as null for these specific cases. METHODOLOGICAL LIMITATION AND SCOPE REPORTING PERIOD The social, employment-related and environmental indicators may The period used for annual reporting of sustainable development present methodological limitations due to the lack of standard information is the financial year, which corresponds to the calendar definitions and national/international laws (e.g. for workplace year for Groupe SEB (1 January to 31 December). accidents) and/or the qualitative nature of certain data. Given these limitations, as well as potential difficulties with data collection, the reporting scope may vary depending on the indicator. Whenever the AUDIT scope of an indicator is limited, this is explicitly stated. Any other variations in scope may be related to the creation, acquisition, sale To comply with legal obligations, the Mazars firm verified the or closure of sites. completeness and fairness of the social, societal and environmental information provided in this Universal Registration Document. GROUPE SEB UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2019 127 3 Corporate Social Responsibility People matter 3.7. People matter SHOW OUR RESPECT FOR EVERYONE AND OUR BENEFIT FOR SOCIETY ON A DAILY BASIS. ETHICAL COMPLIANCE The top priority when it comes to ethics is to apply the laws in force in At year-end 2019, 90% of 11,436 connected employees had taken each country where Groupe SEB operates. Groupe SEB also adheres the online training program, available in ten languages on the iGrow@ to the international standards set out by the UN, and particularly to SEB HR online platform. It consists of 6 modules designed in an the principles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the interactive and fun manner. They comprise a theoretical component fundamental conventions of the International Labour Organization followed by a quiz and a case study where the employee is faced (ILO) and the OECD’s guidelines for multinational enterprises. It is with an ethical issue. In order to make it as real-world as possible, also a signatory of the UN’s Global Compact and the APPLiA’s (1) Code this training was developed jointly by various Group departments: of Conduct. Sustainable Development, Training, Human Resources, Quality Standards & Environment, Audit and Internal Control, Purchasing, The Group’s tangible commitments in terms of Human Rights put it Legal, Health and Safety. This is included in the mandatory training in the top 1% of the best performing companies worldwide in this for new employees. sphere, according to the “Human Rights in a globalized world: why do companies need to pay more attention?” study published at endFor employees without online access, classroom-based training 2018 by the non-financing rating agency Vigeo-Eiris. This study was began in 2019 and will be rolled out worldwide in 2020. Coordinated published to mark the 70th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of by the Human Resource managers and site managers, it focuses Human Rights and looks at companies in 60 countries and 38 sectors, on areas considered priority and on specific cases tailored to local tracking their performance from April 2016 to October 2018. circumstances. Whistleblowing system CODE OF ETHICS As part of the measures introduced to ensure that the Code of Ethics’ commitments are properly applied, in 2012 the Group set 18 areas, 11 languages up a whistleblowing system so that any employee or person from Over the last 10 years, Groupe SEB has more than doubled in size, outside the Group can report situations that violate the Code. It was acquiring several companies (including EMSA and WMF in 2016 and also communicated to suppliers through the Responsible Purchasing Wilbur Curtis in 2018), and has become an increasingly international Charter. group. It now has close to 34,000 employees around the world, The whistleblower process sets out the various steps for whistleblowers with around two-thirds of its workforce located outside of Europe. to follow to exercise their right, the people to be contacted, the Since a common culture and a shared set of values are essential information to be provided, the way in which reports are handled, to a successful ethical approach, Groupe SEB has structured and the confidentiality rules and protection for whistleblowers, assuming formalized its policy in the form of a Code of Ethics, which was drafted they act in a selfless manner and in good faith. It is explained in the in 2012. Translated into the Group’s 11 main languages, it has been training on the Code of Ethics and made available to employees on distributed to all employees worldwide and is now available online the Group’s intranet. on the Group’s intranet. This document addresses 18 key areas, Thanks to this training and communication campaign on the Code including child labor, anti-corruption measures, non-discrimination, of Ethics worldwide, we had 87 reports in 2019 (vs. 35 in 2018). All environmental protection and the prevention of conflicts of interest. reports were analyzed and 41 were the subject of a detailed action plan. A global training program The various points in the Code of Ethics are included in the internal The implementation of the Code of Ethics in 2012 was backed up with audit manual and are verified during site audits. close to 10,000 hours of training. In 2018, the Group launched a new wave of training to ensure that every employee understood the key More information about risk factors can be found from page 40 concepts and knows how to act when faced with an ethical dilemma. onwards. (1) Home Appliance Europe (formerly CECED: European Committee of Domestic Equipment Manufacturers). 128 GROUPE SEB UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility People matter HUMAN RIGHTS ANTI-CORRUPTION MEASURES Respect for Human Rights forms an integral part of the Groupe SEB This issue has been incorporated in the global Code of Ethics Code of Ethics as well as the training offered in this regard to that applies to all employees since 2013. It provides, in particular, international HR Managers. As a signatory of the Global Compact that Groupe SEB strictly prohibits any form of corruption in its since 2003, the Group decided to evaluate its teams’ practices dealings with commercial and institutional partners as well as with in relation to Human Rights in subsidiaries employing more than the government. No financial rewards or other types of benefits may 10 people, starting in 2007. Up until 2014 it used the HRCA (Human be offered in an effort to seek an advantage or be received in exchange Rights Compliance Assessment) Quick Check self-assessment tool, for preferential treatment. developed by the Danish Institute for Human Rights and, for sites In addition to this Code of Ethics, a Code of Conduct was established operated by its Chinese subsidiary Supor, the CBSSC (China Business this year and will be distributed in the spring of 2020. The goal of this and Social Sustainability Check). These self-assessments, which were Code is to guide all employees of Groupe SEB in the performance carried out every couple of years or so, covered almost 99% of the of their duties when they are confronted with a situation they believe workforce and drove improvements. presents a vulnerability risk in the fight against corruption and In 2015, Groupe SEB decided to apply the same ethical, social and influence peddling. In accordance with the SAPIN II Act, a professional environmental audit procedure that it operates with its suppliers whistleblowing process allows any employee to confidentially report 3 (WCA – Workplace Condition Assessment) to its plants in risky areas (2), any violation or suspected violation of the Code or of any law or using the same specialist consulting firm Intertek. regulation governing Groupe SEB. The audits (conducted once every three years) are accompanied The Audit and Internal Control department includes the risk of fraud by action plans to rectify any non-compliances, and sites with a and corruption in its assessments. Given the economic environment compliance score of less than 70/100 must undergo a follow-up in which Groupe SEB subsidiaries operate, the principal risks are audit. The action plans are submitted to the Sustainable Development related to the purchasing process (passive corruption of the purchaser) department. This department shares them with the Industry and sales (active corruption of customers’ employees). These risks department (including the Health, Safety and Environment managers), are mitigated for each of these two processes by specific rules; the Human Resources department and the Audit and Internal Control compliance with these rules is checked when the subsidiaries are department, which are therefore able to verify their implementation. audited. The great majority of subsidiaries have retailers as their An annual summary of the audit results is also sent to the Executive customers (often several hundreds), with whom they deal directly Committee. This monitoring system, similar to the one used for the without an intermediary. Close coordination was established between Group’s suppliers, allows external comparisons to be made and the the outside audit team, the internal audit unit and accounting teams, generating of audits that can be used in dealings with customers. particularly on internal control points. In 2019, as the result of the responses to a questionnaire sent to all entity managers (commercial In 2019, eight sites were audited in India, Egypt, Vietnam and China. subsidiaries, plants, shared service centers) and to all support The average compliance score was 81/100, and no zero tolerance managers, the risk mapping was enhanced with a special focus on non-compliances were identified. the corruption risk. RESPONSIBLE PURCHASING Groupe SEB bears great responsibility in terms of the manufacturing In 2019, Groupe SEB in France signed the responsible supplier of its products under ethical conditions. It follows a responsible relationship Charter, drawn up by the National Council for Procurement purchasing policy that includes reporting and control systems to ensure and Business Mediation, under the auspices of the Minister of the that its suppliers comply with its ethical, social and environmental Economy and Finance. Through 10 commitments built on best requirements worldwide. This policy has been continually reinforced practices, this Charter aims to drive improvement in dealings between since 2012. It is covered by a shared road map between the Purchasing SMEs and their major clients: financial equity, reciprocal reduction in and Sustainable Development departments. It is implemented by dependency risks, assessment of total purchasing cost, incorporation teams trained in responsible purchasing: this area is incorporated of environmental issues, etc. It is wholly in line with Groupe SEB’s into various trainings and events run by the Purchasing community, responsible purchasing policy. such as web forums, that are regularly run on specific issues. (2) Risky areas as defined by amfori/Business Social Compliance Initiative – Country Risk Classification, 2018. GROUPE SEB UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2019 129 3 Corporate Social Responsibility People matter RESPONSIBLE PURCHASING CHARTER ETHICAL, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL AUDITS The Responsible Purchasing Charter, which stems from the Group’s ■ Ethical, Social and Environmental Audit Charter Code of Ethics, is available in French, English, German, Chinese, For the sake of transparency, the Group has put together an Ethical, Spanish and Portuguese. Sent to all suppliers in the panel (including Social and Environmental Audit Charter for its suppliers. It is sent to Supor) (3), it explains the Group’s requirements in terms of respect for them, along with the points on which they will be rated during audits. Human Rights and its ethical, social and environmental principles, To help suppliers make progress in social and environmental matters, with special mention for efforts to combat corruption. 90% of the Group offers them training sessions on this topic. It thus makes suppliers have signed up or are deemed to be compliant with Group sure that they have properly understood the Group’s responsible requirements thanks to their policy in this area. purchasing policy and the checkpoints audited as part of the WCA (see below), especially in the areas of health, safety and working conditions. In 2019, five sessions were held in China, Vietnam and for the first PRELIMINARY EVALUATION OF SUPPLIERS time in Colombia. Representatives of 137 suppliers attended, along with the Group buyers responsible for monitoring them. Numbers at When doing the preliminary evaluation of any new supplier of raw these sessions are continually rising (83 suppliers in 2016, 101 in materials/components and finished products, 25% of the rating 2017, 128 in 2018). is directly dependent on social and environmental criteria. Moreover, if just one of the major social or environmental criteria ■ Internal global network of Social Audit Leaders is rated unsatisfactory, the supplier will be discarded. For the 17 Purchasing Directors from Asia (8), South America (4) and Europe (5) environmental aspect, these criteria primarily include the following make up the network of Social Audit Leaders, which gained 5 new factors: ISO 14001 certification, visible pollution (water, ground and members in 2017 (OBH, WMF, EMSA, Groupe SEB India and Supor air), and use of hazardous products. For the social aspects, the main Vietnam). They are responsible for the completion of audits in their criteria are: existence of a formal ethical/social policy or the signature areas and for progress plans undertaken by suppliers. This network of Groupe SEB’s Responsible Purchasing Charter, working conditions, is coordinated by the social compliance manager (based in Hong observance of employment law (age, working hours, etc.) and of Kong) and through regular meetings (web conferences) attended by safety rules. To evaluate new indirect (non-production) suppliers, the the Group’s Purchasing Director, covering audit reviews, the analysis CSR criteria account for at least 10% of the score, depending on the of results, exchanges of best practices, and so on. purchasing category. ■ A highly-formalized procedure Ethical, social and environmental audits are done by Intertek. A global MAPPING OF CSR ISSUES audit management tool ensures immediate and specific listed supplier BY PURCHASING FAMILY monitoring and also makes it possible to compare the results obtained by the Group’s suppliers with those of companies listed in the Intertek In addition to the compliance requirement, the Group is striving to database (more than 32,000 audits). strengthen the sustainable development component of its purchasing. The procedure is very formal. During an initial in-depth audit (involving In order to identify opportunities for improvement, it has mapped out one to three days on site, depending on the size of the company), the social and environmental issues for its main purchasing families. the auditor reviews nearly 300 checkpoints taken from the WCA This study notably led to the insertion of environmental and social (Workplace Condition Assessment) audit criteria. Each checkpoint is clauses into calls for tender. These are designed, for example, to assessed according to a four-level scale of compliance ranging from favor suppliers offering environmentally friendly solutions or who are “zero tolerance” (forced labor, blocked emergency exits, excessively committed to employing disadvantaged people. long hours, etc.) to minor non-compliances, with moderate and major This impetus is a game-changer: for example, FM Logistic France, non-compliances (no pay slip, emergency exit signs, etc.) in between. which manages the Group’s product logistics at its Saint-Cyr-en-Val The final score, calculated out of 100, is ranked according to four platform, near Orléans, created FMEA, a company providing work to performance levels: high performance (85 to 100), average (71 to 84), people with disabilities, on this site in 2015. This organization employs poor (51 to 70) and very poor (0 to 50). The audit report is sent to the people with disabilities to perform repackaging operations (such as Group’s Purchasing department. adding starter kits or samples to packaging). At the end of 2019, ■ A single “zero tolerance” non-compliance (e.g. failure to comply work subcontracted to the disability and inclusive employment sector with the legal working age) triggers the following actions: a letter totaled more than €5.5 million, equal to 305 Full-Time Equivalent (FTE) from the Purchasing Director or Sourcing Director requiring the jobs, across all of the Group’s French sites. implementation of a corrective action plan within two weeks, See also “A responsible participant in the economy”, page 154. immediate suspension of any new consultations and a follow-up audit (by Intertek) one month (4) later to check that the issue has been resolved. If not, the Group decides to end the collaboration. (3) Groupe SEB’s listed suppliers comprise a selection of circa 470 direct suppliers (of materials and components), and 800 indirect suppliers (non-production). Listed suppliers account for over 70% of the Group’s purchases in the raw materials/components categories. These preferred suppliers are considered to be particularly effective, based on criteria of quality, cost and corporate social responsibility. (4) With respect to non-compliance regarding weekly working time, the follow-up audit may take place within 3 to 6 months as the case may be. 130 GROUPE SEB UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility People matter ■ With an aggregate score of less than 50/100, the Regional Head In 2019, the Group completed 168 initial audits (173 in 2018) of of Purchasing or Sourcing sends a formal letter warning the suppliers in Asia (114), South America (41) and Europe (13). Over the company to correct the breach and checks that the situation has past two years (2018 and 2019), 110 follow-up audits were done to been rectified through a follow-up audit in the following months. check the implementation of action plans. One of the suppliers, which Some companies newly acquired by Groupe SEB (such as OBH in refused to undergo this follow-up audit, was removed from the Group’s 2015, WMF and EMSA in 2016) already had a social audit procedure, listed suppliers and the Group stopped all new projects with it. based on the BSCI (5) (Business Social Compliance Initiative). These Intertek also hands out an Achievement Award (AA) label to suppliers audits are added to the Intertek database, and so the Group has signed who have an overall score of at least 85/100 and do not present any up to the BSCI in order to better monitor them. The BCSI’s compliance major or zero tolerance-type non-compliances. In 2019, 33 Group scale has 5 levels ranging from A (Very good) to E (Unacceptable) and suppliers received the AA label. a 6th reserved for zero tolerance cases. The Group considers A, B and C results to be acceptable. Zero tolerance cases are managed according to the Group procedure defined for WCA, as are D and MONITORING OF CHEMICAL SUBSTANCES E ratings, which are managed in the same way as WCA scores of between 0 and 50/100 (very low performance). The Group’s approach To help suppliers guarantee compliance with regulations relating is still focused on WCA, however. to the non-use of hazardous substances, Groupe SEB works with EcoMundo, a consulting firm specializing in regulatory compliance in 3 ■ Initial and follow-up audits relation to chemical substances. Almost 1,000 Groupe SEB suppliers Every year the Group audits about a quarter of its listed suppliers of can access a dedicated internet portal, which makes it easier for them raw materials, components and finished products in terms of their to write their eco-declarations. The Group is also making continuing compliance with its ethical, social and environmental requirements. efforts to monitor certain substances, in anticipation of future Initial audits are paid for by the Group. Suppliers with a score of more regulatory changes (particularly in Europe, i.e. RoHS (6) and REACH (7). than 70/100 are audited every four years, and the others once a year For further information on how purchasing is organized within or every two years, depending on the volume of business carried out Groupe SEB, see page 28. with the Group. A RESPONSIBLE EMPLOYMENT POLICY Groupe SEB’s Human Resources policy aims to consolidate GLOBAL HUMAN RESOURCES MANAGEMENT a worldwide human resources policy based on the Group’s values (entrepreneurial drive, passion for innovation, group spirit, To support its international growth and ensure equal treatment for professionalism and respect for people). It is based on major focal all, Groupe SEB draws on human resources processes that are points such as respect for Human Rights, the development of skills, harmonized worldwide. These are integrated within a dedicated health and safety in the workplace, employee-management dialog information system that uses the latest generation of digital tools. This and diversity and equality. digitization increased further in 2019. It enables more automated tasks and connects up the various processes more easily, improving global In the 2019 Best Employers in France awards run by the Capital Human Resources management. It provides both a consolidated and magazine and Statista institute, Groupe SEB was ranked no. 1 in cross-company view that makes the Group more agile. the electrical equipment sector for the second year running, with special mention of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) and Quality The Managerial Competency Model, based on the Group’s values of Life at Work (QLW). All sectors combined, it is in the Top 20 of and written in a language that is understandable by all, explains the 2,100 companies with over 500 employees best rated by their managerial conduct that should be adopted to achieve the desired employees (survey of 20,000 employees). It is 17th, up three places performance. Rolled out across all countries since 2016 (8), it has been on 2018 when it had already surged 50 places on 2017. incorporated into the framework of the Annual Appraisal Interview (AAI). It has also been included into the Group’s leadership training All the data presented below are based on a worldwide scope, programs and is used to evaluate the managerial competency of excluding EMSA Taicang, and excluding WMF Heshan. Data external and internal candidates when hiring or moving internally. To concerning new acquisitions will be included progressively, as and help managers implement it day-to-day, the Group regularly organizes when they are integrated into the various Group processes. (5) Business Social Compliance Initiative (2003). (6) Restriction of the use of certain Hazardous Substances. (7) Registration, Evaluation and Authorisation of Chemicals. (8) Excluding Supor, which already had a managerial competency model. GROUPE SEB UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2019 131 3 Corporate Social Responsibility People matter workshops for various entities’ Management Committees: in 2019, The digital sphere helping recruitment this was done in Colombia, Brazil, Mexico, Eurasia, the Research department, the Cookware business as well as for the Asia-Pacific When it comes to external recruitment, the Group relies heavily on Human Resources department. Workshops were also held for middledigital tools. It is increasing its presence and activity on targeted management (Turkey, Germany, India, etc.). Moreover, a special social media/networks, led by LinkedIn, but also Twitter, Instagram, elearning module is available to all employees to enable everyone, JobTeaser, YouTube, Glassdoor and Wikipedia. Its followers continue from the moment they join the Group, to share these core managerial to grow. At year-end 2019, they totaled 110,000 on LinkedIn (+24.5% practices. compared with 2018) and around 3,100 on Twitter (+11.5%). On the Instagram channel, publications showing life inside the Group Of the five personal targets defined in an AAI, one or two are linked (#InsideGroupeSEB) and stories resulted in a 60% increase in to the personal development of the manager, directly linked to the followers. Awareness of the Group on social networks is growing managerial competency model. Ahead of this interview, the managers thanks to a diversified editorial line, continually fed by contributors are given the opportunity to self-assess with a view to improving the from all backgrounds within the company. discussion at interview-time. In 2018-2019, 94.9% of the 3,200 or so managers eligible for an AAI received such an interview worldwide. The Group also invested in a new careers website, with more content, being more international and providing a generally better experience In parallel to managerial skills, in 2018 Groupe SEB completed for applicants. A gallery of portraits and first-hand accounts of the mapping of technical skills relating to the company’s divisions employees worldwide give visitors a better sense of the Group’s (marketing, sales, finance, purchasing, manufacturing, and so on). businesses and their challenges. Moreover, a new interface allows This framework of professional skills and the associated jobs was applicants to see all available opportunities within the Group and to produced thanks to contributions from expert employees from each target those that are a fit thanks to a more user-friendly presentation function who will later take part in its updating. It is now incorporated and more extensive search filters. into the AAI as a basis for assessing job competency. At yearend 2019, some 250 job descriptions were available to all employees, All external applications, wherever they come from, are gathered including via the intranet. on a single e-recruitment platform appropriate to the Group’s global structure (Taleo). This platform has been introduced in 46 countries, where it collected more than 30,000 applications in ATTRACTIVENESS OF THE GROUP 2019 (15,000 applications in 2015). In order to get its job offers out AND CAREER DEVELOPMENT into the marketplace, the Group has partnerships with the major jobs sites, both globally (LinkedIn, for example) and locally (in France: APEC, Cadremploi, Hellowork, etc.). Around 10% of monthly global Professional development traffic generated by Group job offers is directly from LinkedIn. In Internal promotion is a priority for the Group: in 2018, most 2019, Taleo was upgraded to better handle new digital use patterns managerial positions were filled by Group employees, both in France on smartphones and tablets with a simplified work flow for applicants. and worldwide, and 80% of key positions, succession plans being This platform also manages internal transfer requests (iMove@SEB). It driven internally. Internal job offers are published on the iMove@SEB is a key tool for HR teams responsible for recruitment. website accessible on the intranet, which employees can use to apply for jobs. Geographic and job transfers are a component of internal Attracting young talent promotion. There was a flurry of international managerial transfers in To widen its pool of young talent, the Group maintains close ties with 2019, up 60% on 2018 and a geographic spread both in terms of host specific higher education establishments, specializing in Marketing/ countries and countries of origin. Business and Engineering. It has in particular partnered with the The Group offers a mentoring program to develop and retain ESSEC’s Chair of Fast-Moving Consumer Goods (Paris) and, since talented individuals while promoting women’s access to positions of 2018 AgroParisTech’s Chair of Food, Nutrition and Eating Behavior. responsibility. This has been rolled out internationally since 2018. The In addition to strengthening its “employer brand”, these partnerships principle is for an experienced manager to support and advise a “high give it access to the work of researchers in these fields that are vital potential” employee for a year to help them to succeed in their career for its growth strategy. within the Group. The gender parity of the pairings is ensured with To make itself more attractive to students of engineering schools and regard to both mentors and mentees. This development tool, which scientific universities, the Group established the Tech Challenge in benefits both parties, has been highly successful. In 2019, two cohorts 2018. In the 2019 international challenge, focused on sustainable of 24 pairs brought together participants from 16 countries. Since its innovation, students were asked to come up with the Small Domestic inception, over 130 managers have benefited from it. Equipment of the future. They submitted 258 innovative projects, 10 of which were pre-selected for presentation at the SEB Campus in Écully in March 2020, prototypes in hand. 132 GROUPE SEB UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility People matter Groupe SEB’s ties with students are also firming up internationally pride, job satisfaction. Over 8 out of 10 students felt that their time through the partnership with the CEMS Global Alliance, which in the Group was a major step in their career. They are delighted with brings together some 30 leading management and business schools the trust shown, for what they have learned and the resulting strong (30 countries, 1,000 students, 65 nationalities). progress. In January 2020, the Group launched the third wave of its Graduate This “Young talents” policy, which includes interns, work-study Program. It aims to hire young graduates from business schools, trainees and participants in the Graduate Program and VIEs (9) is engineering colleges and universities. The Group offers them the producing results: the Group recruits nearly 75% of its young graduate chance to do a two-year stint in one of its key business divisions employees by drawing on this pool. with an initial 12-month posting in France followed by two six-month Starting in 2018, as part of measures to hire interns, the Group works postings abroad. There are various programs: Purchasing, Finance, in France with the social start-up “Vendredi” to offer internships shared Manufacturing, Marketing, Research & Development, Human with charitable organizations: Interns spend four days a week at the Resources, Supply Chain, Finance or Information Systems. company and one day working for an association, on an assignment On average, the Group takes in about 300 interns and work-study with a high social impact. trainees every year. In 2019, for the sixth year running, it was awarded The prizes and awards received by the Group are also measures the Happy Trainees (France) label, which recognizes excellence in of its appeal. In 2017, the Reputation Institute included it in its its commitment to these students. In this instance, Groupe SEB was “Reptrak France” ranking for the first time. This index assesses ranked 16th in the category of companies taking between 200 and 499 interns and work-study trainees. The Happy Trainees survey the reputation of companies operating on the French market. In the 2018 awards of the top 100 companies, Groupe SEB was in 3 involving some 220 students, based on six criteria: professional 4th position behind Décathlon, Lego and Google. advancement, stimulating environment, management, motivation, BREAKDOWN OF TOTAL WORKFORCE BY GEOGRAPHIC REGION Worldwide (excl. EMSA Taicang, WMF Heshan, WMF Shanghai and SEB Professional Shanghai) (number of individuals) 2019 2018 2017 France 5,843 5,882 5,771 Other EMEA countries 10,575 9,711 8,170 Americas 2,716 2,707 2,736 Asia 14,159 14,390 14,266 WORLD 33,293 32,690 30,943 The total workforce includes those working under permanent contracts, fixed-term contracts or other similar contracts, as well as work-study trainees. Temporary employees are not included in this figure. At 31 December 2019, Groupe SEB had 33,293 employees based on the scope defined in the table above. Including EMSA Taicang, WMF Heshan, and SEB Professional Shanghai, the Group has nearly 34,000 employees. (9) Volunteers for International Experience – Young French graduates on assignment for 12 to 24 months outside France. GROUPE SEB UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2019 133 3 Corporate Social Responsibility People matter BREAKDOWN OF CHANGES IN THE WORKFORCE Worldwide (excluding AFS Vietnam, EMSA Taicang, EMSA Vietnam, proHeq CZ, Schaerer AG Schweiz, Schaerer Netherlands, SEB Professional BELUX, SEB Professional France, SEB Professional NA, SEB Professional Shanghai, SEB Professional UK, SSEAC, WMF Bulgaria, WMF Española, WMF France Consumer Goods, WMF Heshan, WMF Nederland, and WMF Shanghai). (number of individuals) 2019 2018 2017 FRANCE Recruitment (a) 562 710 645 Fixed-term and work-study 308 357 340 Permanent contracts 254 353 305 Departures (a) 564 603 562 Economic redundancies 0 6 1 Terminations for other reasons 50 55 70 (b) AVERAGE STAFF TURNOVER RATE (%) 1.40 * 1.08 * 1.33 OTHER EMEA COUNTRIES Recruitment (a) 2,593 2,423 816 Fixed-term and work-study 970 1,247 397 Permanent contracts 1,623 1,176 419 Departures (a) 2,001 1,978 553 Economic redundancies 44 49 50 Terminations for other reasons 194 151 54 (b) AVERAGE STAFF TURNOVER RATE (%) 8.37 * 6.93 * 9.42 AMERICAS Recruitment (a) 552 661 1,342 Fixed-term and work-study 124 129 256 Permanent contracts 21 532 1,086 Departures (a) 589 751 1,367 Economic redundancies 163 270 646 Terminations for other reasons 65 121 182 (b) AVERAGE STAFF TURNOVER RATE (%) 7.27 * 8.09 * 8.18 ASIA Recruitment (a) 6,569 8,546 10,163 Fixed-term and work-study 5,968 8,347 9,591 Permanent contracts 601 199 572 Departures (a) 6,739 8,476 10,540 Economic redundancies 21 62 37 Terminations for other reasons 3 12 9 (b) AVERAGE STAFF TURNOVER RATE (%) 13.01 * 13.5 * 12.2 * WORLD Recruitment (a) 10,276 12,340 12,966 Fixed-term and work-study 7,370 10,080 10,584 Permanent contracts 2,906 2,260 2,382 Departures (a) 9,893 11,808 13,022 Economic redundancies 228 388 734 Terminations for other reasons 312 337 315 (b) AVERAGE STAFF TURNOVER RATE (%) 6.37 * 5.57 * 5.48 * (a) Excluding internal transfers and the return of expatriates. (b) Number of resignations of permanent contract employees/Average number of permanent employees. * Turnover rate scope: also excludes Vietnam Fan, Supor China and Supor Vietnam. 134 GROUPE SEB UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility People matter As in previous years, the consolidation of Supor in the Asia data leads maintaining of the meal allowance for eight months and health insurance to a high number of fixed-term or similar contracts, which are very for six months after departure, although this is not required by law. common in China and are often for long terms, especially for manual This move is part of Groupe SEB’s industrial investment program in workers. The high number of departures in the Asia region therefore Brazil, whose aim is to revive its activity and restore its competitiveness reflects the expiry of these fixed-term contracts. in this country. The location of the Itatiaia plant, which is a modern and In 2019, the turnover rate was 6.37% (5.57% in 2018). competitive production facility, means it is able to serve its customers in the best possible conditions. The new teams have received many In Brazil, in 2016, Groupe SEB began transferring its industrial electrical hours of training, including quality, safety, continuous improvement product (Mooca) and cookware (São Bernardo do Campo) activities to and professional technical training. Itatiaia, a new plant in the state of Rio de Janeiro, 350km north of São Paulo. The Mooca and São Bernardo site closures took place at the end In France, the consolidation of all the small electrical appliance of 2017, and were prepared for and carried out in line with the Group’s innovation teams at the SEB Campus in Écully began in 2017, with values. The redundancy plans, which affected 498 and 188 people (50 a view to improving efficiency. This implies transferring the electrical key jobs were transferred), were approved by the union organizations cooking business’s strategic marketing teams from their current base and 90% of employees. These plans go far beyond the regulations in Selongey. This transfer, affecting 71 jobs, began in September 2017 and local practices, as they were announced eight months before the and was completed in the summer of 2018. It was covered by a first production line was transferred and are accompanied by a large company redundancy plan unanimously approved by the employee bonus in addition to the statutory redundancy compensation (nearly nine months’ additional pay for a worker). They also provide for the representatives. The Group has done everything possible to ensure that non-mobile employees are not left without a solution. 3 BREAKDOWN OF WORKFORCE BY TYPE OF CONTRACT Worldwide (excl. EMSA Taicang, WMF Heshan and SEB Professional Shanghai) 2019 2018 2017 FRANCE Permanent contracts, fixed-term contracts or other short-term contracts exc. work-study 5,531 5,590 5,512 Full time workforce (incl. work study) 90.4% 89.9% 89.7% Part-time 9.6% 10.1% 10.3% Work-study trainees (a) 312 292 259 OTHER EMEA COUNTRIES Permanent contracts, fixed-term contracts or other short-term contracts exc. work-study 10,338 9,482 7,956 Full time workforce (incl. work study) 77.4% 75.2% 75.3% Part-time 22.6% 24.8% 24.7% Work-study trainees (a) 237 229 214 AMERICAS Permanent contracts, fixed-term contracts or other short-term contracts exc. work-study 2,641 2,623 2,680 Full time workforce (incl. work-study) 99.7% 99.6% 99.4% Part-time 0.3% 0.4% 0.6% Work-study trainees (a) 75 84 56 ASIA Permanent contracts, fixed-term contracts or other short-term contracts exc. work-study 14,109 14,339 14,266 Full time workforce (incl. work-study) 99.8% 99.8% 99.9% Part-time 0.2% 0.2% 0.1% Work-study trainees (a) 50 51 0 WORLD Permanent contracts, fixed-term contracts or other short-term contracts exc. work-study 32,619 32,034 30,414 Full time workforce (incl. work-study) 91.1% 90.8% 91.6% Part-time 9.0% 9.2% 8.5% Work-study trainees (a) 674 656 529 (a) Apprenticeship and professional training contracts. Worldwide, 65.6% of the workforce are on permanent contracts, 34.4% on fixed-term contracts, including 2% work-study trainees. Excluding Supor China and Supor Vietnam, where fixed-term contracts are normal and often for long periods, particularly for manual workers, 90.3% of the workforce are on permanent contracts. GROUPE SEB UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2019 135 3 Corporate Social Responsibility People matter DIVERSITY The Group worked hard on this in 2019, with in particular: ■ a global communications campaign on work-life balance; Because diversity is a source of vitality, creativity and innovation, ■ the establishment on the intranet of a Yammer community dedicated the Group promotes it in all its aspects: gender equality, social and to gender equality; cultural mix, age-group balance, inclusion of people with disabilities, etc. Groupe SEB has a non-discrimination policy to ensure that all ■ the commencement of a woman’s network open to men within employees are treated equally as regards their recruitment, pay and the Group; career development within the Group, in accordance with our Code of ■ conferences accessible via Skype and/or on the intranet. Ethics. In France, the Human Resources teams received awarenessraising training in stereotypes, diversity and gender equality in 2017. FRANCE: A KEY AGREEMENT This approach was pursued in 2018 with a session dedicated to the In France, gender equality in the workplace is covered by a collective Group Executive Committee. More specific training was developed on agreement, which was renewed at year-end 2018. It details and the theme “Recruiting and managing without discriminating, harassing amplifies actions already taken, in particular to reflect societal or slandering” for Human Resources Managers and people responsible developments, and includes tools and methods for achieving the for recruitment. This was broadened in 2019 to the social partners targets set. Firstly, the Group reaffirms its commitment to guarantee and all Management Committees at French sites, representing over wage equality between men and women from hiring, to maintain it 172 people trained. over time and not to penalize employees on maternity leave, adoption leave or child-care leave. Equal opportunity in terms of recruitment, In France, Groupe SEB has been a signatory of the Diversity Charter professional development and training represents another avenue of since 2005. Numerous actions have been implemented to support attack, in particular to encourage the diversity of the businesses and this policy at local sites and raise employee awareness. Diversity expand access for women to managerial positions. The agreement is monitored by specific committees covering signed collective also defines various areas for improvement in terms of working agreements on this issue. More specifically regarding gender equality, conditions and the work-life balance. The implementation of this a Group committee tasked with monitoring the collective agreement agreement requires each French site to prepare an action plan with (France) analyzes the actions taken in this regard. Moreover, the at least one action item per annum tailored to local circumstances. sites must roll out local action plans on various issues: professional The results of these actions are included in the Comparative annual development, access to training, equality in terms of remuneration, report, which measures actual progress. work-life balance and recruitment. There were various awareness-raising actions in France in 2019 To improve the diversity of work-study trainee applicant profiles, and including a number of conferences and a round table on gender particularly increase the share of young people from poor districts, equality organized on the SEB Campus in November and broadcast in 2017, in France, the Group began a partnership with recruitment it by video-conference to all French sites. firm Mozaïk RH, a specialist in the promotion of diversity. In 2019, this relationship made it possible to hire some nine young workWORK-LIFE BALANCE study trainees using a job dating format during which managers met Among the measures taken to help people balance their work and candidates without having first reviewed their CVs. The partnership personal lives, employees were given the option of flexible work will continue in 2020. In Brazil, as part of its learning policy, the Group scheduling, and several sites introduced child-care or concierge encourages the hiring of young people from low-income families, and service arrangements (Rumilly and Écully). offers them different types of training. In France, the agreement on quality of life at work was renewed Gender equality in 2019 with various areas of improvement (see page 140). Since 2016, this agreement had included suggestions from the Forum GROUPE SEB 2023 TARGETS on gender equality in the workplace held that year: it brought • 30% of female managers together 150 employees from all French sites in the presence of the Group Chairman and CEO and the Senior Executive Vice-president, • Bring the % of female managers into line with the % of women in the Group Human Resources. The proposals taken up in the quality of life at work agreement include tele-commuting, ensuring the diversity of Gender equality in the workplace is an integral part of the nonapplications transmitted by recruitment firms, and the paying of childdiscrimination and diversity promotion policy followed by Groupe SEB. care costs during training, under certain conditions. In 2019, it strengthened its approach with the Gender Diversity global commitment plan: each Management Committee, regardless of the country or type of entity (plant, sales subsidiary…) must commit to six actions on gender equality from a dozen actions suggested by the Group. For example: training against discrimination, implementation of a collective agreement promoting gender equality, the inclusion of at least one woman on the list of final applicants when hiring, etc. 136 GROUPE SEB UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility People matter ACCESS TO MANAGERIAL POSITIONS DIVERSITY OF THE BUSINESSES The Group is also endeavoring to improve the balance between To make it easier for women to move into technical jobs traditionally women and men in management worldwide: in 2019, 38% of held by men, since 2016 all French sites have offered them specific managers were women (32% in 2009) and 45% of the external new training (awarding academic credits), accompanied by offers of hires in this category (58% in France). Some entities are performing higher grade jobs. Production operators can in this way become line particularly well in terms of gender equality, such as Turkey where supervisors, machinists or welders. In four years, 27 women have women represent half the members of the Management Committee taken such training. A number of Group subsidiaries have similar of Groupe SEB Istanbul as against only 36% of the country’s working initiatives. For example, in 2019, Groupe SEB Egypt hired the first population. Similarly, in Egypt, they represent close to 30% of the ever female intern in the subsidiary’s maintenance department. The Management Committee (CODIR) versus only 24% of the working Group is also doing its bit to promote gender equality in the workplace: population. Women accounted for one third of expatriate managers in France, as part of the Égalités initiative, it has used YouTube to post in 2019. They still only make up 18.5% of the Group’s 180 or so key various video messages from women within the Group with jobs that managers, however, but this percentage is rising, standing at 12% have traditionally been considered to be masculine roles (“The gender in 2015. And in September 2019, a woman was appointed Senior of my job” heading). Executive Vice-president, Finance, member of the Group Executive Committee. MEASURES TO COMBAT HARASSMENT 3 Groupe SEB pays very close attention to the issue of sexual To accelerate the rise of women to senior management positions, harassment, an issue on which many countries have passed specific the Human Resources department is planning to have at least one laws. In the Scandinavian countries, for example, it updated its policy woman in the short list of applicants for key posts. The mentoring in this area in 2017, and disseminated it to all its employees through the program launched in 2017, based on strict gender parity, is also intranet. In India, the government has introduced very strict legislation contributing (see Attractiveness section, page 132), as is the joint against sexual harassment, particularly in the workplace. Groupe SEB development program tested in France in 2018 and confirmed in 2019. has introduced a very aggressive policy in the country to prevent such This collective coaching (groups of 7 to 8 people) is intended for behavior, ensure careful investigation of complaints or reports, and “high potential” women and places great importance on the ideas finally protect the victims and punish those responsible. The subsidiary of trust and solidarity. Since 2018, the Group has also been on the regularly holds awareness and training sessions on this issue for all board of Alliance pour la Mixité en Entreprise (AME). This association staff. It has established a dedicated committee to deal with sexual brings together the networks of some 20 large companies and aims to harassment, comprising employees and a social worker from outside encourage experience sharing, benchmarking and mutual assistance the company. In France, the updating of the internal rules of all sites on gender equality. In 2019, Groupe SEB actively participated in the makes it possible to raise awareness and to reflect the new legislative organization of the AME annual conference in November on the theme provisions designed to combat all forms of harassment. Thus, in 2019, of the male perspective of gender equality, a conference that was each French legal entity with over 250 employees added a point of attended by two senior Group executives. contact tasked with combating sexual harassment and sexist behavior. GENDER BREAKDOWN BY CLASSIFICATION Worldwide (excl. EMSA Taicang, WMF Heshan and SEB Professional Shanghai) (in %) 2019 2018 2017 MEN Manual workers 28.0 29.5 32.2 Employees 21.2 20.4 18.5 Managers 8.5 7.9 7.5 TOTAL 57.7 57.8 58.1 WOMEN Manual workers 15.8 17.2 18.5 Employees 21.4 20.2 19 Managers 5.1 4.8 4.3 TOTAL 42.3 42.2 41.9 At the end of 2019, 43.8% of the Group’s workforce were manual workers, 42.6% were employees and 13.6% were managers, 37.7% of whom were women. Excluding Supor, manual workers, both male and female, represented 31% of the workforce, while the percentage of managers was 19%. GROUPE SEB UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2019 137 3 Corporate Social Responsibility People matter Breakdown of employees by age People with disabilities Worldwide (excl. EMSA Taicang, WMF Heshan and SEB Professional Disability represents a two-fold challenge for Groupe SEB, which Shanghai) works to prevent it through its health and safety policy, while providing employment opportunities to people with disabilities. 1,976 The three-year collective agreement on people with disabilities was > 55 years 1,614 renewed by Groupe SEB in France in 2017. It aims to deliver better conditions for disabled workers joining the workforce and ensure their 45-55 years 4,126 long-term integration within both industrial and tertiary companies 2,863 through a number of practical measures. Under the terms of this agreement, disabled workers undergo frequent monitoring during 35-44 years 4,998 their induction within the Group and possible adaptations to improve 3,717 their workstations are examined. They also receive increased specific 5,982 financial assistance, training to develop their employability and, if they 25-34 years 4,501 wish, mentoring by a Group employee, organized on a voluntary basis. Disabled employees reaching the end of their careers may reduce their < 25 years 2,119 working hours by 20% by producing a doctor’s note, while keeping 1,398 the same rate of pay and benefits. Specific training has also been designed for managers to make it easier for disabled employees to Men return to work after a long absence. The agreement also provides for Women the extending of leave to take care of sick children to disabled children, with no age limit. Groupe SEB has informed its partner schools of the signing of the agreement and works with specialized organizations to The inter-generational contract, renewed in France in 2016 with act from the recruitment stage. employee representatives, aims to bring young people, and particularly In 2019, Groupe SEB signed a partnership in France with Hello those without qualifications, into the workforce, to hire and keep older handicap, a wholly online jobs fair for the employment of workers employees and to ensure that knowledge is transferred. The situation with disabilities. The idea: the company publishes its offers on the at year-end 2019: in three years, the Group has hired 253 people, 31% Hello handicap website and then does interviews by telephone or of whom are young people (the target was 25%), rising to 37% in the chat with the pre-screened applicants. At the session held at yearcase of new hires to replace retired employees at plants. It also hired end 2019, the Group picked 10 applicants, with interviews to follow in 7% of employees over 50 (the target was 5%). early-2020. Another initiative in 2019: the Egyptian subsidiary entered This contract also includes a systematic ergonomic analysis of the jobs into a partnership with IECD (Institut Européen de Coopération et held by employees over 57, so as to reduce physical hardship as much Développement) to help hire people with disabilities. as possible. The average age of Group employees in France is 43.6. Worldwide (excl. EMSA Taicang, EMSA Vietnam, WMF Heshan, WMF Shanghai, SEB Professional Shanghai and SEB Professional Japan) 2019 2018 2017 World France World France World France Number of disabled employees 467 324 405 312 439 311 % of disabled employees (a) 1.8 5.6 1.6 5.36 1.42 5.39 (a) Ratio between the number of employees with disabilities and the total number of employees as of 31 December excluding temporary employees and ESAT (sheltered employment center) employees. With the exception of Supor, where the number of physically disabled employees is relatively low, the number of disabled employees stood at 2.1% in 2019 (2.0% in 2018). 138 GROUPE SEB UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility People matter EMPLOYEE-MANAGEMENT DIALOG Groupe SEB is committed to respecting freedom of association the resources provided to elected employees (material resources, time everywhere in the world and encourages employee-management allowed for the position, Group financial contribution, etc.) and the dialog at its subsidiaries, on both an individual and collective basis. measures to safeguard and assess their career (skills assessment, It also works to create employee representation bodies in all the career developments interview, review of salary positioning, etc.). In countries in which it operates. This commitment was reaffirmed in this respect, a new industrial relations training was rolled out in 2019 the Group’s Code of Ethics. to all local managers with elected representatives in their team. In France, in 2007 Groupe SEB signed a specific agreement with Groupe SEB has a European Works Committee with employee social partners. This Group agreement on the exercise of trade union representatives from 14 countries from the European Union and the rights and the status of employee representatives was renewed in United Kingdom. January 2019 and signed by all social partners. It in particular increases COLLECTIVE AGREEMENTS Worldwide (excl. EMSA Taicang, EMSA Vietnam, WMF Heshan, WMF Shanghai, SEB Professional Shanghai and SEB Professional Japan) 3 2019 2018 2017 France 10 38 38 Other EMEA countries 42 24 35 Americas 16 19 12 Asia 39 41 37 WORLD 107 122 122 A total of 107 collective agreements were signed in 2019. 48.0% of these agreements related to remuneration (51), 21% to health and safety (23), 7% to diversity (7) and 7% to employee-management dialog (8). In France, in addition to renewing the agreement on the exercise of trade union rights (see above), in 2019 the Group renewed the agreement on quality of life at work first signed in 2016 (see page 140). At year-end 2019, 65% of Groupe SEB’s workforce was covered by a collective agreement signed during the year. GROUPE SEB UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2019 139 3 Corporate Social Responsibility People matter QUALITY OF LIFE AT WORK The actions carried out by subsidiaries to improve the Quality of Life GROUPE SEB 2023 TARGETS at Work differ according to local priorities but there are some common • Achieve a 75% positive response rate to this question in the themes. Thus, to enable a better work life balance, more and more Great Place To Work survey: subsidiaries offer flexible working hours and facilitate tele-commuting. “Overall, I can say that Groupe SEB is a good place to work” Many of them also emphasize health. Thus, in the USA, the Living Healthy program is run by the Well-being committees, which relay GREAT PLACE TO WORK SURVEY more than 100 initiatives, such as weight-loss competitions, online stress management seminars, sports activities, cooking and health The Group also pays close attention to its employees’ Quality of Life workshops, help giving up smoking, etc. In Mexico, the subsidiary at Work. In order to make progress, since 2012 it has used a survey is encouraging that employees become more physically active (deals (64 questions) conducted by the Great Place To Work institute to with sports clubs, preferential rates). It has set aside a relaxing assess employees’ perceptions in this area. This employee survey space and offers massages, something that is also offered in Korea. was first introduced in France and has now been extended to all the Poland also pushes the adoption of a healthy lifestyle with its Get continents, such that it covered around 40 countries in 2019. It is done healthy, stay healthy program, which includes among other things a every two years. The 2019 version covered some thirty countries with sports challenge per team. Colombia has developed a well-being at an 84% participation rate, on a constant upward trend (80% in 2018, work improvement plan named “Groupe SEB te consiente” (Groupe 76% in 2017). 71% of employees felt Groupe SEB was a good place SEB takes care of you) along three main lines: “care for myself, other to work (i.e. 7 points above the industry average) and 73% of them people and the world around me”. said they were proud of working for the Group. On over 90% of the The Great Place To Work Institute picks out certain entities because criteria looked at, the results of the 2019 survey were better than the of their score. This happened to Groupe SEB Korea in 2018 when it aggregate results across the Group over the past four years, showing was awarded the Grand Prix. This subsidiary undertakes a series of the effectiveness of the measures put in place. internal communication actions and social activities. They foster team In fact, based on the detailed results of the survey, each entity puts in motivation, which can be seen in ongoing sales growth. place an action plan to improve its weak areas, by actively involving This year, our entities in the United Kingdom, Portugal and Spain have the teams. The best performers were three Central European countries earned a place on Great Place’s Best Worplaces to Work, rewarding (Bulgaria, Hungary, Slovakia), which were up over 20 points, with over companies where life and work are good. 80% of employees broadly satisfied. The previous year, Austria had improved 13 percentage points (overall satisfaction level of 92%). This country is in the DACH zone (Germany, Austria, Switzerland) COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT IN FRANCE where the 2016/2017 survey had found a sense of lack of recognition of certain teams for the work they had done. In 2018, the Group A collective agreement on Quality of Life at Work was signed in responded to this expectation by introducing a profit-sharing system France. First signed in 2016, it was renewed in 2019 and goes handfor people not receiving a bonus. As regards the areas that still require in-hand with action plans in each Group entity. Since the outset, this improvement, employees surveyed in 2019 referenced skills training agreement has resulted in the introduction of various measures such and development, individual recognition and managerial coordination. as tele-commuting, which has been a real success with employees: at year-end 2019, close to more than 15% of whom had already adopted it. The actions taken also include a social assistance hotline ACTION PLANS WORLDWIDE rolled out to all the sites, or indeed, on some sites, physiotherapy, osteopathy and occupational psychology services, as well as easier Managers are invited to get involved so that the actions produce access to intercompany nursery facilities and the offering of concierge/ results and ultimately employees’ perceptions improve. In France, personal services. Another tool viewed very positively by its users for example, the sales subsidiary included the Great Place To Work is the telephone support service for employees and their spouses survey in the management and monitoring tools for its companywho are caring for an elderly or disabled loved one (Responsage). wide project Be#One. In this country, numerous actions have been The 2019 edition of this agreement contains a number of areas of undertaken since 2015 to improve managerial communication and improvement: easing of conditions for accessing tele-commuting information about career development. Several sites have launched (flexible working time, casual work days, etc.), increase in the Group initiatives to present the various businesses to encourage transfers matching contribution for the sharing of days off (solidarity between and raise knowledge between teams. employees), more accurate guidelines on the right to log off and meeting times, additional breaks in the event of severe heat at plants, etc. With respect to break rooms, improvement works continued in 2019 particularly for production employees. 140 GROUPE SEB UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility People matter HEALTH AND SAFETY and management, while others target the prevention of specific OBJECTIFS GROUPE SEB – 2023 risks. Internal audits are conducted to ensure their application. At • Cut the number of workplace accidents with lost days (10) year-end 2019, 24 standards were operational, the most recent one (2017 base) in half, i.e. LTIRi <1.5 covering an updated of the noise standard. Recommendations were • 100% of plants certified to health and safety standards – also added, in particular on the steps to be taken when using virtual OHSAS 18001/ISO 45001 reality equipment (goggles, headset, etc.) and on identification colors For several years, Groupe SEB has been developing measures to (hazardous areas, suitable tools, etc.). reduce the number of workplace accidents and limit the number of Some standards, such as the behavior-based safety inspection (VCS) work-related illnesses (and particularly musculoskeletal disorders in are particularly important. As more than 75% of accidents could France). To step up the implementation of this policy globally, the be avoided by making behavioral changes, the aim of the VCS is position of Group Health and Safety Director, reporting directly to the to eliminate dangerous practices and conditions on the basis of a President for Industry, was created in 2017. discussion between the employee “inspected” and a line manager. The health and safety policy draws on a global network of The health and ergonomic aspects of the new VCS standard have 35 Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) Coordinators, who cover all of the plants and logistics sites (more than 40) in 13 countries. been strengthened, notably by including new checkpoints relating to postures. Every industrial or logistics site employee is inspected twice 3 They meet quarterly in person for France and by Skype for the a year on average for risky sectors. In 2019, the roll-out of the VCS other global sites and meet once a year at a Group site. These and the “visitor” training continued at Asia Fan (Vietnam). annual seminars make it possible to strengthen the international FEEDBACK dynamic of the network, something that is also supported by the Yammer community (Groupe SEB social network). The Group has Safety-specific checkpoints have been incorporated into day-to-day also undertaken to certify its health and safety management system field visits by local managers since 2018. This feeds into the Safety (OHSAS 18001), with 100% of its industrial and logistical entities pyramid, a tool designed to detect hazardous situations ahead of time certified at the end of 2019. In 2020, this certification will switch to to quickly remedy them so as to anticipate accident risks. No initiative the new ISO 45001 standard, which is to supersede the OHSAS 18001 is off the table when it comes to raising the alarm: in Colombia, for reference by 2020. example, the plants created a mobile app to encourage the teams to report safety risks and environmental hazards. The number of VCSs and the number of reports in connection with the SAFETY Safety pyramid are used by the Group as safety policy management indicators, along with the accident rate. Groupe SEB’s approach to Safety is reflected in its worldwide Safety in SEB program. The 2020 road map emphasizes the involvement Any accident where feedback can be helpful to the action plan is of employees as participants in their own safety. At the plants, for communicated to all managers and to the Groupe SEB safety example, safety is one of the points that is reviewed daily by the community (safety vigilance Flash system). Noting that 40% of production teams as part of the OPS (Operation Performance SEB) accidents are linked to non-compliance with rules, in 2018 the Group initiative, via Frequent Events. All accidents occurring within the Group has reviewed the definition of “mandatory rules” required at each plant are summarized monthly in a newsletter sent to all managers (including and logistics site and on the SEB Campus (Group HQ), to make them the Executive Committee) and the Health and Safety community. This more exact and better suited to the reality on the ground. Developed policy has borne fruit: within five years (2014-2019), the number of together with the operating teams, the new mandatory rules are now workplace accidents with days lost has fallen by over half. defined per business. Their review was completed at year-end 2019. These supplement the six universal golden rules that are designed SAFETY STANDARDS to ensure that everyone within the Group contributes to the safety In 2019, the Group continued the worldwide roll-out of its safety of all. The golden rules, illustrated through a cartoon, are available standards and the accompanying recommendations. The safety in 10 languages. standards formalize the Group’s minimum requirements, above and beyond compliance with national and international regulations. These ALL AFFECTED ENTITIES standards are incorporated into safety management procedures Since 2016, the Group has strengthened the safety culture in its tertiary and are written in English, French and Chinese. They apply to all and commercial entities (offices and shops). The golden rules are teams worldwide. Some standards concern safety organization systematically communicated and some sites have introduced their (10) Directly connected with work, including temps – LTIR: Lost Time Injury Rate. GROUPE SEB UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2019 141 3 Corporate Social Responsibility People matter own unbreakable rules. These entities are also now part of the safety MSDs); making health dashboard charts more reliable and developing vigilance Flash system. In 2019, the Health and Safety Department communication; and improving safety management. A multidisciplinary worked with the Retail Department to improve the safety of store Health Steering Committee makes it possible to share best practices personnel (nearly 500 points (Number to be specified by Retail and the focal areas for development of the Group’s health policy, Department) of sale affected). The corporate actions taken include to monitor health-related issues in the workplace, and manage the the installation of a safety update quarterly between the two teams, measures taken, with the promotion of investments that combine and the inclusion of a special chapter on safety in the new store health with performance. design guide. EFFORTS TO COMBAT MUSCULOSKELETAL DISORDERS In the field, there were a whole range of initiatives in 2019 to improve (MSDS) safety, with original and fun activities such as the WMF escape room in Every French plant and logistics site has a Steering Committee Riedlingen (Germany): employees wishing to participate were put into for Musculoskeletal Disorders and one or more MSD Specialists small groups in a dark room with their escape dependent on resolving who ensure that risks are taken into account upstream, at the safety questions using a collaborative approach. product design stage, and downstream, by amending hard-pressed workstations. At year-end 2019, the Group had 42 MSD specialists in France and new specialists will be trained in 2020 from amongst HEALTH operators and employee representatives. In the health field, Groupe SEB focuses a large part of its efforts on In July 2019, a France Health network was launched with a seminar combating musculoskeletal disorders (MSDs) in the upper limbs, at SEB Campus that brought together MSD specialists, occupational and lower back pain. The aim is to prevent them from appearing and physicians, nurses and ergonomists from various sites along with slow their deterioration. This is a major issue for the industrial sites, the Health and Safety department. Over two days, they shared and particularly in Europe, exacerbated by the aging of the workforce discussed best practice and areas for improvement. Ergonomic and extensions to the pension age. The Group’s response involves improvements of workstations, training and staff rotations, warm-up awareness-raising and training measures, taking MSD prevention into and cool-down exercises, as well as a quick response whenever an account from the design phase of products and processes as well as employee indicates discomfort while working are all actions that help the carrying out of specific measures on the sites. prevent the emergence of MSDs. HEALTH IN SEB Since 2015, the Groupe SEB University and the Industry department have offered a training program, primarily for the methods teams, The Group’s international health plan, Health in SEB was launched in several modules of which are devoted to combating MSDs (School 2016. It started with an analysis of all the plants to identify the main of Methods). health risks (dust, noise, repetitive work, etc.). This inventory was used as a basis for the creation of Group standards and to define health PSYCHOSOCIAL RISKS targets, accompanied by monitoring indicators. This is particularly As part of the prevention of psychosocial risks, in 2019 Groupe true of ergonomics where the indicator measures improvements that SEB developed a training program on the theme of “Stress and wellare deemed significant using specific analysis methods, scoring grids, being at work” for several hundred managers in France (Management a decision-making tool developed by ergonomists and the person’s Committees of sites and managers of Campus SEB). The goal is to experience. All plants and logistics sites worldwide have taken steps to help detect signs of stress as early as possible and to in turn adopt the improve workstation ergonomics with a target of 25% of workstations correct behavior, not only for themselves but also for their teams. Four to be improved annually. As part of this international health plan, pilot sessions were run in 2019 with a view to roll them out in 2020. business continuity plans have been put in place at the Group and production sites. They integrate the pandemic risk and the health Once again with respect to psychosocial risks, in 2012 Groupe SEB and organizational measures put in place to protect our employees : set up a counseling office in France, outsourced to the specialist firm Turka. The aim is to offer assistance and support to any employee who ■ awareness campaign, travel limitation, upgrading protection and becomes the victim of or witness to such situations as harassment, disinfection equipment, establishment of e-working. discrimination and workplace violence or the stress resulting from In France, the Group launched the Health Plan 2 (2017-2020) in them. The employee may remain anonymous if he or she wishes. In 2017, following on from the first health plan in 2009. Its aim is to any event, the Turka counselor assists the employee and/or puts them pass a new milestone by combining health with performance and in contact with the person in the best position to help. In the space of prioritizing prevention and the well-being of employees. It has three seven years, 78 employees contacted the counseling office, which is focal areas: reducing physical and psychological risks (and especially less than the national average according to Turka. 142 GROUPE SEB UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility People matter (Worldwide, excl. EMSA and WMF) 2019 2018 2017 FRANCE Number of workplace accidents with days lost 44 41 40 Number of days lost 3,093 2,217 2,160 LTIR (a) 5.25 4.9 4.8 Severity rate (b) 0.37 0.26 0.26 Number of workplace fatalities 0 0 0 OTHER EMEA COUNTRIES Number of workplace accidents with days lost 22 13 9 Number of days lost 466 131 143 LTIR (a) 3.2 2.6 2 Severity rate (b) 0.07 0.03 0.03 3 Number of workplace fatalities 1 0 0 AMERICAS (C) Number of workplace accidents with days lost 11 8 12 Number of days lost 641 147 362 (a) LTIR 2.1 1.6 2.5 Severity rate (b) 0.12 0.03 0.07 Number of workplace fatalities 0 0 0 ASIA Number of workplace accidents with days lost 13 14 21 Number of days lost 1,148 1,382 1,113 LTIR 0.35 0.4 0.6 Severity rate (b) 0.03 0.04 0.03 Number of workplace fatalities 0 0 0 WORLD Number of workplace accidents with days lost 90 76 82 Number of days lost 5,348 3,877 5,482 LTIR (a) 1.56 1.4 1.5 Severity rate (b) 0.09 0.07 0.07 Number of workplace fatalities 1 0 0 LTIRi WORLDWIDE (c) 2,0 2,6 2,9 (a) Lost Time Injury Rate. (b) Number of days lost per thousand hours worked. (c) Lost Time Injury Rate including temporary employees. All the data shown in the table exclude temporary employees. Accordingly, the target set in 2019 for the LTIRi (Lost Time Injury Rate including temporary workers) was 2.0 for the World, 4.3 for France The frequency rate of workplace accidents (TF1), used by the Group and 4.2 for WMF. until 2013, corresponds to the number of occupational accidents with days lost per million hours worked. It counts all types of accidents The 2019 results were: World LTIRi = 2.0; severity rate is 0.09 with days lost including those that are not directly related to working France LTIRi = 5.9 conditions. In 2014, Groupe SEB adopted a new system of accounting for accidents that includes the idea of a link with work. This is the WMF LTIRi = 3.6 one used by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration of France recorded 58 lost-time injuries with temporary workers, as well United States of America (OSHA) and is applied in many large groups. as 182 work-related accidents with and without lost days, including Accidents which have no direct causal link with work are no longer temporary employees. The LTIRi is 5.9 and the severity rate is 0.33. counted in the Group’s new safety performance indicator, Lost Time WMF recorded 27 LTIi, as well as 55 work-related accidents with and Injury Rate (LTIR). The internal recording system has no effect on local without lost days, including temporary employees. The LTIRi is 3.6 legal declarations, which remain unchanged. and the severity rate is 0.16. It should be noted that since 2018, the Group’s Health and Safety EMSA recorded 8 LTIi, as well as 9 work-related accidents with and targets have included temporary employees as well as the entire WMF without lost days, including temporary employees. The LTIRi is 12.3 and EMSA scope. and the severity rate is 0.06. GROUPE SEB UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2019 143 3 Corporate Social Responsibility People matter These three Group entities, France, WMF and EMSA thus account for The severity rate for temporary employees is, however, on the increase: nearly 66% of the total number of work-related accidents with lost days. 6376 days lost as against 5,283 in 2018 and 8,476 days in 2017. Finally, Groupe SEB recorded a total of 141 work-related accidents A worldwide survey of work-related illnesses has been conducted with days lost, and 203 accidents without lost days in 2019, including since 2013. 48 new cases of occupational illnesses were recognized temporary workers. throughout the Group in 2019, excluding temporary employees. An increase in the number compared with 27 in 2018, but which The Group’s results once again reﬂect improved performance. nevertheless shows a downward trend from the 66 and 62 incidents Thanks to the multiplication of global prevention efforts, standards reported by 2017 and 2016. and tools, Groupe SEB recorded 41 fewer accidents with time lost than in 2018, a reduction of 22%, and 51 fewer than in 2017, including temporary employees. Number of new occupational illness cases recognized in the year 2019 2018 2017 France 44 27 55 Other EMEA countries 0 0 0 Americas 4 1 11 Asia 0 0 0 WORLD 48 28 66 Groupe SEB is aware of the importance of the issue of occupational rotations where this is permitted by the organization of the workstation, illnesses, especially Musculoskeletal Disorders (MSDs), and has taken warm-up and stretching exercises and a quicker response when an health measures in France, such as ergonomic improvements to employee reports that they are experiencing pain. Several sites in workstations on production sites, with the introduction of an indicator France also pay for visits to a physiotherapist and offer a hotline to monitored monthly, training in manual handling, for example, staff an osteopath. OHSAS 18001 CERTIFICATION (Worldwide) 2019 2018 2017 Number of certifiable entities 41 34 35 Entities holding OHSAS 18001 certification (a) 100% 100% 97% (a) Based on industrial and logistics entities at the end of the year concerned. Since 2007, the Group has set all its sites to work on the certification Sites of EMSA, Groupe SEB Egypt and the sites in India were of its health and safety management system (OHSAS 18001). At the recently included in the scope of certifiable sites. The certifications end of December 2019, 100% of the Group’s industrial and logistics are planned for 2020 and 2021. The WMF sites were certified in 2018. entities had this workplace Health/Safety certification. 144 GROUPE SEB UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility People matter GLOBAL SOCIAL PROTECTION FLOOR Every permanent employee, regardless of his/her country and GROUPE SEB 2023 TARGETS level, will benefit at least from the coverage of this global base. The • 100% of workers worldwide covered by the WeCare@SEB implementation of the three pillars will extend until the end of 2021. social protection floor This life insurance has already been in effect since 1 January 2019, with the exception of the entities that were not in the 2016 feasibility SOCIAL PROTECTION study, but will be covered by 2023. The Group also looks to review employment contracts on a regular In terms of social protection, in 2017 the Group launched an initiative basis in order to supplement and/or improve existing insurance designed to offer its employees, throughout the world, a high level coverage. In 2019, for instance, medical insurance was extended in of coverage compared to the local context, beyond regulatory several countries, including Brazil and the United States. obligations. A worldwide inventory of practices, produced in 2016 in the 73 countries where the Group has employees, already showed that 85% of them had death insurance cover. Since 2018, the Group PAYROLL AND CHARGES 3 has been progressively rolling out a global social protection base and working conditions, WeCare@SEB, built initially on two pillars: Groupe SEB is committed to the implementation of a fair and transparent remuneration policy that is understandable by all. It is ■ life insurance: 12 months’ salary paid to the family of the employee committed to paying wages in every country in line with current in the event of work-related death; regulations and minimum industry standards, enabling employees to ■ healthcare costs: coverage of hospital stays resulting from accidents cover their basic needs and to benefit from disposable income. Using (capped at 70% of actual costs); job evaluation tools, every employee’s position can be assessed in A third pillar is being defined for a roll-out over 2020-2021. relation to others in terms of remuneration and responsibility. 2019 2018 2017 (in € millions) World France World France World France (a) Remuneration 1,007.9 277.7 951.3 252.3 921.1 244.8 Payroll taxes (b) 219.7 67.5 181.3 66.3 185.8 69.0 Pension and other post-employment benefit plan costs 63.1 45.0 70.4 43.8 56.9 42.7 (a) Excludes bonuses and profit-sharing – includes provisions for paid holidays, excludes employee benefits. (b) Includes provisions for payroll taxes on paid holidays. WMF and EMSA joined the consolidation scope in 2017. “Worldwide” data include “France” data. STATUTORY AND DISCRETIONARY EMPLOYEE evenly across all employees in France. In addition, since it was PROFIT-SHARING listed on the Paris Stock Exchange in 1975, the Group has had employee shareholders. Since 2012, it has implemented 15 employee In the area of profit sharing, Groupe SEB has been a pioneer: for shareholding programs, gradually extending beyond France starting over 50 years it has tied employee pay to the company’s financial in 1992. The last program, in July 2019, covered 34 countries and performance and does so in most countries in which it operates. In the plan was taken by close to 4,200 employees (23% of the eligible France, 50% of the total bonuses paid by the Group is distributed employees). (France) (in € thousands) 2019 2018 2017 Provision for bonuses 18,139 16,117 19,058 Provision for profit sharing 16,893 17,500 18,498 By 2019 2,145 N/A N/A TOTAL 37,177 33,618 37,556 In 2019, the amount paid in profit-sharing and bonuses will amount to €37.2 million. Please note that figures include the employer’s social tax contribution. GROUPE SEB UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2019 145 3 Corporate Social Responsibility People matter TRAINING AND SKILLS DEVELOPMENT Training is key to skills development for all employees. Each year, In July-August, the Groupe SEB University innovated with the Summer the Human Resources department defines the Group’s training Digital Learning Camp international campaign: over these two priorities. Using this frame of reference, each subsidiary develops its months, each week 5,000 employees were offered a selection of three own training plan based on the employees’ needs and expectations. modules from the most popular in Digital Academy. It was a great Groupe SEB University (UGS) runs international training programs success with over 2,000 employees actively participating. and some more tailored for France. A global reporting system makes The UGS also launched the Management Place catalog in 2019, which it possible to track the training provided throughout the world. brings together online training for Group managers worldwide. Its The digitalization of human resources processes makes possible the 50 modules (in French and English) are intended to develop their provision of an ever broader range of training content. All connected managerial competency. employees worldwide included in the SAP HR databases (including WMF, excluding Supor) now have access to the iGrow@SEB online Tailored programs HR portal, available in five languages (English, French, German, The second part of the e-learning offering brings together programs Spanish, Portuguese), which in particular gives them free access to that meet specific needs of Groupe SEB. This is, for example, the the e-learning modules. case of the Compliance program, which saw two new modules being New functionality is regularly added to iGrow@SEB. Moreover, in added on internal control and personal data protection in 2019. These various entities or countries, employees have access to a personalized come on top of three existing modules, which cover IT security, antitraining catalog and can apply for training online, with the subsequent competitive practices and the Code of Ethics. The latter module, sign-off process being automated. This service is operational in launched in 10 languages in 2018, was taken by 91.4% of connected France, the United States, Mexico, Hong Kong, at WMF Germany, employees (a classroom based training was rolled out for employees and in Latin America (Colombia, Brazil, Argentina and Chile). Since without online access at year-end 2019), the other four were taken 2019, line managers have also been able to assign training to their by over 80% of the employees at which they were more specifically employees with the click of a mouse and track the history of modules targeted. taken. A student page has also been added to the portal, improving Another innovation in 2019: the new digital on-boarding tool called the user experience and allowing customization for the automatic “Around Groupe SEB in 80 days”. It is targeted at all connected assignment of certain mandatory training, particularly for new entrants. employees worldwide (excluding Supor and WMF). Available in five languages and fully automated, it helps employees during their first EXPANSION IN DIGITAL LEARNING months at the company: information about the Group, tips to help fit in, self-awareness tools, mandatory training, etc. This program Over the past number of years, the Group has been broadening its supplements local on-boarding schemes. online training offering (digital learning or e-learning) with a sharp Some “business” training has also become wholly digital. At yearacceleration since 2018. At year-end 2019, 11,000 connected end 2019, the UGS and the Supply Chain department began the first employees had free access to over 400 programs, regardless of their campaign surrounding Supply Chain basics within Groupe SEB, business or geographic location. A large portion of these programs intended for 1,500 employees in the relevant functions. In partnership are available in multiple languages to reach as many employees as with the Retail department, the UGS also started rolling out the “Make possible. a sale” module to provide training in sales techniques for employees in the Home & Cook stores in France, the United Kingdom and Nordic Digital Academy and Management Place countries. These campaigns heavily involved the training teams in Around 60% of the online training modules are from the Digital 2019, in close cooperation with the business teams. Academy catalog, which doubled in volume in 2019 (180 programs). Other tailored digital trainings were developed by various corporate Typically available in French, English and German, they focus teams (IS training, GSF Academy, Finance Academy, Sustainable on the skills of the future and cover a broad spectrum: flexibility, Development, etc.) but also by local HR teams, in particular in creativity and innovation, digital dexterity, emotional intelligence, Germany and Brazil. conflict management, etc. In 2019, this platform attracted over 2,000 employees who took at least one course. 146 GROUPE SEB UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility People matter TRAINING TAILORED TO EVERYONE development in light of changes in Groupe SEB’s environment and strategic direction. While e-learning is revolutionizing much training, it does not represent At year-end 2017, Groupe SEB management and the trade unions the end of class-based training, which remains key in many situations, reaffirmed this commitment by means of an agreement, designed to in particular in manufacturing where fewer employees are connected. give employees some control over their professional development, to Leadership training, for managers, is also largely based on face-tomaintain and increase their employability. From training to mobilityface even if there is increasingly a digital component. career zones, not forgetting gateways between professions, a broad On the theme of leadership, the UGS training range was expanded range of tools is available to Group employees. To ensure a shared in 2019 with a new program for middle managers: Management & vision of the employment and skills transformation challenges and Leadership in Action. Offered in five languages, it takes 5 months, ensure the fairness of the opportunities given to employees, trade alternating between face-to-face and e-learning. After two pilot unions and Management attend twice yearly Career Centers. sessions in 2018, the international roll-out continued in 2019, There was fresh impetus in 2018. All French sites did the same bringing the number of people trained to over 300, primarily in the forward-looking analysis, involving the HR teams, Management EMEA area and Eurasia. They will continue in 2020 and 2021, with Committees, operational staff and the elected members of the Career an acceleration in Asia and the Americas. This program aims to train Centers. On the basis of Group jobs mapping, each site was able to some 1,300 Group managers over four years. Two other programs identify emerging jobs, those under pressure (recruitment difficulties) 3 supplement leadership training: Developing Your Leadership Impact and those in transformation. On the basis of this, specific measures and Developing Our Talents, targeted at talented young people. Over were defined across all French sites and presented at the Career 150 people per annum are taking one of these three programs. Centers at year-end 2018. At the Sales & Marketing School, the UGS focuses on e-commerce. In terms of training, Groupe SEB added operational and structural In 2019, it developed a new foundational training, “Fundamentals tools to: of e-commerce”. It is intended for marketing, sales, supply chain employees who will be working within this new environment, which ■ increase technical mentoring to facilitate greater passing on of is flowering within the Group. Moreover, the cooking course for expertise as part of an initiative to keep expertise in-house; Marketing and Innovation teams working on food matters continued ■ support the digital transformation of Groupe SEB by investing in to expand in 2019, enabling 15 employees to obtain their professional training programs that are open to everyone and reflect the special competency certificate (14 in Cooking and 1 in Pastry). nature of certain professions (factory of the future); Lastly, the training program on the OPS (Opération Performance SEB) ■ formalize and promote gateways between professions by initiative for the local management of plants, launched in 2017 in offering concrete paths to give employees a role in their professional France, is being progressively extended to other countries, with a development within the Group. successful roll-out in Brazil in 2019. Technical mentoring allows an experienced employee to pass on his/ her knowledge to a mentee, over multiple months. 20 pairings were in Forward planning of employment and skills place in 2019. The other mentoring systems in place within the Group are work-study training (442 pairings in 2019) and the on-boarding of In France, Groupe SEB management and the trade unions are new employees (662 in 2019). The addition of the training component cooperating on the forward planning of employment and skills to the forward planning of employment and skills (GPEC) includes the (GPEC). The goal is to anticipate business trends and foster skills gradual creation of Jobs Schools. GROUPE SEB UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2019 147 3 Corporate Social Responsibility People matter TRAINING (WORKFORCE AND TRAINING HOURS) (Worldwide) 2019 2018 2017 World World (b) World (a) Number of training hours 585,898 507,870 489,628 Number of employees trained 35,899 29,316 29,954 Number of women trained 13,048 11,010 12,954 Number of men trained 22,850 18,305 16,999 (a) Data updated to correct a calculation error. (b) Excluding GS Belgium. Of the total hours of training completed in 2019, 36% was for manual workers, 46% for office employees and 18% for managers. In addition to the training referred to above, 11,466 connected employees spent more than 27,000 hours on the iGrow@SEB platform through the various e-learning modules. TRAINING BUDGETS (a) (Worldwide) (as a % of payroll) 2018 2018 (c) 2017 (b) France 4.67 4.63 4.33 Other EMEA countries 1.84 1.74 1.52 Americas 1.00 2.4 2.73 Asia 1.44 1.54 0.88 WORLD 2.47 2.88 2.59 (a) Teaching costs + expenses, wages for interns. (b) Excluding All-Clad. (c) Excluding GS Belgium. The Group’s training expenses represented 2.47% of its payroll in 2019. For the Supor subsidiary, these expenses amounted to 1.60% of its payroll for this year. WMF’s training expenses for the German entities accounted for 1.94% of its payroll. GROUPE SEB UNIVERSITY (UGS) (Worldwide, excluding WMF and EMSA) 2019 2018 2017 Number of employees trained 1,517 1,294 1,112 Number of training sessions 173 186 157 Number of training hours 36,089 32,710 31,681 The increase in the number of hours and the number of people trained is linked to the creation and roll-out of new training programs. 148 GROUPE SEB UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility People matter ABSENTEEISM RATE Worldwide (EMSA Taicang, GS Singapore, GSE Côte d’Ivoire, GSE Maroc, proHeq CZ, SEB Professional BELUX, SEB Professional France, SEB Professional NA, SEB Professional Shanghai, SEB Professional UK, Schaerer Netherlands, SSEAC, WMF Bulgaria, WMF Española, WMF France Consumer Goods, WMF Heshan, WMF in Österreich Ges. m.b.H, WMF Nederland, WMF Shanghai) 2019 2018 2017 World France World France World France Absenteeism rate (a) 3.3 3.7 4.2 3.5 4.0 4.4 (a) Ratio between the number of days absent and the hypothetical number of days present. OVERTIME 3 Worldwide (excl. EMSA Taicang, EMSA Vietnam, WMF Heshan, WMF Shanghai, SEB Professional Shanghai and SEB Professional Japan) 2019 2018 2017 Worldwide Worldwide Worldwide excluding excluding excluding Supor Supor Supor Supor Supor Supor Number of overtime hours (in thousands) 691 12,436 587 11,796 652 11,268 Full-time equivalent (in persons) 313 5,942 264 5,646 291 5,400 For the Chinese subsidiary Supor, these figures reflect the local in a standard working week and 60 hours including overtime. Every context, where work is highly seasonal, and there are pressures employee must also have at least one day off each week, except on the recruitment of labor in eastern China. France accounted for in exceptional circumstances, as explained in the Group’s Code of 5,021 hours of overtime (equal to 2.8 full-time equivalent jobs). Ethics. Groupe SEB is actively working to achieve these objectives, particularly in its Chinese plants. Given the diversity of the Group’s sites and local regulations governing working time, Groupe SEB’s aim is not to exceed 48 hours EXTERNAL LABOR (a) Worldwide (excl. EMSA Taicang, WMF Heshan, WMF Shanghai and SEB Professional Shanghai) 2019 2018 2017 France 668 639 851 Other EMEA countries 720 175 651 Americas 1014 627 699 Asia 2,720 3,491 431 (b) WORLD 5,122 4,932 2,632 (a) Temporary full-time equivalent employees. (b) Excluding Supor China and Supor Vietnam. GROUPE SEB UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2019 149 3 Corporate Social Responsibility People matter A CORPORATE CITIZEN The Group’s commitment to social issues is reflected both in its corporate philanthropy initiatives, primarily focused on combating exclusion, and in its contribution to the economic and social growth of the regions where it operates. CORPORATE PHILANTHROPY: LOCAL Correspondents (one correspondent per subsidiary). This document COMMITMENT, GLOBAL DYNAMIC sets out the corporate philanthropy mission and strategic focuses, the participants involved (subsidiaries and Fonds Groupe SEB), their roles, GROUPE SEB 2023 TARGETS and the various possible forms of contribution. These include financial • 100% of countries where the Group is established involved donations, donations of products, philanthropy based on providing in a corporate philanthropy program expertise, and cross-partnership or product-sharing operations. To encourage employee involvement, the subsidiary may give every permanent employee one day a year of working time to work on a COMBATING EXCLUSION public interest project linked to the fight against exclusion. The social purpose of Groupe SEB’s corporate philanthropy policy is Groupe SEB’s corporate philanthropy policy is an integral part of its the ﬁght against exclusion, in four areas of action: corporate social responsibility approach. Its objective is to harmonize the various subsidiaries’ philanthropic commitments and encourage ■ inclusive employment; employee involvement. The Fonds Groupe SEB endowment fund ■ education and training; team is tasked with implementing the corporate philanthropy policy, ■ supplying household equipment and providing access to a healthy ensuring the coherence of the various projects worldwide and diet; coordinating the Group’s community actions. ■ Helping people with health issues. The Group formalized and clarified its corporate philanthropy policy The people helped may be homeless, excluded from the world of work in a document disseminated in 2017 to all the Corporate Philanthropy or in a very vulnerable position. TOTAL CORPORATE PHILANTHROPY EXPENSES (Worldwide) (in €) 2019 2018 2017 2016 Financial donations 2,432,811 2,345,656 2,165,756 1,925,452 including Fonds Groupe SEB 500,000 345,000 352,000 360,000 Product donations 614,697 561,944 509,309 551,184 including Fonds Groupe SEB 199,970 356,142 308,065 246,955 TOTAL CORPORATE PHILANTROPY EXPENSES 3,047,508 2,907,599 2,675,064 2,476,636 Overall, the Group allocated €3.05 million to corporate philanthropy or company in terms of communications or public relations. Causeactivities in 2019, an increase of more than €139,000 (+4.8%) related marketing products, where a product is sold and part of over 2018.This change is due to a series of changes, in particular to the proceeds go to charity, are an example of cross-partnerships. the higher financial allocation to Fonds Groupe SEB. This includes Donations of less than €10,000 for a single public-interest organization donations to public-interest organizations and cross-partnerships are reportable. that are more like sponsorship, having a strong impact for the brand 150 GROUPE SEB UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility People matter Local initiatives elderly people. Another example of team solidarity: in Colombia, at the initiative of Fondation Imusa Samurai, some one hundred employees CHARITY WEEK helped build 10 houses for poor families in the vicinity of Medellin, in partnership with Fondation Techo. Every year, Charity Week, which is coordinated by Fonds Groupe SEB, is a high point of employees’ worldwide involvement in community THE SUBSIDIARIES COMMIT actions. In 2019, the theme of the event, held at end-November/early The Group’s subsidiaries also directly support and initiate projects all December, was “Working together to combat exclusion”. It resulted over the world outside Charity Week. in the participation of employees from 63 sites and 35 countries in a wide range of actions. Each entity was able to share its initiatives In China, for example, since 2006, Supor has pressed ahead with with the whole Group thanks to the Charity Week community on the a vast construction program, building schools for disadvantaged internal social network Yammer. children in rural areas. Since the start of the project, 23 schools have opened (including one in 2018 in Hebei) giving around 20,000 children The bulk of sites worldwide organized collections of food, toys and the opportunity to go to school. Three new schools are being built. clothing. Sales of “homemade” cakes, sports events or auctions were In addition to funding schools and organizing training sessions often done for local associations. for teachers, this program asks employees to volunteer through In France, SEB Campus and sites across the Lyon region organized leadership, learning support and book donation initiatives, including in various actions including 10 team solidarity days in which 3 particular during Charity Week. Thus, in 2019, seven employees spent 110 employees participated: painting work in an accommodation a number of days with the children in the Mesuo school (Yunnan). center, cooking workshops with people suffering from mental illness, In Nordic countries (Sweden, Denmark, Norway and Finland), day of sharing with refugees, etc. Groupe SEB continues the partnership begun more than 10 years Many actions targeted support for children in need or suffering from ago by OBH with the Star of Hope organization, which works on serious illnesses. In Turkey, for example, the I have a wish program education, healthcare and food for orphans. The four subsidiaries enabled children in an isolated village in the south-east of the country are currently sponsoring 30 children in the Philippines, who receive to get the Christmas present of their dreams: the Turkish team got support until they reach adulthood. They receive individual financial their requests and bought the gifts that were handed out to them, in support and school books, food products, leisure activities, etc. In their school, by the employees behind the project. There were other 2019, all Swedish employees participated in a sale of goods to collect actions of this kind in Germany (EMSA), the United States (All-Clad), funds. The funds collected will help establish new schools and buy Chile. etc. In Mexico, the subsidiary renewed support for its Fondation educational material. Renaissance, which helps street children. In Thailand, auctions were In France, 130 employees participated in March 2019 in the second held for items donated by employees to a foundation helping children Charity Days event run by Groupe SEB France, which came out of in need or orphans and employees volunteered to take part in activities the Be#One company-wide project. Goal: to get to know each other with the children. In Japan, volunteers at the subsidiary cooked for the better, join together in a community project. More than a third of Kids’ kitchen, which serves meals to isolated young people. the subsidiary’s employees took part in the national collection for Various initiatives were also undertaken for people with disabilities and Restos du Cœur and many other actions: clothes sorting, furniture social events with Group employees, often involving the preparation refurbishment, painting or gardening as part of integration projects, of meals or snacks (Chile, Czech Republic, Spain, etc.). In certain landscaping of green areas, events in social housing, distribution of instances, they got the opportunity to visit production lines such as foodstuffs, etc. in Germany (Silit) and in Switzerland (Schaerer). Moreover, as part of measures to hire interns, the Group works in Multiple sites also spent a day on inclusive employment. The Indian France with the social start-up Vendredi to offer shared internships subsidiary hosted marginalized young people looked after by the with charitable organizations. Interns spend four days a week at the Life Project 4 Youth association. The Rumilly (France) plant hosted company and one day working for a charitable organization, on an young people assisted by Fondation des Apprentis d’Auteuil while the assignment with a high social impact. Egyptian subsidiary invited two groups of vocational school students In Brazil, in 2019 Groupe SEB partnered with the Gastromotiva to visit (one of girls and one of boys) to promote the gender diversity association to train marginalized young people in the São Paulo region of the businesses. in the cooking and restaurant trades. The goal is to help them develop During Charity Week, many Group employees also chose to share in their own business while providing a community service. Efforts to the day-to-day work of an association that supports the poorest combat food waste are central to this four to six-month training to and weakest in society. In Germany (Birkenfeld), WMF apprentices which volunteer employees contribute. The first class began at yearspent a day in a shelter for homeless people, while in Portugal end 2019 with 58 young people aged 18 to 35, more than half of volunteers prepared meals with an association helping homeless whom were women. people. In Brazil (Recife) and in India, Group employees visited isolated GROUPE SEB UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2019 151 3 Corporate Social Responsibility People matter In Egypt, the subsidiary acted on a number of fronts in 2019. For It has 10 members, who are Group employees, selected for the example, for a number of months it supported an organization that diversity of their skills (management, HR, communication, union helps street children (medical care, essential aid). It also offered representatives, etc.) and their commitment to solidarity. 1,000 sets of Tefal cookware to poor young families. An operational team of two people delivers and assesses the projects The teams at various subsidiaries also supported victims of natural and develops the network of employee volunteers. disasters over the past year: fires in South Korea, landslides in Colombia, typhoon in Japan, etc. PROJECTS SUPPORTED Since 2007, the Fonds has supported 435 projects in France aimed at CAUSE-RELATED MARKETING PRODUCTS “better living for all”, conducted by charitable organizations with which Cause-related marketing products represent another form of it has close links, such as Emmaüs Défi, Agence du Don en Nature philanthropy performed by Groupe SEB. In France, Tefal and Camif, (ADN), Énergie Jeunes, Institut Télémaque and others. an online sales specialist, ran this sort of campaign in 2019 for the Énergie Jeunes, for example, works to encourage children to continue second year running: every purchase from the Ingenio Resource 100% with their studies at priority assisted schools in disadvantaged areas recycled aluminum range gave rise to the gifting of an item of Group through input from volunteers primarily from the corporate world. cookware to the Banque Solidaire de l’Équipement, run by the These volunteers instill in young people the desire to learn, using highly Emmaüs Défi association. In 2018, Tefal joined with Carrefour for a interactive teaching methods. Since 2013, around 20 employees have similar campaign: for every product purchased, one product was given taken part in initiatives in the Lyon, Isère and Burgundy regions and to Agence du Don en Nature, an association supported by Fonds since 2019 in Haute-Savoie (Rumilly). The arrangement has proven to Groupe SEB. These initiatives gave poorer families a helping hand in be highly effective: a study (2016) has shown that high school students equipping their homes. who take part get much higher grades than other students. Also in the area of education, the Fonds has supported Institut Télémaque Fonds Groupe SEB since 2011 and acts as the President of the Rhône-Alpes branch. The Aside from its duties leading and coordinating the annual Charity organization works with deserving and motivated young people from Week and its role advising on and steering the subsidiaries’ corporate modest backgrounds until the age of 18, through a school corporate philanthropy initiatives, Fonds Groupe SEB provides financial support mentorship program. In 2019, 17 Group employees acted as tutors to for various projects combating exclusiveness, mainly in France. one young person each to help them prepare for the future. In order In 2019, Fonds Groupe SEB supported 22 projects from a support to facilitate employee engagement with these two associations, the budget that amounted to €500,000 in cash and €200,000 in product Group gives them four half days a year out of their working time to donations. help young people. In the area of household equipment and providing access to a healthy GOVERNANCE AND OPERATION diet, the Fonds renewed its support, in 2019, for the Agence du Don Governance of the Fonds Groupe SEB is split between two key en Nature (ADN – the Agency for Donations in Kind), of which it entities: the Board of Directors and the Operational Committee, has been a founding member since 2008. The ADN collects new, supported by a team dedicated to the Fonds. unsold non-food products from manufacturers for redistribution to The Board of Directors sets the strategy for the Fonds. Its members organizations assisting people in difficulty. Since its inception, support are: for the Fonds has translated into the donation of 288,000 products, financial assistance totaling €255,000, and the provision of skills. ■ Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise: Chairman and CEO of Groupe SEB, Of the new projects supported in 2019, the one run by the Eris Chairman of the Fonds; association is focused on the integration of refugees and asylum ■ Nathalie Lomon : Senior Executive Vice-president, Finance, seekers. It involves a twin-track program: intensive French lessons Treasurer of the Fonds; using qualified teachers and cooking experience shared with volunteer ■ Harry Touret: Senior Executive Vice-president, Human Resources; French speakers in a voluntary restaurant. This shared cooking makes ■ Chantal Monvois: Managing Director of Fondation AgroParis Tech; it possible to both create a social bond and help with entry into the workforce. The course lasts 15 weeks. Fonds Groupe SEB also joined ■ Véronique de Montlivault: Chairwoman of the Rhône Branch of Entreprise des Possibles, a coalition of businesses in Lyon working to Fondation Frédéric Gaillanne. ensure decent housing for the homeless and the poorest and weakest The Operational Committee reviews and selects the projects submitted in society. The organization pools and allocates to social stakeholders to the Fund. It monitors their implementation, thereby contributing to time (volunteer employees) as well as financial and material resources, the steering and improvement of future philanthropic programs. significantly amplifying them. 152 GROUPE SEB UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility People matter The Fonds also runs programs to encourage employees to get involved movement continued in 2019 in various guises: solidarity days during in community projects. For the seventh year running, it organized Charity Week on SEB Campus, Groupe SEB France Charity Days, etc. the API Sol’ in-house call for projects. The aim of this initiative is The concept was exported under the name Charity boost with four to support projects sponsored by the Group’s employees. In 2019, countries answering the call: China, Greece, India and Russia. The four the Fonds supported 18 projects selected by the sites’ local juries. subsidiaries picked 10 short-listed projects sponsored by employees, It also started the “Défis Solidaires en Équipe” (Team Community projects that benefited from financial support or product donations. Challenges) in France in 2017, again to get employees involved. The A RESPONSIBLE PARTICIPANT IN THE ECONOMY SOCIAL AND SOLIDARITY ECONOMY welfare-to-work associations for the packaging of spare parts and accessories, generating around 36 full-time equivalent jobs. The Groupe SEB fulfills its economic and social responsibilities in the Issur-Tille plant has worked for many years with Groupe Coopératif regions where it is located. In addition to the jobs it generates, it Demain (formerly Juratri), a company specifically specializing in 3 supports the development of local businesses, especially players in recycling that has over 140 employees, around half of whom are part the non-profit and social sectors: company providing work to people of an inclusive employment program. with disabilities, sheltered employment center, welfare-to-work In 2019, the work subcontracted to the disability and inclusive company, welfare-to-work temp agency, etc. Whenever possible, employment sector totaled more than €5.5 million, equal to 305 FTE it favors the use of companies that support disadvantaged people (Full-Time Equivalent) jobs, across all of the Group’s sites in France. looking for employment. Social clauses have been added to calls for tender to extend this responsible purchasing policy (see page 129). At The Group is also building partnerships with social organizations to the local level, a lot of the Group’s sites are already working towards give them access to reduced-price products. Two such partnerships this goal. were agreed in France in 2019 with the VRAC and Revivre associations (see page 159). In France, for example, 10 companies from the protected sector (companies providing work to people with disabilities and sheltered In Colombia, the Group works through its Imusa brand to support employment centers) work at SEB Campus in Écully in catering, tinteros who live and work in impoverished conditions. These cleaning, hospitality, maintenance of green spaces, etc. The head street vendors of coffee and snacks are Group customers because office strengthened its partnership with Handishare, a company they mostly use Imusa vacuum flasks. To help them, Groupe SEB providing work to workers with disabilities, in subcontracted Human Colombia’s teams have designed a model for them that is better suited Resources services (responses to job applications) and general to their need to keep the coffee hot for as long as possible, as well services. The Lourdes production facility is working hard on social as a special trolley to transport them and a folding chair. Through its inclusion. It has a long working relationship with Adapei (Association Tinteros de corazón program, the Colombian subsidiary also takes départementale de parents et d’amis des personnes handicapées various steps to improve their circumstances. It particularly offers mentales) on sub-contracting. This partnership was strengthened them training on the management of their activity and health and in 2016 with the addition of a sheltered employment workshop on safety. Following each course, the tinteros are invited to visit the the site providing greater proximity between employees and workers Rionegro plant where the vacuum flasks are manufactured. Every year, with disabilities (between 8 and 16 workers as the case may be). In Tintero’s Day is an opportunity for Imusa teams to show solidarity with 2019, the site took a further step when it awarded Adapei the catering the tinteros, for example by providing school supplies. For Tintero’s contract for site employees. The association also helps maintain the day 2019, in December, other companies wished to support them green spaces and prints the in-house newspaper. At Pont-Évêque, alongside Groupe SEB Colombia by in particular offering food staples the plant subcontracts the assembly of plastic parts, labeling and (sugar, coffee, milk, cookies, etc.). Imusa has been supporting some product packaging to the Ateliers de l’Isère Rhodanienne sheltered 2,000 tinteros and their families for many years. employment center, representing around 30 people on a full-time equivalent basis. The Faucogney site also made extensive use of GROUPE SEB UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2019 153 3 Corporate Social Responsibility People matter LOCAL ROOTS the site’s complex issues, look for alternative solutions and make recommendations. This initiative, which benefits dozens of high school Although the Group has become very international, it has maintained students every year, won recognition for the Canonsburg site in 2015 a firm local footing in the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region, where more at the Champions of Learning Awards, held in Pennsylvania by the than 3,800 employees work at six sites: Écully, Pont-Évêque, Mions, Consortium for Public Education. In Germany, WMF has a partnership Saint-Jean-de-Bournay, Saint-Priest and Rumilly. Internal promotion with the University of Geislingen in areas relating to eco-design and and skills development are priorities for the Group, whose commitment sustainable development. to the Lyon area is shown particularly in its membership of the “Alliance Groupe SEB also takes part in events on topics related to its business et Territoires” network, led by the Maison de Lyon pour l’Emploi. or commitments. In November 2018, it participated in the Journées de The aim of this network is to bring down barriers between member l’Economie conference in Lyon, where 40,000 participants contributed companies and create an intercompany GPEC (Forward Planning of to around 60 seminars and discussions. Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise Employment and Skills) and regional GPEC dynamic in the Lyon area. took part in the round table discussion “Is there a model for Asian More generally, the Group is an active member of the community business development?” using the example of the acquisition of in every region in which it operates. It maintains a number of links Supor. At another round table discussion on the circular economy, Joël with local operators, and particularly with educational establishments, Tronchon, Sustainable Development Director, presented the Group’s providing classroom talks and inviting students to take part in site strategy in this area. visits or work experience programs. In the US, for several years the Groupe SEB regularly takes part in discussions on social issues, such Canonsburg (All-Clad) plant has been working with three high schools as food, health and inclusion. These topics are also handled by its on manufacturing and engineering-related topics. Students analyze Research and Development teams (see page 162). 154 GROUPE SEB UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Sustainable innovation 3.8. Sustainable innovation OFFER PRODUCTS AND SERVICES THAT ALLOW CONSUMERS TO MAKE SUSTAINABLE CHOICES. INNOVATION AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT Since the outset, Groupe SEB has always placed innovation at the FLEXIBLE METHODS heart of its strategy, in order to better meet and anticipate consumer expectations (see page 21). Innovation also helps consumers move This strong innovation policy relies on frequent and extensive towards more responsible habits, an idea that increasingly strikes discussions between the Research, Marketing, Design, Development, a chord with many consumers, especially in terms of food, health and ecological footprint. This convergence between innovation Quality and Sustainable Development teams. They are currently opening up to new methods, incorporating new skills and taking 3 and sustainable development has become a reality within Groupe on technological challenges in fields such as materials, energy SEB. Sustainable innovation was also the theme of the Research consumption and ergonomics. department’s November 2019 seminar. SEBLab A STRATEGIC APPROACH SEBLab plays a central role in speeding up innovation: it establishes and coordinates a series of tools and methods tailored to the various To respond to new consumption trends where environmentally friendly types of projects and their stage of progress. In 2019, it added the BiiS considerations are gaining in importance, in particular amongst (Boost innovation with a Social impact), representing an experimental millennials, the Group launched two major strategic innovation approach launched in 2016 to accelerate social innovation by involving projects. Jointly led by the Research and Marketing departments, volunteer employees. This approach, since renamed Boost, has been they are linked to the realm of cooking and the home: Cook For the rolled out to all the Group’s innovation projects. Boost uses a startPlanet and Home for the Planet. Goal: inventing the product and up type approach: multi-disciplinary team following a user-centered service offerings of the future by combining: (design thinking), pragmatic (test & learn), iterative approach with regular validations (scrum), etc. ■ an analysis of new expectations and consumption patterns; ■ an open cross-disciplinary approach involving the Research, Project platforms Marketing, Design, Development teams, etc. to come up with new concepts (creative marathons); Once more with a view to speeding up innovation, in 2019 the Group added project platforms dedicated to particularly innovative themes. ■ flexible and iterative methods to quickly test the concepts The principle: bring together in a single place, in common time periods, generated. a cross-disciplinary team (Research, Marketing, Design, etc.) focused The Cook For the Planet project, which was launched in 2018, on a single project. This “unity of time, place and action” improves produced 13 innovative concepts in 2019 meeting a range of interaction, speeds up decision-making and strengthens momentum. challenges: efforts to combat wastage, energy saving, food The first project platform began in November 2019 around linen care. preservation, flexitarian transition, etc. They were tested on target Employees involved work together on a common project for three groups in different countries and two of them are already in research days a week. with a view to having prototypes finished by mid-2020. Another example of methodological innovation: at year-end 2019, The Home For the Planet project began in autumn 2019. It is initially Groupe SEB began to test crowdfunding to evaluate new product focusing on linen care and will be broadened to personal care in 2020. designs. This new participative approach, on top of “traditional” In parallel with these two projects, the Group introduced an inclusive innovation approaches, is based on the pre-sale of a limited number design approach designed to facilitate the usage of its products by of copies. It makes it possible to get direct feedback from consumers everyone. It will be followed in 2020 by a “good design” guide (see and rapidly validate innovation. page162). GROUPE SEB UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2019 155 3 Corporate Social Responsibility Sustainable innovation COLLABORATION AND PARTNERSHIPS to enable all members of a household to eat better by promoting local produce and reducing the environmental impact of the food chain? Group innovation also draws on external collaborations, particularly This trial will begin in early 2020. Groupe SEB will in particular help through collaborative research programs in which public and private facilitate homemade food thanks to connected products and services partners share their skills to achieve a common target. This open and related functionality (recipes, coaching, course lists, etc.), under innovation also includes start-ups, in which the Group acquires stakes the Cook2Health project. through the SEB Alliance Fund (see page 24). It invests in emerging businesses that offer disruptive technologies and/or new business Proveggas: focus on pulses models. The sectors targeted match the Group’s strategic areas of The Group also contributes to the Proveggas (Food-based plant innovation. protein) French research program focused on pulses. These foods With respect to healthy and sustainable eating, Groupe SEB is a are attracting growing interest with a view to stabilizing, or even stakeholder in many large research or experimentation programs: decreasing, the consumption of animal proteins. The aim of the program is to make pulses more appealing to consumers, through Cook2Health simpler preparation (faster cooking), easier digestion and improved sensory properties. Supported by French public funds, the project The Group is participating in the EIT Health European program was launched in 2017 for a four-year period. on the subject of “Healthy living and active aging”. In this regard, it coordinates the Cook2Health project (2016-2019), run alongside academic partners, physicians, dietitians, digital players. The goal was to measure the impact on people’s health of regular use of connected ALL STAFF ARE INVOLVED kitchen appliances through an extensive program of clinical trials As innovation is one of Groupe SEB’s key values and all employees (monitoring of 30 health parameters). To this end, Groupe SEB had are users of its products, the Research department, via SEBLab, provided volunteers with an Actifry and a connected Cookeo combined launched the All Innovators Challenge in 2017, inviting all staff to put with an app containing a personalized nutritional coaching service. The forward product and/or service innovation ideas related to the Group’s most recent wave of trials, which ended at year-end 2018, covered business. Following an initial test edition on the Écully Campus in 160 people whose daily cooking habits, at home, were monitored 2017, the challenge was extended to all the French sites in 2018. over one year (France and United Kingdom). The findings, released in Of the 476 ideas put forward in 2018, five winning projects were 2019, backed by clinical data, confirm that Groupe SEB’s connected chosen by an innovation panel following a vote by employees plus appliances help move users towards a better diet by favoring healthy selection by a preliminary assessment panel consisting of Research cooking teachings and the use of lightly processed products. and Marketing managers. The winners refined their ideas in 2019 with the support of SEBLab. Of the 11 winning projects over the two years, Ambitious Innovation Regions: over half are linked to sustainable development (energy saving, waste regional food transition reduction, healthy sustainable eating, etc.). In early 2020, three were in In France, Groupe SEB is a key partner in the “2030 Sustainable Food development and one already on offer to consumers: nine low-sugar System” project, led by Metropolitan Dijon and selected by the State in gourmet recipes were added in 2019 to the Cake Factory app. The All September 2019 under the Ambitious Innovation Regions. This is about Innovators Challenge will be broadened out across Europe in 2020. creating, at the regional level (23 municipalities, 250,000 inhabitants), (For more information on Groupe SEB’s innovation strategy, see a demonstrator showing transition to a sustainable food system: how Chapter 1.2, page 21) RESPECT FOR CONSUMERS Groupe SEB is committed to offering consumers high-quality products QUALITY that are guaranteed to be safe and harmless. In each country, the Group complies with all the standards and regulations governing the Groupe SEB’s Quality Management System (QMS) describes the products it sells. Responsible products are the first theme addressed steps to be taken, at every level, to ensure the quality of products and in Groupe SEB’s Code of Ethics, evidence of the importance that it related services. The QMS covers all Groupe SEB activities, processes places on respect for the consumer. and sites throughout the world. Every Group operation, site, function and employee is responsible for the quality of the work performed and for compliance with the rules contained in the quality assurance documentation. Regular examination of the various components of the System during management reviews makes it possible to check the efficiency of Group processes and to manage the actions needed for the ongoing improvement of product and process quality. The quality management system is described in more detail on page 37. 156 GROUPE SEB UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Sustainable innovation Testing at all levels PRODUCT SAFETY The Group controls the quality of its products at each stage of the Product safety is ensured by a rigorous set of procedures implemented design and manufacturing process, including with subcontractors. at every stage of product development and production. During The first quality tests are carried out from the design phase, on all development, each project review (RP1 to RP4) includes formal products (excluding purely aesthetic variants): pre-production runs checking of product compliance via a series of validations listed in are tested in testing rooms close to the design teams. the EMQS (Environment, Marketing, Quality and Standards) reference For endurance tests, products are subjected to an intensive document. Several of these validations make a direct contribution to sequence of operating cycles in standard conditions of use, which product safety, such as robust design analysis or field tests which may be spread over several weeks, without interruption. At the validate the design under real conditions. During the production Shaoxing (China) site, for example, endurance tests on kettles are phase, lots of tests are carried out on the production lines (electrical run on around 250 products per annum, each running for 2000 to insulation, sealing tightness, etc.) and samples are taken on a regular 6000 heating cycles, depending on the range. In Is-sur-Tille, over basis for accelerated functional testing which could reveal possible 200 toasters were tested over 5,360 cycles each on average. anomalies not detectable on the new product. A final check is made at the end of the production line, after packaging (test of finished Other tests cover shock resistance, functionality, behavior in a wet product quality), when sample products are unpacked and tested to environment, but also the performance of packaging that must protect check that all the production tests have been carried out. 3 product integrity from the factory door to the consumer. The surge in e-commerce is increasing single shipments and creating more constraints in terms of packaging. In 2019, the Group invested in new HARMLESSNESS AND UNPOPULAR packaging test equipment at its laboratory in Saint-Priest (France). SUBSTANCES Commencement of new product manufacturing is preceded by a Pilot Run Validation. This involves the pre-production of an additional 100 With regard to product harmlessness, the Group is particularly vigilant or so products, with extremely demanding quality criteria, so as to when it comes to selecting component materials, going beyond reduce the scrap rate as much as possible. In five years, the number regulatory requirements. As part of its commitment to quality, the of products not considered “good the first time round” has fallen in Group has introduced a “Health & Environment” notice which has been half, highlighting the progress made in the upstream development on Tefal/T-fal non-stick cookware for several years. This commitment phase. During production, accelerated operating tests (short live tests gives a guarantee that there is no PFOA (1), lead or cadmium and lasting a few days) are carried out on randomly selected products to therefore that the coatings are safe for both the consumer and the identify any faulty components that may have slipped through the environment. quality control conducted by the supplier. With regard to unpopular substances, the Group classifies in this category substances that, although not banned by the regulations, Rate of returns falling are considered by some stakeholders, such as NGOs, to be potentially hazardous. On this basis, the Group is working on plans to replace a For innovative products, the Group conducts tests in the homes number of these substances and materials, even though they are not of volunteer consumers to take all possible methods of use into currently covered by the regulations, in order to stay a step ahead of account, even the most unlikely ones. The Group also incorporates future directives. Phthalates, for example, which were added to the consumer comments gathered by call centers as part of a continuous RoHS European Directive (2) in 2015, were already viewed as unpopular improvement loop. These are forwarded to the marketing teams, substances by Groupe SEB in 2012. who factor them into product development. Proof of the continuous improvement in quality is that returns under warranty have continued to fall since 2009 and have dropped by a factor of more than 2 in 10 years. Finished product quality indicators are also continuing to FEEDBACK AND SERVICE improve, such as the percentage of potentially faulty products, which has decreased by 60% in six years (Group and subcontractors’ plants, Call centers and after-sales service excluding WMF). To answer consumers’ questions, Groupe SEB has multi-channel Finally, the Group takes monitoring measures and proactive steps to contact centers (telephone, email, brand websites, social media, raise quality standards in the interests of consumers (see page 37). etc.) in most of the larger countries. To improve service across all markets, since 2014 it has had multi-country call centers. In 2019, it continues to expand the Sofia call center, which now covers Slovenia and nine other countries in Eastern and Central Europe, Australia and New Zealand. This center has a team that is able to respond in (1) PFOA: Perfluorooctanoic acid is a substance used as an aid to polymerization in many polymer manufacturing processes. (2) Restriction of the use of certain Hazardous Substances. GROUPE SEB UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2019 157 3 Corporate Social Responsibility Sustainable innovation every language within the countries in question and to cater for the Inform the consumer various time zones. A second multi-country call center has been up and running in Lisbon since 2016 for Spain and Portugal. In France, Keen to help the consumer in all circumstances, the Group continues Groupe SEB has consistently won “Customer Service of the Year” to expand the services it offers. It continually does new product use for its quick responses and the quality of its customer relations on all and maintenance videos (on average, 3-4 a month), which are posted communication channels. on YouTube and can be accessed via the brand websites. Consumers can also access a large mutual assistance community via the brands’ The after-sales service of Groupe SEB aims to ensure the proper websites. In France, this community now numbers over 700,000 users application of its reparability policy. To this end, it relies on a global of the Group’s products, willing to exchange advice and tips. network of approved repair centers, which are trained and supported by local Group teams (see page 164). In India, the after-sales service Groupe SEB is also making an effort to improve the transparency structure was completely overhauled in 2015/2016 to bring it up to of information between manufacturers and consumers through a Group standards. There is now a professional, effective network there new service offered in France by the start-up Alkemics, of which it of nearly 250 repair technicians, who are selected then trained. The is a shareholder through the SEB Alliance fund. In 2019, Alkemics Group has also developed a smartphone application for the country, launched the “Transparence Conso” program: it allows manufacturers allowing customers to book a repair time slot, as repairs at home are to freely share, with a single click, their product catalog and related very common practice in India. information (ingredients, nutritional data, allergens, etc.) with consumer transparency apps, which are seeing exponential growth. Most apps, including Yuka, the leader in France in terms of downloads, have signed up to this initiative. 158 GROUPE SEB UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Sustainable innovation COOKING FOR GOOD MAKE DELICIOUS, HEALTHY HOME COOKING ACCESSIBLE TO EVERYONE. Worldwide, Groupe SEB is helping answer the question “What will In many countries, Group subsidiaries are organizing events to we eat today?” while ensuring that what is on offer is a wholesome promote homemade cooking. For example, in 2019, Groupe SEB balanced meal that is easy and hassle-free to prepare. Our solutions Korea ran such an event at the cooking studio of the public television are also designed to promote a more responsible diet, encouraging practices with a lower environmental impact. station KBS. Two star TV chefs shared their experience and cooked recipes with Tefal products surrounded by 120 people including 3 social media influencers, journalists, passionate newbie cooks, etc. The homemade message was spread through 90 articles and photo MAKING HOMEMADE FOOD EASIER features in the large national dailies and through various sponsored FOR EVERYONE messages on Instagram and YouTube. GROUPE SEB 2023 TARGETS Seb, Tefal and Moulinex sign up • One program to make homemade accessible to everyone to the Malin Program Nutritionists all agree: reducing our intake of ultra-processed food In its desire to make “eating well” accessible to as many people as and eating homemade dishes, where possible using fresh ingredients, possible, Groupe SEB includes vulnerable sections of society. That is plays a significant part in improving health. Nine out of ten French why in 2017 it got involved in the French Malin program that aims to people think that “cooking healthy, balanced meals” and “sharing help young children from poor families get access to a balanced highmeals with family or friends” are the activities that contribute the most quality diet, and influence family eating habits. Notable Malin partners to their well-being (3). At the same time, however, 50% of them say include Société Française de Pédiatrie, Croix-Rouge Française, they don’t have the time to prepare meals. By their very nature, the Caisses d’allocations familiales, Blédina and Danone Communities Group’s products and services make homemade cooking easier, with (Danone), Lesieur and Groupe SEB via its Tefal, Seb and Moulinex solutions that simplify life, save time and help produce recipes that brands. The French government included this program in its antiallow people to eat well and enjoy their food. poverty strategy, which became official in 2018, and in the National Nutrition and Health Program 4 in 2019. Many studies show that Over the years, thanks to its innovations, the Group has proven that healthy eating from a young age helps to significantly reduce diethome cooking does not need to be complicated or time-consuming. related diseases such as diabetes and obesity. For example, the famous Super Cocotte Seb pressure cooker (1953) was the first in a long line of pressure cookers, including Nutricook and As part of the Malin program, the Group offers cookware and electrical its four cooking programs that preserve vitamins and other nutrients. appliances at accessible prices for families (30 to 60% reduction). The More recently, in 2012, Cookeo enabled time-strapped cooks to objective is to offer a useful range of family products while reinforcing put together dishes quickly, with hundreds of step-by-step recipes family home cooking habits and developing a sustainable balanced that could be made in less than 15 to 20 minutes. Over 2 million business model for the Group. These “preferential” sales are held twice have already been sold in France. Cuisine Companion then raised a year (two-month periods) on an internet platform. A study of buying the bar even higher: as well as cooking, it makes the preparation of habits during these campaigns and discussions with the beneficiaries ingredients, pastry or sauces easier, using a range of accessories for give greater insight into families and their practices in order to tailor chopping, mixing, beating, kneading, grating, etc. Now connected, the offering to their needs. The Group also uses this program as a all these products are continually receiving digital enhancements, to platform to provide advice (good planning and tips) on healthier eating. offer consumers an infinite quantity of recipes and a variety of delicious At year-end 2019, over 15,000 families had benefited from the Malin meals. program since the outset. Over time, it will be offered to 480,000 eligible families throughout France with the goal of reaching at least 160,000. (3) BVA survey conducted for Groupe SEB in July 2018, on a sample of 1,104 people representative of the French population, aged 18 and over. GROUPE SEB UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2019 159 3 Corporate Social Responsibility Sustainable innovation Partnerships with the voluntary sector TEFAL Once again in line with the socially guided business approach, in 2019 Since its early days, Tefal’s innovations have always focused on the Group partnered with two associations in the Lyon region to give healthy eating. It all began with the invention of the non-stick frying them access to reduced price products, in particular in the course of pan, meaning that people could cook using very little oil, or even stock clearances. The first partner, Revivre, is a social development none at all. In the cookware section, the Preserve frying pans range, association with a focus on inclusive employment that acts as a launched in France in 2018, is specifically designed for cooking at low central purchasing body for other charitable associations. The second temperature, conserving up to 30% more Vitamin C than cooking at partnership is the VRAC association, which helps establish purchasing high temperature. groups in lower income areas, to give everyone access to quality In electrical products, the Actifry fryer (sold under the Seb brand in products. The products are purchased directly from manufacturers at France and Belgium), in which healthy, tasty meals can be made using reasonable prices and then distributed by local residents. VRAC thus only a spoonful of oil, has been developed to make the consumer encourages sustainable and responsible consumption. experience even easier with the My Actifry application. As well as providing “step by step” help to make dishes successfully, it also offers several hundred recipes so that people can vary their menus and HEALTHY, TASTY MEALS enjoy a healthy, balanced diet. It encourages consumers to eat fresh produce, particularly fruit and vegetables. In 2019, tips for healthier GROUPE SEB 2023 TARGETS food and lifestyles were added to My Actifry that evolves over the • A “healthy and sustainable eating” Charter for recipes seasons. accompanying products Optigrill, another Tefal flagship product, launched a new model (Elite) in September 2019 that offers four automatic programs solely A healthy and sustainable recipe Charter dedicated to vegetables, for healthier and more varied meals. As In the quest for healthy food that has a lower environmental impact with previous versions, it benefits consumer health by means of an and the need to feed 10 billion humans by 2050, a dietary transition is exclusive grilling technology for meat and fish that considerably limits required particularly in Western countries. Amongst these necessary the formation of undesirable compounds. The effectiveness of this changes, experts are recommending that fruit, vegetable and pulse technology, based on the cooking temperature, has been proven consumption will need to double in tandem with a 50% plus reduction through assays by an independent laboratory. in animal protein consumption (4). Aside from the positive health effects, Tefal is also innovating with a view to cooking rice in a healthier the adoption of a ﬂexitarian diet (5) reduces the carbon footprint by way: Healthy & Tasty cooks rice in two stages with a system over 40%. To support this movement, in 2019 Groupe SEB finalized that results in 20% less starch than traditional cooking. This new a “Healthy and sustainable recipe Charter”. More vegetables, cereals procedure has particular appeal in terms of preventing diabetes and and pulses, less meat, limited amounts of fat and salt, no overlyobesity, especially in Asia-Pacific where 90% of rice production and processed ingredients. These are the broad guidelines of this Charter, consumption is concentrated. Healthy & Tasty was launched in 2019 which is initially focused on salty dishes. It was developed by the in Malaysia and Singapore. Food Science and Sustainable Development teams on the back in particular of the recommendations of the National Health and Nutrition On the dessert front, since 2019 the Cake Factory application has Program (PNNS – France) and on the expertise of a dietitian and a offered a pack of low sugar recipes. chef active in this area. MOULINEX This Charter is a reference framework for expanding the proportion The iconic “homemade” brand, Moulinex has strengthened its of healthy and sustainable recipes in the hundreds of recipes that the support to help consumers move towards better diets by offering Group shares with consumers via a whole range of channels: apps services related to its connected products. In 2019, the new Healthy connected with products, brand websites, social media, cookbooks, functionality was added to the Cookeo multi-cooker app, providing etc. The most recent cookbook for the Nutricook+ steam cooker, detailed nutritional information on recipes made using the appliance. published at year-end 2019, offers a balanced breakdown of recipes: It classifies recipes into food groups – vegetables, animal proteins or fruit and vegetables, pulses, fish and seafood, meat each represent starches for example – indicating the number of daily portions they 20% of recipes, carbohydrates 15% and dairy products 5%. They also offer. In the first half of 2020, Cookeo Healthy will offer a nutritional list seasonal ingredients and give “zero waste” tips. coaching service: depending on goals set by the user (eat less meat, more vegetables, more balanced, etc.) and their tastes, the app will Solutions combining products and services recommend a tailored selection of recipes to help them reach their goal. Eating quality food is the key focus of the Group’s brands, which Moulinex also reinvented steam cooking with Steam’Up, launched develop new solutions to promote healthy eating and enjoy food at in 2019. Although everyone agrees on the nutritional benefits of this the same time. Tefal and Moulinex are the Group’s international brands style of cooking, most consumers associate it with dishes that are most involved in this area. bland and aren’t very varied. With Steam’Up, steam cooking moves upmarket with a reverse steam technology that makes it possible to blend and retain flavors. The result: recipes that are both healthy and tasty, continually enhanced in the dedicated application. (4) The EAT-Lancet Commission Summary Report “Food Planet Health” published in January 2019. (5) A flexible vegetarian diet (or semi-vegetarianism). 160 GROUPE SEB UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Sustainable innovation Moulinex is also supporting the flexitarian transition with Multicook using as many foodstuffs as possible in recipes connected with the & Grains, which offers specific pulse cooking programs. This family products. The cookbook included with the Moulinex juicers (Juice & of crops is a key source of plant-based protein, which have a lower Clean, Juiceo, Power Juice) for example abound with ideas on how environmental impact than animal proteins. to cook the pulp instead of throwing it away. Several subsidiaries also carry out awareness-raising actions on the topic of food waste. SUPOR For several years now, Groupe SEB Brazil, for example, has held In 2017, Supor introduced vacuum technology to its blenders: cooking classes showing how to use fruit and vegetables in their by removing air from the bowl while mixing, Vacuum Nutrition entirety, including peelings. Plus reduces the oxidization of food, conserving its full nutritional value. Moulinex did the same in 2018 on the European market with Storage jars, vacuum flasks, etc. Freshboost, using the same technology. The Group’s product range also includes food storage boxes. They are increasingly popular with consumers who use them to store their Awareness-raising actions foodstuffs, keep leftovers in the fridge or bring food from home. Groupe SEB is also involved in raising awareness about nutrition They are also used within the Group: in Mexico, for example, the among the general public. Product-based events done in various subsidiary signed an agreement with companies delivering meals to markets are also an opportunity to share various food messages. employees to eliminate all single-use plastic packaging and replace 3 Thus, in many countries, Actifry is at the heart of campaigns to raise it with reusable Tefal boxes. Food retailers are also very interested awareness of healthier ways of living and more balanced eating. in reducing disposable packaging, as seen from various initiatives launched in 2019. In Germany, the HIT retailer provides customers It is in this spirit that, in 2018, the Group became a partner of the “Diet, with Clip&Close boxes (EMSA) for their purchases at the delicatessen nutrition and eating behavior” Chair at the AgroParisTech University counter. In France, the Vrac’N Roll start-up, a pioneer in the online sale (France). This Chair develops innovative, fun food education activities of loose organic produce, has started using Optima boxes (EMSA) for using new educational tools, often based on digital technologies. order shipments. Stackable, strong and easy to clean, they can also In 2019, the Group turned to this partnership when preparing an be kept for re-use. e-learning module for its employees on “The secrets to healthy, balanced and sustainable eating”. Based on quizzes and videos, Another Group product range in sync with more responsible daily it challenges conventional wisdom, provides basic explanations on practices: vacuum flasks and thermo mugs (EMSA, Tefal, Supor proteins, carbohydrates, fats and gives tips on eating well without brands, etc.) are a sustainable alternative to disposable cups and harming the planet. This module was launched in November for all other plastic containers that pollute the planet. connected employees in France. It will be rolled out internationally Group brands raise consumer awareness around food waste by from 2020. sharing content on various information channels on the back of products that help this approach. This was, for example, the case of the No waste campaign undertaken by Tefal in Germany and the SUSTAINABLE COOKING Netherlands in 2019 around Master Seal storage boxes and thermo In addition to the impact on health and well-being, the choice, mugs. In France, three young top chefs taking an environmentallypreparation and preservation of food has an impact on our ecological friendly approach were invited to cook “zero waste” recipes live on footprint. The healthy and sustainable recipes Charter includes this Facebook using a Seb pressure cooker. 10,000 people logged in to component: for example, reducing the amount of meat in favor of watch. pulses helps reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Along the same lines, The Group also supports consumers who want to grow their own at year-end 2019, the Cookeo teams shared on social media content herbs or vegetables: with the Click & Grow (EMSA) indoor vegetable to help consumers who wanted to reduce their meat consumption. gardens, they can pick vegetables and herbs all year round, whenever With, for example, suggested ingredients that might constitute an they need them. The right combination of water, oxygen and nutrients alternative to animal protein with recipes to cook them, as well as a ensure optimal growth with, amongst other advantages: no transport, range of tips and tricks regarding ﬂexitarianism. less waste, 100% natural foodstuffs, etc. This home farming concept is one of the avenues for innovation being explored by the Group. Combating food waste The environmental impact of Group products has long been part of its A growing concern in many countries, efforts to combat food priorities. Two chapters in this document are dedicated to its policy waste are another area in which the Group is committed. It in this area (see Circular revolution, pages – 164-168 and Climate naturally contributes to this by virtue of its core business that action, pages 169-179). encourages homemade food: meals are prepared as required. And some products can be turned into anti-waste tools such as blenders, which, for example, allow great smoothies to be made with slightly too mature fruit and to use some fruit and vegetables whole, including the skins. The Group has developed a range of content in this area on social media in 2019, in particular in connection with the new range of Powelix blenders. In general, the Group gives advice on GROUPE SEB UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2019 161 3 Corporate Social Responsibility Sustainable innovation BETTER HOME LIFE HELP EVERYONE TO LIVE BETTER IN A HEALTHIER HOME REGARDLESS OF THEIR AGE AND HEALTH. INCLUSIVE-DESIGN PRODUCTS tools used to bring them out, in order to promote the expansion of good design to other sectors and other products and services. As well as permanent disabilities, anyone, at any time of their life, Groupe SEB was recognized twice in 2019 for this collaborative might experience limited sensory, physical or cognitive ability, due to approach to good design: it received the Mines ParisTech & Cegos injury, illness or old age. Certain situations may also create constraints, Sustainable Development CSR Award and the LSA “La conso such as a young child in arms. Whether temporary or permanent, s’engage” award. disability can affect the sense of touch, sight, hearing, taste or speech. As part of its commitment to make its products accessible to as many Initiatives to keep up the momentum people as possible, in 2018 the Group began the process of raising the inclusiveness of all its products. Initially, it focused on the userAside from this draft guide, the Group undertook multiple actions in friendliness of breakfast products (kettle, coffee maker, toaster): an 2019 around inclusive design, and in particular: “inclusive” set will shortly be released onto the market. In 2019, this ■ raising the awareness of the Design team regarding different forms approach was broadened with the decision to develop a Good design of disability and the various daily usages in order to expand its guide in partnership with APF Franche Handicap and the support of inclusive design thinking (immersion workshops and understanding Caisse Nationale de Solidarité pour l’Autonomie. It will be finalized disability). This training was led by a coordinator from the hizy.org in 2020. platform, established by Handicap international and supported by Fonds Groupe SEB, along with three occupational therapists from An open source Good Design Guide CRIAS (Centre régional d’information pour l’agir solidaire). It will The Good Design playbook will bring together best design practice be broadened to other teams from 2020, starting with Marketing designed to facilitate daily usage for all users, in particular in terms and R&D; of readability (size and color/contrast of writing), gripping, handling, ■ the commencement of two projects to improve accessibility of weight, materials, etc. product instruction leaflet and Group websites (brand websites and institutional website); In developing this guide, the Design team adopted a user-centered approach, with people with disabilities being involved at all stages ■ a “preferential” sale at reduced prices reserved for APF France of the project: Handicap members involving a selection of Group products identified as particularly tailored to people with disabilities. These ■ observation: 90 hours of interviews and home testing to identify include: the Cookeo multi-cooker, the Air Force upright vacuum sticking points when using products; cleaner, the Cake factory, the Clipso pressure cooker. ■ idea generation: 3 workshops, 60 participants (people with In fact, although the Group placed a stronger emphasis on accessibility disabilities, helpers, designers, researchers, marketing people, etc.) since 2018, this issue was already a part of its product design. The and creativity tools to come up with solutions that help everyone; Clipso pressure cooker, which came on the market in 1994, can be ■ prototyping of chosen solutions; opened with a single hand. Similarly, Supor designed a rice cooker ■ evaluation of prototypes by people with disabilities or otherwise more particularly tailored to older people (very visible operating lights, to assess the universal added value of the inclusive product for easy opening button, ergonomic handle, etc.). Of the most recent all consumers. examples, the Air Force Flex vacuum cleaner, launched in spring 2019, The Good Design playbook is also based on recognized standards. easily vacuums under furniture without the user having to bend down, The digital version will be released under an open source license. something that is much appreciated by people with back pain. It is Applied to the area of small household appliances, it will not simply also particularly easy to maneuver, wireless and all the controls are be a collection of best practices: it will also set out the methods and on the upper part of the product. 162 GROUPE SEB UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Sustainable innovation A HEALTHY HOME BETTER INDOOR AIR QUALITY asthma spent two sessions, a maximum of two hours each time, in a sterile exposure chamber. Air containing extremely fine particles of A better home life also means a healthy environment, starting with cat allergens was introduced into the chamber, firstly in the presence the quality of the air we breathe. This can be damaged by multiple of placebo purifiers (no filtration), then with active Intense Pure Air pollution sources such as animal hair, dust and pollen, which cause purifiers. During the first test, all the participants had allergic reactions, respiratory allergies, as well as volatile organic compounds including causing them to leave the room before the end of the session. By formaldehyde, specifically found in paint or glue used in furniture, contrast, the results of the second test showed that the use of Intense and recognized as one of the most dangerous pollutants in the home. Pure Air purifiers could reduce the risk of allergic reaction by a factor of Since 2015, the Group meets this need to purify air with the Intense 10. The results of this trial were presented in May 2018 at the European Pure Air range. Its ultra-effective filtration system contains four filters. Academy of Allergy and Clinical Immunology (EAACI) Conference in The Allergy+ filter, for fine particles, captures allergens, while another Munich. They were also published in 2019 in Clinical & Experimental filter equipped with exclusive NanoCapturTM technology, definitively Allergy, the official journal of The British Society for Allergy & Clinical destroys formaldehyde. The new version of this filter, launched in 2019, Immunology (BSACI). is more effective (50% longer lifespan) and its manufacture is more environmentally-friendly. 3 Thanks to its smart purification system, Intense Pure Air automatically CLEAN FLOORS WITHOUT DETERGENTS starts working once it detects pollution. It can also be connected to an With regard to home cleaning, a growing number of consumers are app that lets you view the indoor air quality and manage the appliance looking for ways to limit their use of detergents, which cause chemical remotely, providing more information on air pollutants. pollution. Here again, Groupe SEB has come up with an innovative solution for keeping floors clean without using these products. The Proven clinical effectiveness Clean & Steam vacuum cleaner, launched in 2017, vacuums and In 2018, the Alyatec Research Center, located in the new Strasbourg steam cleans the floor in one go. Besides saving time, cleaning in hospital, conducted a world first with Groupe SEB: a clinical trial aimed this way eliminates up to 99% of bacteria, which are destroyed by the at demonstrating the effectiveness of the Intense Pure Air purifiers on heat. This is especially good for people suffering from allergies and respiratory allergies. Twenty-four patients suffering from allergy-related parents of young children. TAKING CARE OF YOURSELF AT ANY AGE As part of its focus on personal care, in addition to its existing product users meet their goals, such as weight loss, thanks to advice and range, the Group wants to develop products and solutions that help suggested sports exercises. people stay fit and in good health, for better home life at any age. In 2018, the Group worked on preventing falls. This project led to a In France in 2017, Tefal launched the Body Partner, smart bathroom prototype solution related to balance, currently in development. scales that incorporate a unique and exclusive body shape tracker Through the Group’s open innovation approach, it has also invested in device. As well as measuring the user’s weight and fat mass/lean mass the SeniorAdom start-up through its SEB Alliance fund (see page 25). ratio, Body Partner shows their hydration rate and integrates body SeniorAdom offers a new-generation, non-intrusive remote assistance shape data captured by a smart tape measure. All of this information solution that detects falls and illness without the user having to wear is sent to a smartphone application, where it generates dashboard any particular device. In this way, it helps elderly people or people charts that allow the user to track the various parameters over time. with reduced mobility stay in their own homes. Since 2019, the application also offers a coaching service to help GROUPE SEB UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2019 163 3 Corporate Social Responsibility Circular revolution 3.9. Circular revolution MAKE OUR PRODUCTS AND SERVICES PART OF THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY. The Group’s goal in this area is to save the planet’s resources by for example, it has supported the Urban Mines Chair, founded in operating on several drivers: extending product life and re-use, partnership with three French “Grandes Écoles” universities (Arts et promoting recycling and the use of recycled materials, experiment Métiers, Chimie ParisTech and Mines ParisTech) and the environmental with shared product use. organization Ecosystem. The Chair focuses on implementing a The Group also contributes to the development of this virtuous circle circular economy model that is profitable for everyone – citizens, through several initiatives involving various stakeholders. Since 2018, manufacturers, recycling organizations and local authorities. LONG-LASTING PRODUCTS REPARABILITY brands Tefal, Rowenta, Moulinex and Krups, and for Seb and Calor in France and Belgium. In 2019, this commitment began to be broadened GROUPE SEB TARGET to all new ranges of WMF small electrical appliances and its extension to the Brazilian brand Arno is being considered. • Over 90% of electrical appliances with the “10-year repairable product” commitment (for Tefal, Moulinex, In some countries, cookware (frying pans, stewing pots, saucepans, Rowenta, Krups, Seb, Calor) etc.) can also be repaired. For example, this is true in Egypt and the United States for All-Clad branded products (see page 168). 94% of products repairable for 10 years (1) DEMANDING CRITERIA Product reparability is a vital aspect of the circular economy, as by increasing the lifetime of products it helps to reduce both the resources Product reparability starts from product design, and is one of the consumed and waste, and therefore preserve the environment. It is priority areas in the Group’s Eco-design Guide. Right from the start, also beneficial for consumers who get an economic benefit (cheaper products are designed to be easily disassembled and reassembled to repair than to buy a new product) and keeps users of the Group’s so that only the worn parts have to be replaced. In 2016, the Group products loyal by extending service lives as much as possible. adopted a more stringent calculation method when defining the level of reparability of its electrical appliances. In addition to the criteria For Groupe SEB, reparability is an approach that ensures: of availability and price of parts, this definition now includes the ■ that a product can be readily disassembled and reassembled; percentage of repairable faults. The Group considers a product to be ■ that the spare parts are reasonably priced, and readily available for mostly repairable if at least 80% of faults are repairable (one or two an extended period of time; parts at most are not available or cost more than half of the product’s price, and this/these part(s) account for less than 20% of the risk of ■ that there is a significant network of trained repairers while ensuring faults). A product is fully repairable (100% of faults are repairable) if optimal regional coverage. all the components that can be replaced are available and none cost All of this should allow a streamlined customer experience and ensure more than half the price of the product. the effective repair of products for many years. In 2019, of the 94% of repairable electrical appliances, 79% were The Group is a pioneer in this field. Its reparability policy, initiated in wholly repairable and 15% were mostly so. In parallel, the percentage 2008, reached maturity in 2015 with its “10-year repairable product” of repaired products is increasing in approved centers: in Europe, commitment. This logo is now displayed on 94% of the new electrical for example, the percentage of products under warranty repaired appliances sold in Europe, Asia, the Middle East and Africa for the four within 5 days rose from 70.3% in 2012 to 82.10% in 2017. (1) Mostly repairable, on small electric appliances. 164 GROUPE SEB UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Circular revolution An attractive repair package time and their feedback is over 90% positive. At year-end 2019, 80 3D-printed functional and technical parts were being tested in Western Since 2019, Groupe SEB trialed a new initiative to encourage Europe. From 2020, approved items will be included in the standard consumers to increasingly repair their products after the warranty spare parts catalog for repairers with the note “3D printed part certified period, when they bear the cost of repair. To remove the main by the manufacturer”. obstacles, the fear of a high cost or the risk of paying for a quote “for nothing”, the Group has introduced a ﬁxed repair offer with a RépareSeb in Paris: a dedicated circular single, fixed rate for each product category. The consumer has the and solidarity economic hub assurance that they can get their product repaired for less than a third of the price of an equivalent new product from the brand, whatever In 2019, the Group kicked off the RépareSeb project, a further step the malfunction, the spare parts needed and age of the appliance (the in the promotion of prolonged usage of small electrical appliances reparability warranty lasts for up to 10 years). They also benefit from a within the context of a social and solidarity economic approach. This warranty covering the whole product for six months after the repair has hub, which will open in 2020 in Porte de la Chapelle, Paris, will offer been done. This offer was initially launched in France for the Rowenta four additional services, in partnership with the city of Paris and ARES brand. Consumers can purchase the repair package directly on the Group, which is specialized in inclusive employment: rowenta.fr website, then follow the instructions to send the product ■ small electrical appliance repair in a workshop that is certified for or take it to an approved repair center. The service will be extended all Groupe SEB brands; to other brands in France in early 2020 and will gradually be rolled out in other European countries, starting with Spain, Portugal and Italy. ■ appliance rental using the Eurecook model (see page 167); ■ product refurbishment (mostly recovered as part of the after-sales 3 service) for resale as “Second hand”; Repair center and spare parts network ■ training and support (small groups) in a collaborate space dedicated To ensure that repairs are of optimum quality, Groupe SEB uses a to the circular economy. network of approved repair centers, which has gained in strength This project will enable the establishment of a new inclusive over the last 10 years. There are now over 6,200 worldwide, including employment entity in Paris for people who are out of a job. They will 2,800 in China. The Group’s local after-sales service teams in the be working on product repair and refurbishment. different countries are responsible for training and supporting the repair centers. Raising awareness among consumers and other The Group guarantees the repair centers that some 40,000 listed spare stakeholders parts will be available for as long as 10 to 15 years after products cease to be manufactured, including sourced products, at the Whether or not products are under warranty, the Group encourages cheapest possible price (this price has not increased since the 30% consumers to have them repaired instead of exchanging them by reduction in 2012). In Western Europe, spare parts are delivered to directing them to the approved repair centers using several information repair centers within 24 to 48 hours, rising to a maximum of four days methods: product documentation, brand websites, explanatory in other parts of the world. videos, etc. Nearly six million spare parts are stored at the Group’s central More generally, since 2016, Groupe SEB has intensified its warehouses in Faucogney in the east of France (30,000 m2 in storage communication on the reparability policy to all stakeholders in area). In addition, in a growing number of countries, consumers can European countries (press, NGOs, consumer associations, public directly order accessories, consumables and spare parts on the brand bodies, etc.). Its “10-year repairable product” commitment is now websites. In 2019, direct orders were possible on 67 brand websites largely relayed on social networks in Spain, Portugal, Romania, across the world. Since 2016, the Group has used a second spare Poland, and other countries. As the Group is considered to be the parts and accessories warehouse in Hong Kong to deliver parts to European leader in reparability, it has been invited to present its repair centers or consumers in Asia more quickly. approach at conferences organized by various public institutions, such as the Belgian Senate, the European Court of Justice and the The Group also moved into the 3D printing of spare parts, allowing Métropole du Grand Paris. parts to be printed on demand. This simplifies inventory management and increases availability almost to infinity. Since 2015, certification This commitment to reparability has won the Group many awards. testing has been done on repairs of volunteer “pilot” consumers. They In May 2018, it won the award for “Social and Environmental regularly provide the Group with information on part performance over Responsibility” at the European Business Awards in Warsaw, having been selected from 112,000 companies from 34 European countries. GROUPE SEB UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2019 165 3 Corporate Social Responsibility Circular revolution PRODUCTS WITHIN THE RECYCLING LOOP DESIGNING RECYCLABLE PRODUCTS produces 90% less greenhouse gases than primary aluminum and consumes 20 times less energy. In 2009, the Natura cookware range Product recyclability is a priority of the Group’s eco-design guide was the first made from 100% recycled aluminum and three years later, (see page 172) and all products are assessed for their recycling in 2012, Tefal established the first recycling system for cookware in potential using a standardized method. When designing a product, France. Of products recently put on the market, the Eco Respect and the Group gives preference to materials that can be recycled (metallic Resource frying pan ranges, which also use 100% recycled aluminum, components, certain plastics like polypropylene) and plans for quick won the Grand Prix de la Responsabilité Sociétale des Marques in and easy disassembly. For example, the Tefal Turbo Pro Anticalc steam April 2019 (France). iron, launched at year-end 2016, had a heat shield (the part above the sole-plate) made from recyclable PBT, rather than non-recyclable Recycled plastic: significant progress BMC, which was the case for previous ranges. Thanks to this change, The Group’s recycled plastics strategy began 10 years ago with the the recyclability percentage rose to 82% compared to 76% for an Enjoy utensils, made from 95% recycled PET. It has since continued to equivalent iron with a BMC shield. Since then, all new steam iron ramp up efforts in this area, led by the Purchasing, Quality, Standards ranges manufactured at Pont-Evêque (France) incorporate this part. and Environment and Research departments in liaison with the The same change was made to the Calor Express Compact steam Industry and Marketing departments: cooperation with recyclers to ironing station. Another illustration of the improved recyclability: in improve the quality of the plastics in question, verifying their regulatory 2018, the Erbach (Germany) site adopted a new co-injection process compliance, performing injection and prototype testing, launching prethat removes the use of non-recyclable glue. production runs, etc. Compared to plastics from oil, recycled plastics The average potential recyclability rate for new electrical product reduces the impact on global warming by nearly 70%. families designed in 2019 reached over 80%. In 2015, the Group was a pioneer in France, setting up the first circular economy loop for small electrical appliances, with Veolia USING RECYCLED MATERIALS and the Ecosystem eco-organization. This cooperation led to the first steam generator with a polypropylene casing made from recycled electrical and electronic appliances, produced in Pont-Evêque (Silence GROUPE SEB 2023 TARGETS Steam, Rowenta). Preparations are also being made to integrate this • 50% of recycled materials in Group products same recycled polypropylene in the steam irons produced in Erbach (including packaging) (Germany). • Double the amount of recycled plastic in products manufactured in France (2017 base) In 2018, Rowenta extended use of this material to the Silence Force Compact vacuum cleaner bases, through specific investment in Groupe SEB uses more and more recycled materials in its products. production lines at the Vernon site. In 2019, this change was extended At year-end 2019, for products manufactured in-house, it had already to most of the bagged vacuum cleaners produced on the site. exceeded its target set in 2013 of incorporating 20% recycled The Expresseria (Krups) coffee maker, manufactured in Mayenne, materials in new products and packaging by 2020, achieving 35%. also saw an improvement in terms of recycled plastic: following The target is now 50% by 2023. It also made a specific commitment the incorporation, in 2017, of an internal technical support made on recycled plastics, with the goal of doubling the annual use from recycled ABS, from early 2020 its base will also be made from in France by 2025 compared to 2017 (subject to any changes in recycled ABS/PC. The list of products incorporating recycled plastic applicable regulations that might impact this strategy). is growing each year: raclette grills, fans, meat mincers, shredder, up to and including some EMSA Landhaus plant pot ranges made from Metals: more recycled aluminum in cookware diaper production scraps.. , etc. A dozen new products are on the As regards metals, across all products, most of the stainless steel way. Moreover, aside from its partnership with Veolia, the Group has used by the Group is already from recycled sources. This rate is 80% developed its dealings with other recyclers with the aim of increasing in cookware (utensils, frying pans, saucepans, stewing pots, pressure its expertise to meet its needs. It carries out training and awarenesscookers, etc.). In the case of aluminum, mostly used for this product raising activities in-house for the relevant teams (design teams, category, the proportion of recycled materials is lower but is rising on laboratories, quality, marketing, etc.). the back of efforts by the teams in question. Using recycled aluminum 166 GROUPE SEB UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Circular revolution SHOPPING BAGS TOO Since 2012, Groupe SEB has expanded the number of initiatives designed to promote cookware recycling, in particular in Europe with The use of recycled plastic also extends to the bags offered by the the Tefal brand (France, Netherlands, Norway, etc.). The operations Group’s stores to their customers. In Europe, in 2018, these were involve a partnership between the Group, specialist recycling reviewed from an ecological and economic point of view. Made from companies and partner distributors. Consumers are encouraged to 80% recycled plastic and 100% recyclable, the new bags have been bring their old products back to the store, in exchange for a discount awarded the Blue Angel environmental label. In addition to the use of voucher to purchase a new item. For the second year running, in 2019 recycled plastic, the reduction in the number of suppliers (from 10 to the offer involved items made from recycled aluminum (Resource and 4, including 1 covering 75% of needs) also helps to reduce the carbon So Recycled ranges). The used products are collected before being footprint involved in transporting the materials. In early 2019, these sorted and crushed. The main materials (aluminum, stainless steel and bags were available in nearly all countries in the EMEA zone where plastic) are separated, then recycled to manufacture new products, the Group has stores (Home & Cook and WMF). The 13 Egypt stores including cookware. also adopted this approach in 2019. In 2019, in France, this campaign involved the Leclerc stores (partner In recognition of all these efforts in recycled plastics, in 2018 the since the outset), Géant, Boulanger, BHV, etc. Since 2012, all these Group received the LSA Award for “Development of environmental campaigns have resulted in the collection and recycling of 940 tons responsibility” in France, beating around 100 other candidates. of cookware, representing around 1.4 million cookware items. In the 3 Netherlands, the renewed campaign with Blokker and Marskamer END-OF-LIFE RECYCLING involved 32 tons (close to 140 tons in four years). Norway has also contributed, via a hundred or so stores. In Asia, Thailand has been What happens to products once they come to the end of their life? In running similar campaigns since 2013. In this country, the products Europe, the collection and processing of small electrical appliances are collected are given to a local association which makes prostheses managed by national eco-organizations. Groupe SEB is particularly (artificial legs), mostly from aluminum. involved in this in France, as part of Ecosystem, the country’s Campaigns to collect and recycle frying pans and saucepans are being largest eco-organization for WEEE (Waste Electronic and Electrical rolled out in ever more countries. In 2019, they took place in the United Equipment). Kingdom, Belgium, Greece, Romania, Egypt, etc. As yet, there is no specific channel for aluminum pans, saucepans or stew pots, however. In France, for example, 60% end up as household waste (6,000 tons per year), even though they are 80% recyclable. SHARED USE PRODUCTS The Group is at the forefront of new, more sustainable, consumer products are systematically cleaned, checked and re-packaged. This models similar to product-service systems, and since 2015 has been service will take on a new dimension in 2020 in Paris as part of the testing an innovative kitchen appliance rental service in France to RépareSeb project (see page 165). respond to ad hoc consumer requirements. Christened Eurêcook, it The Eurêcook service is part of our sustainable consumption initiative was initially rolled out in the Dijon area in partnership with a network for more than one reason. From an ecological perspective, it is in of public and private sector operators such as ADEME (1), the ENVIE keeping with the optimization of natural resources (a single product association and Groupe Casino. In October 2018, it was launched in is used more often) and the packaging is re-usable and eco-designed Paris, this time in partnership with ENVIE and Monoprix, the leader (cellular polypropylene). From an affordability perspective, due to in city center shopping. The principle is simple: the consumer books its lower cost of use, Eurêcook makes appliances more affordable their Seb, Tefal or Moulinex appliance on the www.eurecook.fr website for economically vulnerable people. Lastly, it uses a local inclusive or in one of the five Parisian Monoprix stores initially participating in employment company (ENVIE) to take care of product cleaning, the campaign. They choose the length of the rental (from a weekend testing, repackaging and logistics, from its workshop in Trappes. to a week) then pick up the appliance at one of the collection points or with their shopping delivery. Once they have been returned, the (1) French Agency for the Environment and Energy Management. GROUPE SEB UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2019 167 3 Corporate Social Responsibility Circular revolution PRODUCTS WITH MULTIPLE LIVES In the United States, the Group has introduced a similar scheme, GROUPE SEB TARGET which it manages internally. After checking and any repackaging, • Trial business models that give a new life to Group products products without defects are put back into stock for sale through the traditional channels, whereas products classed as seconds are resold through specialist channels (e.g. wholesalers) and products that RE-USE OF SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES cannot be repaired are given to disassembly/recycling companies. In Mexico too, products with minor defects are sold to wholesalers or When consumers return products, for example as part of after-sales other bodies at a reduced price. service or in response to specific sales offers, and they can still be used, the Group makes every effort to give them a new life rather than shipping them off for dismantling or recycling. All the more so when most of them are almost new. REFURBISHMENT OF FRYING PANS AND SAUCEPANS Thus, of the products returned to the Group’s site in Alençon through distributors’ after-sales services, most have not been used much and The All-Clad brand extends the lifetime of products with an have a single fault. Since 2017, Groupe SEB France gives them to unprecedented offering. Since 2015, it has offered its catering the ENVIE Anjou inclusive employment association. It dismantles and customers second-hand frying pans reconditioned at the Canonsburg repairs defective products at its workshop near Angers before reselling plant in the United States. The All-Clad pans, recovered from chefs, are them at a bargain price in its store with a one-year guarantee. Thanks disassembled, cleaned, returned to their original condition, brushed, to this partnership, the association put over 5,500 appliances back and polished for a pristine result. They leave the plant looking as into circulation in 2019 that would, otherwise, have been destroyed. good, and working as well, as when they were new, but at half the Over a three-year period, it has also allowed 15 people caught in an price and with much less of an impact on the environment (95% less unemployment trap to get back working. The future RépareSeb center energy consumed). This ENCORE range has received support from in Paris (see page 165) will incorporate a similar project. a number of chefs. 5,000 frying pans have been reconditioned within the past five years. In 2019, in France, Tefal received the support of ADEME to study the retreading of stainless steel frying pans. This will start in 2020. 168 GROUPE SEB UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Climate action 3.10. Climate action CONTRIBUTE TO THE FIGHT AGAINST CLIMATE CHANGE THANKS TO OUR LOW-CARBON STRATEGY From the design of a product to the end of its life, the Group takes The data given below are for a worldwide scope for ISO 14001-certified measures to limit its environmental footprint (eco-design, ecoentities (1). They include the WMF sites in Europe and Supor sites in manufacturing, eco-logistics, recycling, etc.) and contribute to Xiangsu, certified in 2018. combating climate change. It does so by using its product eco-design 3 The SEB Campus head office in Écully joined the reporting scope guide and ISO 14001 international certification. In the factories, offices, in 2015. laboratories and warehouses, all Group employees and contractors are made aware of the importance of respecting the environment. Data concerning new acquisitions will be included progressively, as Groupe SEB’s environmental strategy is supervised by the Quality, and when they are integrated into the various Group processes. The Standards and Environment department and is coordinated across 2019 data is thus exclusive of EMSA and WMF (aside from WMF’s the sites by Environment, Health and Safety Coordinators. Information European sites that were included in the reporting scope this year). on Groupe SEB’s environmental expenditure is available on page 261. ANALYSIS OF THE GROUP’S GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS In 2017, Groupe SEB launched an assessment of the greenhouse Scope 2: emissions caused by the consumption of electricity bought gases (GHGs) emitted along the entire length of its supply chain. This on the Group’s industrial and logistics sites. analysis was performed according to data for 2016 with the help of the Scope 2:149,106 tCO2eq consultancy firm Deloitte. It distinguishes scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions that are directly linked to the Group’s production Scope 1 and 2 emissions (207,155 tCO2eq) consist of the Group’s activities from so-called indirect scope 3 emissions. emissions from its plants and logistics sites (see eco-manufacturing section on page 173). Scope 1: emissions linked to the consumption of fossil fuels (mostly natural gas) used for certain industrial processes or to heat buildings Scope 3: indirect emissions that are not directly linked to the on the Group’s ISO 14001-certified industrial and logistics sites. manufacture of products (e.g. purchases of goods and services, the use of products sold, and downstream and upstream transport). Scope 1:58,049 tCO2eq Scope 3:15,473,978 tCO2eq Groupe SEB’s total emissions in 2016 amounted to 15.7 million tons of CO2 equivalent. These break down as follows: BREAKDOWN OF GROUPE SEB’S ANNUAL GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS Raw materials Manufacturing 1.3% Product use 69.3% components and Other 1.6% upstream transport 26.3% Downstream transport 1.5% (1) Certificates obtained by sites prior to their acquisition by Groupe SEB were not taken into consideration. GROUPE SEB UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2019 169 3 Corporate Social Responsibility Climate action GLOSSARY METHODOLOGICAL NOTE Raw materials, components and upstream transport: emissions The emissions factors used are taken from databases (that of the linked to the extraction of raw materials and the processing of International Energy Agency and the carbon database of ADEME (2). materials and components by Groupe SEB. This includes emissions There is a degree of uncertainty in the GHG Protocol’s calculation generated by purchasing services such as upstream transport. method, since it is based on average emissions factors and given the number and type of data requested. It nevertheless provides Production: emissions linked to the energy consumed by the Group’s information about the proportions of the Group’s main emissions industrial and logistics sites (combustion of fossil fuels and electricity items, which serve as a useful guide for its strategies to reduce its consumption) = scopes 1 and 2. carbon footprint. Downstream transport: emissions linked to transportation of the To calculate the Group’s carbon footprint, the teams used the ecoGroup’s finished products from the plant to customers’ warehouses. production reporting data for scopes 1 and 2, and the life cycle Use of products: the calculation of emissions linked to the use studies for the different product families for scope 3. The GHG of products takes into account the electricity consumed by small emissions generated by product manufacture, described in the “Ecoelectrical appliances, the gas and electricity required for operation, and manufacturing” section, and the GHG emissions linked to logistics the washing (in hot water) of cookware. For every product category, presented in the “Eco-logistics” section, are monitored by a dedicated the calculation considers their hypothetical use over the year and the reporting system. sales volume. Products that have contributed to GHG emissions account for 94% Other: this emissions item covers various types of emissions that of sales by volume and 98% by revenue. This assessment confirmed are not very significant if taken separately. It includes, for example, that the main priorities for improving the Group’s carbon footprint are: emissions linked to Group employees’ journeys to work, business ■ products and their use; travel, and consumers’ trips to stores. It also includes emissions linked to the end of life of products. ■ raw materials; ■ transport of products and components; ■ product manufacture. TARGETS: SHORT AND LONG-TERM Groupe SEB has set itself ambitious targets to reduce its carbon footprint: 2020 TARGETS ■ 20% lower energy consumption by production plants (base year: 2010). In 2013, the Group set out an initial series of 2020 targets: Progress at year-end 2019: 21.3% reduction at constant scope (3); ■ 20% lower energy consumption by electrical products (base year: ■ 20% minimum recycled materials in the new products and their 2013). packaging. Progress at year-end 2019: down 11% on reference products. Progress at year-end 2019: 35% for products manufactured by As part of the international Science Based Target initiative (see the Group; below), the Group has undertaken to reduce the environmental ■ 20% lower greenhouse gas emissions from the transportation of footprint of its electrical products during use. Eco-design projects products and components (per product sold) (base year: 2013). and developments in technology will enable significant reductions Progress at year-end 2019: 33% reduction. in energy consumption. That is already true for steam generators, hair dryers and kettles; (2) French Environment and Energy Management Agency. (3) Covers all the industrial and logistics sites within the 2010 sustainable development reporting scope. 170 GROUPE SEB UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Climate action LOW-CARBON SCIENCE-BASED TARGETS To strengthen its contribution to combating climate change, in 2016 recommendations for limiting the average global temperature rise to Groupe SEB joined the Science Based Targets initiative launched below 2° C by the end of the century. by the WWF, alongside the Global Compact (UN), the WRI (World In 2018, the Group set out its own short and long-term SBT targets, Resources Institute) and the CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project). that pick up on its 2020 targets. They were officially approved by the This initiative encourages large companies worldwide to align SBT Initiative (SBTi) in early 2019. Groupe SEB is thus amongst the their greenhouse gas emission reduction targets with the IPCC’s 100 leading companies worldwide to have brought their low-carbon strategy into line with the Paris Accord. FACTORIES -40% -60% GHG emissions generated CO2 eq* intensity CO2 eq* intensity Carbon neutrality by product manufactured SCOPES 1 AND 2 GHG emissions generated 3 by product manufactured 2023 2030 2050 PRODUCTS GHG emissions from product energy consumption SCOPE 3 -15% -40% *CO2 eq intensity = CO2 eq / product unit CO2 eq* intensity CO2 eq* intensity 2016 base year The Group established special governance to achieve these goals and Three driving forces have been identified: specify the necessary course: — optimizing energy consumption: energy audits, roll-out of ■ the “product manufacturing” low-carbon strategy (scopes 1 & an energy indicator (kWh/product unit) within manufacturing 2) is defined and controlled by a low-carbon Steering Committee operations, choice of less carbon-intensive energy sources, etc. coordinated by the Sustainable Development department. It brings — increasing the proportion of renewable energy: on-site energy together representatives from the Cookware and Small Electrical generation with solar panels, Appliance Industry departments, the Quality Standards and — purchasing green energy: Renewable energy certificate, and Environment department, the Purchasing and Management Control so on; department. This committee follows the environmental road-map, ■ the “product energy consumption” low-carbon strategy that more broadly covers all issues pertaining to environmental conservation. At its first session in July 2019, it set out the strategy’s (scope 3) is coordinated via the eco-design road-map. In 2019, two priorities: under this road-map, two dedicated meetings were held for each product category to adjust the action priorities to its particularities. ■ reduction in greenhouse gas emissions from plants, To strengthen its environmental approach, the Group worked with ■ the increase in their renewable energy sources. the WWF NGO, which supported it with multiple specific projects including, in 2018, the formalization of SBT targets and its ecopackaging policy (see page 173). GROUPE SEB UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2019 171 3 Corporate Social Responsibility Climate action ECO-DESIGN ECO-DESIGN GUIDE A special effort was made in 2018 to make the methodology more robust and to include new data from recyclers, particularly in Groupe SEB’s eco-design policy aims to reduce the environmental partnership with Ecosystem, the main French eco-organization. footprint of the Group’s products throughout their life cycle. To move In 2016, the Group undertook to establish the environmental profile forward with this policy, it is supported by an eco-design guide that of each product family through summary fact sheets for internal use. clearly incorporates every stage of the life cycle of products and their Based on the results of the PLC study, they respond to 3 questions: packaging (extraction of raw materials, manufacturing, transport, Which stage of the product life cycle affects climate change the most? use and end of life). It is structured around the Group’s eco-design What resources are required to manufacture the product and make priorities: energy efficiency, recyclability, reparability, use of recycled it work? What ways are there to reduce the impact on the climate materials and bio-sourced polymers, reduction of carbon footprint and resources? Designed with the participation of the Development, during transport, replacement of unpopular substances, etc. For Marketing and Quality teams, these facts sheets are available on the each eco-design priority, the guide states the Group’s ambitions Intranet. They are both awareness-raising materials and a tool to and defines performance levels based on measurable criteria. Ecoassist with targeting eco-design efforts. Two new fact sheets were design is embedded within the product design process and allows distributed in 2019, raising the number of environmental profiles done project teams to select the appropriate performance level for each to date to 12. new product based on the specifications. This guide is a key tool in meeting the Group’s environmental targets. It has been distributed to the entire innovation community, i.e. the ENERGY EFFICIENCY Marketing, R&D, Design, Purchasing, Quality and Legal teams. Its introduction was underpinned by a major training initiative in Over the whole product life cycle, close to three quarters of the carbon 2014/2015, and since then additional training has been regularly impact comes from their energy consumption during the use phase, organized for the development teams. In 2019, the Group developed which far outstrips the figure for the manufacturing phase (1.3%). a new eco-design training module, extended to a broader audience Aware of the importance of the energy issue, since 2015 the Group (Innovation, Marketing, Design, Development and Quality teams) has ramped up its coordination of such initiatives. It is concentrating from a more operational perspective given the ramp-up in demand its efforts on about ﬁfteen priority product families, those with the for eco-designed products. The goal is to help them better understand greater impact on electrical consumption in terms of their individual eco-design concepts and challenges, to understand the opportunities consumption and the volumes sold. For each one, the Group defined a they represent in their area, and to make the most of them by using standard method for calculating consumption and energy efficiency, as the resources provided by the Group (tools, case studies, monitoring well as one or two standard products that will be used as a benchmark documents, etc.). Two pilot sessions brought together 30 participants for measuring progress. in 2019 with a view to an upcoming roll-out in France and later abroad. In the case of kettles, for example, aside from temperature setting Above and beyond the eco-design priorities set out in the guide, functionality, which has already been incorporated, the Group the Group favors any initiative designed to increase the ecois working on multiple areas of improvement, in particular to help responsibility of Group products. Thus, wooden handles from the consumers to only heat the amount of water they need. There has also Natura cookware range and the Ingenio Wood utensils, launched in been an emphasis on hair dryers with all new ranges released in 2019 2019, are manufactured using FSC certified wood from responsibly now using the Effiwatts technology: on a like-for-like performance and sustainably managed forests. basis appliances consume on average 20% less energy than the benchmark models. Another product family that has improved its Moreover, in order to speed up the process, the Group included an energy profile since 2018: fans. The Air Protect Eco (Samurai) fan annual eco-design target into the road-map of the Marketing managers now uses 50% less energy than the benchmark model, achieving the of the various product categories. same performance level. In previous years, the Group had already made significant progress on LIFE CYCLE STUDIES vacuum cleaners: in three years (2014-2017), the Marketing and R&D AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROFILES teams redesigned all the cylinder vacuum cleaner ranges, reducing energy consumption by 70% with no trade-off in terms of cleaning The Group regularly updates its product life cycle (PLC) studies. power or noise level. Since 2015, all new Rowenta models are under These significant studies (4), which measure the various impacts of 900 watts, two years ahead of EU regulations. Progress is ongoing products on the environment, enable us to focus our research on with new models released in 2019 only at 450 watts. To achieve this reducing their ecological footprint. In 2019, 75% of families of products level of performance, the Group developed low input/high output defined as the most significant were covered by a life cycle analysis. motors, designed more effective suction nozzles and improved all air A new PLC study was done on blow-brushes and those relating to flows to reduce charge losses. hair dryers and garment steam brushes were completely reviewed. (4) Life cycle studies conducted on the most representative models of each of the Group’s product families in terms of technical features, sales and geographic distribution. 172 GROUPE SEB UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Climate action To reduce the energy footprint of its products, the Group is also As regards the substitution of expanded polystyrene wedges, this encouraging consumers to properly adjust their appliances. For has already been done for the Steam’Up steam cooker (Moulinex) example, in an increasing number of steam generators, the product using a clever cardboard padding system. Other solutions are being automatically starts in “eco” mode rather than in standard mode. This examined, in particular using “honeycomb cardboard”, an option initial default setting removes the risk of the consumer using a setting already in use over the past number of years for Rowenta vacuum that is potentially more than they need. cleaners manufactured in Vernon. Molded pulp packaging is another possible alternative. With regard to the level of recycled ﬁbers, the packaging used at the ECO-PACKAGING European production sites is already above the 90% target with Asian sites not far off. The Group is thus focusing its efforts on the Americas. GROUPE SEB 2023 TARGETS Beyond these three priorities, there are other examples of progress • Zero plastic packaging on eco-packaging in 2019. For example, bakeware (Kaiser) intended • Zero expanded polystyrene for the 8,000 counter displays designed for retailers are no longer • 90% recycled fibers individually wrapped but stored in bulk until placed on the counter display, before being sent to the outlets. Performance over the past The Group’s eco-design policy includes product packaging. It is aimed year: 6.5 tons of cardboard and 600 kilos of plastic saved. In the 3 at ensuring that it correctly fulfills its protective, storage, transport, Spiralizer vegetable cutter (Tefal), the paper instruction leaflet was information and handling functions while minimizing its environmental removed and replaced with a digital version, which can be downloaded impact. In 2018, the Group standardized and formalized its responsible from the brand’s website. packaging policy with the support of the WWF (WorldWide Fund for Nature). It is produced and co-signed by the Sustainable Development department and the Purchasing department, and has 10 targets. RECYCLABILITY AND USING RECYCLED The use of 90% recycled fibers, the elimination of internal plastic MATERIALS packaging and expanded polystyrene are the top three priorities for 2023. In any event, the packaging must be designed along with See page 166. the product, minimizing empty space and the amount of materials needed, while guaranteeing product quality. Packaging that is difficult to recycle must be limited and any superfluous packaging avoided. REPARABILITY Suppliers are also strongly encouraged to use FSC certified cardboard See page 164. sources. For printing, inks must be water or plant based, without mineral oils. With regard to inserted documents (user instructions, safety recommendations, etc.), the Group wants to make these UNPOPULAR SUBSTANCES paperless and so reduce the amount of paper used. Consumers will be made more aware of waste sorting and recycling, through information See page 118. given on the packaging. As regards the elimination of plastic packaging, many products achieved this in 2019, including the 5-second mini meat mincer (Tefal), 600,000 of which were sold, equating to the same number of plastic wrappers avoided. The Cookeo pressure cooker (Moulinex) plans to follow suit in 2020 and it is also planned for the transport of Tefal frying pans manufactured in Rumilly. ECO-MANUFACTURING In 2017, the Group adopted the new version of ISO 14001, which GROUPE SEB 2023 TARGETS strengthens the role of management and promotes a more global • 100% of plants ISO 14001 certified approach to the impact of site operations on product life cycle. Since 2003, the Group has adopted a worldwide environment This change implies the upskilling of the teams through training management system. This system aims, first and foremost, to prevent and increased involvement of the international network of Health, pollution, control the use of resources (energy and water) and reduce Safety and Environment coordinators. This network is coordinated in waste. This approach translates into ISO 14001 certification of sites particular through quarterly meetings, typically using video. based on compliance with applicable laws and regulations, and the principle of ongoing improvement in environmental performance and prevention of pollution. GROUPE SEB UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2019 173 3 Corporate Social Responsibility Climate action ECO-INNOVATIVE PROJECTS: the sites with detailed technical documentation on the energy BEST PRACTICES FOR SHARING optimization of compressed air, lighting, heating and air-conditioning installations. In order to share best practices, each plant and logistics site worldwide On the Group’s sites worldwide, the search for energy efficiency has is invited each year to present at least one eco-innovative project led to a multitude of actions that can be shared as good practices. designed to reduce the environmental impact. Five areas of action Here are some examples: are identified: reducing energy consumption and using renewable energy; energy and environment management; reducing waste and ■ In China, in 2017-2018 the Supor site in Shaoxing changed its 170 recycling; reducing water use; biodiversity protection. Since 2014, this molding machines to plastic injection replacing a very energy challenge has made it possible to create a database of close to 200 intensive heating coil with a new insulation strip resulting in 30% best practices for sharing. less energy consumption. Moreover, its surface temperature, which is markedly lower, improves operator comfort. In 2019, the The 2019 challenge brought together 53 projects across 30 sites and Hangzhou site installed this mechanism on all its molding machines. entities, over half of which are related to energy. Three projects in Along the same lines, other Group sites made progress in 2019 particular stood out for their innovative and reproducible nature, the on the plastic injection insulation sheaths, in particular the ones significant environmental benefit they offer and their quick return on at Emsdetten (EMSA) and at Mayenne in France. The Xiangsu site investment: (China) launched a program to optimize insulation and the mold ■ the Selongey site (France) started a project designed to reduce heating system with the key being energy consumption of close to water and energy consumption from the washing and degreasing 50% less when operating. of stainless steel parts when manufacturing pressure cookers. ■ The production of compressed air is also one of the areas for The replacement of the existing wash tunnels with more efficient energy improvement and many sites are making progress on this, equipment will allow significant environmental savings: 50% of including Lourdes (see eco-innovative projects above), Shaoxing, natural gas, 10% electricity and more than 70% of water. A first Hangzhou, Shanghai and Erbach. tunnel washer was changed in 2019 and the three others will be ■ In Selongey, optimizing the dust extraction system used in shortly; connection with the polishing of pressure cooker pots resulted in a ■ on the EMSA site in Emsdetten (Germany), the emphasis was on sharp reduction in energy consumption. It encompasses both the reducing waste and protecting water resources. The goal was to electricity consumed by the three dust extraction systems relating eliminate any risk of the dispersal of the plastic granules used in to the reduction in air flows with the outside during winter. The the manufacturing process to prevent them from getting into the operation has therefore significantly reduced both CO2 emissions wastewater and then into nature in the form of micro-plastics. and energy bills. Recovery systems were therefore installed in the various areas in ■ In Germany in 2018, the WMF/Silit site in Riedlingen installed a which the granules are used. This was accompanied by a campaign new energy-saving ventilation system that also recovers the warm to raise the awareness of teams regarding the protection of the air going out, which reduces heating needs. This system made it oceans; possible to significantly reduce energy consumption. ■ the third project, implemented in Lourdes (France), involves energy ■ In Omegna (Italy), where the site has taken advantage of two savings with the installation of a next generation variable speed existing 80m wells (used for its industrial processes) to introduce compressor. Aside from its improved energy efficiency, it allows a reversible cooling/heating system for its offices. The system is heat to be recovered for building heating and improves working based on the fact that, at that depth, water remains at a stable conditions by virtue of the fact that it is quieter. temperature (around 10 °C), whatever the season. Passing through a circuit which does the rounds of the site premises, the water cools REDUCING THE SITES’ CARBON FOOTPRINT the buildings in summer and can heat them in winter. Meanwhile, the new site in Itatiaia (Brazil) has incorporated environmental To achieve its “low carbon” targets for product manufacturing considerations from its construction (natural ventilation and lighting (scopes 1 and 2, see page 171), the Group acts on the two main and mist cooling system, etc.). drivers: reduction in energy consumption and use of renewable energy. Generally speaking, all the sites are continuing to gradually replace their existing lights (particularly including fluorescent tubes) with LED Using less energy systems (50% to 75% lower consumption). This operation will not only reduce the energy footprint, but also generate significant savings. In 2019, the Group rolled out an energy management standard, based on the essential requirements of ISO 50001. It was incorporated into the online audit manual and will be gradually applied to all sites, Developing renewable energy harmonizing practices in terms of organization, energy monitoring, The Is-sur-Tille site (France) was the first in the Group to install a training, etc. Several of the Group’s sites that are already ISO 50001 solar power air-conditioning system for an assembly workshop where certified have made considerable advances in this area: Erbach the temperature was very high in the summer. Photovoltaic panels (Germany), Rumilly and Tournus (France), most of WMF’s European supply the electricity needed by the air-conditioning units, and when sites and the EMSA site in Emsdetten. In France, the Group provided these units are not in use, it is used for other purposes. This initiative improves working conditions using a carbon-neutral solution. 174 GROUPE SEB UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Climate action In 2019, solar panels were installed at SEB Campus in Écully with which the Group recently acquired, has solar panels that generate over the goal of covering 20% of its energy consumption as well as at the half its electricity (Wilber Curtis is not yet included in Group reporting). headquarters of the subsidiary in the Netherlands. Plans for a solar Since 2010, the Group has reduced the energy consumption of its power plant in Colombia were also approved and will shortly become plants and logistics sites by 21.3%, at constant scope. It is therefore a reality at the Rionegro plant. Other projects are being examined, in on its way to achieving the target of a 20% reduction that it has set particular in France, Italy, China, Egypt, Brazil and Vietnam. It should itself for 2020. be noted that the Wilbur Curtis site in Montebello (United States), ISO 14001 CERTIFICATION Groupe SEB’s goal is for all of its industrial and logistics entities to be ISO 14001 certified worldwide. (Worldwide) (in tons) 2019 2018 2017 3 Number of certifiable entities 41 34 35 Entities holding ISO 14001 certification * 100% 100% 97% * Based on industrial and logistics entities at the end of the year considered (including the Group’s head office). All the entities scheduled for ISO 14001 certification in 2019 successfully earned their certificates. The WMF sites (excluding WMF Heshan scheduled in 2020) entered the consolidated Group in 2019, which explains the increase in the number of certifiable entities between 2019 and previous years. CONSUMPTION OF RESOURCES (ISO 14001-certified entities) Direct raw materials (in tons) 2019 2018 2017 Total consumption of metals 166,707 165,758 161,731 Total consumption of plastics * 100,558 94,247 89,315 Total consumption of packaging 106,546 114,370 105,775 * This indicator consolidates polymers including plastics and rubber. Several sites are innovating to reduce the amount of materials used. In Riedlingen, WMF reduced as far as possible the dimensions of the steel disks used to manufacture its stewing pots. For the 24 cm diameter product range alone, the site saved over 32 tons of steel in 2019. At the Rionegro site (Colombia), the optimization of the aluminum smelting process has halved the quantity of material needed to produce a caldero (pressure cooker) and the energy consumption per unit produced has been reduced by nearly 10%. A specific system was also put in place to recycle cast aluminum waste in the manufacturing chain. Indirect raw materials 2019 2018 2017 Total consumption of natural gas (in GWh) 282.9 217.9 * 230.5 Total consumption of liquefied gas (in tons) 4640.2 4857.3 * 3948.7 Total consumption of electricity (in GWh) 385.9 373.4 * 366.6 Total water consumption (in thousands of m3) 3394.5 3395.1 * 3533.7 Total consumption of heating oil excluding fuel (in m3) 143.3 20.6 * 14.9 * Data updated. GROUPE SEB UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2019 175 3 Corporate Social Responsibility Climate action Total natural gas consumption rose 30% this year. This reflects resource. In 2015, the Group, wishing to assess the risks relating the change in the scope of reporting, which now includes WMF. to water and its availability, carried out an analysis of its industrial Consumption declined 5% at constant scope. With natural gas being facilities according to the geographic location of the sites in question, the main source of energy for heating at the Group’s plants, weather using the Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas reference tool published by World patterns have a significant effect on consumption. Resources Institute (WRI). This assessment was updated in 2016; with another update ongoing that is scheduled to be completed in 2020. After a start-up year for the cookware business in 2018, the Itatiaia site in Brazil recorded a more stable year in 2019. The decline in its This analysis showed that none of the Group’s plants or logistics sites consumption of liquefied gas for the process is partly the source of is in a region under “extreme” or “high” water stress according to the the 4% drop in the Group’s consumption. Overall water risk indicator, which measures availability, quality and water-related dispute risks on an aggregate basis. In addition, 20 of the The increase in electricity consumption is limited because of a series Group’s industrial or logistics sites are located in regions exposed to a of energy efficiency measures taken at our production facilities, risk which is considered to be “low” or “low to medium”. In the future, the particularly in China. Group will pay particular attention to the 12 industrial and logistics sites Total water consumption was stable: the water savings achieved by located in regions where the risk is considered to be “medium” or “high”. the highest consumers offset the expansion of the scope. Certain sites The Group is therefore attentive to the preservation of water resources. in China did in effect reduce the biggest water consuming processes. Good practices aimed at reducing water consumption and recycling The Hayingen site in Germany, newly included in the reporting, uses effluents have been introduced on the industrial sites. They are shared heating oil for heating. Its consumption has a strong impact on the as part of eco-innovative projects, as illustrated by the Selongey Group’s data. example in 2019 (see page 174). Many sites are involved in this approach: the Canonsburg site (All-Clad) has therefore implemented Water supply a program to eradicate excessive water consumption, while the sites in In 2019, Groupe SEB consumed nearly 3.4 million m3 of water Hangzhou (China) and Rionegro (Colombia) recycle waste water which, worldwide, mainly in cookware manufacturing processes. In addition after treatment, is re-used in production or to supply the washrooms. to the volumes consumed, it is of paramount importance, however, to The Rionegro site has also put in place a system for capturing and consider the location of consumption, in order to look at consumption storing rainwater, covering over half of the site’s water needs. In Itatiaia in relation to regions under water stress where water is a sensitive (Brazil), some of the wastewater treated by the water treatment plant is used to clean tools. WASTE Progress is being made in the reduction of industrial waste, capitalizing Pallets are also re-used: in Lourdes and Vernon, component delivery on practical initiatives. On many of the Group’s plants, the largest pallets have been aligned with the palletization standards of the volume of non-hazardous waste comes from the packaging of Group’s finished products so that they can be re-used for shipments delivered components. To reduce this, some packaging is now being to customers. Some initiatives also relate to production methods, sent back to suppliers to re-use for future deliveries: in Erbach for such as in Erbach where optimization of the assembly process of some the cardboard that protects the iron sole-plates (6.4 tons of waste irons has reduced the amount of glue waste from the rinsing cycles saved per year), in Selongey for the containers of pressure cooker by a factor of three. In Saint-Jean de Bournay (France), the ink-pots in modules and handles, and also in Is-sur-Tille, Vernon, Shanghai, and the tampon printing machines are being progressively modified to be elsewhere. In Vietnam, the Binh Duong site (Asia Fan) eliminated the able to adjust the volume of ink to production requirements, allowing plastic sachets around the fan components. the quantity used to be reduced by around a third. (Scope: ISO 14001-certified entities) 2019 2018 2017 Non-hazardous waste (NHW) ** (in tons) 34,599 26,559.5 * 25,002 Percentage of NHW recycled ** (as a %) 69.3% 58.3%* 61.4% Percentage of NHW used for energy ** (as a %) 14.9% 18.1% 16.1% Production of Hazardous Waste – excluding waste oil, effluent and sludge (in tons) 1,991 1,954.1 * 1,912 Sludge produced by internal wastewater treatment plants (in tons) 3,708 3,712.4 * 4,132 * Data updated. ** Excluding Oils, Metals and Sludge. 176 GROUPE SEB UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Climate action The increase in non-hazardous waste is primarily due to non-recurring work waste on site. In 2019, 84.2% of the non-hazardous waste was treated through recycling or used to produce energy. The portions of waste sent to the recycling streams are subject to highly variable local regulations and international context. The Group also records its metal waste: 20,194 tons. GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS (ISO 14001-certified entities) (in tons of CO2 equivalent) 2019 2018 2017 Greenhouse gas emissions 241,954 220,995 * 218,426 * Data updated. Greenhouse gas emissions rose between 2018 and 2019 (+9%), in line with the inclusion of WMF in the scope. At constant scope, we note, however, a 3% drop in emissions, due to the overall decline in the energy consumption of the sites (see table on consumption of indirect resources, page 175). By number of product unit, greenhouse gas emissions (scopes 1 and 2) are 859 gCO2eq / product, down 4.1% compared to 2018. With regard to volatile organic compounds (VOCs), Groupe SEB regularly tests its emissions (which are relatively small in terms of volume) in order to treat and control these emissions. The Group has made significant investments, totaling several million euros, to improve the sites most 3 concerned by VOCs (e.g. Rumilly). These investments aimed to treat emissions as well as to overhaul processes in order to very substantially reduce VOCs. PREVENTION OF POLLUTION Noise and other disturbances Prevention of air, soil and water pollution is the first pillar of the At many sites, management of noise pollution must comply with Group’s environmental policy, designed to protect the ecological regulations, and the management of any complaints in this regard balance around our sites. In 2018, the Group strengthened its tools must be managed in accordance with ISO 14001. All certified sites in this area, putting in place an environmental risk assessment therefore have procedures in place to deal with these complaints. methodology common to all the sites and defining a common standard Furthermore, noise pollution, light pollution and odors from the Group’s for emergency response situations. sites are insignificant given its operations. Discharges into water BIODIVERSITY All the sites have preventive systems, for example water reservoirs for extinguishing fires and pipe cut-off systems. Several of them In 2019, the Group did a global inventory of the practices of its sites in have made significant investments since 2018 in modernizing their terms of protecting biodiversity by means of a questionnaire structured wastewater treatment plants, particularly Hangzhou and Shaoxing by major themes (wetlands, pollinating insects, birds, woodlands, etc.). in China. Chemical Oxygen Demand (ISO 14001-certified entities) The most striking and easily replicable initiatives were compiled into a booklet that will be provided to all sites worldwide. The Group Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) represents the amount of oxygen encourages all its entities to take steps to protect biodiversity, necessary to oxidize the organic matter and mineral content in a body for example to progressively eliminate the use of plant protection of water. It is used to measure the degree of organic and chemical products to maintain green areas. This is already happening at Group pollution of the water. In 2019, Groupe SEB emitted 174 tons of COD headquarters: SEB Campus banned such products some years ago. from its own wastewater treatment plants. The Campus also houses a 300 m2 conservation garden, established Impact on soil in 2016 with the Vavilov Institute (Saint Petersburg), the oldest plant gene bank in the world. Groupe SEB joined the network of Vavilov Besides metal stamping (pressure cookers, frying pans and gardens in order to maintain biodiversity and develop healthy and saucepans), surface treatments (non-stick) and the manufacture of responsible eating. This garden brings together varieties created in certain components that occupy less than 10% of total production Rhône-Alps in the 19th and 20th centuries, old Russian varieties and staff, most of Groupe SEB’s production involves assembly operations. a collection of wild species. Employees at the Campus can sign up Groupe SEB therefore believes it has no significant impact on or for workshop on aspects of gardening, which are run monthly from material use of land. In addition, where industrial restructuring resulted March to November. This initiative was so successful that the number in plant closures, Groupe SEB ensured that sites were reclaimed in of workshops will be doubled in 2020 to accommodate more people. accordance with local legislation. Where appropriate or required by The garden can also be self-guided, thanks to information panels. law, the Group conducts soil and sub-soil surveys, even though the majority of sites are not subject to any such compulsory assessments. Many sites created flower meadows such as Emsdetten (Germany) or Pollution studies carried out at sites that have been operational long Is-sur-Tille (France). The latter installed a swallow tower used by a term, confirmed that the Group’s business does not have any notable colony of swallows as a place to give birth and set up a home in a place impact on the soil and sub-soil. where they were not usually found. Between 50 and 150 hatchlings GROUPE SEB UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2019 177 3 Corporate Social Responsibility Climate action take flight from there each year. Another such tower was also installed Fret 21 Scheme at SEB Campus. Other initiatives include: the Rumilly site (France) has hives; at Erbach (Germany), ponies take care of mowing the grass In 2017, Groupe SEB signed up to the Fret 21 scheme launched by and at Canonsburg (United States) an aquatic biodiversity area was the ADEME and the AUTF (5) to help companies better incorporate the developed, using rainwater harvesting, just like at SEB Campus. Many impact of transport within their sustainable development strategies. sites also planted trees, usually fruit trees (Egypt, India, Colombia, This three-year commitment initially applies to the Groupe SEB France etc.). subsidiary, which is acting as a pilot. Efforts are concentrated on four areas for the improvement of product import and distribution flows. ECO-LOGISTICS The actions undertaken since 2017 resulted in the following progress at the end of 2019: GROUPE SEB 2023 TARGETS ■ Increase in the transport unit loading rate: +2.5 pallets/truck on • Product transport 10% less carbon intensive average leaving the Orléans platform compared with 2016; ■ Increase in the number of direct deliveries to European customers • (GHG emissions by product transported – 2016 base) from the Mions platform or from plants in France, without passing The transport of products as well as raw materials and components through the subsidiaries’ platforms: by a factor of more than 6.6 in used to manufacture them is a major source of Groupe SEB’s 2019 compared with 2016; greenhouse gas emissions. The goal is clearly to reduce them. ■ In 2019, 42.4% of transport was performed by rail between the Reducing the carbon footprint is one of the main priorities of the port of Le Havre and the Orléans platform, compared with 35% eco-design guide. rail transport in 2016; An initial assessment of greenhouse gas emissions related to logistics ■ Encouraging haulage firms to improve their sustainable transport was conducted by the Group in 2009 and its reliability is development approaches: at the end of 2019, one-third of the steadily improving. To improve the carbon footprint of its logistics intersite, distribution and international shippers in France were activities, Groupe SEB is focusing on two main areas: increasing the signatories of the Objectif CO2 program (established in 2016 by loading rate of transport units (trucks or containers) and developing the French Ministry of Transport and the ADEME). (for information: new, low-impact transport methods as alternatives to road transport 58% of shippers in France were “Objectif CO2”). (river transport, rail, etc.). As part of this commitment, Groupe SEB uses the Fret 21 calculator Groupe SEB’s Supply Chain department oversees the Group’s ecofor assessing GHG emissions linked to the global transportation of its logistics policy and strategy. Its eco-logistics unit coordinates all products and components. It makes it possible to gradually improve actions, in France and internationally, and consolidates annual data the reliability of the Group’s carbon analysis, in particular by reducing using the Tennaxia sustainable development reporting system. It relies the extrapolation aspect. on the logistics managers of the plants and commercial subsidiaries Since 2005, Groupe SEB has also been a member of Club Déméter, in carrying out this work. In 2018, the eco-logistics unit and the which brings together retailers, logistics partners, manufacturers and Purchasing teams developed a checking procedure for environmental public bodies such as ADEME, University of Aix-Marseille and criteria during transport calls for tender. The aim is to prefer, at the Mines Paris. As a place in which to share thoughts and experiences, same cost, suppliers who perform best in this area, in particular those the aim of this club is to promote environmentally-friendly logistics and that have signed up to the Objectif CO2 Charter established by the to implement operational solutions designed to reduce environmental French Ministry of Transport and ADEME. The criteria examined cover impacts. fuel-saving equipment, eco-driving, use of alternative fuels, route optimization software, etc. GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS (Worldwide) (in tons of CO2 equivalent) 2019 2018 2017 Average value of greenhouse gas emissions 241,810 228,744 205,596 The flows concerned in the calculation of greenhouse gas emissions are: ■ transportation of components and raw materials between Tier 1 ■ transportation of the finished product between its manufacturing suppliers and the manufacturing site if this belongs to Groupe SEB; site and the subsidiary’s warehouse; ■ transportation of finished products between Tier 1 suppliers and ■ distribution from the subsidiary’s warehouse to the client’s delivery warehouses of Groupe SEB subsidiaries; address. (5) French Association of Freight Transport Users. 178 GROUPE SEB UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Climate action All modes of transport are included: road, rail, sea, river and air. same container with products corresponding to different suppliers, references and orders. This provides greater flexibility to better adjust Each year, a new audit is carried out and the Supply Chain department to the order levels of trading subsidiaries while ensuring the container seeks to expand the calculation scope for CO2 emissions to cover new is as full as possible. countries. The share of extrapolated emissions is therefore steadily declining. The Group is also endeavoring to reduce the empty space inside packaging as much as possible. Transporting less empty space means In 2019, Groupe SEB emitted 241,810 tons of CO2 equivalent: 24% emitting less CO2 while cutting costs. Since 2017, this parameter has from maritime transport, 71% from road transport, 4% from air been part of the product design/development process and the teams transport and 1% from rail and river transport. concerned (R&D, Marketing, Quality, etc.) have been trained in this As part of an ongoing improvement approach, the carbon emissions topic via e-learning. In 2018, the eco-logistics unit developed a tool of Brazil, Supor China and EMSA are no longer extrapolated. for estimating the economic (avoided expenses in €) and ecological (avoided CO2 kg) savings obtained by optimized product design aimed at minimizing empty space in the packaging. It tested it with multiple LOADING OF TRANSPORT UNITS teams and showed that a minor change could have a major impact, even without modifying product design. Therefore, in the case of To reduce CO2 emissions from the transportation of products and an office fan (project currently being studied), simply separating the components, the Group is continuing to improve the loading rate of 3 head and base of the fan during packaging (by removing a screw that transport units. It makes particular use of the EffyPACK process (for is then reinserted by the consumer) makes it easier to arrange the PACKaging system for supply chain EFFiciencY) and the PackSoft different product components. This results in a significant reduction software that improves palletization. In 2019, it started to use a new in packaging volume and empty space, and a net increase in number TMS (Transport Management System) software package to optimize of products per pallet. The approach continued in 2019. the container loading plans. This system makes it possible to fill the 2019 2018 2017 Container loading rate 83.9% 84.1% 84.2% Truck loading rate (intergroup shipments) * 63% 62.1% 65% * Intergroup shipments refer to shipments from plants to consolidation platforms (Rumilly P2 and Mions) or subsidiaries’ warehouses, as well as to shipments between consolidation platforms and subsidiaries’ warehouses. Containers departing from China have a loading rate of 83.6%. Containers departing from Europe have a loading rate of 87.1%. These performances are close to the optimum for maritime transport. SELECTING AND ORGANIZING containers from the port of Hamburg to the Duisburg platform resulted MODES OF TRANSPORT in all the traffic being switched from road to rail: instead of arriving in Hamburg then being transported to Duisburg by road (330 km), The Group also fosters research into transportation solutions with a containers now arrive in Rotterdam and travel by rail to the platform lower environmental impact. For long distances, primarily departing (120 km). Results: 98% fewer CO2 emissions, at a lower cost (-41%). from China, the maritime route emits the lowest levels of CO2 and is A similar process was completed in the UK. In France, Groupe SEB the least costly. Emissions have also been improved by the use of has had the MedLink Port label since 2015. This distinction is given new high-performance container ships: in 15 years, they have cut to the biggest users of the river route (the Rhône) departing from the CO2 emissions per ton transported by half. port of Fos (Groupe SEB is in the top 3). In other cases (preand post-shipments to/from ports, transport In the event of an urgent supply of components, the Group prefers between the Group’s plants and platforms or those of its subsidiaries), insofar as possible trains rather than planes, in particular between the Group prioritizes non-road transport, i.e. transport by rail and China and Europe. Rail times are half the time required for maritime river. To improve oversight of this initiative, the Group uses a tracking freight (3 weeks on average compared with 6 for ships and 2 for planes), table to monitor the percentage of non-road transport in Europe which is often sufficient. In terms of carbon footprint and financially, it for preand post-shipment to/from ports. For each entity (plant, is much more favorable than planes (-94% CO2 emissions). In 2019, warehouse, commercial subsidiary, etc.), changes in this percentage the Pont-Evêque site put in place a procedure for such distant urgent have a two-fold impact in terms of cost and CO2 emissions. In 2019, supplies by rail. The result was a 430 tons reduction in greenhouse the percentage of non-road transport in Europe (EMEA) was 36%. In gas emissions in one year. Germany, for instance, the review, in 2016, of the transportation of GROUPE SEB UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2019 179 3 Corporate Social Responsibility Climate action TERTIARY SITES AND IT REDUCING THE CARBON FOOTPRINT Computer servers that emit less greenhouse gas OF IT EQUIPMENT The Group’s IT infrastructure rationalization project, launched Groupe SEB is implementing an eco-responsible IT policy based on in 2016, has resulted in its applications being hosted in two data the 72 Green IT best practices benchmark drafted by the collaborative centers operated by Equinix, in the Paris region. These two sites are platform Opquast (Open Quality Standards). Its activities in this regard committed to an energy efficiency approach, as attested by their strive to make progress in several areas: ISO 50001 certification. They are 100% powered by renewable energy from hydroelectric power stations. Eco-friendly printing policy New ways of communicating as alternatives In 2018, the Group completely renewed all its multi-functional printers to travel in Europe (740 printers in 2019). The new generation of printers have improved environmental performance, particularly in terms of energy The growing use of the instant communication software Skype had use (optimized standby mode). Moreover, the program to reduce a non-negligible effect on reducing travel: in 2019, it meant that over the number of printers in service and make the shared use of multi11,000 meetings could be held on average each month, plus around functional machines more widespread is gradually being extended 500,000 one-to-one connections. The videoconferencing system, internationally. It helps reduce the amount of printing, which fell 18.5% for its part, recorded an average of 148 video conferences a month in two years (2017-2019), the equivalent of 150 trees saved. Efforts to (average length: 2 hours 40 minutes). promote eco-responsible printing are growing in the subsidiaries: in At the end of 2018, the Group carried out a self-assessment of 72 Mexico, for example, the awareness raised in 2019 made it possible good practices from the Opquast benchmark, to measure how far it to reduce the number of pages printed by 40%. had traveled since the previous assessment (2013) and identify areas for improvement. In five years, the Group had increased the number Processing of end-of-life equipment of good practices implemented from 39% to 69.5%. Of the areas needing improvement, several involve staff awareness, in particular In France, computers and telephones at the end of their useful lives in terms of best practice in printing and the use of search engines. have been given, since 2012, to the company Dataserv, which calls on companies working in the protected sector to dismantle the products. In eight years, more than 11,400 devices have been managed in this way. The Group also donates some equipment to associations or PROMOTING EVERYDAY ECO-FRIENDLY schools that request it. The practice is governed by a procedure that ACTIONS was formalized in 2018 and rolled out to all the entities worldwide. It All over the world, the Group encourages its staff to adopt more specifies the technical and administrative rules to follow (formatting, eco-friendly behavior and all sites, including the plants and logistics data erasure, licenses, etc.) and aims to ensure that the beneficiaries platforms, take initiatives to promote eco-friendly actions. For match the Group’s values. example, the elimination of water bottles and disposable plastic cups is quickly spreading through the Group. Depending on the site, it is accompanied by the handing out of reusable water-bottles or mugs (EMSA mugs have been successful) while we are seeing the widespread installation of water fountains. In some cases, the initiative comes from the employees themselves: for example, the Kitchenware team in Rumilly (France) has come up with several internal challenges to reduce day-to-day waste. The many awareness raising actions carried out during sustainable development week (see page 113) also help to promote eco-friendly actions. 180 GROUPE SEB UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report by one of the Statutory Auditors, appointed as an independent third party, on the consolidated non-financial statement included in the Group management report 3.11. Report by one of the Statutory Auditors, appointed as an independent third party, onbthe consolidated non-financial statement included in the Group management report For the year ended December 31, 2019 This is a free translation into English of the independent third party’s report issued in French and is provided solely for the convenience of Englishspeaking readers. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional standards 3 applicable in France. To the Shareholders, In our capacity as independent third party, accredited by COFRAC number 3-1058 (scope available at www.cofrac.fr), and member of the Mazars network of one of the company’s Statutory Auditors, we hereby report to you on the consolidated non-financial statement for the year ended December 31, 2019 (hereinafter the “Statement”), included in the management report pursuant to the requirements of articles L. 225102-1, R. 225-105 and R. 225-105-1 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce). THE ENTITY’S RESPONSIBILITY The Board of Directors is responsible for preparing the Statement, including a presentation of the business model, a description of the principal nonfinancial risks, a presentation of the policies implemented considering those risks and the outcomes of said policies, including key performance indicators. The Statement has been prepared in accordance with the entity’s procedures (hereinafter the “Guidelines”), the main elements of which are presented in the Statement and available on request from the Sustainable Development Department. INDEPENDENCE AND QUALITY CONTROL Our independence is defined by the requirements of article L. 822-11-3 of the French Commercial Code and the French Code of Ethics (Code de déontologie) of our profession. In addition, we have implemented a system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements, the ethical requirements and French professional guidance. RESPONSIBILITY OF THE INDEPENDENT THIRD PARTY On the basis of our work, our responsibility is to provide a report expressing a limited assurance conclusion on: ■ the compliance of the Statement with the requirements of article R. 225-105 of the French Commercial Code; ■ the fairness of the information provided in accordance with article R. 225105 I, 3° and II of the French Commercial Code, i.e., the outcomes, including key performance indicators, and the measures implemented considering the principal risks (hereinafter the “Information”). However, it is not our responsibility to comment on the entity’s compliance with other applicable legal and regulatory requirements, in particular the French duty of care law and anti-corruption and tax avoidance legislation nor on the compliance of products and services with the applicable regulations. GROUPE SEB UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2019 181 3 Corporate Social Responsibility Report by one of the Statutory Auditors, appointed as an independent third party, on the consolidated non-financial statement included in the Group management report NATURE AND SCOPE OF OUR WORK The work described below was performed in accordance with the provisions of articles A. 225-1 et seq. of the French Commercial Code, as well as with the professional guidance of the French Institute of Statutory Auditors (“CNCC”) applicable to such engagements, and with ISAE 3000 (1): ■ we obtained an understanding of all the consolidated entities’ activities and the description of the principal risks associated; ■ we assessed the suitability of the criteria of the Guidelines with respect to their relevance, completeness, reliability, neutrality and understandability, with due consideration of industry best practices, where appropriate; ■ we verified that the Statement includes each category of social and environmental information set out in article L. 2251021 III, as well as information regarding compliance with human rights and anticorruption and tax avoidance legislation; ■ we verified that the Statement provides the information required under article R. 225-105 II of the French Commercial Code, where relevant with respect to the principal risks, and includes, where applicable, an explanation for the absence of the information required under article L. 225102-1 III, paragraph 2 of the French Commercial Code; ■ we verified that the Statement presents the business model and a description of principal risks associated with all the consolidated entities’ activities, including where relevant and proportionate, the risks associated with their business relationships, their products or services, as well as their policies, measures and the outcomes thereof, including key performance indicators associated to the principal risks; ■ we referred to documentary sources and conducted interviews to ■ assess the process used to identify and confirm the principal risks as well as the consistency of the outcomes, including the key performance indicators used, with respect to the principal risks and the policies presented, and ■ corroborate the qualitative information (measures and outcomes) that we considered to be the most important presented in Appendix 1; concerning certain risks “Fight against Corruption” and “Human Rights violation”, our work was carried out on the consolidating entity, for the others risks, our work was carried out on the consolidating entity and on a selection of entities (2); ■ we verified that the Statement covers the scope of consolidation, i.e. all the consolidated entities in accordance with article L. 233-16 of the French Commercial Code, within the limitations set out in the Statement; ■ we obtained an understanding of internal control and risk management procedures the entity has put in place and assessed the data collection process to ensure the completeness and fairness of the Information; ■ for the key performance indicators and other quantitative outcomes that we considered to be the most important presented in Appendix 1, we implemented: ■ analytical procedures to verify the proper consolidation of the data collected and the consistency of any changes in those data; ■ tests of details, using sampling techniques, in order to verify the proper application of the definitions and procedures and reconcile the data with the supporting documents. This work was carried out on a selection of contributing entities2 and covers between 21 and 100% of the consolidated data relating to the key performance indicators and outcomes selected for these tests; ■ we assessed the overall consistency of the Statement based on our knowledge of all the consolidated entities. We believe that the work carried out, based on our professional judgement, is sufficient to provide a basis for our limited assurance conclusion; a higher level of assurance would have required us to carry out more extensive procedures. (1) Assurance engagements other than audits or reviews of historical financial information. (2) China Shaoxing; Supor China Wuhuan; Seb Do Brasil Itatiaia; Seb Do Brasil Recife-Jaboatão; Calor Pont-Evêque (France); Groupe Seb Moulinex Mayenne (France). 182 GROUPE SEB UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report by one of the Statutory Auditors, appointed as an independent third party, on the consolidated non-financial statement included in the Group management report MEANS AND RESOURCES Our work was carried out by a team of 5 people between October 2019 and March 2020 and took a total of 6 weeks. We conducted around forty interviews with the people responsible for preparing the Statement, representing in particular the Sustainable Development Department, the Human Resources Department, the Training Department, the Health and Safety Department, the Environmental Department and the Supply Chain Department. CONCLUSION Based on the procedures performed, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the consolidated non-financial statement is not presented in accordance with the applicable regulatory requirements and that the Information, taken as a whole, is not presented fairly in accordance with the Guidelines, in all material respects. 3 Paris-La Défense, March 30, 2020, Independent third party French original signed by MAZARS Edwige REY Thierry COLIN CSR Partner Partner APPENDIX 1: INFORMATION CONSIDERED AS THE MOST IMPORTANT Qualitative information (actions and results) relating to the main risks: ■ Health and safety conditions at work (prevention actions); ■ Organization of the company to take into account environmental issues and the fight against climate change; ■ Philanthropic actions (financial and product donations); ■ Promotion of Human Rights; ■ Fight against corruption. Quantitative information including key performance indicators: ■ Total workforce as of December 31, 2019; ■ Lost Time Injury Rate; ■ E-Learning Code of Ethics Training Deployment Rate; ■ Percent of sites with an overall compliance score greater than 80%; ■ Emissions de gaz à effet de serre par produit fini fabriqué (scopes 1 and 2); ■ Greenhouse gas emissions by finished products manufactured; ■ Electricity consumption; ■ Natural gas consumption; ■ Production of waste. GROUPE SEB UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2019 183 3 Corporate Social Responsibility 184 GROUPE SEB UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2019 9 Additional information Cross-reference table, Grenelle II, GRI and global compact 9.6. Cross-reference table, GrenellebII, GRI andbglobal compact References Universal Grenelle 2 − Global Registration Website sustainable Indicators Article 225 GRI 3.1 Compact Document development section SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Employment Total employees 1.a-1 LA1 page 133 Key figures Breakdown of employees by gender 1.a-1 LA1/LA13 page 137 Breakdown of employees by age group 1.a-1 LA13 page 138 Breakdown of employees by geographical region 1.a-1 LA1 page 133 Breakdown of employees by type of work LA1 page 137 Breakdown of employees by employment contract type LA1 page 135 Hires 1.a-2 LA2 page 134 Redundancies 1.a-2 LA2 page 134 Remuneration 1.a-3 LA3/LA14 page 145 Change in remuneration over time 1.a-3 LA3 page 145 Organization of work Organization of working hours 1.b-1 page 149 Absenteeism 1.b-2 LA7 page 149 Labor relations Organization of employee-management dialog 1.c-1 LA4/LA5 3 page 139 Collective bargaining agreements 1.c-2 LA4/LA5 page 139 Health and safety Workplace health and safety conditions 1.d-1 LA6/LA8 4-5 pages 141-144 Health/Safety Agreements signed with trade unions in relation to workplace health and safety 1.d-2 LA9 page 139 Frequency and severity of workplace accidents 1.d-3 LA7 page 143 Work-related illness 1.d-3 LA7 page 144 Health/Safety Training Policies in place with regard to training 1.e-1 LA11 pages 146-148 Expertise Total number of training hours 1.e-2 LA10 page 148 Number of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews LA11 page 132 Equal opportunity Fairness and Measures taken to promote gender equality 1.f-1 LA14 pages 136-138 diversity Measures taken to promote employment opportunities for and integration of disabled Fairness and people 1.f-2 LA13 page 138 diversity Fairness and Anti-discrimination policy 1.f-3 LA13 pages 136-137 diversity Governance Composition of corporate governance bodies LA13 chapter 2 Governance Promotion of and adherence to the ILO’s fundamental conventions Respect for freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining 1.g-1 HR5/LA4/LA5 3 page 139 Respect for ethics Elimination of discrimination in employment Fairness and and occupation 1.g-2 HR4/LA13/LA14 6 pages 136-138 diversity Elimination of forced or compulsory labor 1.g-3 HR6/HR7 pages 128-129 Respect for ethics Effective abolition of child labor 1.g-4 HR6 4-5 pages 128-129 Respect for ethics 354 GROUPE SEB UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2019 Additional information Cross-reference table, Grenelle II, GRI and global compact References Universal Grenelle 2 − Global Registration Website sustainable Indicators Article 225 GRI 3.1 Compact Document development section Other actions taken to promote Human Respect for human Rights 3.e rights Responsible Investment and procurement practices purchasing Percentage of major suppliers and contractors verified as compliant with Human Rights; measures taken HR2 pages 129-131 Total number of training hours for employees on policies and procedures regarding Human Rights relevant to their job; percentage of employees trained HR3 pages 128 Responsible purchasing, Respect for human Evaluation rights Percentage or number of activities for which the organization has conducted Human Rights reviews or impact assessments HR10 1 and 2 pages 129-131 Corrective action Number of Human Rights grievances filed, handled and resolved according to a Human Rights grievance management procedure HR11 1 and 2 page 130 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Reducing environmental General policy toward the environment impacts Company organization to address environmental issues. Environmental Shrink our evaluation or certification procedures, environmental where applicable 2.a-1 pages 169-179 footprint Employee training and education initiatives taken with regard to safeguarding the environment 2.a-2 page 113 Resources allocated to prevent environmental risks and pollution 2.a-3 EN30 pages 169-171 Eco-manufacturing Provisions and guarantees for environmental risks (unless this information could be detrimental to the company) 2.a-4 EN28/EC2 7à9 page 261 Pollution Measures to prevent, reduce or remedy emissions into the air, water or soil that EN22/EN23/ seriously affect the environment 2.b-1 EN24 pages 176-177 Eco-manufacturing Measures to prevent noise pollution and any other form of pollution stemming from operations 2.b-3 EN25 page 176 Eco-manufacturing Total discharge into water EN21 7 to 9 page 174 The central role of the circular economy 9 in sustainable Circular Economy innovation Prevention and waste management Measures to prevent recycle, reuse, other ways of waste recovery and dispose of waste 2.b-2 EN27 page 166-168 Recycling for reuse Total waste produced EN22/EN24 page 176 Measures against food waste page 161 GROUPE SEB UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2019 355 9 Additional information Cross-reference table, Grenelle II, GRI and global compact References Universal Grenelle 2 − Global Registration Website sustainable Indicators Article 225 GRI 3.1 Compact Document development section Sustainable use of resources Water consumption and supply according to local constraints 2.c-1 EN8/EN9/EN21 page 175-176 Consumption of raw materials 2.c-2 EN1 pages 175 Consumption of recycled materials EN2 pags 166-167 Eco-design Measures taken to improve the efficient use Eco-design; Ecoof raw materials 2.c-2 EN10 pages 172-173 manufacturing Eco-design; EcoEnergy consumption 2.c-4 EN1/EN3/EN4 page 174-175 manufacturing Measures taken to improve energy efficiency and use of renewable energy 2.c-4 EN5/EN6/EN7 pages 174-175 Eco-design Land use 2.c-3 7 to 9 page 177 Climate change Significant sources of greenhouse gas emissions generated by Company activities, Shrink our as well as by the use of the goods and EN16/EN17/ environmental services produced by the Company 2.d-1 EN19/EN20 pages 173-177 footprintT Adaptation to the consequences of climate change 2.d-2 EN18/EC2 7 to 9 pages 169-179 Biodiversity protection Measures taken to preserve or promote EN11 to EN15/ biodiversity 2.e-1 EN25 7 to 9 pages 177-178 Products and services Initiatives to reduce the environmental impact Eco-design; of products and services; scope of these page 164-168 Products end-ofinitiatives EN26 7 to 9 and 172-173 life Transport Significant environmental impacts stemming from the transport of products, other goods and materials used by the organization in the course of its operations and the transport of staff members EN29 7 to 9 pages 178-179 Eco-logistics INFORMATION ON CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP COMMITMENTS TO PROMOTE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT Regional, economic and social impact of the company’s operations With regard to employment and regional development 3.a-1 EC8/EC9 page 154 EC1/EC6/SO1/ Good corporate On neighboring or local populations 3.a-2 SO9/SO10 page 154 citizen Relations with individuals or organizations that have a stake in the company’s operations Conditions for dialog with these individuals or organizations 3.b-1 page 122-124 Corporate partnership or philanthropy actions 3.b-2 EC1 pages 150-153 Contractors and suppliers Ethics, Inclusion of social and environmental criteria EC6/HR2/ Responsible in the procurement policy 3.c-1 HR 5 to 7 pages 129-131 purchasing Extent of sub-contracting and consideration Ethics, of CSR factors in relations with suppliers Responsible and contractors 3.c-2 1 and 2 pages 129-131 purchasing Fair business practices SO2 to SO4/ SO7/ Actions taken to prevent corruption 3.d-1 SO8 10 page 129 Respect for ethics Measures taken to promote consumer Respect of health and safety 3.d-2 PR1/PR2 pages 157-158 consumers Anti-competitive practices Total number of legal proceedings for anti-competitive practices, violation of anti-trust laws and monopolistic practices and outcomes of these proceedings SO7 356 GROUPE SEB UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2019 NOTES GROUPE SEB UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2019 357 NOTES 358 GROUPE SEB UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2019 Groupe SEB Campus SEB – 112, chemin du Moulin-Carron 69130 Écully – France Tel.: +33 (0)4 72 18 18 18 2019 WWW.GROUPESEB.COM
