Bigger Picture 2020 Sustainability Report Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Table of contents S  ustainability R  esponsible at Telstra business Message from our Chairman and CEO 03 Ethics, values and governance 16 FY20 highlights 05 Protecting our customers’ data and privacy 20 About Telstra 06 Managing our supply chain 23 Our changing world 07 Human rights 30 Our sustainability approach 08 Our customers 31 FY20 performance 09 Product and service responsibility 34 Material topics 10 Mobile phones, base stations and health (EME) 37 Managing material impacts across our value chain 11 Culture and capabilities 39 Stakeholder engagement 12 Creating a diverse and inclusive workforce 41 Contributing to the United Nations 13 Promoting health, safety and wellbeing 43 Sustainable Development Goals Employment and workplace relations 45 About this report 14 D  igital  nvironmental E futures solutions Networks 47 Climate change and energy 65 Everyone connected 51 Climate change governance 68 Customers in vulnerable circumstances 52 Managing our energy and emissions 72 Regional and remote communities 55 Energy efficiency 73 Indigenous communities 56 Environment and resource efficiency 74 Disaster relief and recovery 58 Environmental risk and compliance 77 Tech for good 59 Nurturing social and environmental innovation 60 Telstra Foundation 61 Keeping safe in a digital world 63 Our response to the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) can be found in our 2020 Annual Report, 2020 Corporate Governance Statement and the Climate change and energy section of this report, p 65-73. For more information about our sustainability approach and performance, as well as access to our FY20 data pack and additional downloads, please visit our reporting website. 2 — Bigger Picture 2020 Sustainability Report Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Message from our Chairman and CEO This year is one we will always remember: a year shaped and •  o address climate change, we announced a significant T scarred by the 2019-20 Australian Bushfires and the COVID-19 step forward in our response. Recognising we are one global pandemic. of the largest users of electricity in the country, we became carbon neutral in our operations this year and These crises have exposed the fragility of the world and our challenger brand Belong became carbon neutral in its caused extraordinary hardship and disruption. They have also products and services. We also made progress on new goals reminded us of our collective strength and resilience, and to enable renewable energy generation equivalent to 100 provided an opportunity to pause and reflect on the world as it per cent of our consumption by 2025 and reduce overall is, and how it could be. emissions by 50 per cent by 2030. This year has also brought many things back to first principles, •  During COVID-19, our actions were many and varied: they highlighting again the importance of being able to connect – to included putting job reductions on hold, providing extra paid the people and things we love, the services and information leave for Telstra employees and casuals, bringing forward we need, and the communities to which we belong. Once again $500 million in capital expenditure to calendar year 2020, Telstra has played a central role in providing that connectivity to provide the economy with much needed investment, through good times and bad, for well over 160 years, it is what creating relief programs for consumer and small business we do. customers, providing temporary unlimited home broadband This period of extraordinary disruption has also caused Telstra data allowances and offering free additional mobile data. – like many organisations to think deeply about our role and To assist those in vulnerable circumstances we introduced responsibilities in the community. We have been challenged to a low income NBN Co1 broadband offer for eligible new adapt to find new ways of supporting our customers, our people broadband customers, discounts for eligible customers and the country in this time of need. At the same time we have receiving the JobSeeker payment, and unlimited home not lost sight of our shareholders. Quite the contrary. phone calls for eligible pensioners. Through the Telstra Foundation we also delivered a Mental Health Relief Ultimately, we will never Package to fast track and enhance online mental health support for young people across Australia. be successful for our • T  o build digital inclusion, we continued to invest in the Australian Digital Inclusion Index and contribute to the shareholders if our customers, national dialogue. Along with helping ~2.6 million people to stay connected during the COVID-19 pandemic, we provided people and the communities in assistance to around 900,000 vulnerable customers and enabled 23,000 people to receive digital capabilities training which we operate do not enjoy through our Everyone Connected programs. success too. •  Provided more coverage to more people in regional and remote places. In the five years to end of June this year we have invested $7.5 billion in our mobile network nationally Standing tall on key issues with $3 billion of that invested in regional areas alone. This This report details the breadth and depth of the Telstra’s year we deployed world-first technology that effectively activities during the 2020 Financial Year and our efforts doubled the range of a 4G mobile base station, increasing towards being a responsible, sustainable business. In such a it by up to 200 kilometres for some IoT solutions, in turn disrupted year, our achievements are diverse and include: increasing the range of that network to nearly four million square kilometres across the country. •  uring the Australian bushfires, we provided vital D infrastructure for emergency services and community •  To achieve global best practice, we continued to proudly evacuation centres, answered more than 55,000 calls from support the United Nations Sustainable Development customers making enquiries and seeking support, and Goals and continued to make progress against them this paid the mobile phone bills for around 10,000 fire fighters year. We are also a signatory to the United Nations Global and SES volunteers over December and January. We also Compact and remain committed to supporting its principles provided free access to our payphone network and Telstra – on human rights, labour rights, environment and antiAir Wi-Fi hotspots. Investments in supporting customers corruption – wherever we operate. and restoring bushfire damage to infrastructure will amount to $44 million across FY20 and FY21. 1 nbn™, NBN Co and other nbn™ logos and brands are trademarks of NBN Co limited and used under license 3 — Bigger Picture 2020 Sustainability Report Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Central to all of these activities is the idea that our success Looking forward depends on how we live up to our organisational Purpose and A word so-often used during the COVID-19 and Australian Values, not just what is in our contracts. Unfortunately, and bushfire crises has been “unprecedented”. Unprecedented despite our aspirations and commitment, we do not always in terms of the impact on the economy; unprecedented in get things right. the magnitude of the effect on communities and individuals; Some years ago a small number of our partner stores, unprecedented in the level of uncertainty about the future. those operated by third parties under a license agreement, What is also unprecedented are the opportunities. sold mobile devices and plans to customers in Indigenous communities that they ultimately could not afford or may not To create and accelerate the creation of a digital economy have been appropriate for their needs. Since 2018 we have as the world enters a fourth industrial revolution. been progressively implementing what is now a comprehensive To embrace a kinder, cleaner, more empathetic and program to address the specific issues, waiving debts, prosperous world. refunding customers, introducing new processes, as well as rolling out training and tools to assist frontline staff in their To ensure technology and connectivity benefit everyone and interactions. are useful in tackling some of the world’s biggest challenges. We are currently cooperating with the Australian Competition And to continue to have central in our business a focus on and Consumer Commission (ACCC) as they conduct an social responsibility and environmental sustainability. investigation into this issue. Having considered all the These are the things Telstra is focused on in fulfilling our information available, we have made a provision of $50 million in Purpose to build a connected future so everyone can thrive, our FY20 accounts for any penalties. The lessons we are learning and our progress towards them is detailed in this report. from this are helping us re-define our understanding of what We hope you enjoy it and welcome your feedback. responsible business looks like and we are holding ourselves accountable to these standards. Please refer to the Responsible sales practices section of this report for more details. Highlighting the value of our T22 strategy The enormous disruptions this year have highlighted the value of our T22 strategy. The reasons we introduced T22 two years ago – a need to simplify and digitise our business, remove customer pain points, and introduce new ways of working – are more relevant and necessary than ever before. Our T22 progress has helped us to respond quickly to our customers’ evolving needs this year, enabling us to fast-track the digitisation and automation of our customer service channels and move more customer interactions online. Our focus on creating new, more flexible ways of working also made it possible for us to quickly Andrew R Penn John P Mullen transition 25,000 office-based employees to working from home CEO and Managing Director Chairman arrangements at the start of the COVID-19 pandemic. Despite the unprecedented disruption our people have faced this year, our sustainable employee engagement score was well above target at 83 per cent, an increase of 16 points from last year. We are now past the halfway point in delivering T22 and are convinced our strategy leaves us well positioned to respond to whatever lies ahead. 4 — Bigger Picture 2020 Sustainability Report Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions FY20 highlights $26,161m 2 $1,839m Total income Net profit after tax Strategic Net Promoter Score up 4 points from FY19 32.3% Sustainable engagement female representation score of 83 across Telstra Group, up 1.3% from FY19 up 16 points from FY19 Helped ~ 2.6 million 55% reduction in Provided customers emissions intensity ~$150m of value to stay connected through from a baseline year of FY17 through our social and COVID-19 support packages community investment programs Certified as 23,000 3,923t of carbon neutral people trained e-waste collected in July 2020 through our digital capability programs with a recycling rate of 100% 2 Excluding finance income 5 — Bigger Picture 2020 Sustainability Report Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions About Telstra Telstra is Australia’s leading telecommunications company. We have a diverse range of customers including consumers, small businesses, large enterprises and government Our Purpose is to build a connected future so everyone can organisations. thrive. That is why we build technology and content solutions that are simple and easy to use, including Australia’s largest We bring innovative and intuitive products and services and fastest national mobile network: our world-leading to market, and offer a broad suite of media, content and networks reach 99.5 per cent of the Australian population. connectivity options in Australia, as well as connectivity and enterprise services globally. In Australia we provide 18.8 million retail mobile services and 3.8 million retail bundle and data services. We For more information about our business structure and also facilitate over 2,000 network points of presence in more strategy, please refer to our 2020 Annual Report. than 200 countries and territories around the world. One of Australia’s largest shareholder bases, with around 1.2 million ~350 shareholders retail stores around Australia 960,000 3.8 million 18.8 million standalone voice customers retail bundles and standalone domestic mobile retail customer services 28,959 located across employees 14 countries Mobile networks covering 99.5% of Australia’s population More than Over 400,000km 2,000 of subsea cable network points of presence across the globe 6 — Bigger Picture 2020 Sustainability Report Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Our changing world Technological disruption is fundamentally changing the way the world works. Even before the COVID-19 pandemic, businesses and communities were responding to shifts that would have seemed unimaginable even a few years ago. COVID-19 has accelerated this revolution and Australia’s trajectory towards a digital economy. Throughout the pandemic technology has played a central role, providing access to education, healthcare, work and critical services amidst physical isolation and social distancing. This experience, along with the 2019-20 Australian Bushfires, has underlined the critical importance of telecommunications networks, and the value of our T22 strategy to transform Telstra. The reasons we introduced T22 two years ago – a need to rapidly simplify and digitise our business, remove customer pain points, and introduce new ways of working – have never been more *Photo taken prior to the introduction of physical distancing requirements relevant or necessary. These initiatives have been key to our ability to respond quickly to the many challenges presented this When considering what it means to be a responsible business year, for our people, our customers and our communities. in the 2020s, it is clear that how we do business is just as important as why we do it. Community trust in institutions As well as keeping us reached a new low point at the end of the last decade, yet in a short space of time more and more corporates, like Telstra, are connected throughout standing up on important issues, like climate change. In doing so we are demonstrating we understand the expectations upon a challenging year, us and our responsibility to support the communities in which we operate. As we look forward, our future prosperity will rely telecommunications and heavily on our ability to leverage the benefits of technological innovation like 5G, Internet of Things (IoT) and Artificial digitisation are key to our Intelligence in a more inclusive way, and in a way where we take greater accountability for our impact on individuals, on society future prosperity. and on the world in which we live. As technology continues to rapidly evolve and our competitive environment and industry move with it, we must also continue While the pace of change and innovation is having a to evolve our business, culture and role in society. We are well transformative effect, it is also raising important questions positioned to leverage our brand and reputation, a growing about digital skills and access, the ethical and privacy customer base, world-leading networks and cutting-edge implications of emerging technologies and the future technologies to maintain our position as Australia’s leading of work. These questions make it more important than telecommunications provider and, most importantly, to ever that we deliver our products and services fairly and achieve our Purpose to build a connected future so that ethically, and champion their responsible use. As a leading everyone can thrive. telecommunications company, we have a particular responsibility to help bridge the digital divide and ensure For more information on our progress in implementing our no one is left behind. T22 strategy, please refer to our 2020 Annual Report. 7 — Bigger Picture 2020 Sustainability Report Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Our sustainability approach Thriving in a digital world Sustainability governance The Telstra Board is responsible for overseeing and monitoring In an increasingly inter-connected world, digital technology the effectiveness of our Sustainability Strategy and policies. is disrupting traditional operating models and helping society The Board receives updates on Telstra’s sustainability progress to respond to major issues in a more agile and scalable way twice a year, with further updates provided as appropriate or – from managing the impacts of climate change to making required during the year. The Board also approves our annual healthcare and education more universally accessible. Modern Slavery Act Statement and plays a role in identifying As a large telecommunications and technology company, our list of material sustainability topics, which in turn informs Telstra has a role to play in helping our customers and society strategy and program development, as well as our annual adapt to technological change and the opportunities it brings. reporting. We want everyone to thrive in a digital world. The sustainability team is responsible for championing and Our Sustainability Strategy (Strategy) reflects our most embedding sustainability principles across Telstra, managing material topics, our Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) the risks and opportunities related to current and emerging priorities, the areas in which we have the expertise to make sustainability issues, and working with the business to deliver a meaningful impact, and where we see opportunities to use social and environmental programs and outcomes for our innovative, tech-based solutions to help address major societal customers and communities. The team also oversees the challenges and opportunities. implementation of the Sustainability Strategy, working closely The Strategy was developed in consultation with key with the business to ensure key targets and performance stakeholders, both internal and external, and represents a indicators are met. holistic approach to sustainability that is informed by, and Our sustainability approach is supported by a number of Telstra integrated with, our core business activities. The Strategy Group policies, including the Telstra Group Code of Conduct, includes three pillars: and our Diversity and Inclusion, Health and Safety, Privacy, Human Rights, Environment and Disability Services policies. Responsible We will be a sustainable, globally The Supplier Code of Conduct sets out our expectations of business trusted company that people want business partners and suppliers. to work for and with. For more information regarding our governance of climaterelated risks and opportunities, see the Climate change and Digital We will foster strong, inclusive energy section of this report. futures communities that are empowered to thrive in a digital world. Board and committees Environmental We will use technology to address Oversee and monitor the effectiveness of our Sustainability Strategy and policies, and approve key initiatives and disclosures. solutions environmental challenges and help our suppliers, customers and communities do the same. Telstra executive Approves our Sustainability Strategy and policies, as well as key For a comprehensive overview of our approach and progress in initiatives and disclosures. Receives ad hoc progress updates as required. relation to each of these three strategic pillars, please refer to their corresponding chapters throughout this report. A high level overview of the key focus areas of each pillar, as well as how we Sustainability, External Affairs & Legal are progressing against our targets, can be found overleaf. Works across the business to implement the Sustainability Strategy and manage sustainability related risks and opportunities. Program Telstra policies Stakeholder Non-profit investments and and processes engagement partnerships key initiatives 8 — Bigger Picture 2020 Sustainability Report Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions FY20 performance Achieved On track Not achieved Focus area 2020 target SDG Progress More info priorities alignment Responsible business Ethics and governance 100 per cent completion of our Goal 8 89.4% of Telstra Group See page 17 Being ethical, responsible and new enterprise-wide values-based employees, contractors, transparent in how we do business conduct training contingent workers and partners completed the values-based conduct training Culture and capabilities Achieve a sustainable engagement Goal 53 Achieved a sustainable See page 39 Creating a world-class workplace score that is in line with the global Goal 8 engagement score of 83 per cent, where our people can thrive high performing norm by 2022 up 16 points since FY19 Digital futures Networks Achieve commercial deployment of Goal 9 5G deployed in selected areas See page 47 Delivering leading 5G in major cities and high demand within 53 major and regional telecommunications networks regional centres 4 cities and towns across Australia Everyone Connected5 Provide tailored support, products and Goal 9 Provided tailored support, See page 51 Ensuring everyone can enjoy services to enable 1.5 million people to products and services to an the benefits of being connected connect or thrive online additional 306,000 people this year, bringing the total to 1.65 million people over three years Tech for good Invest $18 million from FY18 to FY20 in Goal 8 Invested $5.3 million in Telstra See page 61 Using the power of technology to Telstra Foundation funded initiatives Goal 9 Foundation funded initiatives enable all young people to thrive designed to support young people to to help young people to thrive thrive in a digital world in a digital world, bringing total investment since FY18 to $17.3 million Environmental solutions Climate change and energy Reduce carbon emissions intensity Goal 13 Reduced carbon emissions See page 72 Mitigating climate change impacts (tCO2e per petabyte) by 50 per cent, intensity (tC02-e per petabyte) by and helping our customers and from a baseline year of FY17 55 per cent, based on a baseline communities to do the same year of FY17 Environment and resource Reuse or recycle 60 tonnes of Goal 9 C ollected 19.7 tonnes of mobile See page 74 efficiency mobile phones and accessories phones and accessories for Using resources efficiently over the next three years reuse or recycling this year, and minimising environmental bringing the total to 59 tonnes impacts across our value chain over three years 3 For further targets relating to Goal 5 please see our 2020 Corporate Governance Statement 4 The wording of this target has been updated to reflect the wording published in our T22 strategy document. 5 This target comprises our efforts to support customers in vulnerable circumstances (including programs such as our Access for Everyone program and Disability Equipment program) and our digital capability programs (face to face and online training only). For more information see the Report Glossary 9 — Bigger Picture 2020 Sustainability Report Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Material topics Each year we conduct a materiality assessment to ensure we understand the impact of the pandemic for our customers, are responding to the environmental, social and governance people, stakeholders, business and society more broadly. (ESG) issues, risks and opportunities of greatest significance From this review we saw an increase in the materiality to our stakeholders, society and the long-term sustainability of several topics including Health, safety and wellbeing; of our business. Community investment; Maintaining trust and Product and service responsibility; as well as topics relating to keeping We undertake our assessment in accordance with the Global people connected, such as Digital inclusion; Product and Reporting Initiative Standards (GRI Standards). Each year we service innovation and the Future of work. consider materiality in the context of emerging global trends, key stakeholder interests, sustainability best-practice, and our Beyond these shifts, the overall results of this year’s overall corporate context. Our findings inform our sustainability assessment remain largely consistent with previous years, agenda and programs, internal risk assessments, stakeholder particularly with regard to our most material issues. engagement and reporting. All high and medium priority topics identified through this We identify topics by reviewing a broad range of primary and year’s assessment are listed in the matrix below. Detailed secondary sources, including direct stakeholder engagement information on these issues, as well as how we are managing and feedback. This year our direct engagement included them, can be found throughout this Bigger Picture 2020 reaching out to over 130 of our key community stakeholders, Sustainability Report. Where applicable, more information as well as over 100 ESG and institutional investment analysts may also be found within our 2020 Annual Report. to get their view of our most material sustainability topics. For definitions of our material topics, see our Report Glossary, To enable us to take a broader view of the significance of available in the Data and downloads section of our report each topic, we modified our assessment methodology this website. year. Where we previously identified and prioritised topics For more information on how we have measured Telstra’s of greatest significance to our stakeholders, and compared impact in relation to each of these topics in FY20, see the them to Telstra’s business priorities, this year stakeholder Our value chain section of our report website. priorities were compared against the ESG impact of each issue for Telstra, our peers and customers, and for the environment, Emerging topics economy and society more broadly. Our materiality assessment has also highlighted emerging We also considered the impact of COVID-19 on our assessment topics with the potential to become more significant over results. As our initial assessment was undertaken in February, time. We continue to monitor the trajectory of these topics and we revisited several key inputs in May to help us to better ensure we are managing any related impacts and opportunities. High priority > Business strategy and continuity Network resilience and reliability Customer experience Responsible business Culture and capabilities Responsible business Ethics and governance Network investment and innovation Environmental solutions Digital Futures Privacy and data security Digital inclusion Ethics, values and Product and service innovation governance Climate change Product and service Health, safety and wellbeing responsibility Maintaining trust Digital transformation INFLUENCE ON STAKHOLDERS Energy and emissions Community investment Social and environmental innovation Diversity and Human rights Regulatory change inclusion Cyber safety Culture and engagement Future of work New growth and business expansion Talent attraction and retention Industry disruption and competitive practice Workforce capability Emerging-tech ethics Supply chain sustainability Workforce changes Mobile phones, base stations and health Political and social advocacy Environmental risk and compliance Growing inequality < Medium priority Corporate taxation Product Stewardship Executive remuneration < Medium priority SIGNIFICANCE OF ESG ISSUES High priority > 10 — Bigger Picture 2020 Sustainability Report Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Managing material impacts across our value chain Telstra’s influence extends beyond our own operations and as a As part of our annual materiality process, we determine where result, so do our economic, social and environmental impacts. along our value chain each of our material topics are of greatest impact. An overview of our impacts across our value chain can be We therefore hold a broad view of how we manage risk and found in the GRI and UNGC Index of this report, which is available create value for our business and stakeholders. In accordance on the Data and downloads page of our report website. with the GRI Standards, the infographic below identifies the key stages of Telstra’s value chain, including our supply chain, For an interactive view of the key stages and structure of our direct operations, our customers and communities, and our value chain, including our key stakeholders, SDG priority product end of life. targets and material topics, see the Our Value Chain page of our report website. Our value chain Supply Chain Telstra Customers & Community Manufactured products Products & solutions Customers We purchase products, including We offer a broad suite of Delivering brilliant experiences for electronics and network connectivity products and services, our customers is our number one equipment that we provide to our media and content to customers in priority. We aim to achieve this customers or use in our networks Australia, as well as connectivity through the products, capabilities and business operations. and enterprise services globally. and customer service we provide. End of life We apply integrated and collaborative approaches to increase the recovery, reuse and recycling of our products when they reach their end of life. Service providers Networks & operations Communities We procure services including those Our networks underpin Telstra’s Our Sustainability Strategy is relating to customer support, global operations, including our aimed at enabling everyone in professional services, network products, services and overall our communities to thrive in a installation and maintenance, and customer experience. digital world. property management as well as other non-core services. 11 — Bigger Picture 2020 Sustainability Report Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Stakeholder engagement Stakeholder engagement is the foundation of our approach to sustainability. Telstra is a signatory to, or participant in, the following voluntary sustainability initiatives: We consider our stakeholders to be any group or individual who • Australian Packaging Covenant influences or is impacted by our business. • CDP (formerly Carbon Disclosure Project) We are proud of the meaningful relationships we maintain with our stakeholders and regularly engage with key stakeholder • FTSE4Good groups to ensure we understand their expectations of us, and • Global e-Sustainability Initiative are responsive to their varied interests and concerns. This helps us to keep abreast of evolving social and environmental • Global Reporting Initiative issues, and to use stakeholder insights to develop targeted • Joint Audit Cooperation products, services and programs to improve the experience of our customers and communities. • MobileMuster Our approach to stakeholder engagement is values-led. • Supply Nation Our engagement takes many forms, including face-to-face • Sustainable Development Goals interactions, surveys and market research. We are active in industry groups, participate in industry networks and forums, • Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures and have teams across the company that manage relationships (TCFD) with specific stakeholder groups. • Telco Together Foundation We aim to build stakeholder trust by being transparent, • Thriving Communities Partnership responsive and accountable. The following table includes a list of our key stakeholder groups. For information on how we • Transparency International Australia engage with our stakeholders, and their key areas of interest, • United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) please see the GRI, UNGC and TCFD Content Index to this report, available via our report website. Stakeholder Group Customers Our customers are residential consumers, small to medium enterprises, large companies and organisations, as well as government. Communities We engage with our communities wherever we operate, including non-profit organisations and program partners, as well as community groups and individuals local to our operations. Employees Our workforce is large and diverse – we have 28,959 employees located across 14 countries. Government We engage with government ministers and staff at local, state and federal levels in Australia, and internationally. Industry We regularly engage with our sector peers, as well as ICT and telecommunications specific associations around the world. Shareholders and Our investment community comprises institutional investors, buy and sell-side analysts, as well as around 1.2 million investment community shareholders, some of whom invest with social and environmental preferences. Media We regularly engage with representatives from print, radio, TV, social and online media at a local, national and international level. Unions We work closely with the relevant employee trade unions including Community and Public Sector Union, Communications Electrical Plumbing Union and Professionals Australia. Suppliers We engage with more than 5,700 suppliers from 91 countries. Regulators We work closely with industry regulators in all our markets. 12 — Bigger Picture 2020 Sustainability Report Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Contributing to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) impacts and opportunities in relation to the four priority SDGs comprise 17 goals and 169 targets aimed at addressing the listed below. Our SDG priorities reflect the areas we believe world’s most significant development challenges. Telstra is best placed to contribute to, given our role as a major Australian employer and a leading telecommunications and Working with government and civil society, businesses have an technology company. important role to play in achieving these goals. For more information on how our SDG priorities are reflected in At Telstra we see technology as an enabler of action on the our Sustainability Strategy, our FY20 performance highlights, SDGs. This is reflected in the focus of our Sustainability and the stages across our value chain where we can make the Strategy. Our strategy is aimed at helping people to thrive in a greatest impact, see the Responding to the SDGs page of our digital world. It includes initiatives and targets to address our report website. Priority goals We believe that the more connected people are, the more opportunities they have. We are making significant investments We are committed to achieving gender equality at Telstra in our network infrastructure to extend our coverage across and have implemented a range of policies, programs and rural and regional Australia, improve network resilience, engagement initiatives to help us achieve this goal. Telstra and ensure we are able to meet the rising demand for data is also a signatory to the UN Women’s Empowerment and content, including through the rollout of commercial 5G Principles. In FY20 we: services. We also help vulnerable customers to stay connected • Achieved 32.3 per cent female representation, and our communities to build digital skills and capabilities up 1.3 per cent from FY19 through our Everyone Connected programs. In FY20 we: • Provided around 6,500 smartphones to women impacted • Helped around 2.6 million customers to stay connected by domestic and family violence through COVID-19 support packages • Introduced a new paid parental leave policy in • Switched on more than 700 Mobile Black Spot Australia, providing 16 weeks leave to both primary Program sites and secondary carers. • Trained 23,000 people through our digital capability programs We are committed to providing meaningful and productive work. This commitment extends across our value chain and We believe businesses, and technology companies in into developing the skills we will require in the future. Our particular, have a critical role to play in addressing climate approach is values-led and focused on building a diverse change. As one of the largest consumers of power in Australia and inclusive workforce that reflects our customers and we are committed to mitigating our impact and in March the countries in which we operate. It is underpinned by this year we announced three climate change ambitions: our commitment to work to eradicate modern slavery and becoming carbon neutral in 2020, which we achieved in July, protect labour rights. It also includes supporting future enabling renewable energy equivalent to 100 per cent of our generations of digital innovators and problem solvers to consumption by 2025, and reducing absolute emissions by at build STEAM (Science, Technology, Engineering, the Arts least 50 per cent by 2030. We are also committed to helping and Mathematics) capability. In FY20 we: our customers to manage their own environmental impacts • Invested more than $28 million in employee learning using technology, so that we can all move towards a low carbon and development future that is more resilient to a changing climate. In FY20 we: • Were the first major Australian company to introduce • Were recognised on the CDP 2019 Climate A list a paid Epidemic and Pandemic Leave Policy, including • Were certified as carbon neutral across our operations for casuals in July 2020 • Announced partnerships with five major universities • Reduced our carbon emissions intensity by 55 per cent to build skills for the future from a baseline of FY17 13 — Bigger Picture 2020 Sustainability Report Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions About this report Our reporting In instances where GRI aspect boundaries extend beyond Our 2020 Reporting Suite comprises this Bigger Picture the scope of our reporting, we are working to increase our Sustainability Report, the 2020 Annual Report, and our 2020 disclosures. Corporate Governance Statement. Reporting scope All of these documents are available to download via Our sustainability reporting covers the financial year 1 July our sustainability report website, at www.telstra.com/ 2019 to 30 June 2020 (FY20) for Telstra Corporation Limited, sustainability/report. Our report website also contains more unless otherwise stated. information regarding our impacts across our value chain, We are working to extend our data collection to fully include infographics and tables that detail our FY20 performance, our international operations, with a view to broadening the and a number of documents to download – such as detailed overall scope of our reporting over time. Wherever possible data tables, our FY20 assurance statement, report glossary and relevant under the GRI Standards we have extended the and Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) & United Nations Global scope of this report to include our operations across the Telstra Compact (UNGC) Index. Group, as well as a discussion of any broader impacts across The Bigger Picture Sustainability Report is included in our our value chain. Annual Reporting Suite to provide a detailed overview of our This report covers the activities of Telstra Corporation approach and performance in relation to the non-financial Limited, including in relation to its Belong-branded mobile issues most important to our stakeholders, as determined and broadband products. Information regarding the controlled through our annual materiality assessment. entities in the Telstra Group can be found on our website. The structure of our Bigger Picture 2020 Sustainability Report is aligned to the three pillars and corresponding focus areas of Assurance our Sustainability Strategy. Material topics identified through Ernst & Young (EY) provides limited assurance in accordance our materiality assessment have been aligned to these areas with ISAE 3000 over a selection of performance disclosures in as relevant. Some topics represent global challenges, such our Bigger Picture 2020 Sustainability Report. For FY20, EY’s as responding to the threat of climate change and respecting assurance extended to ensuring that a selection of Telstra’s human rights. Others are key challenges for our industry, such FY20 performance disclosures aligned with the targets set in as protecting our customers’ privacy and data security, and our Sustainability Strategy. ensuring all vulnerable customers can access the benefits Additionally, we obtain limited assurance over our application enabled by modern communications technologies. of the principle of materiality, as outlined in the GRI Reporting For each topic we have provided an overview of our approach Standards. This provides readers with comfort that we have and progress across the reporting period, including our adequately identified and reported on our material issues. performance against set targets, with the aim of providing We also obtain reasonable assurance in accordance with readers with a clear view of how we are addressing our most ASAE 3000 and 3410 assurance standards over greenhouse material impacts. and energy performance information as disclosed each year Reporting standards over the greenhouse and energy metrics that form part of our regulatory National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting (NGER). Our sustainability reporting is prepared in accordance with the Core GRI Reporting Standards (GRI Standards); the UNGC For an overview of the metrics that underwent assurance this Communication on Progress and AccountAbility’s AA1000 year, please see EY’s Assurance Statement, available via the Principles Standard 2008. Data and downloads page of our report website. The GRI topics and disclosures we have reported on throughout this report and on our report website have been determined through our materiality process. The GRI & UNGC Index accompanying this report contains a full list of disclosures, including their internal and external boundaries and scope, and their alignment with the UNGC and UN Sustainable Development Goals. 14 — Bigger Picture 2020 Sustainability Report Responsible business Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Ethics, values and governance At Telstra, we are committed to acting responsibly and being Approach transparent and accountable, wherever we operate. Telstra is committed to excellence in corporate governance, As the world in which we operate evolves, our stakeholders accountability and ethical behaviour in all countries in which we expect more of us as a large, iconic Australian business. Amidst operate. We believe in creating and promoting a strong, valuesthis constant change, our Purpose and Values anchor us and based culture and recognise that long-term success depends guide our actions. largely on how we do business. While technological innovation and digital disruption have Across our operations, we promote a fair and responsible opened up new opportunities, they have also highlighted our culture through our Code of Conduct and governance policies, need to engage with ethical concerns and our responsibility to mandatory compliance training, and reward employees who support, educate and protect the people who use our services. demonstrate our values. Along with our purpose and values, our We recognise that the long-term success of our company Code and supporting policies guide directors, employees and depends on how we respond to changing expectations; not contractors as well as suppliers and other third-party business just within our own operations but in our supply chain and partners to uphold our expectation to behave fairly, ethically relationships with our business partners. and in accordance with the law. Everyone is encouraged to speak up and express concerns about improper behaviour. Progress In pursuit of our Purpose We believe it’s people who give purpose to our technology. So we’re committed to staying close to our customers and providing them the best experience. And delivering the best technology. On the best network. Because our Purpose is to build a connected future so everyone can thrive. Living our Values Our Values describe what we stand for and guide the way we do things. At Telstra, we have five core Values: • Show you care • Make the complex simple • Trust each other to deliver • Find your courage • Better together. Our Purpose and our Values are guiding the decisions we are making and sharpening our focus on who we are as a company and the unique role we play in Australia’s future. *Photo taken prior to the introduction of physical distancing requirements 16 — Bigger Picture 2020 Sustainability Report Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Governance at Telstra At Telstra all directors, employees and contractors in all areas of Telstra and its controlled entities, (and any other person We are committed to excellence in corporate governance, notified that our Code applies to them) are responsible for transparency and accountability. This is essential for the long knowing and understanding and complying with the principles term performance and sustainability of our company, and to and policy requirements that apply to their jobs and for protect and enhance the interests of our shareholders and reporting any concerns or incidents that conflict with the Code. other stakeholders. Our Executives and Managers are accountable for creating We comply with the fourth edition of the ASX Corporate and promoting a culture in which acting responsibly is core to Governance Council’s Corporate Governance Principles and our daily decisions, and what we need to deliver compliant and Recommendations (ASX Recommendations), which we have sustainable outcomes. early adopted this year. We regularly review our governance practices in light of both Speak Up current and emerging corporate governance developments We are focused on driving a positive speak-up culture of relevance to our company, to reflect market practice, across our teams and Functions at Telstra. In March expectations and regulation as appropriate. 2020, we introduced Speak Up as part of our 2020 Code Our governance framework plays an integral role in supporting of Conduct, a new platform where employees can raise our business and helping us deliver on our strategy. It provides concerns which can then be escalated to management to the structure through which our strategy and business address. Speak Up is part of our focus on building a culture objectives are set, our performance is monitored, and the where everyone has a voice, can contribute, and is able to risks we face are managed. speak up if they see something that isn’t right. It includes a clear framework for decision making and accountability across our business and provides guidance on Compliance training the standards of behaviour we expect of each other. Our group wide compliance training ‘Business Essentials’ is For more information about governance at Telstra, see our aligned to Telstra’s Code of Conduct. It defines what we stand 2020 Corporate Governance Statement. for as an organisation and outlines how everyone is to conduct themselves as we deliver our strategy. Business Essentials Understanding and managing risk covers obligations across topics like health, safety, wellbeing Understanding and managing our risks is part of how we and environment, discrimination and bullying, accessibility, work. It helps us meet our strategy and business objectives diversity and inclusion, human rights, anti-bribery and antiand our legal and regulatory obligations, and enables us to corruption, privacy and the Structural Separation Undertaking make informed business decisions and act ethically in the (SSU), and requirements under our group policies, and where to best interests of Telstra Group and our shareholders. For find more information. more information on the processes we have to understand We monitor, manage, and report compliance training and manage our risks, please refer to our 2020 Corporate completion rates across the Telstra Group, as part of our Governance Statement. Group Compliance framework. Employees who fail to complete Working ethically mandatory compliance training without a valid reason may face disciplinary action. Telstra’s Values and Code of Conduct (Code) define how we do business, and inform the behaviours we need to deliver This year 89.4 per cent of Telstra Group employees, contingent our strategy and meet our customers’ expectations. The workers, and partners completed the mandatory refresher Code directs us to fair, balanced and ethical decision making, training. While we did not achieve 100 per cent target and fosters a culture where concerns may be raised with completion, a number of factors affected our completion confidence and our people are protected from detriment results this year. Firstly, COVID-19 has affected several from doing so. Functions with staff (contingent workforce) located in India and the Philippines. Once local restrictions are eased staff will complete training as soon as practicable. Secondly, a number of contingent workers were unable to complete training due to difficulties in accessing Telstra’s internal systems from their ‘home’ IT systems. As a mitigation these individuals were provided a copy of Telstra’s Code of Conduct. 17 — Bigger Picture 2020 Sustainability Report Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Commitment to anti-bribery and anti-corruption Political contributions Telstra is committed to a zero tolerance approach to bribery In line with our sustainability strategy commitments, we and corruption. Our reputation is built on our Values, the make donations and partner with many community and professionalism of our employees and we are committed to non-profit organisations. In line with other major publicly being a responsible business that does the right thing and listed companies, we do not make cash donations to meets community standards, by conducting ourselves with political parties. We do however, pay fees to attend or integrity, accountability and transparency at all times. facilitate events which allow for discussion of major policy We prohibit corruption, bribes or kickbacks of any kind. Our issues with policy makers and opinion leaders that may mandatory compliance training is designed to educate our be organised by political parties or related entities. These employees and contractors on recognising the many forms payments can be considered as political donations in some bribes can take and how to avoid them, even at the risk of losing circumstances, and are therefore declared to the relevant business opportunities. electoral commission or government agency as appropriate. We expect that our suppliers and business partners acting on our behalf comply with our minimum standards in relation to ethical dealings which are described in our Supplier Code of Conduct. We exercise caution when offering or accepting gifts or hospitality to ensure it does not and, is not perceived to, improperly influence a business outcome. We provide donations or sponsorships on behalf of Telstra that are in support of legitimate purposes only. Whistleblowing Telstra’s Whistleblowing Policy and the relevant legislation establish protections to a range of people – including current and former employees, their relatives and dependants, and suppliers – to report concerns about unethical or illegal behaviour, or an improper state of affairs at Telstra. Our Whistleblowing Policy is supported by a confidential process that provides appropriate protections for anyone to report their concerns, a Whistleblowing Service where people can report their concerns anonymously and professional investigators and case managers to investigate any reports. Telstra’s Whistleblowing Committee, which is chaired by the Company Secretary, receives any whistleblowing disclosures and oversees an investigation of each matter and any follow-up actions that are required. Our Audit and Risk Committee of the Board of Directors oversees the whistleblowing process. During FY20, we launched a new Whistleblowing Policy, which expanded the protections and how people could report their concerns in line with new legislation in Australia. We received 144 whistleblowing reports in FY20, which was an increase of 1.4 per cent compared to FY19. We completed 148 investigations in FY20 and in 45 of these investigations the allegations were substantiated in whole or in part, noting that one report might cover multiple matters and the types of issues being reported vary in terms of the seriousness of the allegation. To report a matter, visit Telstra’s Whistleblowing Service. 18 — Bigger Picture 2020 Sustainability Report Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Managing our tax affairs Our Australian tax contribution Telstra makes a significant contribution to Australian Our approach to tax strategy and governance commonwealth, state and local government tax revenues. We are committed to the highest standards of tax governance During FY20, we: and compliance with the tax laws and obligations in the jurisdictions in which we operate. We pay tax consistent with • paid $0.7 billion in Australian income tax1, $0.2 billion our business presence and operations. in state payroll taxes and $0.1 billion in other Australian commonwealth, state and local government taxes; Our Tax Risk Management and Assurance Policy is reviewed and approved on a three-year cycle by the Audit and Risk • remitted $1.1 billion in net GST (after claiming input tax Committee of the Board. It is also reviewed annually by the credits); and Policy Governance Committee as part of Telstra’s group-level • remitted $0.7 billion in Pay As You Go withholding tax suite of policies. In accordance with this policy, we maintain a deducted from salaries paid to employees. conservative tax risk profile. All transactions we enter into are based on commercial considerations. We do not take positions In recent years, our annual payment of corporate income tax that are tax-driven, artificial or contrived, or that interpret a tax has averaged approximately 1.8 per cent of total corporate law beyond its spirit and intent. In keeping with this approach, income tax collected by the ATO2. we may contest tax rulings or interpretations of tax law where The Telstra Group’s effective income tax rate was 34.2 per cent, we believe we are correct (even if a revenue authority expresses as disclosed in Note 2.4 of the Financial Statements in the 2020 a different view). Where appropriate, we minimise tax risk and Annual Report. uncertainty by obtaining sign-offs from revenue authorities. Material tax matters are regularly reported to the Audit and Our international related party dealings Risk Committee. We utilise our international telecommunications network (including submarine cables) to deliver telecommunications We seek to undertake real-time reviews of tax risks on all connectivity services and solutions to customers in over 20 material transactions and are committed to continuous countries. Our substantial overseas operations are located in improvement of our tax compliance systems, processes and Hong Kong, Singapore, the Philippines, the UK and the US. practices. We regularly provide tax training and seminars to relevant personnel and keep up to date with the latest tax During FY20, our material transactions with our offshore developments and tax law changes. subsidiaries included: We are committed to full transparency and disclosure in our • paying and receiving fees for international connectivity; dealings with revenue authorities. This open and cooperative • paying for customer and network support services; and approach includes regular interactions with the Australian Tax Office (ATO) pursuant to its annual Pre-lodgement Compliance • paying and charging interest on cash balances used to fund Review process. The ATO categorises Telstra Corporation our subsidiaries’ day to day operations. Limited as a “key taxpayer” for income tax and GST as part of Our international related party transactions are based on its risk rating of the Top 100 public and multinational taxpayers. commercial considerations and are undertaken in accordance We have had the following interactions with the ATO under the with the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Top 100 Justified Trust program: Development (OECD) arm’s length principles, supported by regular benchmarking. • Income Tax: We received a High rating in our Tax Assurance Report. We seek to comply with Australian and foreign transfer pricing tax laws and have met our filing obligations to the ATO, • GST: We received a Medium to High rating in our GST including country-by-country reporting. Streamlined Tax Assurance Report. We continue to apply the Board of Taxation’s Voluntary Tax Transparency Code, providing the recommended disclosures in this report and in Note 2.4 of the Financial Statements in the 2020 Annual Report. 1 Income tax paid by Telstra Corporation Limited on behalf of the Australian tax consolidated group (Telstra Corporation Limited and its wholly owned Australian subsidiaries). 2 Average percentage calculated using our net Australian tax consolidated group cash tax paid divided by ATO net corporate income tax collections for the past three years (i.e. FY17 to FY19) based on the Commissioner of Taxation’s Annual Report 2018/19. 19 — Bigger Picture 2020 Sustainability Report Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Protecting our customers’ data and privacy Approach Where approved, the insights are disclosed in an aggregated and anonymised form and do not include any personally We are committed to being transparent with our customers identifiable customer data. about how we collect, use and manage their personal information. In FY20, we had five privacy incidents requiring notification to the Office of the Australian Information Commissioner We manage privacy and data access through our Code of (OAIC) and one incident which was notified to the UK, French, Conduct, policies and security controls which commit our Dutch and German privacy regulators as required. In all cases, employees to strict standards of privacy and confidentiality, we directly contacted the impacted customers to discuss and protect customer data from interference, misuse and concerns they may have and offered solutions appropriate to unauthorised access. Telstra has robust processes and their situation, such as updating customer accounts, covering operational guidelines in place to ensure it complies with all costs of credit check subscriptions (for customers whose relevant privacy regulations and appropriately manage lawful credit history may be at risk) or referral to third party identity information requests from government and law enforcement and cyber support services. agencies. We also took action to manage or remediate the breaches, Progress which included reviewing policies and procedures, implementing additional controls, and providing additional Protecting our customers’ privacy training and guidance to staff members to ensure processes As part of our approach to protecting our customers’ personal are correctly followed. information and our networks from unauthorised access, we use a combination of technical solutions, security controls Ethical AI and internal processes in compliance with the law. At Telstra, we purchase, develop, use and sell products Our employees and contractors are subject to the Telstra that use Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning Code of Conduct, which in addition to compliance with our (ML). Living our purpose means we are just as conscious of legal requirements, requires them to treat the personal and the potential impacts of AI and ML on our most vulnerable confidential information of others with respect at all times. customers as we are of the exciting opportunities they We continue to adapt our privacy framework by expanding represent to deliver enhanced network performance and existing practices to reflect new ways of working and by a personalised customer experience. We take seriously continuing to implement ‘privacy by design’ principles when our responsibility to develop and deploy these products developing and assessing new products and services. Our in ways that not only respect the privacy of our customers Privacy Statement explains to our customers how we manage and the wider community but take into account broader the personal information entrusted to us. We undertake regular ethical considerations. reviews of the Privacy Statement to ensure that it remains fit We are working closely with the Commonwealth for purpose. Government and a range of commercial, academic and notOur customers’ personal information for-profit organisations to pilot the Australian Framework for Ethical AI. In FY20 we participated in designing and We are committed to protecting and securing our customers’ refining the eight principles in the Framework, which personal information and complying with all relevant privacy include concepts such as fairness, transparency, legislation. We do not share with third parties any information explainability and human-centred values. We have begun that identifies, or could reasonably identify, a customer except testing these in real-life use cases across Telstra and will in line with our Privacy Statement, or if we are required or be reporting back to Government in FY21 to help ensure permitted by law to do so. these principles can be used effectively by Australian We also offer Telstra Location Insights which uses aggregated businesses to reduce the risk of negative impacts from AI and anonymised data insights that can be supplied to selected and practice the highest standards of ethical business and third parties to help them address a range of planning good governance. challenges in relation to infrastructure, transport, tourism and pandemic suppression. Each request for insights is presented to and considered by our Big Data Risk Council which comprises a broad range of representatives from across Telstra who consider a range of factors including the related risks. 20 — Bigger Picture 2020 Sustainability Report Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Managing cyber security The threat represented by cybercrime is not new. What is new is society’s increased cyber-dependency, which allows crime, protest, espionage and errors to happen at an unprecedented pace, scale and reach. This is why we take the security of our customers’ data and networks very seriously. We design, build and manage the security for our global network in three main ways: Technology We use a range of technologies and security controls to minimise the likelihood and impact of unauthorised access to our networks and systems. Such technologies and controls include logging and monitoring capabilities to pre-empt and proactively prepare for internal and external threats and industry-standard infrastructure configuration. We continuously invest in our security capabilities, including maintaining and enhancing our existing technologies to continue to stay ahead of new security threats. We also deploy new technologies to ensure we can adapt to the range of changing security threats. Process Our approach to cyber security risk management ensures appropriate ownership, oversight and ongoing risk management. Cyber security subject matter experts provide oversight, and our risk and internal audit functions Cleaner Pipes initiative independently assure the process. Cyber threats continue to shift, evolve and increase We also have security processes that include technical reviews and as the threats evolve so must our response. In FY20 of projects and solutions, and due diligence of third parties to we announced our Cleaner Pipes initiative to further ensure the presence and assess the effectiveness of security reduce instances of customer data being compromised controls at critical points. through malware, ransomware and phishing. Cleaner People Pipes involves upscaling our Domain Name System (DNS) filtering, where millions of malware communications are Cyber security is as much about people as it is about being proactively and automatically blocked every week as technology. We deliver programs designed to foster a strong they try to cross our infrastructure. DNS filtering enabled cyber security culture. us to protect Telstra customers from around 50 malicious We invest in our people to prepare them against a range of domains associated with COVID-19 scams. different cyber threats. We have mandatory annual training We are also now working to implement new technical for all employees and contractors, and run regular drills on our controls across our voice and SMS platforms to further employees to test its effectiveness. reduce this harm. This aligns with work across the In addition, our CEO, Andrew Penn, Chairs the Cyber Security telecommunications sector including the creation of Industry Advisory Panel where we have had the opportunity a draft industry code to reduce scam calls, which is to work closely with the Government on recommendations for currently open for public comment. developing and maintaining sovereign cyber resilience and For more information on cyber security, see the Managing maximising the benefits to all Australians of a connected cyber security section opposite. global economy. 21 — Bigger Picture 2020 Sustainability Report Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions *Photo taken prior to the introduction of physical distancing requirements Being transparent with our customers We support any effort to Telstra’s annual Transparency Report aims to give our customers more information about our legal obligations make the internet a safer as a carrier and carriage service provider. We are required by law to assist a range of Government place for all users. agencies who request customer information for purposes including enforcing criminal law and laws imposing financial Removing abhorrent violent material penalties, protecting public revenue and safeguarding national Following the Christchurch terrorist attack in 2019, the security. Commonwealth Government passed laws to prevent abhorrent violent material from being accessed widely on the internet. Telstra only discloses customer information if the request As a Carriage Service Provider (CSP), Telstra is directed to block is in accordance with the law. We also provide assistance Abhorrent Violent Material (AVM) domains via a formal lawful to emergency services organisations in serious and liferequest, pursuant to s313(3) of the Telecommunications threatening situations. Act 1997. Types of Law Enforcement Requests FY20 Additionally, to comply with the legislation we must also Telstra customer information, carrier service records 68,418 proactively notify the Australian Federal Police (AFP) if we and pre-warrant checks become aware that any internet, content or hosting service Life threatening situations and Triple Zero emergency calls 7,139 we provide can be used to access material which records Court orders 338 or streams abhorrent violent material; and we must quickly remove or cease hosting such material. DNS Blocking 1,077 Warrants for interception or access to stored communications 3,394 Blocking copyright infringement Total 80,366 The Federal Court of Australia has ordered most CSPs and Internet Service Providers (ISPs) — including Telstra — to block access to certain websites hosted overseas that ‘infringe, or facilitate the infringement of, copyright’. 22 — Bigger Picture 2020 Sustainability Report Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Managing our supply chain Approach Telstra direct supplier spend by country As a major telecommunications and technology company, we rely on a large and complex supply chain. Our scale gives us the opportunity to work with our suppliers to positively influence their environmental, social and ethical performance. Our Supplier Code of Conduct sets out the minimum standards we expect from our suppliers and forms part of our standard purchasing terms. Through our policies, supplier governance framework, training and audit program, we work with our suppliers to assess whether they are meeting our standards. Where we identify concerns about supplier performance, we engage constructively with the supplier, driving improvement to deliver the best outcomes for the workers we are seeking to protect, the community and the environment. In instances 80.9% Australia and NZ 1.8% Hong Kong where suppliers are not willing to improve their performance, 4.6% USA and Canada 1.8% Singapore despite our attempts at engagement, we may withdraw from 2.0% UK and Ireland 3.2% Asia excl India, Hong Kong and Singapore contracts or switch to alternate suppliers. 1.2% Europe excl UK and Ireland 3.9% India 0.6% Other Our supply chain More than 90 per cent of what we spend directly is with suppliers based in low-risk Our supply chain is large, complex and constantly changes as countries, as defined by the OECD. Many of our suppliers have Australian-based we award or change contracts. In FY20, we engaged directly with subsidiaries with whom we deal directly. As a result, a high percentage of our direct more than 5,700 suppliers from 91 countries and approximately spend is within Australia. However, geography is only one factor we use in assessing 80 per cent of our total spend was with 100 suppliers. In the overall risk of a supplier and we do look beyond our first tier of suppliers in making addition, our direct suppliers often have many suppliers of these assessments. their own, who then also rely on suppliers and so on. Telstra’s Supplier Code of Conduct Our largest category of spend is information and communications technology (ICT) (51 per cent). These items Our Supplier Code of Conduct (the Code) is aligned with ten are provided directly to customers, used to provide and universally accepted principles of the United Nations (UN) manage our network and data services, or used by Telstra Global Compact, Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) Code employees. It also includes services that relate to developing of Conduct, and Joint Audit Cooperative (JAC) Supply Chain and programming software, and providing technology support Sustainability Guidelines, as well as legislative obligations such to our customers and people. as the Modern Slavery Act (UK) 2015 and the Modern Slavery Act (Cth) 2018. The Code was updated in February 2020 to Construction and physical network infrastructure maintenance include enhanced requirements in relation to climate change, represents 24 per cent of our total spend. The remaining 25 per responsible sourcing of minerals and grievance procedures for cent of procurement spend is on non-core activities, such as employees. professional services, travel and uniforms. A copy of the updated Code with a message from our Chief Executive was communicated in March to our 4,500 suppliers engaged year to date. Other suppliers received this Code as part of our supplier onboarding process. This year, our Chief Procurement Officer hosted our second supplier forum with a number of our top 100 suppliers to discuss the updated Code and the enhanced requirements added in the February 2020 refresh. The forum provided an opportunity to discuss best practice and reinforce Telstra’s expectations with our key suppliers, as well as how they can work with Telstra towards a low carbon future. For more information on how we work with our suppliers on their social and environmental impact, see the Social and environmental outcomes with suppliers section of this chapter. 23 — Bigger Picture 2020 Sustainability Report Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Progress To assist everyone involved in purchasing decisions understand Supplier risk management how to apply our Supplier Governance Framework, we provide mandatory online training. This training provides our people To help make more informed purchasing decisions, we continue with an overview of their responsibilities, and the tools and to refine our Supplier Governance Framework, which assesses resources that can help manage supplier risk. Successful suppliers against twelve categories of risk (see diagram). completion of the training requires participants to pass an We consider labour practices, environmental practices, online assessment with a score of 80 per cent or above. health and safety, and bribery and corruption risks as part This year, we extended this training to all employees who of sustainability risks. We assess these risks as part of our interact with suppliers as well as all members of our executive selection and contract renewal process using a combination leadership team, meaning almost 4,000 people completed it. of due diligence reports, questionnaires, document review and, This was a significant increase on FY19, where 1,100 people where warranted, onsite audits. A supplier’s ability to meet undertook this training. We will continue to roll it out across or exceed Telstra’s minimum standards set out in Telstra’s Telstra in FY21, with completion rates monitored by our Supplier Code of Conduct is a key consideration for Telstra Learning team. when we make purchasing decisions. We have approximately 200 procurement specialists who Supplier risk types support us with complex high value purchases. These specialists are required to follow more stringent requirements and to complete an additional annual online training program explaining their responsibilities and providing information Operational Commercial Business Privacy Resilience on controls such as strict rules around accepting gifts and hospitality. This year, 100 per cent completed the training. Fraud Information Health Anti-Bribery Security & Safety Anti-Corruption Trade Export Labour Environmental Sanctions Controls Practices Practices This year, to help us gain a more in-depth understanding of our suppliers, we engaged a third party to perform Enhanced Due Diligence (EDD) screening over 1,100 suppliers that we engage regularly. As part of EDD screening, suppliers are screened against public records, such as, company registry records, media reports and civil litigation, regulatory, criminality and bankruptcy checks. We have completed EDD screening over 500 suppliers and will continue to monitor these suppliers. EDD screening will continue to be rolled out across Telstra in FY21 and as part of our selection and contract renewal process. *Photo taken prior to the introduction of physical distancing requirements 24 — Bigger Picture 2020 Sustainability Report Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions *Photo taken prior to the introduction of physical distancing requirements Monitoring compliance right away. In addition, Telstra’s confidential and anonymous whistleblowing service is accessible in eight languages to our We expect our suppliers to monitor their own and their people, suppliers and their workers. For more information see suppliers’ compliance with our Supplier Code of Conduct and the Whistleblowing section of this report. to ensure timely correction of any identified non-conformance. We also require them to notify us if they become aware of an We work with our suppliers to assess whether they are meeting actual breach or reasonable likelihood of breaching of the the requirements of the Supplier Code of Conduct in a number Code and provide tools to help our suppliers notify us, such of ways. This includes conducting governance meetings, as an online portal to disclose conflicts of interest relating to reviewing reports and public records, and undertaking Telstra employees and concerns about working conditions. questionnaires and audits. The approach we take is based We review all disclosures and the information provided is on the nature of the risks, and the category of the goods or used to help us learn from incidents, prevent reoccurrence, services being provided. monitor compliance with the Code, and better manage our This year we reviewed our supply chain risk profiles and how relationships. we categorise our purchases. This reconfirmed that for Telstra, It is important to us that anyone can report concerns about sustainability risks are more likely in the ICT products and illegal, unethical or improper conduct and we encourage our services, and construction and physical network infrastructure people to report anything which they feel is not right to their maintenance categories, which are also our two largest manager or via Telstra’s “Speak Up” platform. Speak Up was categories of spend. Within the remaining categories of introduced to give employees a channel to raise concerns spend, we have identified branded apparel and merchandise about something that could be negatively impacting our manufacturing, agriculture, and cleaning and waste customers, employees or suppliers, or not working as it should management as categories warranting specific attention. We be. Speak Up empowers our employees to raise issues they focus on these areas in the remaining categories due to the use feel need management attention so these can be investigated of low skilled and low wage labour, together with the potential for environmental damage within these industries’ supply chains. 25 — Bigger Picture 2020 Sustainability Report Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Questionnaires and audits Number of site audits undertaken We monitor sustainability risks through a combination of Categories FY18 FY19 FY20 internal and external questionnaires and site audits. This Information and Communications Technology 40 45 43 year, 65 of our higher risk suppliers were selected to complete (ICT) sector detailed questionnaires and, provide evidence to support their Construction and physical network 1 3 responses. These questionnaires have been designed using infrastructure maintenance internal and external supplier sustainability experts and are Other categories, including branded apparel 4 7 aligned with industry standards. This year, we updated our and merchandise manufacturing, agriculture, and cleaning and waste management questionnaires to make it simpler for suppliers to respond by focusing on questions which enable us to validate the evidence Other third parties, including licensees 10 provided in the questionnaire responses and work with the 44 53 56 suppliers to improve their performance. In some cases, a site audit is required in addition, or instead of, a questionnaire. As well as relying on site audits, our Contractor Management Centre of Excellence (CMCoE) team also undertake their own This year, 56 sites across 32 suppliers were selected to internal audits of our construction and physical network complete onsite audits by an independent third-party auditor. infrastructure maintenance suppliers, where health and safety For some suppliers we audit only their site (i.e. tier one), and is a significant risk. In FY20, more than 1,500 health, safety and in other cases we audit as far as three tiers down the supply environment internal audits were undertaken. chain. Our audits include and align with industry standards, set by Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) and Joint Audit Cooperative (JAC) for onsite compliance verification and effective, shareable audits. This year, we began expanding our audits to include other third parties, such as our retail channel partners. As a pilot, 10 retail channel partners, which account for approximately five per cent of total number of retail channel partners, were audited. In order to share lessons from the pilot across all our retail channel partners, a virtual education and awareness session was held with over 120 representatives from our retail channel partners in attendance. In FY21, we will consider the outcomes of the pilot to review a sample of our partners’ sustainability practices each year. 26 — Bigger Picture 2020 Sustainability Report Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions *Photo taken prior to the introduction of physical distancing requirements Remediation Industry cooperation on supply chain We review the findings of all our supplier audits. Where problems are identified we work with the supplier to develop Supply chain sustainability, particularly in the ICT sector corrective actions with agreed timeframes as part of the where there are complex supply chains, is an area that remediation plans. We then work constructively on the requires cross-sector collaboration. We work with ICT corrective actions, and review evidence provided to justify industry bodies such as the Joint Audit Cooperative closing the audit findings. (JAC) and Global e-Sustainability Initiative (GeSI) to drive improvements in sustainability practice throughout the Findings from the audits conducted in FY20 identified 14 global supply chain. critical and unacceptable findings, with working hours and health and safety being the most common areas of concern. In 2018, we joined JAC, an association of 17 global These areas are being addressed as part of the corrective telecommunications operators that pools results of site actions identified. Once addressed, these corrective actions audits of common suppliers. JAC’s audits aim to verify are independently verified through a follow-up audit before that suppliers comply with internationally-recognised being closed. In FY20, 40 corrective actions relating to the sustainability standards within global supply chains. Since critical and unacceptable findings from FY19 were closed. 2010, JAC has conducted over 500 audits in 37 countries, In instances where suppliers are not willing to improve their covering more than one million workers. In FY20, 29 Telstra performance, despite our attempts at engagement, we suppliers participated in JAC-appointed audits and may terminate supply contracts and/or switch to alternate are included in the summary of audits completed and suppliers. associated findings above. Our Modern Slavery Statement provides examples of instances Our Modern Slavery Statement provides details of how where we have become aware of unacceptable conduct by we are working with the global telecommunications and suppliers and taken steps to remediate this. information technology industries to investigate allegations of labour rights abuses in the global ICT supply chain. 27 — Bigger Picture 2020 Sustainability Report Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Social and environmental outcomes This year we also joined Meereeng 50, the inaugural Indigenous with suppliers Business Accelerator. Meereeng 50 is a collaboration between Kinaway Chamber of Commerce Victoria, PwC’s Indigenous Our supported and Indigenous workforce Consulting, University of Melbourne and a cross-sector We are proud to continue our partnership with 13 non-profit selection of buyers. It is focused on building capacity within, groups around Australia to create employment opportunities and the growth of, Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander for people living with disability or from disadvantaged businesses in Victoria. Meereeng 50, though impacted heavily backgrounds. At 30 June this year, 522 people living with by COVID-19, has proved a beneficial connection point resulting disability and people from a disadvantaged background were in the purchase of PPE gear and the onboarding of a supplier accessing employment through the program. to our Professional Services panel, as well as supporting many more conversations. Through the Indigenous Workforce Program (IWP) we partner with 19 local Indigenous small businesses and Ranger groups Working together social enterprise partnerships to undertake cleaning and grounds maintenance at regional We have partnered with social enterprise, PonyUp for and remote sites across Queensland, the Northern Territory Good since 2018. This partnership supports us to deliver and Western Australia. The IWP supports the employment of innovative environmental and social outcomes as a part of our more than 67 people at over 550 sites. commitment to both the environment and the communities in which we operate. Choosing Indigenous suppliers As part of our Reconciliation Action Plan (RAP), we have made PonyUp takes decommissioned equipment, securely erases any long term commitments to increasing our annual spend with data and then re-markets it in bulk. PonyUp then donates 50 Indigenous suppliers, creating a more inclusive and sustainable per cent of profits to SecondBite, Australia’s largest fresh food supply chain. This year we have engaged seven new Indigenous charity. Anything unable to be reused is recycled with up to 95 businesses for the first time, building the breadth and depth per cent diversion from landfill. of our engagement. In FY20 we spent just under $3 million with Our PonyUp partnership has kept 6,476kg of old technology out Indigenous suppliers, up from last year but disappointingly of landfill this year. We have found reuse channels for 22 per short of our FY20 target of $4 million. cent of this old technology, resold the remaining equipment This shortfall can largely be explained by the business-wide and used the sale funds to donate 9,491 fresh meals through impact of COVID-19 on procurement spending. All categories SecondBite. of spend were affected and Indigenous businesses were We also partner with social enterprise, Beehive, on packaging no exception. Some areas of opportunity such as events solutions. Beehive currently makes recycled and recyclable catering, which are an important category of our spending with paper return satchels that we are using as part of a shift away Indigenous businesses, came to an abrupt halt, whilst others from plastic materials. This partnership has enabled Beehive such as the need to procure rapidly large volumes of Personal to fund support services such as low-cost meal preparation, Protective Equipment (PPE) presented unique opportunities English classes, digital inclusion and employment classes, to engage Indigenous Businesses. As a result, we were able employment readiness training and support in communities to work with three different Indigenous businesses to source for seniors, long-term unemployed and people living with PPE both directly and indirectly. This was a good example of disabilities. In FY20, the transition from plastic to recycled the responsiveness and ingenuity of the Indigenous business paper satchels enabled us to remove more than 135,000 plastic sector but did not entirely offset the reduction in spend in satchels from landfill. We will continue to look for opportunities other areas. to grow our relationship with Beehive across different areas of the business. 28 — Bigger Picture 2020 Sustainability Report Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Providing our suppliers with support and building capacity Supply chain financing We collaborate with industry bodies and not-for-profit organisations to support our suppliers to improve their In FY20 we announced we would improve payment terms environmental, social and ethical performance. As part of for small and medium sized businesses and increase the JAC, we are working with five suppliers to build their capability number of suppliers that would be paid sooner. Under to assess and improve the environmental, social and ethical the new arrangements, over 85 per cent of suppliers have performance within their own supply chains. Once trained, these their invoices paid within twenty days of Telstra receiving suppliers were able to complete audits of their own. In FY20 a validly-submitted invoice. We had previously been at these suppliers performed 11 audits which are included in the the forefront of adopting 30-day payment terms for small summary of audits completed and associated findings above. businesses, charities, indigenous organisations and disability enterprises, and our most recent change saw a In FY20, we commenced a three-year partnership with the CDP larger number of our suppliers qualify for the shortened Supply Chain Program (formerly Carbon Disclosure Project), payment terms, with suppliers with invoices of up to a not-for-profit organisation which supports disclosure of $2 million annually now receiving 20-day terms. We environmental impacts. In partnership with CDP, we delivered recognise how important cash flow is to businesses, training and support to 100 suppliers to help them disclose particularly given the challenging year we have had, and their Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions and environmental this change has meant more businesses across the country impacts to Telstra and CDP, where they were not already doing have cash in their hands sooner. so. As part of JAC, we also invited 160 suppliers and factories to attend training run by CDP to provide a step-by-step introduction about how to begin calculating and reporting GHG emissions. We will continue to support these suppliers in FY21 to disclose their GHG emissions and environmental impacts, and to understand their position to reduce GHG emissions. For information about how we manage our emissions, see the Climate Change section of this report. 29 — Bigger Picture 2020 Sustainability Report Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Human rights Approach be added to our annual Business Essentials compliance training and a role-specific Modern Slavery training module, both of Across our value chain, we aim to ensure that we and our which will be rolled out in FY21 across the Telstra Group. business partners operate with respect for human rights. Human Rights Working Group Since 2011, we have been a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, which commits companies to 10 guiding Our cross-company Human Rights Working Group (HRWG) principles on human rights, labour rights, environmental brings together representatives from our customer-facing protection, and measures to fight corruption. Our commitment areas, procurement and supply chain, workplace relations, to respect and support human rights is aligned to the UN legal, policy, compliance and sustainability to consider how to Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, and is effectively implement our human rights commitments across outlined in our Code of Conduct and Human Rights Policy. Telstra, as well as to consider issues as they arise. The HRWG meets monthly and in FY20 provided input into our new Human Understanding our salient human rights issues Rights policy and guidance, training materials, operational risk mapping, and modern slavery reporting. It also reviewed In FY20, we conducted our annual review of the human rights several instances where suppliers fell short of our expectations contained in the UN Declaration of Human Rights and assessed in terms of labour rights, as well as examining how we proposed their salience according the UN Guiding Principles on Business to remediate these. These are reported in more detail in our and Human Rights. We determined that, as in previous years, FY20 Modern Slavery Statement. The HRWG also receives our seven most salient human rights issues are: regular follow-up reporting on corrective actions undertaken. Labour rights including: Human rights in our supply chain • forced or compulsory labour • work hours • wages and benefits • child labour As our supply chain is one of our areas of greatest potential human rights risk, we continue to devote significant effort into deepening our understanding of the specific types of human Freedom of Health and Privacy and data rights risks associated with different types of products, source association safety protection countries and sectors. We prioritise our assessments of our suppliers’ human rights performance based on risk and have integrated this process AntiAnti-bribery Access to grievance into our broader supplier risk governance processes. This discrimination and corruption mechanisms includes our supplier risk assessments, ongoing supplier management and due diligence as well as procurement training for our employees. Progress Managing human rights For more information see the Managing our supply chain chapter of this report. We continue to embed our human rights compliance plan to manage and mitigate our seven salient human rights risks. This year, we refreshed our Human Rights Policy to make it clear that Reporting on modern slavery this policy applies to all suppliers, business partners and other The UK Modern Slavery Act 2015 requires companies operating third parties doing business on behalf of Telstra. The policy also in the UK with annual global turnover exceeding £36 million to explains to our people, suppliers and other third parties what we publish an annual ‘slavery and human trafficking statement’. expect of them in relation to human rights at Telstra, including In December 2018, Australia implemented similar legislation their obligation to consider the human rights impact of their to the UK and on 1 January 2019, the Modern Slavery Act actions and decisions and report any concerns or breaches of 2018 (Cth) came into force. The Modern Slavery Act 2018 (Cth) the policy. requires Australian entities with annual consolidated revenue exceeding AUD $100 million to produce an annual statement. In addition, we developed a plain English Policy Guidance The statement must disclose the risks of modern slavery in the document to help our people understand what the human rights entity’s operations and supply chains and what they are doing policy means practically for them in their day to day work. It to address those risks. Our work in FY20 has been focused focuses on understanding human rights and identifying risk on ensuring we have the appropriate information and risk factors, by providing illustrations for our people of what relevant management frameworks in place to comply with this legislation. human rights breaches might look like and how and where to report concerns. We also developed new human rights training to To respond to both these pieces of legislation, we publish an annual Modern Slavery Statement on our website. 30 — Bigger Picture 2020 Sustainability Report Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Our customers Approach Keeping our customers connected The forced isolation and physical distancing measures As Australians have adapted to working, studying and introduced during the COVID-19 pandemic have caused our self-isolating at home in response to COVID-19, demand customers to rely more heavily on our services than ever for connectivity has never been higher. before. Be it for online learning, health appointments, staying Our T22 strategy has enabled us to be there for our customers in touch with loved ones or keeping a business up and running, when they have needed us most. T22 is our roadmap to deliver being online has never been more important. what our customers want. It is a three-year strategy to radically Between March and June this year we offered our consumer and simplify our products and services; improve and digitise the small business customers additional mobile data and unlimited experience for our customers; and simplify how we work so it is broadband data at no extra charge. This data has helped to easier for our people to deliver great service. facilitate videoconferencing, cloud connectivity, streaming By doing this we are transforming Telstra. We are becoming a and content downloads, all of which are important tools when company that is easy to interact with, that offers great service working, studying and enjoying down-time at home. We also and provides easy-to-understand and flexible products, all paused all late payment fees and disconnections during this supported by Australia’s largest and most reliable mobile same time period, and offered eligible small businesses who network and world-class technology to deliver a markethad to cease trading due to COVID-19 the option to suspend leading customer experience. their fixed business service, free of charge, until they’re up and running again. We made it easier for our small business Progress customers to work from home by discounting digital services and mobile broadband plans, and setting up free Virtual Meeting Helping our customers to get digital Rooms to enable video and audio conferencing. These offers Digital technologies are rapidly changing the way we live and have been extended for our customers in Melbourne, who are work in ways we could never have predicted. We have continued under increased COVID-19 restrictions, until 31 August. to expand on our digital capabilities this year, delivering on our We have been particularly committed to ensuring our T22 commitment to create great digital experiences for our customers in vulnerable circumstances can remain connected customers, and enable them to interact more easily with during this challenging time. Between March and June this us online. By June 2020 over 72 per cent of our customer year we provided discounts to eligible consumers and small service transactions were taking place via digital channels, business customers currently receiving the JobSeeker up from 53 per cent in the year prior. payment, and unlimited home phone calls for eligible In March we launched a new My Telstra App, which helps pensioners, to help relieve some of the burden. With the help customers to self-manage their services and payments, get of NBN Co3, we are also offering a year-long $40/month home help, check for outages and track orders from home. Since broadband discount until September 30 to eligible low-income its launch, more than 4.3 million customers have become families with school-aged children. active users of this service. The App enables customers to This year we also launched a new, ongoing $30/month Value perform many tasks that previously required assistance, such Mobile Offer for customers who have a valid eligible Health Care as applying for payment extensions, and querying a bill. New Card. The offer includes 2GB of data and no excess data charges messaging functionality enables customers to message their in Australia, plus unlimited standard national calls and texts. queries, and receive a notification when there is a reply, taking This plan represents an affordable option for customers on a low away the need to wait on-hold. We now have over 250,000 income, who may otherwise depend on a pre-paid service. customers engaging with us via the messaging service each month, through both the My Telstra App and our website. To Given the impacts of COVID-19 on our regular customer service further help our customers to troubleshoot simple billing and channels, we brought on board additional temporary roles in service issues we also created a number of self-service videos Australia to help manage call centre volumes and better serve our and guides, which are available via our website. customers throughout the crisis. For more information on how we upskilled our workforce to help manage the impacts of COVID-19, We also helped our vulnerable and diverse customers and see the Training and Development section of this report. communities to build digital skills and confidence through our digital inclusion programs this year. For more information, see For more information on how we’ve simplified our product the Everyone Connected chapter of this report. offerings for consumer and small business customers this year, see the Strategy and Performance section of our 2020 Annual Report. 3 nbn™, NBN Co and other nbn™ logos and brands are trademarks of NBN Co limited and used under license 31 — Bigger Picture 2020 Sustainability Report Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Enabling businesses to thrive We also offered a free, six month trial of Microsoft Teams, We are working to radically simplify our products and services bringing together chat, meeting, call and Office 365 and remove pain points for customers through our T22 strategy. functionality to help our enterprise customers to maintain a When asking our small business customers what they needed collaborative working environment from home. most, we were told they found it too difficult to get hold of the For information on how we are helping our Telstra Enterprise right person to solve a problem. We listened, and introduced customers to leverage new technologies to create sustainable an Account Management Support service for small business outcomes, see the Internet of Things and Nurturing social and customers this year. Available at no cost to all small business environmental innovation sections of this report. customers, no matter what their size, the service ensures our customers receive a more personal approach from a team of business specialists who are accountable for resolving queries Bridging the gap to online learning from start to finish. Schools across the country have done a tremendous amount of work this year to provide online education To help our small business customers to better protect resources for students and parents. themselves against cyber security threats, we also launched Telstra Business Cyber Services this year. Telstra Business Just as technology has enabled businesses to keep Cyber Services offers whole-of-business support for $80 running this year, it has also empowered students to month-to-month, providing businesses with four security continue learning, even if they are not even physically assessments a year, monthly updates on emerging threats and in a classroom. guidance on how to guard against them, cloud-based Internet Throughout the COVID-19 crisis we worked with Protection for Mail and Web Services, and round the clock national, state and territory education leaders to roll support. We also launched Telstra Business Tech Services, a out equipment, connectivity and digital platforms, such $60 month-to-month option for businesses who already have as Cisco WebEx and Microsoft Teams, to enable virtual a handle on their cyber security needs, but want an extra hand classrooms. Combined, they have enabled students to with the technology they use for their day-to-day operations; access their teachers’ online learning resources, from and Telstra Business Digital Marketing Services, which enables worksheets to webinars, from home. small businesses to outsource the expertise needed to build or maximise their digital presence, and sell online. In South Australia we worked closely with the Education Department as they rolled-out Cisco WebEx for remote Recognising our customers’ need for digital solutions to their learning. The service allows teachers to create their business queries, we launched Telstra Purple in September own individual online learning space to deliver live video 2019. Telstra Purple brings together Telstra Enterprise’s lessons and learning content for their class and is an business technology services capabilities with a number of expansion of the State Government’s partnership with its recently acquired companies, creating Australia’s largest Telstra to deliver high-speed internet to every government domestically owned technology services business. Telstra school across South Australia. Purple comprises 1,500 experts in network, security, cloud, collaboration, mobility, design, data and analytics, and Telstra is also working closely with several universities software, and has helped over 1,600 business clients since to increase their network capacity and global wide-area its launch. network access so students in Australia and overseas can continue with their studies. Throughout the COVID-19 crisis we have helped many Telstra Enterprise customers transition to remote working, stand Throughout the COVID-19 crisis it has been critical to up virtual call centres and design fit-for-purpose business ensure that students who cannot afford or do not have continuity plans. To assist with the change, we introduced a access to digital technology remain connected to their new mobile broadband offer to help facilitate remote access school communities. We have helped by providing up for employees, and provided free Virtual Meeting Rooms for to 30,000 free sim-cards across the Departments of an initial period, to enable organisations to connect to their Education and Catholic Education Network to provide people, partners and customers through video and audio students and teachers across the country with free conferencing. internet access. For more information on the work we are undertaking to bridge the digital divide, please see the Everyone Connected section of this report. 32 — Bigger Picture 2020 Sustainability Report Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Telstra team member Khang Ngo welcomes a customer to our COVID-Safe Sydney Icon store Australia’s best mobile network Philippines and India from March onwards. From the end of This year, as Australians have adapted to learning, working and February to April our Consumer & Small Business (C&SB) spending more time at home, our customers have become more segment’s Episode NPS declined by 17 points. Our rapid reliant than ever before on the breadth, speed and reliability of business-continuity response assisted us to regain nine of our network. We have invested $3.8 billion over the last three these points; 6.5 were gained back in May and a further 2.5 in years alone to ensure we continue to deliver Australia’s best June. Despite these efforts, Episode NPS has not returned to mobile network, which reaches 99.5 per cent of the Australian pre-COVID-19 levels, meaning we have not met our FY20 target. population and has faster speeds in more places. For more In contrast to Episode NPS, our Strategic NPS for FY20 has information on our network investments and performance, surpassed its target. For our C&SB segment our data suggests see the Networks section of this report. the year-on-year improvements are underpinned by the Customer loyalty and advocacy continued perception that we have Australia’s best networks, the recognition of our substantially improved customer service We measure customer experience using the Net Promoter and the increasing perception that Telstra delivers products Score (NPS) system. NPS enables us to measure our customers’ and services that are worth paying more for. Our brand is also experiences and respond to their feedback. We measure NPS performing strongly, with more Australians than ever telling us in two ways: Strategic NPS and Episode NPS. Strategic NPS it’s one they feel connected to. For the Enterprise segment we is a measure that obtains customer feedback on their overall believe our growth in Strategic NPS reflects the bedding-down perceptions of and experiences with Telstra, and is relative of our new operating model and deliberate efforts to improve to experiences they have with other organisations, including customer service, reduce the complexity of our products and competitors. Episode NPS directly measures feedback services, and improve our delivery. from customers in relation to a specific service experience our customers have with Telstra, such as moving home or When combined, these results translate to a whole-of-company connecting a service. outcome of Strategic NPS increasing by four points (beating our target by one point) and Episode NPS decreasing by two points Customer service challenges caused by the COVID-19 pandemic (missing our target by six points). Our Remuneration Report, have had a significant impact on our NPS results this year. which forms part of the 2020 Annual Report, provides further Our Episode NPS result has been impacted by COVID-19 in detail on how this translates into remuneration outcomes. large part due to the loss of our offshore workforces in the 33 — Bigger Picture 2020 Sustainability Report Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Product and service responsibility Approach It is important that we provide our customers with products and services that are safe and easy to understand, and that meet their underlying needs. We are continuously working to improve our performance in this area. We listen to feedback from customers, their representatives and regulators. Sometimes we do not meet expectations. We take our responsibility to our customers and the community seriously. We are committed to maintaining an open and honest dialogue, and addressing issues of concern. Progress Responding to issues We are committed to providing our customers the best technology, the best network and the best experience, and that Some years ago we became aware of an issue where a small also means acknowledging when we get it wrong and working to number of our partner stores, those operated by third parties make things right. under a license agreement, had sold mobile devices and plans to customers that they ultimately could not afford and also may In November 2019 the Australian Communications and Media not have been appropriate for their needs. This included sales Authority (ACMA) issued us a formal warning for failing to to Indigenous Australians, some living in remote communities. send data usage email notifications to more than 150,000 There were instances where our processes had not been mobile broadband customers, which meant some customers followed by some front-line staff and in some cases, there had ended up paying unexpected excess usage charges. We know been serious misconduct. our customers rely on us to help them manage the costs of These challenges have arisen while expanding our network to their services and our data usage alerts help them do that. provide connectivity to communities that had not previously In this case, a system error meant that we sent some Mobile had it, during a time of dramatic increases in data usage, Broadband data usage alerts via SMS to people without together with the escalating cost of smartphones. There were SMS-compatible devices, meaning they didn’t receive our instances where we did not fully understand some of the notifications. Once we understood the nature and scale of cultural and customer behaviours unique to these communities. the problem we notified the ACMA, and rectified the issue by We failed in our initial response to these complaints, we failed updating our system to send these alerts via email in future, to recognise that many of these customers were vulnerable, and issuing refunds to customers who were impacted. and in our initial remediation, which was based too much on our Responsible sales practices literal terms and conditions and not on our Purpose and Values Maintaining fair sales practices and ensuring we provide as an organisation. We have grappled with the gravity of this products and information to customers responsibly is very issue and acknowledge the impact to the customers involved important to us. To help achieve this aim, this year we appointed was significant. a Customer Advocate to the business. To ensure our customers We are cooperating with the Australian Competition and are treated fairly, and to maximise inclusion for vulnerable Consumer Commission (ACCC) as they conduct an investigation customers, the Customer Advocate works across our business to into this issue, and we continue to engage with them. Having help identify and suggest ways to address areas of concern. considered all available information at the date of this report In the vast majority of cases our sales ecosystem, outlined we have made a provision of $50 million for any penalties. overleaf, works well. However, when we become aware of Please refer to note 7.3.1 to the financial statements in the material issues that impact our customers, we are determined 2020 Annual Report for more details. There remains a material to ensure our processes and policies, as well as the actions of possibility that the ACCC will commence enforcement action our people reflect our commitment to learn from our mistakes, against Telstra. listen to feedback, and continually improve. 34 — Bigger Picture 2020 Sustainability Report Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Since 2018 we have been progressively implementing what is • undertaken additional training for frontline staff to refresh now a comprehensive program to address the specific issues, their awareness of acceptable sales practices, along with including waiving debts, refunding customers, introducing new cultural awareness and capability skills; processes, and rolling out training and tools to assist frontline • actively reached out to customers to ensure they are on the employees in their interactions with vulnerable customers. right plan, focusing on customers who our records show Beyond this, we have: have outstanding debt, or who have missed or are late • introduced ‘peace of mind’ fixed, mobile and broadband making payments; and plans that eliminate many of the causes of high or • deepened our engagement with financial counsellors and unexpected charges, including excess data charges other groups on our sales approach to ensure our sales and fixed-term lock-in contracts; processes are sensitive to the needs of all our customers. • strengthened our credit assessments; This engagement will also help us identify any emerging issues and get ahead of them. • enhanced our performance monitoring tools, and increased the checks and balances we have in place to ensure they We are conscious of the need to ensure our approach to are not circumvented; identifying and dealing with potential issues for our vulnerable customers is continually refined to help prevent adverse • developed new point-of-sale materials to more clearly customer outcomes arising. In relevant cases of improper explain the upfront and ongoing costs of products before selling we take disciplinary action (which may include they are acquired; dismissal) against sales staff who breach their obligations, • implemented contact centres specifically for our rural, and claw back relevant incentive payments made to stores remote and Indigenous customers with staff specifically or staff in connection with such sales. trained to cater to these differing needs; Our sales ecosystem Recruiting Training Selling We aim to recruit values-driven We train our sales team We listen to our customers sales consultants who are focused to respect all our customers, to identify what they need, on getting the right outcomes obey regulatory obligations and what they can afford and for our customers use ethical selling practices how we can help them thrive Monitoring Incentivising We regularly monitor key metrics We reward sales consultants who that help us understand when we deliver against a balanced scorecard are meeting our customers’ needs of sales, customer outcomes and where we can do better and compliance We take a strong stand against non-compliance Reporting We report regularly to management on key metrics to assess how well we are meeting our customers’ needs 35 — Bigger Picture 2020 Sustainability Report Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Better service for customers experiencing hardship our performance. In instances where customers tell us they’re We are committed to helping our customers in vulnerable not satisfied with our proposed resolution, we review the circumstances to stay connected. case once again to try and reach an agreement. In instances where this is not possible, complaints can be escalated to the This year we began to examine how we can achieve a consistent Telecommunications Industry Ombudsman (TIO). cross-company approach to supporting customers in vulnerable circumstances, and make our commitment more transparent This year complaints to the TIO remained flat, with a less than to our customers, employees and communities. We introduced one per cent variance when compared to FY19. We remain an information hub for our staff to access the full range of committed to reducing customer complaints to the TIO but options available for supporting these customers, and a new consider the result to be a reasonable one given the customer webpage providing information on the services we have available service impacts caused by natural disasters and the COVID-19 for customers facing or experiencing financial hardship. We pandemic. continue to work with financial counsellors and other customer Seasonal increases in complaint volumes due to weather advocates to improve sales outcomes and have invested more impacts, typically experienced between January and March, resources into our specialised customer care teams and online were exacerbated this year by the 2019-20 Australian bushfires. resources. Recent initiatives undertaken include: Further to this, the impact of COVID-19 on our contact centre and • streamlining processes with financial counsellors back of house operations has posed significant customer service and capability workers, particularly those supporting challenges. With much of our workforce in the Philippines and remote Indigenous communities, to obtain resolution of India unable to work due to COVID-19 impacts, we prioritised outstanding customer issues; calls from customers in vulnerable circumstances, as well as those with connectivity issues, and hired a number of temporary • broadening the remit of the credit collections team and contact centre agents in Australia. providing additional training to enable them to offer additional options to support customers in financial Fault related complaints continued to be the primary driver hardship, including small business customers; of TIO complaints in FY20, comprising 39 per cent of all submissions. We know how frustrating service faults can • enabling greater collaboration between our Escalated be, particularly at a time when customers need to work and Complaints and Specialised Assistance Teams to deal with study from home. We continue to work on ways to improve more complex matters; our customers’ experience. This year we expanded the self• introducing a feedback option for financial counsellors to service options available through our digital channels, adding inform process improvement; guides to assist with fixing simple service issues, and enabling messaging through the My Telstra App, allowing customers • working with Financial Counselling Australia to implement to be in control of how and when they interact with us when a revised and simplified customer authority form that can something goes wrong. We are encouraged by the work we have be used across various service providers and ombudsman underway to support customers in vulnerable circumstances schemes; and in root-cause prevention and are optimistic that this work • greater promotion of the “single point of entry” for will drive customer advocacy and ultimately reduce complaint financial counsellors, including through attendance at their volumes in the longer term. conferences, to resolve any Telstra matter for their clients; In the meantime, we expect that the impact of the COVID-19 and resurgence in early FY21 will result in a material increase • simplifying and raising the profile of our financial hardship in complaints to the TIO, primarily due to our constrained options on telstra.com and how customers can access them. resourcing position, and we will continue to work closely with the TIO to accelerate complaint resolution. We are confident Managing and minimising TIO complaints that our business continuity planning and actions taken to We know we don’t always get it right when it comes to delivering expand and upskill our onshore front-line customer service a great experience for our customers. When things go wrong, teams leave us well positioned to deal with any further we endeavor to work with our customers to resolve the issue as disruptions in the year ahead. quickly as possible. We have complaints governance processes For more information, see the Our customers section in place to help us understand the key drivers of our complaints of this report. which, in turn, help us to learn from our mistakes, and improve 36 — Bigger Picture 2020 Sustainability Report Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Mobile phones, base stations and health (EME) We acknowledge that some people are concerned about possible health effects from electromagnetic energy (EME). Approach Progress We are proactive, transparent and fact-based in our We continue to provide information about EME, including 5G, communications regarding EME and comply with the on our telstra.com website, Telstra Exchange and also offer an standards set by regulators. We are committed to responding EME email help desk. Where appropriate, we direct customers responsibly to queries from the public about EME. to the WHO, ARPANSA, Australian Communications Authority (ACMA) and ‘EMF Explained’ websites for further information. In our management of EME, we rely on the expert advice of national and international health authorities including the The Radio Frequency National Site Archive (RFNSA) is a publicly Australian Radiation Protection and Nuclear Safety Agency available database of all mobile base stations in Australia. (ARPANSA), International Commission on Non-Ionizing We use the RFNSA to provide the community with access to Radiation Protection (ICNIRP), Institute of Electrical and up-to-date information about new and existing base station Electronics Engineers (IEEE) and the World Health Organisation proposals. Members of the public are able to subscribe to (WHO), and we actively contribute to scientific research on EME their local postcode to receive notifications regarding changes and health. proposed in their area. The RFNSA received more than 30,000 visits in FY20 to access information about network deployment activities, and information on EME and site safety. All our base stations are assessed for EME compliance. The ARPANSA Environmental EME reports and Compliance Certificates for all sites are published on the RFNSA. Every mobile handset we sold in FY20 was certified by the manufacturer as compliant with the mandatory ACMA Radio Communications (Electromagnetic Radiation – Human Exposure) Standard 2014. 37 — Bigger Picture 2020 Sustainability Report Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Is 5G safe? This is an important question. Independent health authorities require us to meet their safety standard so 5G technology can be used safely. In January 2020 Australia’s then Chief Medical Officer Professor Brendan Murphy issued the following statement to reassure Australians: “I’d like to reassure the community that 5G technology is safe. There is no evidence telecommunication technologies, such as 5G, cause adverse health impacts. This position is supported by health authorities in Australia – such as the Australian Radiation Protection Communicating with our customers and Nuclear Safety Agency (ARPANSA) – and around the This year, we continued our mobile safety information SMS world, such as the World Health Organization (WHO).” campaign referring customers to www.telstra.com.au/ The 5G Parliamentary Inquiry commenced in September mobiletips where we have information on mobile use, EME and 2019 and ran for six months, receiving a number of tips to reduce exposure. Over 3.6 million messages were sent submissions and holding a series of public hearings. The in FY20. An additional 5.2 million messages were withheld due final report contains 14 recommendations, including to the bushfire crisis and COVID-19. These will be released early timely access to spectrum, deployment, trials for regional in FY21 and will include reference to information on 5G safety areas, security, onshore manufacturing, skills training, and small cells at http://telstra.com.au/eme and public education to address community health We also updated our website with new information videos on concerns. We have reviewed the recommendations made Small Cells, 5G and Health, 5G EME levels and have updated by the Committee, acknowledged the report and continue our information to include the scientific trial of mmWave. to work cooperatively with Government, regulators and industry bodies in relation to the findings. In FY20, we completed 2,553 mobile base station projects; 308 of these projects were for new sites, 1,250 were for 5G deployment and 995 were for capacity upgrades at existing sites. National and international standards The ACMA confirmed that they received 83 complaints in FY20, Telstra continues to contribute to the ongoing development of compared to 7 in FY19, and 5 in FY18. This is a significant international EME standards through chairing the International increase from previous years and reflects the increased Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) TC106 committee, which community concern regarding 5G deployment. All of the is charged with developing standards for the assessment of complaint investigations have been concluded and found that EME compliance of mobile devices, base stations and wireless Telstra complied with the Communications Alliance Mobile communications systems. This year the IEC published a Phone Base Station Deployment Industry Code requirements Technical Report on the test procedures for the new mmWave 5G wireless devices and this has recently been adopted by the In FY20 we undertook 1,868 community consultation ACMA in Australia. Telstra’s first mmWave 5G device launched processes. An increasing number of communities raised in May 2020 has been tested using these new procedures. concerns through the consultation process, including Lilli Pilli NSW, Mullumbimby NSW, Ocean Shores NSW, Trinity Beach In addition, the ICNIRP has recently undertaken an extensive QLD, Sandy Bay TAS, Ocean Reef WA, and Torquay VIC. The review of the available scientific evidence and research on EME majority of concerns were focused on 5G EME and health. We and health. As a result, new ICNIRP Guidelines were published responded to these concerns by referring to international on 11 March 2020 with a focus on the overall depth of research research, statements made by the Chief Medical Officer, and and safety of the guidelines. The Guidelines are currently under the ARPANSA Standard for radiofrequency EME. review by ARPANSA. We have also reviewed the guidelines and found them to be aligned with our current practices and we Working safely around antennas will work to implement any changes that may be considered Some of our employees and contractors work in close proximity necessary by ARPANSA following their review. to or on radio frequency (RF) emitting equipment. We continue to focus on our processes and education around working safely near RF emitting equipment including promotion of the RadioWorkSafe application and working safely on small cells and 5G base stations. 38 — Bigger Picture 2020 Sustainability Report Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Culture and capabilities At Telstra, we have a proud tradition of rising to a challenge and doing what needs to be done to keep Australians connected. In FY20, our people have demonstrated incredible resilience, adaptability and dedication. Together we’ve been there for our customers, the community and each other during these unprecedented times. And our people have told us through their feedback they are proud to work for Telstra, as we have rolled out a range of initiatives to help them, our customers and communities through these difficult times. The willingness of our people to step up is a product of our culture, and our Purpose and Values that guide us. A culture founded on empowering our people by giving them the tools, capabilities and leadership they need to thrive. Building culture and engagement Approach Our culture is critical to building a connected future so everyone can thrive and is underpinned by a strong commitment to our Values. For our customers to thrive, we need to enable our people to thrive. A successful transformation requires changes to our underlying systems of work (operating model and rhythm) and the behaviour of our workforce. Leaders play the most critical role in setting standards of behaviour that in turn form our culture. Since T22 was announced in June 2018, we have focused on identifying the key cultural characteristics of a successful Agile organisation and used this knowledge to reshape our culture. Maintaining engagement through COVID-19 Progress Keeping our people connected and engaged has been a priority for us during COVID-19. We introduced regular Sustainable engagement livestreams to keep our people updated on the evolving We set an ambitious FY20 engagement target of +9 points, situation and provide frequent opportunities to ask calculated on a three-month rolling aggregate. We exceeded questions. In addition, we provided e-learning modules this target by seven points with our end of FY20 employee about making the most of the technology solutions we engagement at 83, a 16-point increase on our FY19 result. have available to stay connected with teammates. Our most recent Experience Pulse results demonstrates this Introduced in 2019, our monthly Experience Pulse continues to approach has been successful. For more information provide us with regular insight into our employees’ experience about our special leave and wellbeing arrangements in of working at Telstra. Leaders are better empowered and response to COVID-19, see the Employment and workplace accountable to act on results with access to a ‘live’ dashboard relations and Promoting health, safety and wellbeing that provides the ongoing ‘pulse’ of their team engagement sections of this chapter. along with verbatim feedback both on what is creating a positive experience and what we need to improve. 39 — Bigger Picture 2020 Sustainability Report Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Reaping the benefits of Agile and flexible work innovation and prototyping for both students and industry. In FY20 we continued to roll out Agile at scale across Telstra It also encompasses 10 Telstra Technology and Innovation with more than 10,000 people now working in Agile teams and Scholarships to University of Melbourne students that aim to more than 16,000 people completing Agile Essentials training. increase the number of women and Indigenous Australians, Agile has brought about a significant change in how we organise particularly those from rural and remote communities, and get work done at Telstra, while also empowering our people studying Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics and increasing flexibility. (STEM), as well as support for students to learn STEM skills through workshops, industry-based research and development In response to COVID-19, we were able to seamlessly shift projects, and events. 25,000 Australian office-based staff to working from home. The enormity of this transition was made possible because We also developed four micro-credentials in partnership with flexibility is the norm at Telstra, with our All Roles Flex policy two Australian universities in FY20, with a further five planned embedded into the organisation for a number of years. The for FY21. This continues to allow us to build the knowledge and Agile model has allowed teams to quickly adapt and reprioritise skills required for Australia’s digital future, as well as providing their work. Although not all of Telstra is Agile, all our teams globally recognised credentials. have changed the way they plan and manage work across the Purpose-led leadership organisation. We take our values seriously. Everyone at Telstra is recognised We have continued to develop our capability in other ways of and rewarded equally for ‘what’ they do and ‘how’ they do it. To working including Human Centred Design, Lean and DevOps, hold our leaders to account, we expect them to have at least giving our people options for the tools most suitable for them. a quarterly performance conversation to review their team’s As we approach FY21, we will continue to build our Agile progress. And every month, we ask our people how their leader maturity, transforming how we work at Telstra. is showing up for them so we can provide our leaders with extra feedback to inform their development. Training and development To help our people learn new skills and ways of working we We launched our new purpose in June 2019, and in response invested over $28 million in training and development in FY20, to our changing environment and leadership expectations, including $4.6 million in leadership skills and training. we updated our behaviour statements aligned to our values. We emphasised the importance of coaching and inclusiveness, We have invested $1 million in developing Human Centred using customer-centred practices to guide responsible product Design capability, along with $2.3 million in specialised design, and always acting in accordance with our Code Agile Ways of Working capability development. We have also of Conduct. developed our people’s skills in order processing and support by delivering training on a new digital sales platform, enhancing Building a high performance culture the experience we provide to our customers. We align performance to our quarterly business planning cycle As we progress our transformation, we will continue to focus to identify our top priorities. These priorities are translated on developing our people’s technology skills and technical into our people’s objectives and key results (OKRs) to ensure capabilities to leverage emerging technologies and simplify alignment on what is most important. Each quarter, our how we deliver products and services. In FY20 we invested people have a conversation with their leader about how they $2.2 million in technical learning platforms, increasing the have performed against their OKRs, the feedback they have coverage to 13,000 technical professionals at Telstra. received from colleagues, and their development needs. These conversations are the key to unlocking organisational We entered into five memoranda of understanding (MOUs) with performance as they provide a way to frequently check-in with some of Australia’s leading universities to develop partnerships our people to evaluate their achievements against priorities that enable Telstra to develop a technology pipeline for our and support their growth and career development. business and for Australia, with the Science, Technology, Engineering, Arts and Mathematics (STEAM) capabilities At the end of the financial year, our people receive an individual required for the future. performance rating that equally assesses what they achieved and how they role modelled the values and desired behaviours. We invested $5.14 million to support the new digital The overall rating informs pay decisions and outcomes. The innovation precinct at the University of Melbourne. This 2020 Remuneration Report, which forms part of the 2020 includes the sponsorship of the Telstra Creator Space, an Annual Report, has details regarding Senior Executive pay. onsite fabrication laboratory designed to support open 40 — Bigger Picture 2020 Sustainability Report Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Creating a diverse and inclusive workforce Approach Progress We value diversity and inclusion and the benefits they bring Gender equality to the Telstra Group in achieving our Purpose and objectives. This year we saw a small increase in female representation Telstra serves millions of diverse customers. We recognise the across Telstra Corporation Limited and its wholly owned value of having diverse employees who represent their unique subsidiaries. We achieved our objective for women to make up perspectives. Diversity of thought drives innovation, which is 32 per cent of our overall workforce and have also succeeded essential to achieve our business strategy, and supports our in creating more opportunities for women to gain valuable Agile Purpose to build a connected future so everyone can thrive. and people management skills. As we transform Telstra, we are creating a very different We are committed to achieving gender equality at Telstra and business with new ways of working, leading and innovating. have a broad range of policies, programs and engagement We are investing in technology skills in online learning, initiatives in place to help us achieve this goal. micro-credentials and stronger collaboration with education Representation of women in Telstra as at 30 June 2020 providers who share our commitment to diversity. Role Number Percentage (%) All Telstra people can help create a culture where people feel safe, valued and empowered to speak up. Board (i) 3 33.3 Executive management*(ii) 50 30.5 Our strategy to achieve our ambition is built around three CEO 0 0 foundational streams: CEO-1 3 30 CEO-2 18 34.6 • Attract, accelerate and amplify diverse talent CEO-3 29 28.4 • Invest in the pipeline – internal and external Middle management*(iii) 2591 28.2 Operational*(iv) 6152 34.6 • Flexibility and fairness – Flexibility enabled by technology. Telstra Total* 8839 32.3 Fair policies and processes. Telstra Group Total** 9083 32.3 See our 2020 Corporate Governance Statement for more information. *Includes full time, part time and casual staff in Telstra Corporation Limited and its wholly owned subsidiaries, excluding contractors and agency staff. It does not include staff in any other controlled entities within the Telstra Group. ** Includes full time, part time and casual staff in controlled entities within the Telstra Group, excluding contractors and agency staff. Information regarding the controlled entities in the Telstra Group can be found on our website at telstra.com.au/aboutus/investors/ financial-information/financial-results. Notes: (i)Number and percentage relates to non-executive Directors.(ii) Executive management comprises persons holding roles within Telstra designated as Bands A, B and C. CEO is also included in the executive management total. (iii)Middle management comprises persons holding roles within Telstra designated as Bands 1 or 2, or equivalent.(iv)Operational comprises persons holding roles within Telstra designated as Bands 3 or 4, or equivalent. 41 — Bigger Picture 2020 Sustainability Report Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Indigenous employment Gender pay equity In FY20 we continued to deliver commitments in the Gender pay equity is of key importance at Telstra as we Reconciliation Action Plan (RAP) and achieved the Year Two continue to develop and implement policies and initiatives employment target of 0.9 per cent representation of the to drive greater equity across the organisation. We are Australian workforce. We also continued our partnership with continuously looking to identify, target and reduce any Career Trackers Indigenous internship program to help improve gender pay gaps that exist within the organisation, including the participation of Indigenous Australians in the workforce compensation ratios within bands. In aggregate, we do not and develop future talent. Two former Telstra Career Trackers believe that we pay women and men differently for like roles. interns who applied for the FY20 Graduate Program were Similar to last year, the larger pay gap exists at the operational offered a place in that program. This year we were proud to level and is predominantly driven by a significant portion of host 20 interns at Telstra, achieving another RAP commitment. operational employees being managed against fixed pay rates We also entered into a ten-year partnership agreement with under our Enterprise Agreement. These fixed pay rates, which Career Trackers, extending this commitment until 2030. are typically in male dominated professions, are notably higher We launched an online learning module on Indigenous Cultural when compared to the pay of peers at the same level not Awareness and our Dharrang employee representative group employed under the Enterprise Agreement. has educated our workforce on Indigenous history and Compa-ratio is an employee’s fixed remuneration divided by the reconciliation through storytelling and events. midpoint of the market remuneration range they are mapped Employment for people with disability against and provides us a measure of the ‘fairness’ of pay. Using the market remuneration range and focusing on compa During FY20 we became the thirteenth Australian organisation ratios allows us to show the gender pay gap for males and to complete the Disability Confident Recruiter program through females carrying out similar work. the Australian Network on Disability (AND), which included an audit of our processes and online training for our recruiters. We The two tables below show Telstra’s overall position when also offered the AND Stepping into Internship program, for four averaging the compa-ratios for both male and female university students with a disability and sponsored the AND employees. We are close to parity and will continue to strive Annual Conference. for absolute equity. We made significant improvements to our workplace Australia Average Compa-ratio assessment and adjustment processes, making it simpler Year Male Female Delta for our employees with disabilities to thrive at work. Our TelstrAbility employee representative group has raised 2015 1.04 1.01 0.031 awareness of the importance of accessibility through events 2016 1.04 1.00 0.035 and corporate news stories on Global Accessibility Awareness 2017 1.01 0.99 0.024 Day and International Day of People with Disabilities. 2018 1.01 0.98 0.023 LGBTQI inclusion 2019 1.01 0.97 0.034 Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer and Intersex 2020 0.98 0.95 0.035 (LGBTQI) inclusion is important to us. We want our people to have ‘out’ role models and allies that encourage them to bring Australia Average Compa-ratio excluding Workstream their whole selves to work. We are active member of Pride in Diversity and our Spectrum network continues to thrive in its Year Male Female Delta twelfth year. 2015 1.00 0.99 0.012 In FY20 we joined the Intertech alliance and hosted the launch 2016 0.99 0.98 0.011 of an inter-organisational mentoring program. We hosted an 2017 0.98 0.97 0.006 event on the importance of allyship on Wear it Purple Day 2018 0.97 0.97 0.000 and made significant donation to enable the distribution of 2019 0.96 0.95 0.011 wristbands in schools to encourage open conversations about 2020 0.93 0.94 0.015 inclusion. We continued our relationship as technology sponsor for the Midsumma queer arts and entertainment festival. 42 — Bigger Picture 2020 Sustainability Report Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Promoting health, safety and wellbeing Approach Keeping our people and customers safe through COVID-19 Managing safety and supporting the mental health and Throughout COVID-19, we have continued to prioritise wellbeing of our people helps create an environment in which safety and wellbeing and have kept our people informed they can be their best selves at and outside of work. on COVIDsafe of changes that have been put in place. Through our global health, safety, wellbeing and environment We have implemented measures such as working from (HSWE) management system, we strive to embed the latest home for our office-based teams and established new HSWE strategies to eliminate or minimise risks and build working protocols for those office-based teams unable resilience. This has been particularly important throughout to work remotely. We introduced new global epidemic FY20 as we experienced challenges across the globe including and pandemic leave policy to provide added support and catastrophic bushfires, volcanos, civil unrest and the peace of mind for our people, whether they are permanent, uncertainty of the evolving risk of COVID-19. fixed-term or casual. We also increased cleaning regimes, implemented additional protocols for entering our sites We use established cross functional HSWE focused forums and provided staff with appropriate personal protective to implement and manage strategies to reduce our risks and equipment, including hand sanitiser, hygienic cleaning solve for issues with a company-wide consistent approach. We wipes and masks. To reduce the risk to our customers provide access to self-service reporting for leaders at all levels and frontline employees we introduced social distancing and report regularly to senior management, the Audit and Risk measures in line with government guidelines including: Committee and the Board. limiting store capacities, adjusting our store designs and processes for interacting with customers and call ahead Progress protocols for our field staff. We have also provided our Licences, accreditations and compliance people access to tools, briefings and seminars to manage their mental health and wellbeing. Telstra maintains a self-insurance licence in the Commonwealth jurisdiction, with direct oversight by the Safety, Rehabilitation and Compensation Commission (SRCC) and Comcare. We are also accredited by the Office of the Federal Safety Commissioner to work on Commonwealth Government building contracts, including the National Broadband Network. Our HSWE management system is certified to Australian Standard AS/ NZS4801 and International Standard ISO14001: 2015. Preventive programs We have continued to implement important preventive health, safety and wellbeing initiatives ranging from the delivery of a new technology platform for HSWE management to significant investment in the replacement and maintenance of our infrastructure. We transitioned our operational vehicle fleet to automatic transmission vehicles and introduced the requirement for all vehicles to meet the ANCAP 5 rating. We have also continued to maintain the Telstra Good Drivers Program to proactively reward safe driving. Supporting our employees to improve their physical and mental wellbeing in all aspects of their lives is a key part of our approach to preventative health and safety. As our business transforms, we have built a focus on wellbeing and psychological safety into our ways of working, including how we lead and work together as teams, and how we support our people to build resilience in order to manage 43 — Bigger Picture 2020 Sustainability Report Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Early incident reporting and rehabilitation LTIFR Our Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) improved through We continue to improve our early reporting culture so that 2019. This is reflective of our increased focus on early hazards are effectively addressed and our people have timely intervention and the expansion of our support offerings to access to support. We have established our Occupational help our people return to or remain at work. Our new health Rehabilitation Panel to increase Telstra’s overall coverage, management, rehabilitation and claims model will see this extended our health management support service offerings trend continue to improve as we further embed our effective to include non-work-related injury and illness, and to provide early intervention and strategic case management capability. psychological support so our people can return to meaningful work or manage at work. We are seeing positive indications LTIFR6 including in return to work outcomes suggesting these In 2019, we also reviewed how we calculate LTIFR. In previous initiatives have led to improved human and financial outcomes years our LTIFR metric has been calculated using only for our people and our business. work-related injuries or illnesses where there is a workers’ compensation claim. We have extended the scope of this Key health and safety performance indicators calculation to now include all work-related injuries or illnesses TRIFR (including mental health) that result in one or more days of lost time. This will allow us to gain a greater understanding of the Our Total Recordable Injury Frequency Rate (TRIFR) has impact of injuries and illness on our people and our business. continued to decrease. This reflects our maturing risk control programs and strengthened proactive and early intervention LTIFR (new methodology)7 support model, which provides employees with immediate access to the care they need to stay at, or return to, work as soon as they are fit to do so. 2.8 TRIFR4 2.3 2.3 In 2019, we updated how we calculate our TRIFR to include mental health incidents and remove claims that were rejected. This will provide a truer picture of our total number of injuries and illness impacting our people. TRIFR (new methodology)5 FY18 FY19 FY20 11.5 8.4 7.3 FY18 FY19 FY20 4 Update to the TRIFR definition: TRIFR is the reported number per million hours worked of all valid claims for work-related injuries or diseases (including mental health) that require medical treatment beyond simple first aid. Currently the metric does not include contractor incidents or incidents internationally, but we continue to review how this may be measured for inclusion in future reporting 5 For year-on-year comparison, TRIFR using the former methodology would have been: FY18 9.6, FY19 8.5, FY20 6.2 6 Update to the LTIFR Definition: LTIFR is the reported number per million hours worked of all work-related injuries or diseases that result in one or more days of lost time (for Australian-based Telstra employees). This metric is no longer dependent on having a worker’s compensation claim. 7 For year on year comparison, LTIFR using the former methodology, which measured lost time injuries by calendar year rather than financial year, would have been: CY17 0.81, CY18 1.06, CY19 0.82 44 — Bigger Picture 2020 Sustainability Report Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Employment and workplace relations Approach Engaging with our workforce We consult with our people before we implement any We have a large and diverse mix of employees at Telstra, who significant changes to the way we work. We regularly engage vary in the work they perform, the hours they work and their with the Community and Public Sector Union (CPSU), the employment contracts or instruments. Communications, Electrical and Plumbing Union of Australia We carefully manage our workforce requirements, in line with (CEPU) and Professionals Australia (APESMA). Our aim is our values, paying particular attention to the mix of skills to maintain an open and constructive relationship with the required as the strategic direction of our business evolves. representatives of these unions. This year, we conducted more than 30 formal consultation meetings with unions and Telstra Progress employees. Key changes within our workforce This included discussions about how we have been protecting Changes in our workforce in FY20 were predominantly related the health, safety and wellbeing of our people in response to our T22 transformation. Over the last 12 months we have to the bushfires in Australia and COVID-19. We introduced continued to refine our functional structure and operating Australia’s first Global Epidemic and Pandemic Leave policy model by removing layers and duplication, legacy processes to provide our employees (and those in our wholly owned and systems and transitioning to Agile at scale across many subsidiaries) up to 14 days paid leave if they are required to parts of our business. Telstra has announced 12,000 indirect self-isolate, care for a relative with COVID-19 or are unable role reductions and 7,300 direct workforce role reductions to attend their workplace due to restrictions or because since it launched T22 in June 2018. As at the end of June the workplace is closed. There is also the ability to extend 2020, the direct workforce was around 5,700 lower than two this leave at Telstra’s discretion, which we have done where years ago. This figure includes 1,600 new roles recruited like appropriate. We have also made this paid leave available to our software engineering and cyber security and some additional casual employees to cover any regularly rostered shifts they roles brought on board in response to COVID-19 to mitigate may miss. workforce offshore capacity issues. Employment instruments As part of our contribution to the national economic stimulus In Australia, Telstra has a single enterprise agreement in place response to COVID-19 and to provide certainty for our people, covering our workforce – the Telstra Enterprise Agreement we announced in March 2020 we would put on hold any further 2019-2021 (EA). The EA will nominally expire on 30 September job reductions for six months. We also added many temporary 2021. However, it will continue to operate after this date until customer support roles in Australia to help better serve our replaced by a new enterprise agreement or terminated by the customers during this unprecedented time. Our new team Fair Work Commission. members are working in contact centre and back of house Bargaining for the Telstra EA involved an in-scope employee roles and come from a range of backgrounds, including from population of approximately 20,000. After lengthy but organisations that had to stand down employees due to the constructive negotiations, in early December 2019 the EA was impact of COVID-19 on their own operations. submitted to a vote by employees. Sixty-three per cent of As at 30 June 2020, Telstra Corporation’s total direct workforce eligible employees voted, with 65 per cent of those employees (headcount) was 20,635 people. Telstra Group’s total global voting yes. The EA was submitted to the Fair Work Commission workforce was 29,762 people. We directly employ 4,583 people (FWC) for approval in mid-December 2019 and approved on 12 outside of Australia across 13 countries, equating to 15 per June 2020. cent of our total workforce. Telstra Group’s indirect workforce Our objective has always been to reach an agreement that is at 30 June 2020 was 37,294. fair and delivers on the needs of our customers, shareholders, and importantly, our people. The new EA does this. 45 — Bigger Picture 2020 Sustainability Report Digital futures Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Networks The digital world is transforming the way we live. We are bring forward $500 million investment from the second half of empowered in new ways to communicate differently and take FY21 into calendar year 2020, specifically to increase capacity greater control of our health, finances and learning. across our networks and accelerate our 5G deployment. This is injecting much needed investment into our economy, which Our critical network and technology capabilities keep millions has been impacted by COVID-19, and will support our current of consumers and businesses connected every day, including 5G rollout momentum into FY21, ensuring Australia’s best 5G through crises such as the 2019-20 Australian bushfires and network will be available to even more Australians. global COVID-19 pandemic. We have a long history of investing in the next generation of mobile and fixed network services, Investing in our network expanding coverage and resilience, digitising our systems and We are committed to making ongoing investments to processes, and making major improvements to our customers’ build capability for the future and strengthen our network experience. This has enabled Telstra to be a world leader in leadership. Having laid the foundation through our strategic telecommunications technology and respond to periods of investment in the Networks for the Future program, we heightened customer reliance on our networks. continue to drive network leadership through our T22 Strategy. Our ongoing investment continues to enhance network Approach resilience, transform telecommunications with the roll out of Every day, our networks connect millions of people. Our 5G and Edge Computing, support the Internet of Things (IoT), mobile footprint stretches across more than 2.5 million and move to a world where our network is software-defined square kilometres, vastly more than any other mobile and cloud-native. Software Defined Networks (SDN) and our network in Australia, reaching 99.5 per cent of the Australian Network as a Service (NaaS) platform are both examples of population. Our customers rely on our networks around transformations that will enable our partners and customers the clock and around the world. Having access to a reliable to better connect with, and leverage, our network. telecommunications network underpins economic growth We also have a long history of investing in regional Australia. and social interaction, and provides opportunities to Over the past five years we have invested $7.5 billion in our address societal and environmental challenges. This year, as mobile network nationally, with $3 billion of that invested in Australians have adapted to learning, working and spending regional areas. In FY20, we completed a program of work to more time at home, our customers have become more reliant further reduce fault rates and repair times in regional, rural and than ever before on the breadth, speed and reliability of our remote Australia. For more information, see the Regional and network. With significant growth underway in the number and remote communities section of this report. variety of smart devices, as well as online services and digital applications, our network traffic continued to increase over As part of our program to continually upgrade our network to FY20 and finished the period up by 28 per cent, which was the latest technology and expand our 4G and 5G coverage, carried successfully. we announced last October that we would switch-off our 3G network in June 2024. Between now and then we will be Progress upgrading and expanding our 4G coverage to a materially equivalent size and reach to our 3G footprint. This is similar to At Telstra, we aim to have the largest, fastest, safest, smartest when we turned off our 2G CDMA technology and repurposed and most reliable next generation network. In FY20, we its 850 MHz spectrum for 3G services. Switching off 3G will let increased the number of 5G sites in service nationally from us again reuse this same spectrum to support the latest 5G 300 to over 1,500, delivering 5G in selected areas in 53 major technology and allow us to continue to grow our network and and regional cities and towns across Australia. The roll out meet our customers’ data needs into the future. means that over 1,000 suburbs now have 50 per cent or more 5G coverage and that more than 10 million people live, work or pass through our 5G footprint every day. Our focus on increasing 5G coverage has been boosted by our decision to 47 — Bigger Picture 2020 Sustainability Report Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Enhancing network resilience 5G Innovation We understand that being connected to the world is vital to We are proud to have Australia’s best 5G network, and are the way our customers live and work. We know there are times making sure we do everything to give Australians access to 5G when our network experiences interruptions. We recognise the as quickly as possible. In May 2020, we launched the Telstra impact network interruptions can have on our customers – big 5G Wi-Fi Pro, our newest mobile broadband modem. This is and small. To limit this frustration, we continue to enhance Australia's first device that supports cutting edge millimetre and deliver on our network resiliency programs, ensuring our Wave (mmWave) 5G technology. While the auction of spectrum customers can use their products and services the way they in the 26GHz band, the key band of mmWave spectrum, is not want, when they want. At the height of the 2019-20 Australian expected to occur until 2021, we are busy testing to make sure bushfires, there was substantial damage to the power grid, as our network is ready. Customers in test site locations, who own well as to telecommunications infrastructure, which caused a Telstra 5G Wi-Fi Pro, will benefit from the next iteration of 5G disruptions to our customers’ services. A significant effort from before anyone else in Australia. our team and local communities helped keep people connected Together with our network and technology partners, we however possible. For more information, see the Disaster relief achieved several Australian and world firsts in FY20 that and recovery section of this report. demonstrate our ability to scale new 5G products and services Continuous improvement of our network remains a priority. and improve network efficiency. We made the nation’s first Our ongoing focus is on providing simplified and resilient end-to-end 5G standalone call and enabled standalone infrastructure, removing single points of failure, replacing 5G end-to-end capability across our network. We also end-of-life equipment, and increasing automation. This enables conducted Australia’s first live 5G broadcast and supported faster recovery times and minimises customer impact should the first 5G-enabled stadium. We demonstrated significant an incident occur. We take a customer-centric risk-based advancements and improvements to network architecture and approach to prioritising our network improvement programs. automation that will allow Telstra to quickly create and deploy Our targeted investment, borne out of this approach, has new services for customers. delivered significant risk reduction, leading to improved We know the health of our customers and their communities network resiliency and recovery. is important. For information on the safety of 5G and electromagnetic energy (EME), see the Mobile phones, base stations and health (EME) section of this report. 48 — Bigger Picture 2020 Sustainability Report Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Digital water management Together, Sydney Water and Telstra designed an IoT Internet of Things (IoT) solution that delivers better customer outcomes by predicting and averting water blockages and overflows. Connecting everyday objects and enabling them to send and This involved deploying over 250 sensors to monitor receive data is what we mean by the Internet of Things (IoT). pressure, sewer levels and water flow. Advanced By putting real-time information and decision making power algorithms process data received from the devices and about the world around us in our hands, IoT has the potential provide insights to preemptively prevent pipe blockages to transform the way we live and work. Sensors are now and overflows. Sensors are also deployed on the being deployed in everything from cars and parking meters, distribution network to provide data on water pressure, to aircraft and farm equipment. Telstra connects more than which helps to predict and prevent leaks and other issues three million IoT devices over our mobile network and offers including water theft. This solution prevented a potential connected lights, cameras and motion sensors on the Telstra overflow that could have affected more than 4,000 Smart Home platform. properties. Underpinning the emergence of IoT will be the capability of The successful implementation of our Digital Water networks to connect devices and send data on a national Metering solution earned us a Sustainability award at scale. We have been making ongoing investments in two key IoT the IoT Impact Awards, celebrating our contribution to technologies in our mobile network – LTE-M and Narrowband accelerating the adoption of IoT in Australia, assisting an IoT (NB-IoT). Both LTE-M and NB-IoT are formally recognised industry that is vital to our nation’s future. as 5G technologies, meaning we can continue to support this technology beyond the lifespan of 4G. As part of a world-first innovation, we improved coverage of our NB-IoT network towers from 100 to 120 kilometres per site this year, which means our NB-IoT coverage now reaches across almost four million square kilometres. Telstra has long offered our customers Australia’s largest and fastest mobile network and now we have added the ability to support IoT devices, like sensors, trackers and alarms, that can sit inside machines and vehicles and reach deep inside buildings. These network capabilities are crucial for IoT and its successful use in Australia. We acknowledge that some people may have ethical and privacy concerns about new connective technologies. For more information about how we manage these, see the Protecting our customers' data and privacy section of this report. 49 — Bigger Picture 2020 Sustainability Report Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions International investment Telstra InfraCo We continue to enhance global connectivity and our subsea Telstra’s dedicated infrastructure business, Telstra InfraCo, cable network. Our investments include involvement in a is reinventing the way Australia's telecommunications consortium to deploy a new high-speed cable (INDIGO) that infrastructure is built and managed, and will open up new and connects Singapore, Indonesia and Australia. We have also easier ways for customers to access our infrastructure portfolio. invested in the Southern Cross Cable that connects Australia In FY20, changes were announced to Telstra’s infrastructure and New Zealand to the United States. Our ‘Always-on’ assets that shifted Telstra InfraCo’s focus to be an asset service is designed to provide continuous connection on our operating business with a book value of around $11 busiest Asian routes along with our Telstra ‘Octagon’ solution billion. Implemented on 1 July 2020, the changes finethat provides access to low latency cables for improved tune accountabilities between Telstra InfraCo and the responsiveness and performance, and connects some of the rest of Telstra, streamlining the end-to-end management world’s leading financial exchanges. These represent important and commercialisation of Telstra’s key fixed and mobile developments for Telstra as a key part of our international infrastructure assets. The corresponding review of Telstra growth strategy and provide significant benefits to our InfraCo’s organisational structure has united infrastructure customers in today’s high-speed and connected world. assets and experts alike in the one business. Our asset portfolio We continue to invest in our subsea cable network and its future optionality was a key guiding principle in the infrastructure, the largest in the Asia Pacific region. These organisational design, in acknowledgement of the investment investments will boost capacity and resiliency, increase our community’s growing interest in infrastructure assets. backhaul network across Taiwan, Japan and Korea, and be Under a new Telstra InfraCo brand, Telstra InfraCo is at the forefront of providing connectivity between the United accountable for one of Australia’s largest and most diverse set States and Asia. of telecommunications infrastructure assets. It delivers market leading infrastructure products, services and solutions to our Keeping the world online during COVID-19 retail and wholesale domestic customers and NBN Co1. Telstra When the COVID-19 crisis demanded people leave their InfraCo’s products and services create new opportunities workplaces or educational institutes and operate from to help boost customers’ growth and improve the quality of their homes, there was a significant increase in the Australia’s telecommunications infrastructure to better meet demand for data. Our international network experienced the needs of future generations. This includes providing access, a fifty per cent spike in traffic due to increase in data maintenance, design and construction of infrastructure such use from video for work, education and entertainment. as fibre, pits, ducts, towers, poles and exchanges to support We supported our cross-regional team to protect and our customers’ needs. It also includes the development and maintain our subsea cables by moving to remote work, delivery of a range of products and services to the wholesale designating split teams, and coordinating with port market, which continue to be provided under our mature Telstra operators and hotels to ensure the safety of those on our Wholesale brand. cable maintenance ships. We have managed a significant increase in traffic with minimal impacts on services thanks to the substantial capacity and headroom we have available to cater for unexpected traffic peaks. 1 nbn™, NBN Co and other nbn™ logos and brands are trademarks of NBN Co limited and used under license. 50 — Bigger Picture 2020 Sustainability Report Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Everyone connected The digital economy generates social, cultural and economic Progress benefits for Australians, but we know these benefits are not equally shared. Our digital inclusion programs provide tailored support, products and services to enable people to connect and thrive Over 2.5 million Australians are not online, and many are not online. In FY20, we offered a range of digital inclusion activities able to take full advantage of online services. Digital inclusion to enhance customer affordability, accessibility and ability. is based on the premise that everyone should be able to make full use of digital technologies and the benefits they bring, During the COVID-19 crisis we committed to a range of activities whether it be managing health and wellbeing, accessing designed to support those in our community to be connected education and services, organising finances, or simply and access the benefits of technology where they may otherwise connecting with family, friends and the world beyond. Over have been unable. Between March and June this year we the previous year, we have seen firsthand the importance of provided our Consumer & Small Business customers additional staying connected. As an organisation responsible for enabling mobile data and unlimited broadband data at no extra charge so much of this connectivity, and as one of Australia’s largest and offered discounts to eligible Consumer & Small Business companies, we are living the digital transformation on the front customers currently receiving the JobSeeker payment. We line. We have seen unprecedented disruption, and with this provided unlimited home phone calls for eligible pensioners and unprecedented opportunity to step up for our communities and provided internet access to up to 30,000 students and teachers build a connected future so that everyone can thrive. across the country to help relieve some of the burden. With the help of NBN Co, we also launched a year-long $40/month home broadband discount to eligible low-income families with schoolApproach aged kids. For more information, see the Product and service At Telstra, digital inclusion is our core business. We are responsibility section of this report. focused on supporting those in our community most at risk of We continued to invest in the future of regional Australia digital exclusion. This includes those on low incomes, people through the Mobile Black Spot Program co-investment living with disability, older Australians, regional and remote arrangements and partnerships. We meet regularly with key communities, and people who are experiencing unemployment, consumer organisations in Australia to help ensure our digital homelessness or family violence. We partner with government inclusion programs meet our diverse communities’ needs. This and community organisations so that our more vulnerable includes the Australian Communications Consumer Action citizens can not only participate, but also benefit from the Network (ACCAN), the Low Income Measures Assessment digital economy. This means keeping people connected, Committee (LIMAC), our Indigenous Advisory Committee, especially when they are doing it tough, ensuring our products, Financial Counsellor Forums, and our CEO Consumer services and information are accessible and easy to use, and Roundtable, which provides a regular forum for peak consumer building the digital skills and confidence of our vulnerable and organisations to meet with our CEO and senior leaders. diverse customers and communities. Feedback from these forums has informed new initiatives on affordable mobile and home internet services for people on a low income, and continuing improvements to sales and service support for customers in vulnerable circumstances. We regularly review our digital inclusion approach to identify groups most in need, changing technologies and consumer preferences. This year we provided tailored support, products and services to an additional 306,000 people, bringing the total number of people enabled to thrive online to 1.65 million over three years. For a detailed breakdown of our community investment performance data, see the 2020 Sustainability Report Data Pack. 51 — Bigger Picture 2020 Sustainability Report Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Australian Digital Inclusion Index resources into our specialised customer care teams; and Since 2015 we have partnered with RMIT University, the improved our website with more information and guidance on Centre for Social Impact at Swinburne University, and Roy Telstra assistance for customers in vulnerable circumstances. Morgan to produce the Australian Digital Inclusion Index (the We have also begun to examine how we can achieve a Index). The Index provides important insights on the barriers consistent cross-company approach to supporting customers to digital inclusion across three areas access, affordability in vulnerable circumstances and make this commitment more and digital ability and is designed as an information tool to transparent to our customers, employees and communities. help policymakers, businesses and community organisations For more information, see the Product and service take action on digital exclusion. The Index is a longitudinal responsibility section of this report. study and shows that over time all digital inclusion in Australia Crisis support is improving, and that Australians are spending more time, Telstra provides free access to national crisis lines so that the and doing more, online. However, it also shows that the gaps cost of calling is not a barrier to seeking help from Lifeline, between digitally included and excluded Australians are State Emergency Services (SES), Family Drug Support, substantial. Those with low levels of income, education and Mensline Australia, beyondblue and Suicide Call Back Service. employment are significantly less digitally included. The value Over 833,000 Telstra-originated calls were made to these of the Index lies in the assistance it can provide in targeting crisis lines from fixed, mobile and payphones in FY20, up 17 and shaping future work. It can help guide future policy and per cent on the previous year. We provide unmetered data action by improving the evidence base and sharpening our access for those on the Telstra mobile network to the Ask Izzy focus. As further transformations in digitisation affect the way mobile website, which connects people in need with housing, we live and work, digital inclusion will become an increasingly a meal, money help, family violence support and much more. important issue for all of us. For more information, see the With over 2.1 million searches for help in the past year, Australian Digital Inclusion Index webpage. including a sharp rise in requests since March 2020 due to COVID-19, around 50 per cent come from Telstra’s networks. Customers in vulnerable circumstances We partner with more than 2,000 local community organisations across Australia to develop and deliver programs to assist our most vulnerable customers and communities. Our Access for Everyone programs help people on a low income or facing financial hardship to stay connected. Since its inception in 2002, we have provided benefits to the value of more than $3 billion. In FY20, Access for Everyone provided concessional benefits totalling $46 million, a reduction of 23 per cent compared to FY19 ($60 million), reflecting the further movement by pensioners to newer plans that have higher calling inclusions as standard. Over 690,000 pensioners received a discount in FY20 to the value of $31 million. In FY20, we introduced an information hub for our staff to access the full range of options we provide. For our customers, we introduced a new $30/month Value Mobile Offer as an affordability initiative for customers with a valid health care card who may otherwise depend on a pre-paid service. We continue to work with financial counsellors and other customer advocates to improve sales outcomes; have invested more 52 — Bigger Picture 2020 Sustainability Report Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions TelstrAbility Employee Representative Group panel on accessibility (L-R) Amy Whalley from Australian Network on Disability, Adem Cificioglu from Intopia and Telstra employees Sean Murphy and Ben Pintos-Oliver. Photo taken prior to the introduction of physical distancing requirements. Supporting people living with disability In FY20, we launched a new My Telstra app that meets Level This year our Disability Enquiry Hotline took close to 12,000 A standards of the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines, calls and processed almost 2,000 successful applications for an internationally recognised set of recommendations for products as part of our Disability Equipment Program. More improving web accessibility. Level A standard ensures the app than 58,000 calls were made to our Directory Assistance is accessible and useable for most customers on both iOS and Helpline by customers, some of who are not able to use Android devices. printed or online telephone directories. We also assisted We also supported the Accessible Telecoms service by linking the Department of Infrastructure, Transport, Regional our Telstra.com mobile product pages under the heading of Development and Communications to help customers ‘Accessibility Features’. The membership based non-profit transition to alternative communication methods when the IDEAS (Information on Disability, Education & Awareness National Relay Service ceased supporting CapTel (captioned Services) maintain this service and peak body ACCAN directly telephone) technology. We did this by commissioning user attributed this change to a 313 per cent increase in page views research in the community, consulting with 359 customers for accessibletelecoms.org.au, enabling more customers to at risk of losing access to communication in the home; and find the device accessibility information they need. We also supplying 127 pieces of equipment, including 110 TTYs (Telesupported Expression Australia to deliver key Telstra COVID-19 Typewriters for customers who are deaf or have speech messaging in Australian Sign Language (Auslan), facilitating the impairment). This contributed to a total of 303 TTYs provisioned inclusion of Deaf Australians whose primary language is Auslan. in FY20, more than doubling what was provided in FY19. In FY20, nearly 4,000 employees and contractors completed our In FY20, we received 11 complaints of disability discrimination Disability Awareness training for customer support agents. This from the Australian Human Rights Commission and other training has been updated for FY21 to include a greater range of state based anti-discrimination bodies. Of the 11, five were relevant topics, including mental health and neurodiversity. substantiated and resolved with various mitigating actions, including additional training for employees and the provision of information about our products and services. The remaining complaints were not substantiated and were resolved as appropriate. 53 — Bigger Picture 2020 Sustainability Report Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Older Australians Introducing online learning for seniors This year we continued to support Australian seniors through our digital literacy programs, giving older people, particularly COVID-19 restrictions saw New South Wales Community those in regional areas, the opportunity to develop the skills Colleges start delivering online Tech Savvy Seniors and confidence to embrace digital technology. In FY20, we gave sessions along with the Ethnic Communities Council almost 50,000 of our voice-only nbn customers access to free of New South Wales who provided online sessions for internet as part of their existing plan. Mandarin, Cantonese, Korean, Vietnamese, Italian and Turkish communities. In FY20, we delivered 68 online We partner with state governments to deliver our Tech Savvy sessions providing 550 training places to members of Seniors program and in FY20 provided 15,721 face-to-face these culturally and linguistically diverse communities. digital literacy training places for older Australians. This figure is a decrease on previous years due to COVID-19 restrictions In Victoria, the University of the Third Age (U3A) came on that impacted the delivery of face-to-face training. board as a partner for Telstra’s Social Seniors program. This enabled the Social Seniors program to be delivered The introductory courses that support people in getting online by 60 U3As via video conference across the state. started online accounted for more than half of sessions run. Participant survey results reveal the program continues to drive In FY21, online delivery will become part of our standard important digital and social inclusion outcomes with a high digital literacy offering for older Australians, as we move majority of participants claiming they now feel confident using to a blended learning approach. tablets, computers and smartphones and intend to use these technologies to access online information more frequently. Telstra Safe Connections Participants also feel their new digital skills have helped them to be more connected to friends and family and more engaged Telstra Safe Connections assists women impacted by domestic with what is happening in the world. and family violence by providing access to safe and secure communications – a smart phone, $30 pre-paid starter kit and information to help them stay safely connected. Delivered in partnership with the Women’s Services Network (WESNET), Telstra Safe Connections has distributed close to 23,000 phones to women since its inception in 2016. Since 2018, we have piloted a dedicated customer service entry point with trained agents and a ‘high care’ approach to our Safe Connections customers. As of March 2020, this service was made available for all customers impacted by domestic and family violence and can be accessed by calling 1800 452 566. 54 — Bigger Picture 2020 Sustainability Report Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Regional and remote communities We have established partnerships with the National Farmers' Federation (NFF) and five state farming organisations. In FY20, Regional investment as part of the NFF’s 2030 Roadmap, we contributed to the Telstra has a longstanding commitment to planning and establishment of the Farm Data Code, which aims to promote investing in a digital future that champions the needs of adoption of digital technology, by ensuring that farmers have regional and remote communities. After the latest round of comfort in how their data is used, shared and managed. the Commonwealth Government's Mobile Black Spot Program We established new partnerships in the last year with the is completed, we will have invested up to $290 million and Australian Trucking Association and became a founding member built more than 880 new sites to improve coverage for regional of the Regional Australia Institute’s, Regional Australia Council areas around the country. As of June 2020, we have delivered 2031 (RAC2031). RAC2031 aims to use the collective knowledge more than 700 blackspot sites under these programs with 693 and influence of the group to help transform regional Australia. under the Commonwealth Government program and another 17 It will focus on the four key pillars of jobs, population, liveability, under the state programs. This is more than two thirds of the and people and leadership. We also work closely with a range total 1,229 sites co-funded by government under the program of community stakeholders, including the Country Women's since 2015. In addition, we also completed a further 215 small Association of Australia (CWAA) and the Isolated Children cells for remote communities, which enhance mobile coverage and Parents' Association (ICPA), as well as think tanks and where it is not feasible to construct a full mobile base station. organisations such as the Regional Australia Institute. We have been investing in bringing future technologies to We manage sales and service queries for consumer customers Australia by enabling two national Internet of Things (IoT) who live more than 100 kilometres from a Telstra store through networks – Narrowband IoT (NB-IoT) and LTE-M. Both NB-IoT a dedicated Regional Australia Call Centre in Adelaide, along and LTE-M are formally recognised as 5G technologies and. In with overflow capacity in Townsville. In FY21, our regional and FY20, we expanded the reach of our NB-IoT network to cover rural customer support teams will extend nationally, and we four million square kilometres across Australia, whilst our will offer additional capacity building to our people to support LTE-M network reaches three million square kilometres. Our IoT the needs of these customers. network reach and capacity supports performance efficiencies and stimulates economic benefit across regional Australia. We have developed a range of next generation coverage extension solutions to deliver an improved mobile experience for our As of March 2020, Telstra completed a program of additional regional customers and those on the fringe of network coverage. network investment to further reduce fault rates and repair We have also commenced the expansion of our Regional Network timeframes in regional Australia. This was in response to Advisers, who work closely with regional and rural customers to the 2018 Regional Telecommunications Independent Review provide solutions and assist with mobile coverage issues. This Committee (RTIRC) review report that highlighted a perception builds on the model piloted since early 2019. of numerous faults on Telstra’s copper and fixed wireless networks. Although Telstra meets all Customer Service Guarantee benchmarks and complies with its Network Reliability Framework obligations, we undertook a program of work that resulted in an excess of 1,000 repairs to cable joints and remediated cable, and more than 200 battery repairs at exchanges, roadside cabinets, or customer sites. Regional engagement We respond to a range of regional community needs through our service and product offerings. In FY20, we established the Victorian Regional Advisory Council (RAC), which expands on the existing RACs operating in New South Wales, Western Australia and Queensland. The RACs are composed of key regional leaders helping us to identify and address local challenges and opportunities often associated with connectivity. Telstra employee Garry Schreiber restoring lines for a school camp near Dwellingup, WA. 55 — Bigger Picture 2020 Sustainability Report Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Uluru Statement from the Heart We support the Uluru Statement from the Heart a powerful and generous contribution from Australia’s first peoples to constitutional change, structural reform and national reconciliation. inDigiMOB © First Nations Media Australia. Photo taken prior to the introduction of physical distancing requirements. The Uluru Statement is a compelling invitation to walk with Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples and a natural Indigenous communities extension of our vision for reconciliation – an inclusive Australia where Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander As a major Australian telecommunications infrastructure peoples are connected and empowered to thrive. Given provider, we play a key role in supporting Aboriginal and Torres Telstra’s longstanding commitment to Australia’s first Strait Islander peoples to connect and thrive in the digital world. peoples, we are proud to lend our voice and our heart We recognise the importance of Aboriginal and Torres Strait to this vital work. Islander peoples being centrally involved in the decisionmaking processes related to the management of their cultural heritage. We achieve this by engaging with traditional owner inDigiMOB groups when working in areas of Aboriginal significance and inDigiMOB is a pioneering digital inclusion project established where required, facilitate Cultural Heritage Management by First Nations Media Australia and Telstra. The program aims Agreements to ensure the appropriate protection of Aboriginal to establish local digital mentors, improve digital literacy, Cultural Heritage. In any engagement, we also comply with the support connectivity solutions, provide technical advice numerous federal, state and territory legal requirements. and develop appropriate and relevant learning tools. Since its founding in 2016 more than 2,400 people in the Northern We are a long-term proponent of reconciliation, and this year Territory have received hands-on training. In FY20, inDigiMOB continued to deliver against our Reconciliation Action Plan supported ‘Indigemoji’, Australia’s first series of Aboriginal (RAP). Our RAP achieved the highest rating – ‘Elevate’ – from emojis, in partnership with the Alice Springs Public Library, the Reconciliation Australia and supports several critical programs Northern Territory Government, CAYLUS and Ingeous Studios. that deliver culturally relevant place-based digital skills and capability training. 56 — Bigger Picture 2020 Sustainability Report Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Boosting connectivity in Torres Strait In partnership with the Queensland State Government, the Telstra Regional General Manager Rachel Cliffe (far right) with (L-R) Jan Pool, CEO Torres Strait Regional Authority and the Commonwealth Torres Strait Island Regional Council, Napau Stephen, Chairman Torres Strait Regional Department of Agriculture, we are delivering high-speed Authority, The Hon Shannon Fentiman, Minister for Employment and Small Business internet access for mobile device users across 14 of the and Minister for Training and Skills Development and Mayor Fred Gela, Torres Strait Island Regional Council. Photo taken prior to the introduction of physical distancing Torres Strait islands by 2021. Currently, many islands requirements across the Torres Strait have patchy outdoor coverage, or only have 3G services. This project will improve that by Deadly Digital Communities building additional infrastructure at Sue Island, Coconut Island, Stephens Island, Dauan Island, Boigu Island and Deadly Digital Communities provides community-based Mabuiag Island and 4G coverage at Yam Island, Maer digital literacy and technology training in remote and regional Island and Saibai Island. Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander communities in Queensland. In FY20, the program reached 11 communities with more than This expansion project will not only support essential 3,900 people gaining new digital skills. In a survey undertaken services like police, health and education, but it will also to evaluate the program’s digital and social inclusion outcomes, help stimulate local business by opening up opportunities almost all of participants believed their new digital skills would for tourism. help them connect with family and friends, share their culture and assist in finding training and job opportunities. Indigenous Digital Excellence (IDX) This program is an initiative of the State Library of Queensland Co-founded and designed by the National Centre of Indigenous and Telstra in partnership with Indigenous Knowledge Centres Excellence (NCIE) and the Telstra Foundation in 2013, IDX and local councils. unlocks digital world opportunities for Aboriginal and Torres Disconnect Strait Islander peoples. The program provides hands-on workshops in digital technologies to more than 31 remote and In FY20, we delivered the first four episodes of Disconnect regional communities. For more information on IDX, see the – an eight part podcast series delivered by RMIT University Telstra Foundation section of this report. that tells contemporary stories of how the internet is used in Aboriginal communities across the country. Disconnect is available on IndigiTUBE, YouTube, Spotify, iTunes and other podcasting apps, each episode examines a unique aspect of internet use and its impact – good and bad. The topics covered in the Disconnect series are contributed by the communities themselves, and interviews have been collected with local media organisations, as well as with inDigiMOB. 57 — Bigger Picture 2020 Sustainability Report Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Telstra bushfire relief The 2019-20 Australian bushfires caused widespread and extreme impacts in many communities. They resulted in substantial damage to the power grid and telecommunications infrastructure, which caused disruptions to our customers’ services. Additional Telstra CEO Andy Penn visits a restored mobile tower in Jingellic, NSW. resources were assigned to support preparation before Source: James Wiltshire, The Border Mail. the fires, and response, restoration and recovery after them. We deployed over 100 portable generators and Disaster relief and recovery temporary replacement infrastructure such as mobile We know how important our network connectivity is for the ‘Cells on Wheels’ (COWs) and ‘Mobile Exchanges On community, especially in times of crisis. We work extensively to Wheels’ (MEOWs®). prepare for disaster seasons with our priorities being to ensure Telstra representatives were present in 21 evacuation our people are safe; to protect and maintain our infrastructure; centres – setting up Wi-Fi hotspots and charging stations and to keep our customers (including emergency service and offering emergency equipment such as pre-paid organisations) connected. In times of declared disaster, we mobile vouchers. We provided assistance packages, provide telecommunications services such as temporary including account credits and call diversions for affected internet and loan handsets to evacuation centres and set up communities, as well as unmetering critical websites, phone recharging stations. such as State Fire Authorities, Bureau of Meteorology These support arrangements include working with customers and ABC News, so that accessing important information in financial hardship to offer longer-term payment options or did not count towards customers’ data allowance. In extensions, reviewing and removing any administrative fees addition, we proactively contacted 2,090 medical priority (e.g. for late payment), and reviewing a customer’s mobile, fixed assist customers identified as living in bushfire affected line and broadband plans to make sure they are affordable. We zones to check if they had a working service and offer may also provide residents in a disaster relief area with free assistance packages. access to our public pay phones and free Wi-Fi data at Telstra Telstra payphones and Telstra Air Wi-Fi were made free for Air hotspots, regardless of whether they are a Telstra customer use nationally during the months of January and February, or not. Various services for impacted individuals, such as: free with more than 2.5 million free calls made from those call diversion, reconnecting services at a new address free payphones. We received more than 55,000 calls from of charge and providing additional mobile data, can also be customers making enquiries and seeking support after made available for those impacted by disaster. During FY20, the bushfires and waived mobile bills for around 10,000 over 1,000 customers across New South Wales, Queensland, firefighters and SES volunteers for December and January. Victoria and South Australia registered for our shortand Our team also supported international firefighters to stay long-term disaster assistance packages that provide relief connected with their loved ones by providing devices and measures including up to $500 credit on fixed and mobile appropriate international roaming plans as they arrived to phone accounts. help Australian emergency services. Our Community Recovery Vehicles can be deployed to arrange We wish to express our sincere appreciation to our people customer disaster relief packages, which include diverting as well as all firefighters, emergency services personnel, home and business phones to mobiles and, in some cases, the members of the Australian Defence Force (ADF) and local distribution of free devices with prepaid credit. Depending on communities for their tireless work during the bushfire our access to affected areas, we may also set up temporary season. You were critical in supporting us to protect and Telstra shops to support customers. We also provide restore the telecommunications infrastructure that keeps emergency response leave for our people who volunteer with Australians connected. emergency services. 58 — Bigger Picture 2020 Sustainability Report Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Tech For Good In an increasingly dynamic and interconnected world, By encouraging innovation, investing in our community and technology has an enormous capacity to create and support developing the digital skills of our customers, there is great social and environmental change. potential for our business and us as individuals to move towards a cleaner, more empathetic and inclusive future for all. Digital technology disrupts traditional operating models and helps society respond to major issues in a more agile and scalable way – from managing the threat of climate change and Responsible use of technology supporting the transition to a lower carbon future to making There are significant opportunities for positive social and healthcare, education and employment more universally environmental outcomes in the application of technologies accessible. In 2020 we have seen the COVID-19 crisis act as a such as IoT, Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Big Data. The powerful catalyst for societal change, whilst underscoring the potential for improved experiences for customers and critical importance of technology and connectivity. increased efficiencies for businesses need to be balanced with ethical considerations such as privacy, information Approach security, and accountability. These considerations are The pace of digital transformation brings great opportunity, dynamic and complex. We take a transparent customerbut it also brings challenges in terms of online privacy and centric approach and apply strong processes to manage safety, as well as the impacts of digital exclusion. Physical these complexities. We are working closely with the distancing, forced isolation and the ‘new normal’ has shifted Commonwealth Government, CSIRO and a range of the way we live and work, creating new lifestyle patterns and academic and non-profit organisations to pilot the changing the place of technology in everyday life. At Telstra, Australian Framework for Ethical AI. we saw firsthand the impact of moving more than 25,000 For more information about this pilot and how we manage Australian office-based staff to working from home. We want the ethical issues associated with these technologies, see to harness the learnings from this period, and the enormity the Protecting our customers’ data and privacy section of of the transition, as we support our customers and the wider this report. community to navigate the online world confidently and safely. 59 — Bigger Picture 2020 Sustainability Report Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Progress Nurturing social and environmental innovation Innovation is how we make things better. It is how we push technology to be more human, turn big ideas into new realities, and address the challenges facing Australians, our businesses, our government, and our communities. We believe there is huge potential for technology to enrich our communities and the natural environment. Telstra Labs is our dedicated space to uncover this potential. It is where our teams, our partners, our customers, and Australia’s next generation of innovative thinkers collaborate and co-create to imagine new product solutions, before our wider team scales them and brings them to the broader community. During FY20, Telstra Labs has delivered innovative customer trials in Cellular Vehicle-to-Everything (V2X) and low altitude airspace management for drones, and established worldleading technology trials in Edge Compute (with global operators) and cyber security. It has led a significant amount of the humanoid, collaborative robots, and intelligent assistant trials for industry customers. Telstra Labs also provides deep technical knowledge in Bluetooth and Wi-Fi positioning technologies, AI and machine learning (ML), through computer vision techniques, such as object, pattern and people detection. In FY20, we supported the Australian healthcare system during the COVID-19 crisis by bringing the Critical Health Resource Information System (CHRIS) to over 190 public and private hospitals. CHRIS was developed by Telstra Purple – Australia’s largest domestically owned technology services business – in Towards Zero: creating safer roads with Cellular-V2X conjunction with Ambulance Victoria and Australian and New As part of the Towards Zero Connected and Automated Zealand Intensive Care Society (ANZICS), and has assisted Vehicle Trial Grants Program, Telstra and Lexus Australia healthcare facilities to move patients to the nearest available were awarded a $3.5 million grant from the Victorian State ICU hospital, and redeploy vital equipment including personal Government to run a field trial of 4G-based connected protective equipment, respirators and dialysis machines to vehicle technology. These trials demonstrate how the those that need it most. existing cellular network can be used to increase safety We continued to solve for environmental efficiencies using outcomes on roads. IoT technology and the Telstra Data Hub platform, a secured Safety outcomes were tested across a variety of transport central location where data from numerous channels is applications including slow or stopped vehicles, speed held together and exchanged in real-time. Our LTE-M or advice, red light violations, emergency electronic brake Narrowband IoT (NB-IoT) devices, such as those used in lights, right turn assist and pedestrian warning. agronomy, can be equipped with small sensors that capture and send small volumes of data to a base via the mobile The cross-industry collaboration between Telstra network. These IoT systems work with the Telstra Data Hub as network partner and V2X platform provider Lexus and enable farmers to check the status of their soil and Australia, who provided two Lexus RX 450h SUVs, and the crop from anywhere in the world. Similar technology can Victorian Department of Transport, who made available be deployed in urban areas. For more information, see the real-time traffic data, was unique. The Cellular-V2X Internet of Things (IoT) section of this report. technology for Cooperative Intelligent Transport Systems (C-ITS) and Advanced Driver Assistance System (ADAS) trials represent an Australian first. 60 — Bigger Picture 2020 Sustainability Report Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions ReachOut and Orygen Digital: enhancing the system Telstra Foundation’s $2 million COVID-19 Mental Health Relief Package is helping ReachOut and Orygen Digital fast track and enhance online mental health support IDX Flint program in action, mapping country with drones in Yirrkala, East Arnhem for young people across Australia. This contribution Land, NT. Photo taken prior to the introduction of physical distancing requirements. recognises the role digital technology and connectivity can, and sometimes has to play in the successful Telstra Foundation treatment of youth mental health issues. Telstra Foundation is the philanthropic arm of Telstra. Powered The ReachOut and Orygen Digital service offers go well by Telstra and technology, our mission—unchanged for almost beyond standard video conferencing and telehealth and 15 years —is to build community resilience and enable young provide digital solutions that transform the way clinical people to thrive. This year we partnered with 14 charity and services and support resources and tools are delivered. social enterprise partners, committing $5.3 million through Funding will be allocated over a two-year period, with the Telstra Foundation to support community programs and approximately $200,000 of in-kind support, including partnerships. This brings our total investment since FY18 access to data scientists and Agile coaches. to $17.3 million, which is short of our target to invest $18 million in the Telstra Foundation over three years. Telstra Foundation also leverages shareholder and employee giving Indigenous Digital Excellence (IDX) connection goes virtual and in FY20 facilitated over $1.1 million in charitable donations The Indigenous Digital Excellence (IDX) initiative, co-founded through these channels. In combination since FY18, the total by the NCIE and the Telstra Foundation in 2013, unlocks digital investment in programs designed to support young people to opportunities for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples. thrive in a digital world has been $21.1 million. In April 2020, over 30 Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Our response to COVID-19: youth mental health peoples from regional and remote communities planned and partner relief package to attend a week long IDX Annual Champion Camp at NCIE As the evolving challenges of COVID-19 are felt across Australia, in Redfern, New South Wales. Due to COVID-19, the camp Telstra Foundation took decisive action to deliver a strategic was held virtually, allowing the IDX’s network of community and compassionate response to support our partners and champions to connect, share knowledge, and gain new digital their vital work. In addition to providing project flexibility for skills to take back to their communities. The virtual camp charity partners, we also responded to the increasing demand consisted of a live-streamed smoking ceremony, welcome to in mental health through development of a COVID-19 Mental country, and 15 sessions that included digital storytelling, 3D Health Relief Package. This package is designed to fast track printing, coding, and bringing business ideas to life. the digital enhancement of youth mental health services. “This was the first time IDX delivered its program in a virtual setting and we’re excited to do this with our IDX Champions, who are the people driving digital excellence in their communities.” Grant Cameron, IDX Manager. 61 — Bigger Picture 2020 Sustainability Report Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Digital changemakers: Tech4Good investment shape future digital innovations that service humanity.” Telstra Foundation’s Tech4Good Challenge supports nonJudy Slatyer, Australian Red Cross CEO. profits using digital technology to improve the health and wellbeing of young people – particularly diverse and Building a Tech4Good community of practice vulnerable young people. In FY20, we continued to support Building a community of practice around social five organisations to build and pilot their digital innovations – changemakers is part of Telstra Foundation’s Tech4Good BighART, Autism CRC, Orygen Digital, Expression Australia and approach. Since 2008, ReachOut and Telstra Foundation Infoxchange. Each organisation has received $450,000 over two have partnered to promote discussion across sectors via years to fund their projects. the Technology for Wellbeing Roundtable. The Roundtable Autism CRC is the world’s first national cooperative research aims to provide a space for people working in youth initiative focusing on autism across the lifespan of an wellbeing to share knowledge and build relationships in individual. Their vision is to see autistic people empowered to the context of emerging technology. Members include discover and use their diverse strengths and interests. As part representatives from the technology, non-profit, of the Tech4Good Challenge, the Autism CRC team designed government and academic sectors. In FY20, Edward and launched a digital solution called MyWay Employability Santow, Australia’s Human Rights Commissioner met to help school leavers with autism spectrum disorder identify with Roundtable members to discuss the Commission’s their strengths and interests, set goals, and track progress research, consultation and insights about the rapid rise of on their path to a successful career. The project helps young new technology and what it means for human rights. autistic people to identify their skills, confidently enter the workforce, and achieve success in their chosen career pathway. Digital changemakers: the next gen “Over one third of people on At Telstra Foundation we believe every young person should have access to the tools and skills to power their own future the spectrum are unemployed. and explore the opportunity to create, not just observe, their digital world. For over a decade we have supported the next Reaching young people with a generation of digital changemakers by investing in grassroots coding, digital making, and entrepreneurial learning initiatives. tailored program while they are With our partners, the National Centre of Indigenous Excellence (NCIE) and Young Change Agents, we deliver train-the-trainer still in school is critical because programs in schools, indigenous communities and libraries, which encourage young people to build skills including coding, receiving the right support to robotics, drones, and entrepreneurial and design thinking. In FY20, programs were impacted by COVID-19 restrictions and plan and prepare early can set partners pivoted to virtual program delivery, refocusing on the enhancement of digital tools and resources. them up for success.” ­ We also manage Code Club Australia, the nation’s largest network of free, volunteer-led code clubs. Code Club Australia —Cheryl Mangan, Autism CRC project co-leader. is for young people, teachers and librarians and aims to #getkidscoding. By learning how to code, young people In addition to the Tech4Good Challenge, the Foundation has build digital literacy skills and develop valuable soft skills also partnered with the Australian Red Cross, committing $4.1 including logic, creativity, critical thinking, collaboration and million to further drive social innovation enabled by technology communication. in the area of climate change. This funding will help the Telstra Foundation has boosted the movement to bring code Australian Red Cross develop, launch and deliver Humanitech clubs to kids all over regional and remote Australia and give a global ‘think+do’ tank that seeks to pioneer new digital teachers and volunteers free online teaching resources. In solutions through sharing, collaboration and experimentation, FY20, Moonhack – an annual, international coding event for and to further amplify ideas and solutions with the greatest kids – inspired 34,170 kids from over 70 countries to celebrate potential for scale and impact. a week of coding. Participants coded planet saving solutions “Through Humanitech we will create an innovative and across six coding projects, translated into 11 languages. entrepreneurial environment in which to collaborate with other Almost half of the Moonhack participants were girls and organisations, thought leaders, institutions and government to 51 per cent were based in Australia. 62 — Bigger Picture 2020 Sustainability Report Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Keeping safe in a digital world Protecting children's safety online Digital technology provides access to a world of information In June 2020 we signed up to the Voluntary Principles and communication, but it can also leave us exposed to to Counter Online Child Sexual Exploitation and Abuse risks such as cyberbullying, and privacy and data security (Voluntary Principles). The Voluntary Principles were breaches. Through our programs, we work to build the skills recently introduced by the Five Country Governments and confidence needed to help understand these risks and (Australia, Canada, New Zealand, the United Kingdom and promote safe and positive digital experiences. Online safety is United States), with the aim of guiding global efforts to more than protecting people from online danger and personal safeguard children on online platforms and services. We risk. It’s also about creating a sense of belonging and standards are committed to protecting children’s safety online and of behaviour that enable us all to have a positive experience we will continue our work with government and industry online. At Telstra we want to empower people to participate partners to make the internet a safer place for all users. safely in the online world and provide the infrastructure and support that make this possible. Helping customers stay safe online Cyber safety in our communities The rapid uptake of new technologies provides a nearly alwaysAs an organisation responsible for enabling so much of on connected world and with that comes an increase in cyber today’s connectivity, we also have a responsibility to support vulnerabilities. As new opportunities emerge, one significant communities to be smart, safe and responsible when it comes risk remains – the critical need to protect ourselves online. As to technology. Recent research indicates that more than six an organisation responsible for enabling so much of today’s out of ten parents are concerned about online bullying or connectivity, we offer our customers a range of ways to stay safe their kids being exposed to inappropriate content, and more online. Our Telstra Broadband Protect and Telstra Mobile Protect than half are worried about stranger danger on the internet. solutions help customers to better protect their families from We provide our customers with practical tips, particularly on cyber risks, tailoring connectivity to the needs and maturity of digital parenting and advice on cyber safety, to mitigate these family members and helping bring balance to screen time. concerns. For example, our SmartPhone Safety Hub provides support for parents who are bringing a smartphone into their Telstra Broadband Protect helps more than 2.5 million child’s life. For more information, see our SmartPhone Safety customers and their family members to stay safe online via Hub webpage. any device connected to their home fixed broadband service. The product blocks around one billion queries to malicious In addition, we collaborate on cyber safety through our active sites and content that may infect devices or steal customers’ participation in key industry programs. The Telstra Foundation information every month. This year more than 70 per cent of and the Alannah & Madeline Foundation launched eSmart our home internet users are protected by Telstra Broadband Libraries in 2012 – one of the most ambitious cyber safety Protect. Thousands of customers have also added parental initiatives undertaken in Australia to equip libraries, staff controls to their Telstra Broadband Protect service, so that and library users with the skills they need for smart, safe and they can block inappropriate content or restrict internet access responsible use of digital technology. This initiative has been on devices in the home. In FY20, there were several days scaled and integrated at libraries across Australia. We are also where parental controls blocked over one million requests for a co-founder of the Technology for Wellbeing Roundtable, which websites, applications, and other content based on customer we describe in the Telstra Foundation section of this report. configured policies. Telstra Mobile Protect helps protect families when they are using their mobile devices on the Telstra mobile network, and lets parents restrict mobile and tablets usage. The service offers customers family friendly web-blocking features and allows parents to protect their children from unwanted calls and SMS messages. The service is available to post-paid Telstra customers at no extra cost. In FY20, we announced our Cleaner Pipes initiative to further reduce instances of customer data being compromised through malware, ransomware and phishing. For more information on cyber security, see the Protecting our customers’ data and privacy section of this report. 63 — Bigger Picture 2020 Sustainability Report Environmental solutions Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Climate change and energy Climate change will be the defining challenge of the 2020s – Andy Penn, CEO There has never been a more important time for business to country, it is essential that we identify and manage the risks think deeply about the role it plays in society. and harness the opportunities that climate change presents for our business. Events including the 2019-20 Australian Bushfires have raised awareness and increased concern in the community about Keeping millions of Australians connected requires 5.6 what climate change means and, more importantly, what petajoules of energy (electricity, diesel, petrol and natural must be done to respond and increase resilience. The science gas) each year and this year resulted in nearly 1.2 million is clear. Climate change, driven by greenhouse gas (GHG) tonnes1 of GHG emissions. This equates to GHG emissions from emissions, is creating risks that impact our economy, our around 400,000 cars each year2. As businesses, governments, environment, our communities and each of us individually. communities and consumers increasingly adopt new digital technologies the volume of data on our network continues As Australia’s largest telecommunications provider and one to grow. of the largest consumers of electrical and other energy in the 1 Includes FY20 scope 1 and scope 2 emissions. 2 Data estimated based on average passenger vehicle fuel consumption of 10 litres per 100km and taken from https://www.energy.gov.au/households/transport 65 — Bigger Picture 2020 Sustainability Report Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Approach Telstra becomes carbon neutral We are committed to making emissions reductions that are We met our goal and achieved carbon neutral certification consistent with the Paris Agreement. We are also committed for our operations under the Commonwealth Government’s to being transparent about our approach and progress in Climate Active program. To help contribute to our carbon responding to climate change. neutrality goal, we continued to actively work to improve This year we have begun to align our reporting with the the energy efficiency of our network sites and exchanges, recommendations outlined in the G20’s Financial Stability and data centres. This year, despite increasing demand for Board Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures data, our network facility energy reduction program and (TCFD). TCFD provides a voluntary framework for organisations decommissioning activities contributed a to assess and disclose material forward-looking financial 3.4 per cent reduction towards achieving both our carbon risks and opportunities arising from physical climate change neutrality and emissions reduction goals. impacts. It will also help us to navigate the transition to The balance was achieved by purchasing carbon offsets a low-carbon economy and investigate related risks and from a mix of Australian and international projects. We opportunities associated with climate change to understand have chosen carbon offset credits consistent with the the resilience of our business strategy and potential financial Climate Active program guidelines and further applied impacts of these changes. our own criteria to assess the social and environmental In December 2019, we announced our commitment to integrity of projects we chose to invest in. The credits achieve net zero GHG emissions by 2050 in line with the Paris purchased to meet our 2020 carbon neutral commitment Agreement. We then decided to further challenge ourselves and have been from two project owners in Australia and three set three ambitious climate goals in March 2020. These are: in India. 1. Be carbon neutral in 2020 In Australia, we are supporting the Southern Aurukun Savanna Burning Project, that uses the knowledge of Our approach to achieving carbon neutrality follows the traditional owners and Aboriginal rangers to reduce the World Business Council on Sustainable Development GHG emissions from savannah fires, which make up (WBCSD) GHG emissions mitigation hierarchy, which is three per cent of Australia’s total emissions. The other to avoid generating emissions where possible, take active Australian project we are supporting is the Yarra Yarra measures to reduce emissions, and to ‘neutralise’ any Biodiversity Corridor, a native reforestation project remaining emissions by purchasing carbon offsets. located in Southwest Australia – a global biodiversity hotspot. In India (where we have significant operations) we are purchasing offsets from four solar energy and five wind energy projects. For more information on the emissions we are offsetting and the carbon offset projects we are investing in, see the Public Disclosure Statement. 66 — Bigger Picture 2020 Sustainability Report Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions 2. Renewable leadership by enabling renewable energy 3. Reduce our absolute emissions by at least 50 per cent generation equivalent to 100 per cent of our consumption by 2030 by 2025 Our emissions reduction target is based on our commitment In an interconnected energy grid, new renewable generation to achieve net zero GHG emissions by 2050 in alignment has the effect of decarbonising the grid for everyone. To with the Paris Agreement. support this, by 2025 we will own or contract renewable We plan to achieve this 50 per cent reduction in absolute energy generation in Australia and our other business emissions by 2030 through a range of initiatives, including locations, enabling renewable energy generation equivalent increasing investment in our energy efficiency program to 100 per cent of the energy we consume across all of our and new technologies, and, building climate change operations, including our networks and buildings. considerations into long-term business planning. We will We are Australia’s largest corporate purchaser of electricity also benefit from the progressive decarbonisation of the from renewable projects connected to the grid under electricity grid as the uptake of renewables grows. project specific agreements. While the output from these In February 2020, we committed to the Science Based projects goes into the total grid pool, rather than directly Targets initiative. At the same time, the Global System for into our facilities, these agreements play a role in providing Mobile Communications Association (GSMA) announced the investment certainty to enable these projects to its commitment to the Science Based Targets initiative for proceed. As the grid itself increases its proportion of the telecommunications sector to achieve net zero carbon renewable energy due to agreements with us and others, emissions by 2050. the power that flows into our facilities from the grid also becomes greener. The projects we have agreements with, For more information on our energy efficiency program, including the Murra Warra Wind Farm and the Emerald Solar see the Energy efficiency section of this report. Park, generate renewable energy equivalent to the energy consumption of 255,000 households. We will continue to build on this work and invest in renewable energy generation. For more information on our existing Power Purchase Agreements, see the Renewable Energy section of this report. 67 — Bigger Picture 2020 Sustainability Report Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Climate change governance Board and Audit & Risk Committee Understanding and managing our risks is part of how we work. The Board monitors Telstra’s environmental (including climate It helps us meet our strategy and business objectives and change) performance, which includes setting our climate our legal and regulatory obligations and enables us to make change strategy and approving our targets. During FY20, informed business decisions and act ethically, in the best among other things the Board approved our three climate goals interests of Telstra Group and our shareholders. Maintaining announced in March 2020, endorsed the framework of our clear oversight of our climate change related risks and refreshed environment strategy, and received updates on our opportunities is one of our sustainability governance priorities. climate goals and our climate change work program. The Audit & Risk Committee assists the Board in this area by overseeing how our climate-related risks are managed and making recommendations to the Board with respect to risks Board and appropriate targets. The Audit & Risk Committee receives Set climate change strategy and approve targets updates on the management of climate change risks and opportunities and progress against our targets. For more information on Telstra's Board and Audit & Risk Committee, see the corporate governance website and the Audit & Risk Committee latest Corporate Governance Statement. Oversee climate risk management and make Executive management recommendations to the Board on targets The CEO, together with the senior management team, is responsible to the Board for the development and implementation of our climate change strategy, and our performance against it. A Climate Executives Group, with representation from across the business, has been established CEO Leadership Team to deliver a comprehensive response to climate change. The Endorse approach and recommend decisions role of the Climate Executives Group is to provide directional leadership on Telstra’s climate ambition, determine key priorities and execute management decisions on climaterelated matters. This includes making recommendations to the CEO Leadership Team on key climate change focus areas, Climate Executives Group including appropriate targets and our strategic response to Oversee climate change work program climate impacts. Climate change working streams 68 — Bigger Picture 2020 Sustainability Report Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Telstra achieves CDP A List recognition Our commitment to transparency For the 2019 CDP (formerly Carbon Disclosure Project), we We calculate our GHG emissions in accordance with were recognised as one of six Australian and 179 international the Greenhouse Gas Protocol of the WBCSD and World companies to make CDP’s Global Climate Change Index A List, Resources Institute as well as the Australian National which names the world’s most pioneering companies leading on Greenhouse and Energy Reporting (Measurement) environmental transparency and performance. This recognition Determination 2008 (as amended). Our GHG emissions data demonstrates our leadership and commitment to reduce includes relevant Australian subsidiaries, joint ventures emissions, mitigate climate risks and develop a low-carbon and partnerships as set out in the National Greenhouse and economy. Energy Reporting Act 2007. Industry associations and the valuable We have begun to align our reporting with the role they play recommendations of the TCFD and will continue to evaluate and enhance our climate-related disclosures to We are a member of a number of industry associations that we reflect our accelerated response in managing the impacts believe provide value to our business, industry, the economy and of climate change. society more broadly. These associations provide access to the latest industry thinking and insights around issues including the For a detailed breakdown of our environmental environment. They have an important role to play in developing performance data, see the 2020 Sustainability Report effective policy, regulation and industry standards. Data Pack. In December 2019, we published a review of our alignment to To ensure stakeholder’s confidence in our environmental our key industry associations in relation to climate change. management and performance, we engaged Ernst & Young The review found there was broad alignment between Telstra’s (EY) to provide limited assurance over a selection of our position and that of our industry associations. FY20 environmental performance data. For an overview of the metrics included in the assurance, see EY’s assurance Following this, we will continue to collaborate with statement. industry associations on these issues, while monitoring our memberships to ensure continued alignment on climate change and energy policy. Our response to the recommendations of the TCFD and the location of these disclosures are summarised in the table below. TCFD Recommendations Report Location Governance Disclose the organisation’s governance 2020 Bigger Picture Sustainability Report Climate change governance around climate-related risks and opportunities 2020 Corporate Governance Statement The responsibilities of the Board 2020 Corporate Governance Statement Managing our risks Strategy Disclose the actual and potential impacts 2020 Bigger Picture Sustainability Report Managing climate-related risks and opportunities of climate-related risks and opportunities on the 2020 Annual Report Our material risks organisation’s businesses, strategy, and financial planning where such information is material 2020 Bigger Picture Sustainability Report Our approach to developing climate scenarios Risk Management Disclose how the organisation 2020 Bigger Picture Sustainability Report Risk management framework identifies, assesses, and manages climate-related risks 2020 Corporate Governance Statement Managing our risks 2020 Bigger Picture Sustainability Report Managing climate-related risks and opportunities Metrics and Targets Disclose the metrics and targets 2020 Bigger Picture Sustainability Report Approach used to assess and manage relevant climate-related risks 2020 Bigger Picture Sustainability Report Managing our energy and emissions and opportunities where such information is material 69 — Bigger Picture 2020 Sustainability Report Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Risk management framework of climate change, such as increased frequency and severity of extreme weather events, have the potential to damage Our risk management framework provides the foundations and our physical assets and disrupt continuity of service to our organisational arrangements for how we manage risks across customers. Transition risks are those arising from policy, legal, Telstra. Climate-related risks and opportunities are identified, technology, market and reputation changes associated with assessed and managed using our risk management framework. the transition (or lack of) to a low-carbon economy. Our approach to managing climate-related risks is consistent with the way we manage other material risks that may prevent With regards to opportunities, decarbonising the the achievement of our strategic plans and objectives. global economy is likely to require a world that is more interconnected, digitised and decentralised, providing Telstra For more information on our risk management framework and the opportunity to develop new solutions for customers and to how we manage our risks, see the FY20 Corporate Governance support emerging industries. Statement. An overview of the climate-related risks and opportunities Managing climate-related risks and opportunities identified to have potential financial or strategic impact to our Risks associated with the physical impacts of climate change business and our response is summarised in the table below. can be acute (arising from changes in the severity and frequency of weather events) and chronic (longer-term shifts in climatic patterns such as sea-level rise). The physical impacts Risks Opportunities Response Policy Emerging changes in policy and regulation Implementing energy efficiency We participate in industry forums and can have cost impacts associated with technologies and upgrades will drive actively monitor and work to influence the meeting higher regulatory requirements. resource optimisation and reduce emerging policy and regulatory landscape. operational costs. Market Shifts in consumer behaviour can disrupt Higher demand for new environmentally We continue to monitor and understand demand for existing market offerings. aware products and services will increase emerging technology and customer market offerings and innovation in the trends, and provide thought leadership to ICT sector, driving revenue growth for our product and technology, proposition the sector. and marketing roadmaps, our strategy, and Telstra’s investment plans. Technology Products and services that fail to compete Decarbonisation will drive innovation We actively manage the lifecycle of our may be phased out in the transition to a in technological development in the products and services: defining, building low carbon economy. ICT sector for digitised solutions in the and retiring products. This requires us energy, resource, and transport sector, to anticipate and understand what our and we can play a powerful enabling role customers want and how we can leverage in assisting our customers to reduce their horizons of new technology to serve them. environmental impacts (including GHG emissions). Reputation Changing customer or community Meeting increased stakeholder We are committed to climate disclosures perception on our contribution (or lack expectations gives us the opportunity aligned to the TCFD framework and have of) to the transition to a lower-carbon to build trust as well as being a provider set climate goals aligned to climate economy. Absence of climate-related of choice for customers interested in science. disclosure may expose us to shareholder minimising emissions across the activism and increased regulatory value chain. reporting obligations. Physical – Higher frequency and severity of extreme Increased growth in ICT sector for We continue to build on our Network acute and weather events can increase operational early warning systems and demand Resiliency and Business Continuity chronic cost for disaster recovery and disrupt our for connectivity, especially for climate program which focuses on delivering supply chain. vulnerable customers and businesses. continuous connectivity and better usage experience for our customers. 70 — Bigger Picture 2020 Sustainability Report Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Our approach to developing climate scenarios 1. Global narratives of Trajectories of a globally We have developed future climate scenarios to help us a changing society changing climate understand what future trends, opportunities and risks may (Shared Socio-economic (Representative Concentration emerge as a result of climate change and their potential Pathways (SSPs)) Pathways (RCPs)) financial and operational impacts on our business strategy. In Technology response we have developed future climate scenarios in line development Less than 2°C Population growth warming (RCP 2.6) with the recommendations of the TCFD. Urbanisation 2 – 3 °C warming These are divergent, climate driven scenarios which are aimed warming (RCP 4.5) Education Greater than 4°C to stress test our business strategy and the resilience of our Economic growth warming (RCP 8.5) physical infrastructure across a variety of time horizons, Lifestyle changes ranging from short (up to three years), medium (three to ten years) and longer term (greater than ten years). We will use the scenarios to better understand our resilience and 2. vulnerabilities and assist in guiding our opportunity, risk Aligned with Australian mitigation and adaptation response. specific context and These scenarios are aligned with international best practice, regional climate models drawing upon the latest peer reviewed scientific and academic research. Key elements of each scenario were developed referencing to research produced for the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) including: 3. Outcomes climate scenarios Global co-operation to decarbonise •  hared Socio-economic Pathways (SSPs)3, which describe S In this scenario, the world is characterised by moderate and future global socio-economic conditions. They include sustainable economic growth. The global drive to rapidly narratives and quantification of demographic, political, decarbonise necessitates significant expenditure in low social, cultural, institutional, lifestyle, economic and emissions technologies, renewable energy and storage, and technological variables and trends. Accelerated Action a circular economy with optimised resource efficiencies. Less than 2ºC •  Representative Concentration Pathways (RCPs)4, which Fragmented decarbonisation and low economic growth model the increase in atmospheric GHG concentrations A globally insecure world, with barriers to trade and regional over the 21st century and form the basis for understanding conflict stifling technological innovation. Governments the type and scale of physical impacts of climate change in pursue policies driven by security concerns. Innovation, global climate models. technology and the environment are deprioritised. Customers and businesses become more price sensitive and Additional Australian context was also provided for these Divided World 2 3ºC economic growth slows, with inequality worsening over time. scenarios, using the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation’s (CSIRO) Australian National Outlook Limited decarbonisation most challenging to adapt (ANO) scenarios, and the Australian Energy Market Operator’s This is a world severely disrupted by physical climate change. Economic and social development continue to (AEMO) 2019 forecasting and planning scenarios. Three heavily rely on fossil fuel resources, and customers prefer scenarios were developed based on these sources to help resource and energy intensive lifestyles. Domestic policies provide meaningful insights for Telstra and our stakeholders. prioritise growth, and technological development is Changed Climate Greater than 4ºC focused on improving the living standards, wellbeing and The following scenarios will form the basis of our quantitative adapting to the changed climate. assessment of climate-related financial impacts as we continue to progress with the next phase of our scenario analysis. They will help us understand how Telstra’s future markets, supply chain and operating environment could change both from a physical climate and customer needs perspective. We will use our forward-looking financial analysis to determine the priority and scale of our adaptative response to climate change. 3 Riahi, K., Van Vuuren, D. P., Kriegler, E., Edmonds, J., O’neill, B. C., Fujimori, S. & Lutz, W. (2017). The shared socioeconomic pathways and their energy, land use, and greenhouse gas emissions implications: an overview. Global Environmental Change, 42, 153-168. 4 Taylor, K. E., Stouffer, R. J., & Meehl, G. A. (2012). An overview of CMIP5 and the experiment design. Bulletin of the American Meteorological Society, 93(4), 485-498. 71 — Bigger Picture 2020 Sustainability Report Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Progress FY20 GHG emissions (scope 1, 2 and selected 3) by category Managing our energy and emissions 1.2M We committed to reducing our GHG emissions intensity (tCO2-e per petabyte) by 50 per cent by 2020, from a baseline 985K year of FY17. We achieved a 55 per cent reduction in emissions Scope 2 1,144,151 intensity. We also met our goal and achieved carbon neutral 770K certification. For more information, see the Climate change and energy section of this report. 555K Scope 3 Scope 1 145,244 We have seen an overall increase in data traffic in FY20 due to 340K 36,381 continued increases in streaming and online gaming throughout the year. This includes a spike in usage from March 2020 125K onwards due to significant demand for video meetings as a result of COVID-19. 100K Overall, our emissions have decreased by six per cent from 75K last year. Drivers of our emissions intensity performance include changes to state-based emission factors for electricity 50K published by the Commonwealth Government; increased transfer of infrastructure under our operational control to NBN 25K Co5 throughout the year; a reduction in electricity usage in our offices and retail stores in the second half of FY20; and a tCO2-e Electricity Electricity reduction in the number of our fleet vehicles since FY19. Fuel Fuel* Electricity Fuel* Fuel Fuel Waste GHG emissions, petabyte usage and Network sites Offices, Retail Data centres Vehicles Air travel Waste (incl. mobile, exchanges & Residential emissions intensity and depots) 2M 16 Note that scope 1 and 3 fuel emissions for Office, Retail & Residential and Data * centres total less than 1,000 tCO2e Our emissions profile 1.5M 12 We continue to disclose our FY20 scope 1 (diesel, petrol and natural gas), scope 2 (electricity) and a subset of our scope 3 (waste, air travel, electricity transmission losses and fuel extraction and refining) emissions in this report. We recognise that these do not represent the full scope of 1M 8 emissions across our value chain. In accordance with the GHG Protocol we have expanded our disclosures (in the Data Pack) to include all relevant scope 3 emissions categories. Given that the majority of the expanded scope 3 data is based 0.5M 4 on spend in our supply chain, there is a lag in reporting as it takes time to extract, manipulate and verify this data. We continue to partner with our suppliers to improve the data quality of our supply chain emissions to better manage and reduce our overall scope 3 emissions footprint. For more tCO2-e PB information, please refer to the Managing our Supply Chain FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY20 section of this report. Greenhouse gas Petabyte Usage Emissions intensity emissions6 (tCO2e) (PB) (000's) (tCO2e/PB)7 5 nbn™, NBN Co and other nbn™ logos and brands are trademarks of NBN Co limited and used under license. 6 GHG emissions are calculated using the latest emission factors at the time of reporting. Our emissions intensity target includes scope 1, 2 and the following scope 3 emissions: waste, air travel, electricity transmission losses, and fuel extraction and refining. 7 We have re-stated our FY19 total GHG emissions to account for a change in the operational boundary with NBN and the treatment of contractor fuel data. This decreased our scope 1 and 3 GHG emissions by 4,275 tCO2-e (-8.0% change in Scope 1, -0.1% change in Scope 3 and -0.3% change in total GHG emissions) from what was previously reported. 72 — Bigger Picture 2020 Sustainability Report Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Energy efficiency We have also established a Networks and IT Energy Reduction Forum. Each month, key stakeholders including Electricity consumption accounts for around 86 per cent of our both executives and subject matter experts from across the total FY20 GHG emissions (scope 1, 2 and a selection of 3). We business meet to identify and review key energy reduction strive to reduce energy consumption across every aspect of initiatives with the aim of reducing energy consumption, driving our business through a careful program of planning, equipment and tracking the implementation of these initiatives, and monitoring, and energy productivity optimisation. removing any blockers. Through this forum, we have reduced Our network sites, including exchanges and data centres, are over 3.2MW of equipment power through the implementation our largest consumers of electricity. This year, we continued of power saving features, the migration of services to more to enhance the efficiency of these facilities, upgrading efficient equipment, and the powering down of low usage older fluorescent lights to LED technology with integrated motion generation equipment. sensing, upgrading air-conditioning control systems and Managing our transport emissions programming them with the latest energy efficient strategies, improving our approach to fault detection and repair, and This year, several new initiatives have been conducted to optimising facility design. Since 2011, we have invested $64.9 reduce the emissions profile of our operational fleet. We million in improving the energy efficiency of our facilities. This continue to transition to more fuel-efficient vehicles, with 20 year we invested $3.7 million in energy reduction projects that per cent of our operational fleet now being hybrid vehicles, and delivered a collective saving of 10,407 tCO2e and more than replaced six-cylinder station wagons with smaller four-cylinder 11,217 MWh of electricity per annum. SUVs. When comparing the fuel consumed by our operational fleet to FY19, we have reduced fuel usage by 22 per cent and For a detailed breakdown of our GHG emissions and energy will continue working to reduce our fuel consumption in coming consumption, see the 2020 Sustainability Report Data Pack. years. Initiative Description Annual Renewable energy savings Telstra is currently engaged in two power purchasing agreements (MWh) (PPAs) at the Emerald Solar Park in Queensland and Murra HVAC We conduct physical inspections of our 5,601 optimisation network sites to identify faults affecting power Warra Wind Farm in Victoria. Telstra is the sole consortium consumption and review equipment performance member of Emerald Solar Park, which commenced generation to identify optimisation opportunities. in September 2018 and reached full commercial operations in Building Our capital works program includes the 5304 February 2019 with a generation capacity of 70MW. Telstra led services energy installation of fresh air cooling systems, high the establishment of an offtake consortium (one of six offtake efficiency efficiency chillers, electronically commutated upgrades fans and lighting upgrades. partners) in the Murra Warra Wind Farm, which commenced Upgrading Rectifiers convert electricity from AC mains 312 generation in March 2019 and reached full commercial rectifiers power to DC power, which is required to run our operations in February 2020 with a generation capacity of telecommunications equipment. We continue 226MW. to upgrade older inefficient units to more modern, high efficiency rectifiers. These are now Emerald Solar Park has enough renewable generation to power achieving efficiency levels of 96 to 98 per cent. approximately 35,000 Queensland households each year Total 11,217 and the Murra Warra Wind Farm supplies enough renewable generation to support almost 220,000 Victorian households. A focus on the efficiency of our largest energy consuming Given the success with these PPAs, Telstra continues to engage facilities has resulted in several key projects. At Windsor the market to seek well supported renewable generation Exchange in Victoria we have increased the use of fresh air projects to provide competitive long-term supply, and to help cooling when it is cold outside, and implemented new airassist us in achieving our goal to enable renewable energy conditioning control strategies to achieve energy savings of 300 generation equivalent to 100 per cent of the energy Telstra MWh per annum. Additionally, at three of our largest energy consumes by 2025. consuming sites (Clayton Datacentre, Chatswood Exchange and Pitt Street Exchange) we have implemented projects to We have made 75 MW of capacity in fast-start standby install Internet of Things (IoT) energy metering on our major generation available to serve at times of high electricity energy consuming plant. This has enabled us to identify and system demand. This enhances the ability to reliably integrate implement energy efficiency opportunities including optimising further renewables into the electricity market and support the the speed of many of the fans in our air-conditioning system transition to renewables. and has delivered annual energy savings of 858 MWh, 1,173 MWh and 644 MWh respectively. 73 — Bigger Picture 2020 Sustainability Report Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Environment and resource efficiency As Australia’s leading telecommunications and technology Progress company, we have a responsibility to improve how efficiently we E-waste manage resources and to minimise our environmental impacts. Working together – MobileMuster We continue to reduce waste from our operations and increase the reuse and recycling of materials. Resource efficiency As a founding member of MobileMuster – Australia’s only creates opportunity for Telstra to innovate, and this year voluntary, government-accredited mobile phone recycling we have focused on redesigning our customer packaging to scheme we have supported responsible electronic recycling incorporate sustainable design principles. Noting that e-waste programs for 21 years. Our membership of MobileMuster is one of the fastest growing types of waste in the world, we delivers on one of Telstra’s commitments to enable an have also explored ways to increase e-waste recycling of both environmentally sustainable industry, that provides a safe, our customer devices and our network equipment. trusted and environmentally sound product stewardship program in Australia. We take a collaborative approach to resource efficiency including forming partnerships across our industry to Mobile phone recycling (tonnes) drive better outcomes and working to offer a number of device reuse programs that help our partners reduce their environmental impact. We also work to ensure we comply with 23.7 our environmental obligations, monitoring and managing the increasing complexity of our environmental risks. 19.7 15.5 Approach Resource efficiency This year at Telstra we have continued to work with our suppliers and customers to improve management of the FY18 FY19 FY20 resources we use in our operations. In addition to driving better environmental outcomes our In FY20, we collected 19.7 tonnes of mobile phones for resource efficiency activities seek to improve the customer recycling via Mobile Muster, achieving a recycling rate of 100 experience, leverage partnerships and reduce our operating per cent. In FY17, we set a three year target to recycle 60 costs. Our activities are focused across the following areas: tonnes of mobile phones. Since then we have recycled 59 tonnes of mobile phones and accessories, landing just short • Customer devices Providing customers with convenient of our target of 60 tonnes due to a reduction in retail store reuse and recycling options for their devices. recycling collections in the second half of FY20. • Packaging Creating simple, sustainable and recyclable packaging for our products. Total e-waste collected (tonnes) • Network equipment Ensuring we recycle e-waste as we upgrade our network. 3,865 3,923 • Waste Recovering as much recyclable material as possible and reducing waste to landfill. 2,986 For a detailed breakdown of our resource consumption, see the 2020 Sustainability Report Data Pack. FY18 FY19 FY20 The total volume of e-waste collected has increased by 31 per cent compared to FY19. 74 — Bigger Picture 2020 Sustainability Report Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Batteries used for back-up power in the network were the We have also continued to look for new opportunities to main contributor to e-waste volumes in FY20, making up improve our waste management, with attention focused on approximately 85 per cent of e-waste with 3,338 tonnes of improving e-waste recycling across our network sites. We batteries recycled this year. This has increased by about 46 worked with our waste provider to undertake several recycling per cent since FY19 due to a large number of batteries having initiatives including two projects that enabled recycling of 53 reached end of life, the upgrading of equipment for the new 5G tonnes of copper cables. We also added obsolete modems as network at mobile sites, and an ongoing focus on improving the a new category of recycled e-waste in FY20 and were able to network resiliency of high priority sites. recycle 146 tonnes of e-waste. 75 — Bigger Picture 2020 Sustainability Report Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Reuse programs The reduction in recycled operational waste can be attributed to less cardboard packaging from new equipment entering the Extending the life of smartphones waste stream and being recycled. We recognise there is more we We have been working to increase the lifespan of mobile can do to improve our recycling rate and are implementing a new devices by finding ways they can be reused, repurposed and resource efficiency strategy and a range of new initiatives to try resold through several different programs. This helps to reduce to improve. our environmental footprint by minimising the number of Operational waste (tonnes) and recycling rate (per cent) phones that go to landfill. Examples include: 10,000 100 • We collect end of life, used, or obsolete returned devices, and securely erase erase any data and repurpose where possible through an approved third-party provider. This year more than 56,000 customer devices were repurposed. 8,000 80 • We work closely with Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) and continue to collaborate on a refurbishment 7,752 program where our OEMs use returned devices as 6,000 60 guaranteed warranty replacement stock. We can utilise this stock as customer replacement devices in instances 6,279 of warranty or fault. This year we contributed more than 26,000 devices to OEMs for refurbishment. 4,000 40 • Our Telstra Device Care app runs diagnostic checks to 4,266 help identify any issues with a device and resolves them automatically where possible. By using FY17 as the base line, 2,000 20 we have cumulatively reduced the number of devices returned through our warranty swap program by more than 182,000. • Our Regener8 program collects phones from across the business and repurposes them for internal purposes. 0 0% FY18 FY19 FY20 Since launching in FY17, we have repurposed more than 3,850 devices. Recycling rate (%) Reusing customer equipment Packaging materials efficiency Historically, when we upgraded our business and enterprise This year we completed a redesign of the Telstra packaging customers’ equipment, we would collect redundant equipment brand to highlight our sustainability credentials and the Telstra for recycling. Telstra’s Enterprise Recovery and Re-Use experience for our customers. A more sustainable packaging program has allowed us to identify opportunities to recover and design was achieved by reducing the need to void fill and reuse managed services equipment across Telstra’s Enterprise overpackage products, eliminating plastic, maximising the and Government customer base. In FY20, the program worked use of renewable and recyclable materials and minimising ink with 216 customers and was able to recover and reuse 1,693 coverage. The redesign has led to a 75 per cent reduction in use devices. of cardboard and has saved approximately 85 tonnes of plastic from going to landfill each year. For more information about the social enterprise partnerships that enable us to deliver innovative social Following the packaging redesign, the product distribution and environmental outcomes, see the Managing our supply sleeve design was announced as a finalist in two categories chain section of this report. as part of the 2020 Australasian Packaging Innovation Design Awards (PIDA). The distribution sleeve is plastic free, has less internal packaging and provides the customer with a reusable Operational waste outer carton if they need to return the product. This year, our total operational waste volume decreased by 32 per In addition to the redesign of the packaging brand, we have cent due to changes to our network upgrade activities. We also significantly reduced the printed collateral that goes out with experienced a 49 per cent reduction in our operational recycled customer orders when they order through our call centres or waste volumes, meaning our operational waste recycling rate has online. This will save over 1.5 million pages of paper, equivalent reduced to 24 per cent. to eight tonnes of printed paper each year. 76 — Bigger Picture 2020 Sustainability Report Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Environmental risk and compliance Approach Progress At Telstra we have maintained a consistent approach to As a minimum standard, Telstra complies with all operationally environmental risk and compliance to previous years. relevant and applicable environmental laws. We have not been Protecting the environment remains a key priority and we have prosecuted for, or convicted of, any significant breaches of set minimum performance expectations for managing our most environmental regulation during the financial year and we have important environmental issues. These are defined within not had any material incidents. our Global Health, Safety, Wellbeing and Environment (HSWE) This year, we established our Environmental Risk Steering Management System, which is certified to the International Committee and subordinate cross-functional working groups Standard ISO14001:2015. Our environmental priorities include: to oversee the management of our most important • Climate change environmental risks. This model enables us to drive clear accountability for consistent and effective management of • Resource use – including resource efficiency and our environmental risks. responsible lifecycle management We are continuing to review and improve our environmental • Pollution – including to land, water, air or other receptors management system in response to current and emerging • Waste management environmental requirements, changing legislation and increasing shareholder and customer expectations (including • Land stewardship – including biodiversity, heritage, land in relation to climate change). We have also implemented access and land management improvements in current processes to create a standardised • Hazardous chemical management. way of working across all of our locations. Telstra’s Executive Leadership Team maintains governance over our environmental compliance activities, so that our key environmental compliance risks and controls are understood and promoted across the organisation. We manage our key environmental risks and develop cross-company solutions through an Environmental Steering Committee. We also provide regular updates on our progress and performance through the HSWE & Protective Security (PS) Executive Leadership Forums and the Audit & Risk Committee of the Board. For more information on our approach to mobile phones, base stations and health (EME), see the Responsible business section of this report. *Photo taken prior to the introduction of physical distancing requirements 77 — Bigger Picture 2020 Sustainability Report
