Moving forward sustainably 2019 Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Report Next Table of contents Approach Governance Environmental 3 Message from the 14 How we govern 23 Environmental impact 29 Fleet Chairman and CEO 17 How we operate 24 Emissions and 29 E-waste 5 Aligning with the UN SDGs 19 Ethics and compliance carbon intensity 30 Paper waste 9 Our ESG strategy 20 Updated Code of Conduct 25 Our emissions by scope 31 Tree planting 12 Building trust through 20 Anti-corruption 26 Network resiliency 31 Water conservation transparency 27 Renewable energy 21 Human rights 32 Carbon abatement 28 Buildings and data centers 33 EHS management system Social Community Appendix 35 Digital responsibility 50 Human capital 66 Uplifting communities 77 Definition of 36 Accessibility 51 Our Credo and protecting our planet material issues 38 Digital safety 52 V Team: Our workforce 67 Digital Inclusion 79 ESG data index 40 Robocalls by the numbers 69 Impact by the numbers 82 GRI index 41 Open internet 53 Moving the world 71 Climate Protection 89 SASB index forward together 72 Human Prosperity 92 UNGC index 42 Privacy and data protection 54 Employee 73 Community resilience compensation and disaster relief 48 Cybersecurity and benefits 55 Diversity and inclusion 56 Key partners 57 Veterans 58 Employee Resource Groups 59 Learning and development 61 Safety 61 Labor relations 62 Supply chain Previous Next 2019 ESG Report Approach Governance Environmental Social Community Appendix Moving forward Today, as 5G technology ushers in the Fourth Industrial Revolution, our focus on environmental sustainability and social responsibility has sharpened, and our commitment has accelerated. As we fulfill our sustainably corporate purpose to create the networks that move the world forward, we are taking bold steps toward reducing our environmental footprint, ensuring that our technology benefits everyone and employing our assets to tackle the world’s biggest challenges. Moving forward sustainably for Verizon means that our focus is on: Governance Environment Social Making strategic decisions that build a Making our networks and the communities Strengthening our company with a diverse and sustainable company, promote market we serve more climate resilient. inclusive workforce, enhancing the security, confidence and meet the expectations safety and accessibility of our products and of our stakeholders. services and uplifting the communities we serve. Note: This report covers the calendar year of 2019, and data includes Verizon and Verizon Media unless otherwise noted. Previous 1 Next 2019 ESG Report Approach Governance Environmental Social Community Appendix In this section: 9 Our ESG strategy 12 Building trust 3 Message from the CEO through transparency 5 Aligning with the UN SDGs Approach Previous 2 Next 2019 ESG Report Approach Governance Environmental Social Community Appendix Message from the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer At Verizon, one of the world’s leading information and communications technology companies, our corporate purpose is to create the networks that move the world forward. This purpose is in line with my long-held belief in the inherent power of mobility, broadband and cloud to solve global societal challenges, a conviction that is even stronger today, as 5G brings on the Fourth Industrial Revolution, and with it, a new era of sustainable innovation and inclusive growth. In 2019, we aligned our business around a new Verizon 2.0 strategy (read more about Verizon 2.0 in our 2019 annual report) to better position us to achieve our purpose and to lead the industry and connect society. At the heart of Verizon 2.0 is a commitment to consider how our company interacts with all our stakeholders, including customers and shareholders, as well as our employees, our ecosystem of suppliers and society overall. We are dedicating our assets: our 135,000-plus employees, our influence as a purchaser of more than $63.5 billion of goods and services, and our technology and innovation to create positive impact in a sustainable way. Important to this is an effective strategy to deliver social, economic and environmental benefits to the world, while also managing our environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues. We view ESG issues through two lenses: risks and opportunities. For example, we understand that climate risk is business risk, and we are taking bold steps to make our networks Previous 3 Next 2019 ESG Report Approach Governance Environmental Social Community Appendix more climate resilient and to minimize our environmental footprint. At the detailed in the following section of this report. In addition to the SDGs, same time, we believe the next-gen technologies enabled by Verizon’s 5G the commitments we’ve made as a UN Global Compact member guide technology will not only present tremendous opportunities to deliver value our strategy. to our stakeholders but also provide critical solutions toward a sustainable future and a low-carbon economy. As we celebrate the 20th anniversary of Verizon, a name that combines the Latin word for truth with the English word horizon, we can scarcely In addition, we are working to align our business strategy with the United conceive of what the next 20 years will hold. But with our eye always on Nations (UN) Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and ground these the horizon, we will continue to honor the commitment our founders made efforts in the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. As a to truth and transparency as we move forward toward achieving our member of the UN Sustainable Development Solutions Network and board ambitious goals. member of the UN Foundation, I have supported the UN SDGs since their inception. So far, we have set aggressive goals that align to the targets Hans Vestberg of several SDGs that focus on climate and education. These goals are Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Verizon Previous 4 Next 2019 ESG Report Approach Governance Environmental Social Community Appendix Aligning our goals and progress with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals Our technology has the power to enable the innovation needed to achieve the UN SDGs. Indeed, “digital technologies will, on average, help accelerate progress by 22% and mitigate downward trends by 23%,” according to Digital with Purpose, a report issued in 2019 by the Global Enabling Sustainability Initiative (GeSI). Verizon’s Chief Sustainability Officer currently serves as GeSI’s chair and is engaged with this global organization of information and communications technology companies focused on integrating social and environmental sustainability into our sector. Our role as a leading technology company makes it incumbent on us to use our scale and innovation to help make progress toward these goals. In 2019, we completed an analysis of the 17 SDGs and 169 targets as they relate to Verizon’s business and resources and identified the SDGs where Verizon can make a unique and significant impact: • SDG 4: Quality education • SDG 7: Affordable and clean energy • SDG 8: Decent work and economic growth • SDG 13: Climate action • SDG 16: Peace, justice and strong institutions Previous 5 Next 2019 ESG Report Approach Governance Environmental Social Community Appendix Specifically, we are working to address: SDG Target Verizon’s impact Target 4.4: Verizon Innovative Learning By 2030, substantially increase the number of Verizon’s education initiative, Verizon Innovative Learning, provides youth and adults who have relevant skills, including students with free technology, free internet access and technologytechnical and vocational skills, for employment, driven curriculum to transform the learning experience. decent jobs and entrepreneurship. Goals: • Reach 350 underserved middle schools by 2021. • Bring 5G to 100 underserved middle schools by 2021. Target 7.2: (7.2) By 2030, increase substantially the share of Verizon is supporting the transition to a greener grid by making renewable energy in the global energy mix. substantial investments in renewable energy. Goal: Source or generate renewable energy equivalent to 50% of our total annual electricity consumption by 2025. Target 7.3: (7.3) By 2030, double the global rate of improvement Verizon is actively working to improve the energy efficiency in energy efficiency. of our operations, including our global network. Goal: Be carbon neutral in our operations (Scope 1 and 2) by 2035. Previous 6 Next 2019 ESG Report Approach Governance Environmental Social Community Appendix SDG Target Verizon’s impact Target 8.4: Carbon abatement Improve progressively, through 2030, global Our connected solutions help our customers save energy and reduce resource efficiency in consumption and production their carbon emissions. and endeavor to decouple economic growth from environmental degradation, in accordance with Goal: the 10-year framework of programs on sustainable By 2022, Verizon’s networks and connected solutions will save more than consumption and production, with developed double the amount of global emissions that our operations create. countries taking the lead. Additionally, Verizon has committed to setting an approved science-based emissions reduction target by September 2021. Target 13.1: (13.1) Network resilience Strengthen resilience and adaptive capacity to Verizon takes a multifaceted approach to preparing for, and responding climate-related hazards and natural disasters in to, climate-related hazards and natural disasters. We are continually all countries. strengthening the resilience of our networks to enable communities affected by disasters to have access to the networks when they need it the most. Please see Verizon’s 2019 TCFD Report. Target 13.3: (13.3) Improve education, awareness-raising and The Verizon Green Team is a grassroots collective of employees human and institutional capacity on climate dedicated to environmental stewardship. The Green Team raises change mitigation, adaptation, impact reduction awareness of climate-related issues and provides both educational and early warning. and volunteer opportunities. Goal: 30% of Verizon employees will be Green Team members by 2025. Previous 7 Next 2019 ESG Report Approach Governance Environmental Social Community Appendix SDG Verizon’s impact Civil, political and digital rights: Verizon supports peace, justice and strong institutions through our core business strategy and through our commitment to operating with respect for human rights. Verizon has developed strong policies, processes and systems to address corruption and bribery by employees, suppliers and third-party agents. We’ve established a Business & Human Rights Program that aims to identify and address the human rights impacts of our core business strategy, operations, products and services. The work of our Program is guided by the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. Through this work and our related stakeholder engagement efforts we aim to promote inclusive societies where the rights of all people are respected and where rule of law is observed. Leading the charge on the SDGs Additionally, Verizon has been a vocal public In 2019, Verizon sponsored a report that captures best practices advocate for criminal justice reform and the and case studies of how organizations are making progress against Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals immigration the UN SDGs. The report was launched at the 2020 World Economic program. Our global pro bono legal program, Forum in Davos. established a decade ago, promotes access to justice by enabling our volunteers to provide free “The surveys and interviews in the report suggest that CEOs must legal services to returning veterans, survivors of continue to be bold in their commitments and serve as genuine SDG domestic violence, refugees and many others. champions, both internally and externally. At Verizon, we are using the SDGs as critical guideposts in our journey toward carbon neutrality and a sustainable future for all.” — Hans Vestberg, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Verizon Previous 8 Next 2019 ESG Report Approach Governance Environmental Social Community Appendix Our ESG strategy Our ESG strategy is to effectively govern and manage the environmental and our network leadership through continued innovation for the benefit of both social risks and opportunities that arise from our core business strategy. We our company and society at large. We aim to provide our customers with bestbelieve that we will create long-term value for our shareholders by extending in-class experiences while fostering a culture based on integrity and respect. Create long-term value Serve our customers through growth in both and provide best-inrevenue and profitability. class experiences. Shareholders Customers Empower individuals Behave responsibly and to work together to purposefully to impact collectively achieve society in a meaningful way. a shared mission and purpose. Employees Society Previous 9 Next 2019 ESG Report Approach Governance Environmental Social Community Appendix Prioritizing our ESG issues This report is informed by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) standards, A material ESG issue is one that has the potential to impact Verizon’s the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board’s (SASB) Telecommunications long-term sustainability from the perspective of internal and external Services standard, feedback received through engagement with our stakeholders. This is different from financial materiality, which is a institutional investors and a third-party materiality assessment. threshold for influencing the investment decisions of investors. For the materiality assessment, Verizon partnered with nonprofit organization In the matrix that follows, each issue is prioritized according to the degree BSR to conduct a series of internal and external interviews to evaluate to which it could potentially impact our business and society. Our ESG the most impactful environmental, social and governance issues related strategy cares for all of the listed issues. to our business. Previous 10 Next 2019 ESG Report Approach Governance Environmental Social Community Appendix Materiality matrix Impact on society • Access to connectivity • Child rights • Climate change mitigation • Content standards • Employee diversity and inclusion • Accessibility • E-waste • Employee growth and development • Tax contributions • Freedom of expression • Network, mobile and data security • Misuse of technology • Privacy • Political contributions and lobbying • Sustainable product innovation • Relationships with law enforcement • User access controls • Freedom of association • Handling of hazardous materials • Radio frequency emissions • Land use • Employee engagement • Open internet • Raw materials sourcing • Employee health, well-being and safety • Board compensation, • Supply chain energy use • Future pipeline of STEM talent independence and diversity • Supply chain environmental impacts • Supply chain labor standards • Sustainable product design • Emergency and disaster response • Packaging and logistics • Security • Responsible marketing • Ethics and compliance • Supplier diversity Impact on our business Please see the Appendix for issue definitions. Previous 11 Next 2019 ESG Report Approach Governance Environmental Social Community Appendix Reports and commitments We have a long history of reporting on our corporate responsibility performance. We are advancing our reporting strategy this year by providing an index showing how our disclosures align with SASB’s Telecommunications Services standard. We are also proud to have published our inaugural TCFD Report. We also publish: • A semiannual Transparency Report, listing all the law-enforcement requests for customer information that we received in the U.S. and other countries in which we do business, as well as the demands we receive to block websites as of the publication date. • A semiannual Political Engagement Report, disclosing all of Verizon’s PAC contributions, corporate political contributions and support for ballot initiatives, and independent expenditures, as well as listing our public policy organization’s significant memberships in trade organizations. • Verizon’s broadband commitment, outlining our commitment to an open internet that provides consumers with competitive broadband choices and internet access—when, where and how they want it. Building trust through • Our Conflict Minerals Policy, discussing our collaboration with industry organizations and our suppliers to enhance visibility into and eliminate conflict minerals from our supply chain. transparency • Information about Verizon’s digital safety program, including metrics on Verizon’s fight against the dissemination of child sexual abuse material. Creating a dedicated ESG team In the fourth quarter of 2019, at the request of our Board of Directors, we created a new role dedicated to enhancing Verizon’s sustainability reporting and stakeholder engagement on environmental, social and governance issues that align with Verizon’s core business strategy. The Chief ESG Officer heads a newly formed cross-functional team that focuses on strategic areas including governance, reporting, human rights, environmental sustainability and digital safety. The Chief ESG Officer also oversees Verizon’s efforts to deliver on our ESG commitments. Previous 12 Next 2019 ESG Report Approach Governance Environmental Social Community Appendix In this section: 14 How we govern 20 Updated Code 17 How we operate of Conduct 19 Ethics and compliance 20 Anti-corruption 21 Human rights Governance Previous 13 Next 2019 ESG Report Approach Governance Environmental Social Community Appendix How we govern We consider good governance essential to driving our success and building long-term sustainable value for our stakeholders. Our Board of Directors oversees Verizon’s strategic planning and execution, risk management, capital deployment, responsible business practices and human capital management with the assistance of four standing committees composed solely of independent directors. An independent Lead Director shares governance responsibilities with the Chairman and CEO and facilitates forthright communication and effective independent oversight of management’s performance. We are committed to the highest standards of corporate governance and our policies and practices align with the Investor Stewardship Group’s corporate governance principles for U.S. listed companies. Fostering Board diversity Overseeing strategy Good governance starts with independent and engaged directors who have a strong sense of integrity and respect for differing viewpoints. We believe Our Board actively oversees Verizon’s core business strategy. At every Board a board that embodies a range of viewpoints, backgrounds and expertise meeting, our directors engage our senior leaders in robust discussions about is best positioned to provide new perspectives to our management team Verizon’s strategic goals and challenge them to execute on our strategic as it addresses the challenges and opportunities impacting our business. plan, address emerging challenges and disruptions and promote innovation. In its ongoing board refreshment process, our Board seeks a diverse group Our Board views our 135,000-plus employees, the V Team, as one of of candidates who possess the requisite judgment, background, skill, Verizon’s most critical assets and regularly receives briefings from our expertise and time, as well as diversity with respect to race, ethnicity CEO on initiatives to strengthen our company culture, including the results and gender, to strengthen and increase the overall diversity, breadth of of the quarterly “Pulse” surveys completed by employees across the company. skills and qualifications of the Board. For the 2019-2020 term, women At the Board’s direction, in 2019 we conducted a comprehensive strategic comprised 30% of our Board, and African-American and Hispanic review of our workforce to identify the capabilities and skills needed to individuals comprised 40%. implement our strategy into the future. We are implementing opportunities for our employees to learn new skills that will help them develop individually and grow our business. Our Board’s committees also do important work overseeing execution on our strategic plan. The Human Resources Committee continually evaluates appropriate compensation structures and levels to incentivize our senior Previous 14 Next 2019 ESG Report Approach Governance Environmental Social Community Appendix leaders to drive our strategy forward and create long-term shareholder value. The Finance Committee oversees our financial ability to execute on our strategic plan by monitoring Verizon’s financial needs and plans. The Corporate Governance and Policy Committee receives regular briefings on our engagement with important policy issues and our progress in meeting our ESG commitments. Our directors also participate in numerous activities outside the boardroom to keep abreast of our industry’s rapidly evolving technological landscape and the related challenges and opportunities for our business strategy. Managing risk We view Board oversight of Verizon’s risk profile—in its strategic activity, business operations, deployment of capital and environmental and societal impacts—as fundamental to the well-being of our company. Our Board works with management to develop a comprehensive view of Verizon’s key short-term and long-term business risks. Each of the Board’s committees oversees the management of risks that fall within that committee’s purview. • The Audit Committee oversees our robust, formal enterprise risk management program that identifies the primary risks to Verizon’s business. At least annually, the executives in charge of Verizon’s business groups and key corporate functions review with the Committee the primary risks associated with their particular business group or • The Finance Committee oversees capital allocation and financial risk function. ESG-related risks routinely discussed include those relating management, including the risk related to Verizon’s renewable energy to cybersecurity, data privacy and security, network reliability during exposure through renewable energy purchase agreements. catastrophic and weather-related events, energy management and our • The Human Resources Committee considers the impact of the executive ability to meet our renewable energy and carbon neutral commitments. compensation program and of the incentives created by the compensation • The Corporate Governance and Policy Committee monitors reputational awards on Verizon’s risk profile. risk. At least annually, our Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative, Legal and Public Policy Officer (CAO) leads a discussion In its oversight role, our Board emphasizes that risk management is not an about Verizon’s preparedness to manage potential events that may impediment to the conduct of business but is instead an integral component impact corporate reputation. of strategy. Previous 15 Next 2019 ESG Report Approach Governance Environmental Social Community Appendix Engaging with stakeholders We believe that engaging openly and transparently with our investors and and conferences sponsored by the company and third parties. Our other stakeholders on issues impacting Verizon, including ESG risks and independent Lead Director also participated in a number of these opportunities, drives increased corporate accountability, improves decisionmeetings. During these interactions, we had meaningful exchanges making and ultimately creates long-term value. During 2019, our Investor on a broad range of topics, including business strategy and execution, Relations, Corporate Governance, ESG, Human Rights and Corporate corporate governance and executive compensation practices, diversity Responsibility teams met with investors collectively representing a significant and inclusion initiatives, privacy and data security policies and environmental portion of our outstanding shares by telephone, in person and at forums sustainability efforts. Previous 16 Next 2019 ESG Report Approach Governance Environmental Social Community Appendix How we operate At Verizon, we drive our business forward through the management structures we have put in place and the planning and implementation process we use for decision-making and execution. Our management team is organized into functional groups that have responsibilities for our business operations and corporate functions. We have organized management of our business operations around the customers we serve—Consumer, Business and Media—with a centralized Global Network & Technology Group managing our world-class networks. Our primary corporate functions provide financial, administrative, legal, public policy, marketing and strategy support and oversight to the business groups. To make sure that we have a holistic perspective and appropriately assess risks and opportunities when making important decisions for the business, we have established a number of cross-functional management councils composed of members of our senior management team from each business group and centralized function and overseen by our CEO. Our management councils address a wide range of matters that are critical to our company’s success, including business and technology strategies, product development, brand strategy and customer experience, social responsibility, resource allocation and emergency preparedness. Previous 17 Next 2019 ESG Report Approach Governance Environmental Social Community Appendix Conducting business responsibly the Board on the RBC’s activities and the company’s community and social impact initiatives. Verizon’s CEO, with support from the RBC and Board, Both our Board and senior leadership team recognize that operating has committed to meet the responsibilities of the UN Global Compact responsibly—promoting ethical business practices and the well-being and to collaborate with its members to bring about positive change. and health of our environment, employees, customers and communities— is fundamental to the long-term success of Verizon. Listening to consumers Over the past two years, our Chief Corporate Social Responsibility Officer has led an assessment of the state of responsible business practices Our long-standing Consumer Advisory Board (CAB), composed of across our enterprise, with the goal of integrating responsibility into every diverse leading business and public-interest advocates, provides us aspect of our business. The Verizon Responsible Business Council (RBC), with an unfiltered view of relevant technology, consumer, business and chaired by our CEO and composed of members of our senior leadership social issues at biannual meetings. CAB members’ perspectives and team, oversees this process. The RBC helps our company set ambitious advice play a role in the development of many important Verizon policy impact goals and monitors progress toward achieving them. At least and business decisions. annually, our Chief Corporate Social Responsibility Officer reports to Previous 18 Next 2019 ESG Report Approach Governance Environmental Social Community Appendix Ethics and compliance In 2019, we integrated our Ethics Office with the Verizon Compliance organization. This combined organization delivers consistent guidance on integrity issues, so that as we create the networks that move the world forward, we do it the right way. The Ethics Office continues to serve as the primary resource for employees seeking ethics advice and assistance and has two primary functions: fielding questions about ethics issues and responding to concerns and complaints about potential misconduct. Our Ethics team: • Operates the VZ Compliance Guideline, a 24x7 resource for reporting ethics concerns and seeking guidance. The Guideline can be reached at 844-VZ-GUIDE, vzguide@verizon.com, or verizonguideline.com. Investigations, inquiries and complaints are confidential. Employees have the option to contact the Guideline anonymously. • Triages concerns and allegations raised to the Compliance Guideline, making sure that they are assigned to correct teams in Human Resources, Legal and Security. • Provides ethics advice to employees seeking guidance in applying the Verizon Code of Conduct and company policies to business decisions or outside interests. • Administers the annual Conflict of Interest Questionnaire process. Previous 19 Next 2019 ESG Report Approach Governance Environmental Social Community Appendix Updated Code of Conduct Integrity and respect underscore how we do business. And our Code of Conduct helps guide us and define our behavior. In 2019, we updated our Code to represent our broader company makeup, as well as a fundamental change in the way we think about our customers, our organization and our culture. The new Code provides all Verizon employees with the guidance they need to keep integrity at the heart of our culture. It is a resource each V Teamer uses to do business with the highest level of integrity, armed with clear standards, helpful examples and information about where to go when they need guidance about ethical decision-making or compliance concerns. We will continue to educate V Teamers about the importance of speaking up, asking questions and getting advice about ethics and integrity matters. Anti-corruption Verizon enforces a zero-tolerance policy for bribery or corruption of any kind. V Teamers in relevant operational roles receive anti-corruption training and communications that clearly articulate our expectations, core principles and zero tolerance for any corrupt practices. Our training, which incorporates practical examples, helps employees understand and comply with various anti-bribery laws, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act. We instruct employees to obtain legal approval before giving anything of value to a public official. We supplement our general compliance training with targeted communications and in-person instruction on an as-needed basis. Previous 20 Next 2019 ESG Report Approach Governance Environmental Social Community Appendix Human rights Our Credo defines who we are and how we operate and underscores suppliers. We host regular training and awareness-raising activities to our commitment to human rights, expressed in further detail in our provide Verizon employees with guidance and tools to operate consistently Human Rights Statement. We are committed to operating with respect with our human rights commitments. We also continually engage with for internationally recognized human rights. Our approach to this work external networks and experts to inform our approach. is guided by the human rights due diligence framework set forth in the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. Our human rights efforts are overseen by the Corporate Governance and Policy Committee of our Board of Directors and led by the BHRP, which is In 2019, we continued to enhance our efforts to understand and manage our under the Chief ESG Office and works in partnership with teams throughout human rights impacts by further operationalizing our Business and Human the Public Policy, Law & Security and Global Supply Chain organizations, Rights Program (BHRP) and embedding human rights considerations into as well as other functions, including Corporate Social Responsibility. responsible business decision-making processes across the company. The BHRP is championed by our executives, managed by a dedicated team and While our Credo defines the core of who we are as a company, our supported by partners across our business. Human Rights Statement serves as an equally fundamental element of our commitment to operate with integrity. Our human rights policy Our efforts include attention to the human rights impacts of our products, is consistent with our Credo and is supported by our Code of Conduct services, strategy and operations, and to our engagements with and Supplier Code of Conduct. employees, customers, communities, governments, business partners and Previous 21 Next 2019 ESG Report Approach Governance Environmental Social Community Appendix In this section: 23 Environmental impact 29 Fleet 24 Emissions and 29 E-waste carbon intensity 30 Paper waste 25 Our emissions by scope 31 Tree planting 26 Network resiliency Environmental 31 Water conservation 27 Renewable energy 32 Carbon abatement 28 Buildings and 33 EHS management data centers system Previous 22 Next 2019 ESG Report Approach Governance Environmental Social Community Appendix Environmental impact Technology enables progress, and with the rapid acceleration of climate change in recent years, we have prioritized our efforts on reducing our operational footprint and developing solutions that can help millions of customers reduce their own carbon footprint. As a global leader in information and communications technology, our technology is a critical driver of this work. From sourcing renewable energy and partnering with reforestation projects to creating connected solutions that help customers save energy, we are committed to protecting our planet for future generations. To give our efforts strategic guidance, we set two new commitments in 2019:  e will become carbon W W  e will set an approved neutral in our operations science-based emissions Verizon’s inaugural green bond allocation by category: (Scope 1 & 2 emissions) reduction target by by 2035. September 2021. To help fund many of the green initiatives that will contribute toward achieving our carbon neutral goal, we launched a $1 billion green bond in Renewable energy Green buildings 2019, the first to be issued by a U.S. telecommunications company. As of December 31, 2019, approximately $500 million of net proceeds from our $1 billion green bond had been allocated. $143.23 million $319.34 million Learn more about our initial investments in Verizon’s 2020 Green Bond Report. Energy efficiency Biodiversity & $36.65 million conservation $0.77million Previous 23 Next 2019 ESG Report Approach Governance Environmental Social Community Appendix Emissions and carbon intensity: Driving greater efficiency We continue to work hard to identify innovative ways to reduce our • Replacing and upgrading older cooling systems with newer, high-efficiency emissions and drive greater energy efficiency across Verizon’s operations. cooling systems that meet or exceed the latest industry energy efficiency Even as we grow our networks and bring 5G to our customers, we are standards. These upgrades include systems equipped with “free cooling” working to reduce our footprint by: economizer systems that have the ability to significantly reduce cooling energy during the appropriate climate conditions. • Moving from older technologies to newer, more energy-efficient ones. • Deploying smart cooling systems across a number of technical network This includes migrating copper-based services to fiber technologies, facilities to optimize the cooling system capacity and telecommunications as well as migrating to our newer intelligent edge network platform. equipment demand through machine learning algorithms. • Installing energy-efficient systems and employing energy management best practices at our facilities ranging from LED lighting to high-efficiency These interventions reduce overall site energy usage and maintenance uninterruptible power supplies. costs, as well as extend the life expectancy of our equipment. • Using better cooling technologies in our data centers, such as bringing outside air into the HVAC system when the temperature outside is cooler than it is inside. External assurance • Investing in green energy, both on site at our facilities and through Virtual Power Purchase Agreements in support of a greener nationwide grid. We will continue to report our progress as we make advances, with our results independently assured every year. In 2019, we commissioned independent external assurance of our Scope 1, 2 and 3 (exclusively business travel) Improving network energy efficiency greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and carbon intensity for 2018 and reported the results in our 2019 CDP Climate Change Response and on our corporate Ninety-one percent of Verizon’s emissions come from the electricity we website. In 2018, we achieved a 46% reduction in the carbon intensity of our use to power our networks, so maximizing energy efficiency is a critical operations against a 2016 baseline. We are currently undergoing independent priority for us. We are driving energy efficiency in our networks through external assurance of our 2019 GHG emissions. a variety of interventions, including: • Auditing the temperature at our technical network facilities so that cooling Through careful management of our distribution systems can be decreased where overcooling may have been occurring. strategy, we were able to reduce the carbon We have been able to increase our technical network air temperatures with no detrimental effect on network performance or reliability. intensity of our device supply chain by nearly 7% between 2017 and 2019. Previous 24 Next 2019 ESG Report Approach Governance Environmental Social Community Appendix Our emissions by scope Goal: 2018 progress: GHG emissions (CO2e metric tons) By 2025, reduce our carbon intensity 46% 2016 2017 2018 % Change 2017-2018 improvement over 50% the 2016 baseline. Scope 1 372,496 376,735 385,241 2.3% over the 2016 baseline. Scope 2 5,259,727 4,522,261 4,033,579 -10.8% Total GHG (Scope 1 & 2) 5,632,222 4,898,996 4,418,820 -9.8% Scope 1: Scope 3 1 91,365 69,271 98,188 41.7% All direct sources of emissions owned or controlled by Verizon, 1 Exclusively business travel with the main categories being fuel to power our fleet, heat our buildings and power our backup generators. Scope 2: 2018 GHG profile CO2e (metric tons) Indirect emissions sources generated off-site, but purchased by Verizon. The main category is electricity to power our 144,011 (3%) networks and data centers, plus a small amount of steam Building and and heat purchased to heat our buildings. other fuels 4,033,579 (91%) Scope 3: Electricity and other Emissions from corporate business travel (air and rail) based 241,231 (6%) indirect sources Vehicle fuels 4,418,820 on travel reservations. Total Note: We are currently undergoing independent external assurance of our 2019 GHG emissions and carbon intensity. We will report our results later in 2020. Previous 25 Next 2019 ESG Report Approach Governance Environmental Social Community Appendix Network resiliency We continually work to not only reduce the environmental impact of our We have several established formal processes for managing business operations, but also to make our networks and infrastructure more resilient. continuity, including our corporate policy on business resilience, which sets forth a policy regarding National Security Emergency Preparedness. Every year, we make significant investments in real estate and network The policy requires us to establish and maintain a plan for the continuity maintenance to build resilience into our operational infrastructure. of operations and management in the event of local emergency or Depending on the geographic area and type of risk, steps to enhance widespread disaster. infrastructure resilience have included adding stilts to raise equipment that powers cell sites, moving site generators from basements to a higher level We encourage you to read our 2019 TCFD Report for more information. or platforms, and installing new fiber solutions underground rather than using aerial fiber. We also have ongoing efforts to improve backup facility power systems, including power capacity at facilities located in areas with greater storm and wildfire risk, by adding generators to at-risk sites where, historically, the site only had backup batteries. Previous 26 Next 2019 ESG Report Approach Governance Environmental Social Community Appendix Renewable energy: New goals drive progress Verizon is supporting the transition to a greener grid by making substantial investments in renewable energy. We have set an ambitious goal to source or generate renewable energy equivalent to 50% of our total annual electricity consumption by 2025. We are working toward achieving this goal by developing green energy at our own operations and by facilitating the development of renewable energy through long-term power purchase agreements. With nearly 20 megawatts of on-site green energy already installed, we have committed to adding 24 megawatts at our facilities by 2025. We have more than 4 megawatts of on-site solar capacity currently under construction. To date, we have entered into long-term virtual power purchase agreements for 384 megawatts of anticipated renewable energy capacity. These agreements will help finance the construction of new wind and solar farms. The additional renewable energy capacity supported by these agreements is expected to reduce carbon emissions by an amount equivalent to removing more than 140,000 passenger vehicles from the road on an annual basis. By 2025, the equivalent of 50% of our total annual electricity consumption will be renewable energy. Previous 27 Next 2019 ESG Report Approach Governance Environmental Social Community Appendix Buildings and data centers Data centers Our data center designs and operations leverage the full range of environmental tolerances allowed by most server, storage and network hardware suppliers. This enables the wide use of energy-saving practices such as direct outside air (free) cooling, evaporative cooling, containment and passive exhaust. We also leverage the full limits of our power and cooling infrastructure by monitoring and managing the power demand profile at each layer of distribution. Our data center design embraces modular construction practices that allow for quick deployment and seamless integration so new data center capacity arrives just in time. This prevents dormant capacity from becoming a drag on operations, cost and energy efficiency. In addition, some of Verizon’s largest data centers are located near, and ENERGY STAR supplied by, hydroelectric projects. We’ve also invested in a commercial wind farm to partially offset data center energy usage at other locations. For the 7th consecutive year, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency named Verizon an ENERGY STAR® and LEED certifications ENERGY STAR Partner of In 2019, ENERGY STAR updated its certification algorithm which resulted the Year and again recognized in fewer ENERGY STAR-certified properties than in previous years despite us for Sustained Excellence. continued strong performance. We have achieved 637 ENERGY STAR certifications at 278 different properties since 2001 and remain committed to pursuing ENERGY STAR certification for 100% of our eligible facilities. Verizon has also completed 357 LEED-certified projects since 2009. Previous 28 Next 2019 ESG Report Approach Governance Environmental Social Community Appendix Fleet E-waste: Expanding We continue to improve the fuel efficiency of our fleet, as well as transition to alternative fuels where possible. Efforts to reduce fuel consumption include recycling and reuse replacing older service vans, switching from V8 engines to V6 engines and replacing aerial lifts with systems that run solely on electric power so a Our goal is to divert as many cell phones, set-top boxes, network devices technician can turn off the vehicle’s main engine. and other electronics as possible from landfills by reusing or recycling them. Our priority is to reuse electronics internally, but when that’s not possible, we market these materials for reuse through approved vendors or recycle them. Verizon fleet fuel consumption (1,000,000 gallons) Verizon’s processes for repurposing, reusing and recycling the wireless devices and accessories that we accept from customers are designed to achieve 100% landfill avoidance. 25.0 23.9 23.5 Our recycling practices exceed regulatory mandates. We audit facilities that manage Verizon’s hazardous or regulated waste on a regular schedule. Our e-waste vendors are certified recyclers that meet electronics waste recycling standards, such as R2 or e-Stewards. In 2019, we recycled more than 84.8 million pounds of telecommunications equipment, metal, batteries, paper, cardboard and other items. This included more than 43.3 million pounds of e-waste and over 2.3 million pounds of plastic. Verizon also recycled nearly 5.2 million pounds of lead acid batteries. Lead acid batteries from our U.S. operations must be recycled at Verizon-approved smelters in the U.S. or Canada. To ensure proper recycling, we require that our vendors provide certificates of recycling for batteries. 2017 2018 2019 Previous 29 Next 2019 ESG Report Approach Governance Environmental Social Community Appendix Paper waste: Conserving resources with smarter sourcing Verizon is committed to the sustainable sourcing and use of paper. We have pledged that at least 50% of our paper sourced annually will have at least 10% post-consumer waste (PCW) content. In 2019, we exceeded this goal with 54% of our sourced paper including at least 10% PCW content. This excludes billing segments that are not able to print on recycled content paper due to machinery issues. Please see our paper policy here. In 2019, 54% of our sourced paper included at least 10% PCW content. Previous 30 Next 2019 ESG Report Approach Governance Environmental Social Community Appendix Tree planting Water conservation By the end of 2030, Verizon plans to plant 10 million trees in areas where With communities facing increasing water shortages or quality issues across they are needed most. From replanting forests for hurricane recovery to the U.S., we are focusing on reducing our water use across our facilities. supporting urban forestry, we’re focused on restoring lost tree canopies Through 2018, we achieved an 11% reduction with usage at 2.3 billion and enabling cleaner air and healthier communities. gallons, down from 2.6 billion gallons in 2016. Our goal is to achieve a 15% reduction over our 2016 level by 2025. Our water performance has been Our goal for 2019 was to sponsor the planting of 120,000 trees, including externally assured. For details and our full calculation methodology, please 50,000 trees in areas impacted by recent hurricanes. In 2019, we partnered read the Independent accountants’ review. with Arbor Day Foundation, Texas Trees and Eden Reforestation to plant 936,351 trees. This included 51,717 trees in areas impacted by hurricanes. To date, Verizon has supported the planting of 1,660,901 trees (2009 through 2019). We have achieved an By the end of 2030, 11% reduction in water usage between 2016-2018. Verizon plans to plant 10 million trees. Previous 31 Next 2019 ESG Report Approach Governance Environmental Social Community Appendix Carbon abatement: Solutions for a more sustainable world Advanced communications technology is enabling millions of consumers We work with nonprofit Carbon Trust to measure the yearly reduction and businesses to reduce their carbon footprint. According to the GeSI in CO2 equivalent (CO2e) emissions achieved by our customers by using Digital with Purpose Report, by 2030 digital technologies are expected to our products and services. In 2019, our solutions enabled the avoidance of deliver reductions in carbon emissions equivalent to nearly seven times the 8.8 million metric tons of CO2e, equivalent to taking 1.9 million cars off the size of the growth in information and communications technology (ICT) road for one year. The emissions avoided represent approximately 1.99 times sector emissions over the same period. As a leading ICT company in the the emissions generated by Verizon’s operations (Scope 1 and 2 emissions). U.S., we recognize that our connected solutions can help customers save Our goal is for our networks and connected solutions to save more than energy and significantly reduce their carbon emissions. double the amount of emissions that our operations create by 2022. Emissions CO2e avoided source Verizon solution User Measurement (metric tons) Business travel Telecommuting U.S.-based customers Reduction in miles driven (gallons of gas not used) 2,838,561 Transportation Telematics U.S.-based drivers Reduction in miles driven (gallons of gas not used) 2,605,498 Buildings Smart building U.S. businesses, city & Reduction in kilowatt hours (kWh) of energy used 2,018 management state governments Power grids Smart meters U.S. utilities, businesses Reduction in kWh of energy (reduced transmission & 2,399,797 & demand & customers distribution losses, lowered peak demand & enhanced response units energy efficiency) Health care Remote patient U.S.-based patients, Reduction in miles driven (gallons of gas not used) & number 156,890 monitoring medical professionals of days in hospital Parking Smart parking meters U.S.-based drivers Reduction in miles driven (gallons of gas not used) 52,191 Production of goods Dematerialization U.S.-based customers Reduction in production of physical products (including 749,362 newspapers, CDs, DVDs, etc.) Our solutions enabled the elimination of 8.8 million metric tons of CO2e emissions. Previous 32 Next 2019 ESG Report Approach Governance Environmental Social Community Appendix EHS management system: Pursuing best practices Verizon has an integrated environmental, health and safety (EHS) management system that provides guidance, instruction and best management practices that meet or exceed regulatory requirements while striving for continual improvement. Our EHS management system provides a framework for identifying, controlling and reducing the risks associated with the locations in which we operate. Besides performing regular management-system assessments, we also perform internal and third-party compliance audits and inspections annually at hundreds of facilities worldwide. The goal of these assessments is to identify and correct site-specific issues and to educate and empower employees to implement corrective actions. Verizon’s EHS efforts are directed and supported around the world by experienced experts who support our operations and facilities. Our EHS management system is based on the International Standards Organization (ISO) 14001 and 45001 standards. We maintain ISO 14001 and Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series (OHSAS) 18001 certification in some markets and are pursuing certification across Environmental notices the business. In 2019, inspections at our facilities resulted in 222 notices from regulatory In 2019, we updated our EHS Management Corporate Policy to reinforce agencies. Most notices resulted from recordkeeping or administrative matters, our commitment to the health and safety of our V Team, the public and the not environmental harm. We continue our efforts to protect the environment. locations in which we operate. Previous 33 Next 2019 ESG Report Approach Governance Environmental Social Community Appendix In this section: 35 Digital responsibility 50 Human capital 36 Accessibility 51 Our Credo 38 Digital safety 52 V Team: Our workforce 40 Robocalls by the numbers 41 Open internet 53 Moving the world 42 Privacy and forward together data protection 54 Employee compensation 48 Cybersecurity and benefits 55 Diversity and inclusion 56 Key partners Social 57 Veterans 58 Employee Resource Groups 59 Learning and development 61 Safety 61 Labor relations 62 Supply chain Previous 34 Next 2019 ESG Report Approach Governance Environmental Social Community Appendix Digital Verizon is moving forward to build a more connected, more accessible and greener world. We aspire to provide products and services that are safe, sustainable and improve our customers’ lives. The trust our responsibility customers place in us to help them thrive in a digital world is a paramount driver for our work—and we prioritize addressing the risks that come with operating in an increasingly connected world, including risks related to privacy, data security and online safety. Previous 35 Next 2019 ESG Report Approach Governance Environmental Social Community Appendix Accessibility Accessibility considerations are integral to the design, use and customer support features available for our products and services. We continually test the accessibility of our products, using the same assistive technology as our users: closed captioning, switch control, on-screen keyboards, alternate-input devices and screen readers. As part of an annual Accessibility Bug Bash, our product teams work to resolve accessibility bugs across our products. We operate Accessibility Labs in New York, Boston and Sunnyvale, California, to support this effort and to recognize outstanding employee contributions. Our cultural investment in accessibility helps make our sites and apps usable for all, delivering a great customer experience. Verizon has long championed accessibility because we believe that all people should have access to new technologies and great content. To create systemic change around accessibility, Verizon has developed partnerships to address unmet needs in the disability community. Because people with disabilities are significantly underrepresented in media images, Verizon Media partnered with The National Disability Leadership Alliance and Getty Images to create The Disability Collection, a growing collection of stock images that break stereotypes and authentically portray people with disabilities in everyday life. Verizon Media also founded XR Access with Cornell Tech in New York to create a community of practice among industry, academia and disability advocates to encourage virtual and augmented reality technologies to be built accessibly for people with disabilities. The Disability Collection In partnership with the National Disability Leadership Alliance and Getty Images, Verizon has made the first 2,000 images available on gettyimages.com for worldwide license. Previous 36 Next 2019 ESG Report Approach Governance Environmental Social Community Appendix We’re also tackling the accessibility skills gap. Many businesses lack the workforce to execute accessible design and development because there are so few experts practicing in this area. We co-founded Teach Access, a coalition of top tech companies, major universities and leading advocacy organizations with a mission to infuse accessibility concepts and skills into higher education curriculum. Together, we empower students studying design, computer science and human-computer interaction with the knowledge necessary to help create a more inclusive and accessible world. Each year, we host the Teach Access Study Away program in Silicon Valley to provide university students with a week-long immersion in how Verizon Media, Apple, Facebook, Google, Microsoft and Walmart practice accessibility as a core design and development value. Verizon provides access to a range of wireless and Fios TV accessible products and services for people with disabilities including: • Hearing-aid compatible phones • Free 411 search • Free directory assistance • Support for real-time text (RTT) • Fios TV text to speech • Big button remote • Descriptive video service (DVS) • Fios TV guides and channel lineups in large print Previous 37 Next 2019 ESG Report Approach Governance Environmental Social Community Appendix Digital safety Helping parents keep kids safe online Verizon is committed to serving parents through products and services that empower them to make the best decisions about how to guide and moderate their children’s online experiences. To honor this commitment, we work to keep parents up-to-date on the latest online safety advice through our Parenting in a Digital World portal, which features guidance for parents of children of all ages. Busy parents can quickly find practical advice on topics that range from screen time for toddlers to teen driver safety. Information on the portal is carefully vetted and comes from a variety of expert sources. Verizon also offers parents a portfolio of products and services that give them the ability to customize their children’s digital experience through robust parental controls and differentiated product offerings. Our Family Tech hub brings all of these offerings together, with product recommendations tailored to the age of the child. Combatting online child exploitation We recognize that we have an important role to play in combating the use of the internet to exploit children. As a leading provider of internet access services, as well as communications and content platforms through Verizon Media, we understand that the same tools that empower our customers to communicate with family and friends can also be misused to disseminate child sexual abuse material. Previous 38 Next 2019 ESG Report Approach Governance Environmental Social Community Appendix To protect our platforms from child predators, we’ve employed several best practices and committed extensive resources to the fight, including: Cutting-edge technology. We use the latest technology, including PhotoDNA, to scan images and videos uploaded to our platforms against databases of known child sexual abuse material. Expert human reviewers. A dedicated team of child safety specialists review material flagged by our scanning technology, proactively search for material in flagged accounts that may have been missed by automated scanning, and investigate user reports of child sexual abuse material (CSAM). All confirmed CSAM is reported to the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children (NCMEC), which acts as a clearinghouse for law enforcement. Proactive investigations. Our in-house investigators develop and transmit attribution information about offenders who traffic in child sexual abuse material on our platforms to NCMEC. These reports have led to numerous arrests, in some cases less than 24 hours after they were filed. Verizon also partners with NCMEC by providing both financial support and donated media to further NCMEC’s essential work fighting online child exploitation, providing assistance to victims, and finding missing kids. For 2020, Verizon has agreed to donate more than $1 million in online advertising to NCMEC—ads that will be used by NCMEC to help find critically endangered, missing children. Radio frequency emissions If consumers see content they believe is child sexual abuse material, or if they observe any illegal activity involving children while using any Verizon Verizon provides information on radio frequency emissions at service, we urge them to report it through numerous channels, including verizonwireless.com. Verizon equipment complies with Federal our dedicated email address (abuse-csam@verizon.com), NCMEC’s Communications Commission (FCC) requirements that all wireless cybertipline.org or by calling NCMEC at 1-800-843-5678. communication devices sold in the U.S. meet guidelines for safe human exposure to radio frequency energy. For more information on industry radio frequency emissions, please visit: https://www. verizonwireless.com/support/radio-emissions/. Previous 39 Next 2019 ESG Report Approach Governance Environmental Social Community Appendix Robocalls The phenomenon of robocalls has been steadily increasing in recent years. In fact, YouMail, a third-party robocall blocking software company, estimates that more than 58.5 billion robocalls were made in 2019, a Encouraging collective action on robocalls stunning 92% increase over the 30.5 billion robocalls placed in 2017. At Verizon, we have always worked hard to protect and insulate our We recognize that we cannot eliminate robocalls alone, so we customers, where possible, from these unwanted calls. While ultimately have been encouraging other voice service providers to implement the problem needs to be addressed by stopping illegal robocalls at the “know your customer” programs like ours to avoid accepting illegal source and by implementing technology to prevent bad actors from robocall traffic onto their networks, and we are encouraging the FCC disguising their identities, we are providing customers with ways to to set a higher bar for all providers. We were among the first in our directly protect themselves from robocalls in the meantime. industry to commit to and begin deploying the new “STIR/SHAKEN” call authentication technology, which helps service providers evaluate whether a call is spoofed. We have invested substantial amounts In 2019, of time and resources upgrading our networks with STIR/SHAKEN Verizon blocked or alerted technology. Additionally: over 2.8 billion • Verizon is a founding member of the USTelecom Industry spam calls. Traceback Group, an industry-led organization that traces back suspicious robocall traffic and stops many illegal robocalls. By the end of 2019, • Verizon was the first to begin auto-reporting violations to upstream 32 million carriers via automation and disconnecting large interconnected carriers for their unwillingness to adopt industry best practices customers received spam call to stop robocalls. blocking tools. • We shared insights and analytics on robocalling trends, including the use of neighbor spoofing, estimates on robocalls into the network and Know Your Customer methodology (roboscores) Tools for customers with the U.S. Government Accountability Office. • We shared our experience with implementing the STIR/SHAKEN We provide tools that wireless and wireline customers can use to help technology and best practices at multiple forums and summits in insulate themselves from unwanted and illegal robocalls. We also empower 2019 to encourage wider adoption. our customers to use options available from third parties. In 2019, Verizon added robocall protection features for no additional charge for wireless customers subscribing to our Call Filter service. On the wireline side, all Verizon customers with Caller ID service receive Verizon’s Spam Alerts service for free. We also make sure all Fios Digital Voice customers are aware of the free blocking service offered by Nomorobo, which relies on the simultaneous ring feature that we provide for free to those customers. Previous 40 Next 2019 ESG Report Approach Governance Environmental Social Community Appendix Open internet Verizon has been at the forefront of innovation in the broadband ecosystem, High-quality service. None of these commitments precludes us from advocating consistent policies aimed at creating a robust, level and dynamic reasonably managing our networks to ensure everyone has the broadband playing field for all participants in the internet environment. We support an experience they demand and deserve. open internet because our customers demand it and our business depends on it. We have invested billions of dollars in developing our broadband The Federal Trade Commission can enforce Verizon’s commitments and networks and have actively encouraged the development of a wide range address any practices that harm consumers or competition. The FCC of devices and applications to enable our customers to access and use can also take enforcement action if we do not adequately disclose how the internet as they choose. As we state in our broadband commitment we handle internet traffic. to our consumer broadband customers: Full access. We will not block any legal internet content, applications or services based on their source or content. Full speed. We will not throttle or slow down any internet traffic based on its source or content. Fair handling of traffic. We will not accept payments from any company to deliver its traffic faster or sooner than other traffic on our consumer broadband service, nor will we deliver our affiliates’ internet traffic faster or sooner than third parties’. We will not prioritize traffic in a way that harms competition or consumers. Full information. We will describe our internet access services and our plans in plain language so customers can make informed choices. Previous 41 Next 2019 ESG Report Approach Governance Environmental Social Community Appendix Privacy and data protection We recognize that protecting data privacy is fundamental to maintaining the trust of our customers and growing our business. Our company is also impacted by current and emerging federal, state and international laws related to privacy and data protection. Privacy protection is therefore a strategic priority for Verizon, and we have established strong governance measures to protect the privacy and security of customer information and to ensure compliance with privacy legislation. Verizon has adopted corporate policies and operating procedures governing how we collect, use, retain and protect data. Detailed information about Verizon’s privacy policies and practices can be found at the main Privacy Policy page on our corporate website. Our work in this area is conducted under the oversight of our Chief Privacy Officer, who reviews and discusses data privacy risks and mitigating actions with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors at least annually. Our policies and procedures are subject to controls such as internal audits, observations, testing, employee and vendor training, and internal attestations that all serve to promote ongoing compliance by the business. We also continuously monitor for new and modified international, federal, state and local laws, as well as relevant interpretations of existing laws, and we update our processes and procedures as needed. Our core privacy principles and standards extend to our subsidiaries, including Verizon Media. Verizon Media operates a global network of digital products and services, some of which engage in the purchase, sale, delivery and measurement of digital advertising. Verizon Media provides its users with information about how it collects, uses and shares their data along with substantial user controls to manage that data. Verizon Media also maintains operational and technical controls to protect against unauthorized uses. These controls are audited on a regular basis. Previous 42 Next 2019 ESG Report Approach Governance Environmental Social Community Appendix Our stewardship of personal data To meet Verizon’s commitment to protect personal data, our employees are responsible for cooperating with and assisting business owners in fulfilling How we handle information throughout the process of collection, use, the obligations and requirements of Verizon’s information security policy, as disclosure and retention impacts the privacy of personal data. Verizon’s well as in complying with applicable laws. We also impose Verizon information stewardship of personal data involves maintenance of controls at every security requirements on suppliers who handle customer data, and we phase of the information life cycle. We disclose our practices and have impose additional requirements on suppliers who handle EU/international in place policies related to each phase. We conduct privacy compliance personal data. reviews when we develop products, systems or other initiatives; offshore work through our global clearance process; and purchase or sell assets. As it relates to the practices we use to ensure that data is stored securely, Verizon’s privacy impact assessment (PIA) process provides a platform Verizon has technical, administrative and physical safeguards in place to for formalized review of initiatives that involve customer personal data. help protect against a variety of information security risks and cyber threats. We have also implemented a third-party risk management process that Verizon’s Chief Information Security Officer is responsible for leading, and focuses on our highest-risk suppliers. as appropriate, coordinating, enterprisewide information security strategy, policy, standards, architecture and processes. Verizon employees undergo Collection and use. We collect and use information according to our regular training on our policies and procedures relating to privacy and publicly available privacy policies and, in the case of business customers, information security and are subject to Code of Conduct requirements according to our contracts. Our practices are designed to protect and directed toward the protection of the company’s information assets, respect consumers’ privacy and the choices consumers make concerning as well as customer privacy. the use of their data. Verizon gives customers easy-to-understand privacy choices, including opt-in choices, based on the sensitivity of their personal data and how it will be used or disclosed. Disclosure. In general, we share information within Verizon and with vendors and partners as described in our privacy policies. We take measures to protect information that we disclose to our vendors and permit them to use it only for the purpose for which we provide it. Data retention and destruction. We maintain corporate policies governing data retention, and we also review data retention practices as part of our privacy impact assessment process. Under our practices and policies, we retain personally identifiable and other sensitive records only as long as reasonably necessary for business, accounting, tax or legal purposes. Data destruction is split between two internal Verizon policies, one that governs media sanitization and disposal and another related to data retention that details when data should be destroyed. We also meet the requirements of our enterprise customers by contractually agreeing to unique data retention timelines and data destruction practices when needed. Previous 43 Next 2019 ESG Report Approach Governance Environmental Social Community Appendix Our privacy impact assessment processes We maintain a PIA process to review products sold and systems used across the business. This process aligns in many respects with the policies outlined in the U.S. Office of Management and Budget’s “Guidance for Implementing the Privacy Provisions of the E-Government Act of 2002” (OMB M-03-22). We use PIAs to identify legal, regulatory and policy requirements related to privacy and also to determine risks associated with data processing as required under OMB M-03-22. We also use PIAs to evaluate before an IT system is deployed whether data will be protected and to determine whether there are ways to mitigate privacy risks. Verizon Media maintains a similar PIA process that it has conducted as part of all new product and feature launches. Protecting children’s online privacy We are committed to protecting the privacy of children, including by complying with the Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act (COPPA). When Verizon operates online services covered by COPPA, we do not knowingly collect personal information from children under 13 without parental consent except where such collection is expressly permitted under COPPA for purposes of internal operations. We provide parents with information about their rights under COPPA, including instructions about how they can review information collected from children. In addition, we comply with the California Consumer Privacy Act’s provisions related to the privacy rights of minors, which allow California residents under age 18 who are registered users of online sites, services or applications to request and obtain removal of content or information that they have publicly posted. Previous 44 Next 2019 ESG Report Approach Governance Environmental Social Community Appendix Behavioral advertising Verizon has followed the Digital Advertising Alliance’s (DAA) self-regulatory principles and served on the DAA advisory board since its inception. We follow the DAA self-regulatory principles for online behavioral advertising and for multisite data, as well as the DAA guidance related to the application of its transparency and control principles to the mobile and cross-device environments. In accordance with these industry self-regulatory principles, we require that advertising companies disclose when they are using interestbased advertising techniques to deliver interest-based ads on our sites and apps as well as when they deliver Verizon ads on other sites. We also require them to offer the ability for users to opt out of this use of their information. We also have an advertising program, Verizon Selects, that helps us and third-party advertisers personalize customers’ experiences and makes promotions, offers and ads better match their interests across the devices they use. Customers must opt in to participate in Verizon Selects. The program uses web browsing, location, app usage and other information we collect, including information from Verizon Media, to determine whether customers fit within audiences advertisers would like to reach. More details about the program and the information it uses are available in the Verizon Selects FAQs on our website. Verizon Media works closely with the DAA and other industry self-regulatory bodies, such as the Network Advertising Initiative (NAI) and Internet Advertising Bureau’s (IAB) US, European, and UK chapters. The principles designated by these bodies, and applicable regulatory obligations, inform and shape Verizon Media’s oversight of its behavioral advertising practices. For example, Verizon Media is fully integrated into the DAA, NAI and European Interactive Digital Advertising Alliance opt-out programs, as well as the IAB’s EU Transparency and Consent Framework that provide users with industry-level controls. These industry controls are in addition to the privacy choices that we provide users via our privacy dashboard. Users can therefore opt out of Verizon Media’s provision of behavioral advertising, whether users interact with us directly or through our partners. Previous 45 Next 2019 ESG Report Approach Governance Environmental Social Community Appendix Addressing DAA principles Sensitive data. In addition to abiding by COPPA, we prohibit the use of sensitive data such as financial information and social security numbers for Education. When the DAA guidelines were first introduced and the icon online behavioral advertising purposes or for the Verizon Selects program. first came into being, the DAA and all member companies launched a customer education campaign including digital ads about the icon and an Accountability. We maintain accountability through our participation in the educational website explaining behavioral advertising. We participated by DAA, the industry-wide program founded jointly by the Direct Marketing providing ad impression spaces and otherwise promoting the DAA. That Association, the IAB, the NAI, the Association of National Advertisers, the educational effort evolved into the DAA site and the “Ad Choices” page. Better Business Bureau National Programs and the national trade association We support the DAA and this process by licensing the icon and being of advertising agencies, the 4As. part of the DAA advisory board. Transparency. We explain our data use practices related to online behavioral advertising in our privacy policies and our “About our Ads” information available as links in the footer of Verizon website pages. We also include information about behavioral advertising practices in our app privacy policies where it is relevant. With respect to our Verizon Selects program, customers are presented with information about the program and must opt in before any data is used for the program. Consumer control. Our notices provide instructions on how customers can opt out of the use of their information for online behavioral advertising purposes. Customers who join Verizon Selects may opt out of participating at any time. They also have the option to delete certain data, including location and web browsing information, at any time. Data security and retention. We have administrative, technical and physical safeguards in place to guard against unauthorized access to or use of data. Our policies provide for the retention of data only for as long as it is needed for legitimate business, accounting and legal purposes. Material changes. If we elect to use or disclose identifiable information in a manner that is materially different from that stated in our policy at the time we collected that information, we provide users with a choice regarding such use or disclosure by appropriate means, which may include use of an opt-out mechanism. Previous 46 Next 2019 ESG Report Approach Governance Environmental Social Community Appendix Privacy by design We assess all new products and services for human rights, privacy and security concerns. Before any new product is brought to market, we embrace a design approach called privacy by design—to make sure we are embedding privacy considerations from the beginning. We also consider the human rights impacts of our products and take other appropriate steps to provide our customers with strong and meaningful privacy and security protections post-launch. Finally, we continue to advocate for a uniform federal privacy framework that can apply to all players in the digital technology ecosystem and make clear, consistent rules of the road for everyone so that our customers’ trust and privacy come first—no matter how they use their devices, apps or services. In 2019, we updated our Privacy Policy to be easier to read, understand and navigate. Also, on January 1, 2020, as the California Consumer Privacy Act became state law, we launched our Verizon Privacy Dashboard, which allows all Verizon consumers to access and manage their personal information. Verizon was one of the original signatories to the GSMA Digital Declaration, launched in 2019, which calls on businesses to respect the privacy of digital citizens, handle personal data securely and transparently, take meaningful steps to mitigate cyber threats, and ensure everyone can participate in the digital economy as it develops while combating online harassment. The pillars of the Digital Declaration are intended to ensure the internet is kept as an OneSearch: A privacy-focused search engine open platform for expression and a driver of innovation. from Verizon Media In early 2020, Verizon Media • No cookie tracking, Requests from law enforcement launched OneSearch, a search retargeting or personal service with enhanced privacy profiling Verizon publishes semiannual reports online that present the number of features that gives unbiased and • No sharing of personal demands we receive from law enforcement in the United States and other unfiltered results. Additional data with advertisers countries in which we do business. To learn more about how we handle OneSearch features include: • No storing of user government requests for customer information, both in the U.S. and search history internationally, please see our most recent reports. • Encrypted search terms Previous 47 Next 2019 ESG Report Approach Governance Environmental Social Community Appendix Cybersecurity Protecting the security of our systems and networks is a top priority for us. To more effectively address the cybersecurity threats posed today, Verizon has a dedicated Chief Information Security Officer whose team is responsible for leading enterprise-wide information security strategy, policy, standards, architecture and processes. Verizon’s comprehensive information security program includes, among other aspects, vulnerability management, antivirus and malware protection, file integrity monitoring, encryption and access control. The Chief Information Security Officer leads an annual review and discussion with the full Board dedicated to Verizon’s cyber risks, threats and protections, and provides updates throughout the year, as warranted. Identifying data security risks and managing vulnerabilities Verizon’s enterprise-wide Information Security Policy is aligned with the Security Testing (DAST), on a scheduled and real-time basis to identify National Institute of Standards and Technology’s (NIST) Framework for vulnerabilities within our network infrastructure. Improving Critical Infrastructure Cybersecurity (Version 1.1). As part of this policy, we have deployed a comprehensive Enterprise Vulnerability Risk evaluation. Identified vulnerabilities are assigned a severity classification Management (EVM) program designed to identify and protect against based on their evaluated risk using an industry standard scoring model. data security risks through the following methods: Remediation. Vulnerabilities are then reported to the appropriate asset Framework. Our EVM program is governed by a comprehensive policy owners and custodians for remediation. If remediation is not feasible which outlines the core components, cadence and personnel responsibilities within the policy timeframe, a work plan is developed and tracked. In necessary to sustain a healthy and well-balanced program. rare circumstances, an exception may be approved, which is tracked in a central system of record as mitigating or compensating controls Risk identification. We continually assess the threat and vulnerability are considered and deployed. landscape using various commercial, government, vendor and publicly available information sources. Metrics & reporting. We collect and retain data for reporting purposes and to enhance management accountability for remediation of vulnerable Risk detection. We use both manual and automated detection methods, assets. We also use the data to assess threat trends and for strategic including Static Application Security Testing (SAST) and Dynamic Application planning of ongoing program improvements. Previous 48 Next 2019 ESG Report Approach Governance Environmental Social Community Appendix Enhancing 5G cybersecurity We recognize that potential cybersecurity risks will continue, or arise anew, as adoption of 5G expands. Our approach to addressing these concerns is guided by principles in security that have underpinned our previous networks and that we can use with greater efficiency and effect in 5G. We are designing and deploying the 5G network with security as a central element, relying exclusively on trusted vendors that have undergone rigorous supply-chain vetting processes. We routinely assess the software and hardware that goes into our network and employ rigorous, documented policies and procedures for secure configuration and operation of equipment and devices we deploy throughout the network. Components of our 5G infrastructure, even within the network itself, are required to authenticate to one another prior to performing their functions. Further, we leverage the new 5G architecture and technical standards, which we ourselves have helped develop, to provide new security features that did not exist in previous generations of wireless technology. Finally, we have helped spearhead global advances in the security of the Internet of Things (IoT) and other devices that connect to the 5G network and will continue to advance new security innovations in the future. Please read our white paper on how our 5G network is designed, deployed and operated with security at its core. Data breach investigations report Verizon publishes an annual Data Breach Investigations Report to help our customers better understand the cybersecurity threats they may face and how to manage these risks effectively. Previous 49 Next 2019 ESG Report Approach Governance Environmental Social Community Appendix Human capital Our V Teamers are our strongest assets and our staunchest advocates. Their passion, purpose and diversity are key drivers in our ability to deliver cutting-edge, sustainable technology solutions. We create the networks that move the world forward, and we use the same ethos to build and promote a culture that is inclusive and celebrates and empowers every V Teamer to have a voice. Previous 50 Next 2019 ESG Report Approach Governance Environmental Social Community Appendix Our Credo Our Credo guides our actions and empowers our decision making as we work toward building a business that is purposeful and accountable for its social and environmental responsibility. The Verizon Credo provides an aspirational foundation and defines who we are and how we work, along with our core values of integrity, respect, performance excellence, personal accountability and social responsibility. Previous 51 Next 2019 ESG Report Approach Governance Environmental Social Community Appendix V Team: Our workforce by the numbers Verizon workforce ethnic and gender profile as of 12/31/19 Race/ethnicity Total workforce % People of color represent American Indian/Alaskan Native 508 0.4% 31.2% Asian 10,863 9.1% of U.S. senior management Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander 370 0.3% (vice president and above). Black/African American 23,218 19.3% Hispanic/Latino 13,442 11.2% Women represent Two Races or More Unknown/Undeclared 2,897 3,190 2.4% 2.7% 34.9% of U.S. senior management White 65,601 54.6% (vice president and above). Total U.S. 120,089 100.0% International 15,581 Total Worldwide 135,670 Total worldwide employee U.S. employee International employee profile by gender profile by gender profile by gender Female Female 33.8% Female 33.5% 30.4% Male Male Male 66.5% 66.2% 69.6% Previous 52 Next 2019 ESG Report Approach Governance Environmental Social Community Appendix Moving the world forward together Our V Team works together with purpose—and a passion for excellence. Together, we’re moving the world forward. Every day, our 135,000-strong V Team works to provide trusted and useful solutions while building a culture that is inclusive and rewarding for everyone, helping make Verizon a company that so many are proud to serve. Verizon is committed to a workplace free from unlawful discrimination and harassment and will not tolerate discriminatory or harassing behavior of any kind. Our zero-tolerance policy applies to any conduct that has the purpose or effect of creating an intimidating, hostile or offensive work environment. Any employee who believes they have been the subject of, or is aware of, discrimination, harassment or retaliation can report this in a number of ways—to their supervisor, to the local human resources department or to the VZ Compliance Guideline. All complaints are handled in a confidential manner, and information is Informed by the International Labor Organization Declaration on Fundamental only shared on a need-to-know basis. All complaints are investigated, Principles and Rights at Work, as well as the United Nations Global Compact, and any acts of discrimination, harassment or retaliation are addressed we respect our employees’ rights to freedom of association and collective and remedied with appropriate corrective action, up to and including bargaining in compliance with applicable law, including the right to join or termination of employment. In addition, Verizon prohibits any form of not join worker organizations (labor unions). retaliation against employees who file these types of complaints, and committing an act of retaliation alone can be cause for appropriate Verizon administers a quarterly “Pulse” survey to all employees to gauge corrective action, including termination of employment. satisfaction and engagement across the company. Anonymized, aggregated results are shared by department and for Verizon, as a whole. All Verizon employees are expected to participate in civil treatment training intended to reinforce the company’s commitment to a diverse, hospitable work environment. Furthermore, all employees at Verizon are expected to participate in unconscious bias training to further foster a work environment of fairness and sensitivity. Previous 53 Next 2019 ESG Report Approach Governance Environmental Social Community Appendix Employee compensation and benefits Our pay and benefits package includes competitive base pay, incentives and a robust 401(k) savings plan that matches 6% of eligible pay. We provide high-quality comprehensive medical, dental, vision, life insurance and disability coverage to our employees. Under our paid-time-off policy, V Teamers receive up to eight paid company holidays, up to six paid personal days, and beginning January 1, 2020, depending on years of service, three to six weeks of paid vacation. Verizon’s Parental Leave benefit provides eligible employees up to eight weeks of leave, paid at 100% of base pay, to bond with a newborn or adopted (new to family) child with eligibility beginning on their first day of employment. Health and wellness Our V Team’s health, wellness and safety are among our top priorities, and Be Well, Work Well programs Verizon provides comprehensive resources that help V Team members and their families succeed in life. • Free health screenings for cholesterol, blood sugar, blood pressure and body mass index. High-quality, affordable coverage • Free flu shots. • Medical, dental and vision care. • On-site mammography screenings. • Disability and insurance programs. • WellConnect portal, a source of information on preventive care, tobacco cessation, physical activity, nutrition, mobile tools, wearable devices and Mental health and emotional wellness programs much more. • Verizon’s Employee Assistance Program (EAP), available every day • My Health Vault, a personalized tool that lets employees check their around the clock. personalized Health Assessment score, Health Screening results and • The Resilience Toolbox, with resources for managers and colleagues Lifestyle Incentive Tracker to keep abreast of their health status. to support teammates who may be struggling with challenges at work • Free one-on-one sessions with a certified health coach from WebMD or home. to create an achievable health plan to reach their goals. • Coach-led personal training or group training sessions. In 2019, Verizon invested $2.6 billion to provide healthcare benefits and • Local charity and community run/walk events and corporate classic services to our employees and eligible retirees. events coordinated by the health and wellness teams. Previous 54 Next 2019 ESG Report Approach Governance Environmental Social Community Appendix Diversity and inclusion One of our foremost objectives as an organization is to create a collaborative, In keeping with this commitment, we have removed from our employment inclusive and diverse environment—within Verizon, with our customers and applications all questions seeking current or past salary information. among our business partners and suppliers. We view this commitment as more than the right thing to do—it is a business imperative and a competitive We also continue to invest in the growth of women and people of color advantage. By valuing diversity and inclusion across spectrums of background on the V Team. Among our most successful initiatives: such as race, national origin, gender, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, disability, veteran/military status, age, experiences, ways of • WOW (Women of the World), a seven-month development program that thinking and many other dimensions, we enable everyone in our ecosystem energizes and empowers women by increasing leadership capabilities to be their authentic self, know they belong, and contribute to building a and enhancing a culture of inclusion and belonging. The program is built stronger company and culture. around core competencies critical to leadership. • Competitive Advantage, a program that supports the development of Verizon’s diverse talent. Program offerings are targeted to Emerging Pay equity Talent, High Potential and High Professional employees of African American, Asian and Hispanic descent. The program fosters leadership Our commitment to diversity and inclusion encompasses pay equity. One of development and networking with senior leaders. the ways we live up to this commitment is by paying all employees performing • A curriculum that helps all V Team members to understand the tools similar work equitably. Today, across the globe and across all of Verizon, to mitigate bias and support conscious inclusion. we have 100% pay equity in salary for women and men. In the U.S., we also have 100% pay equity in salary with respect to race/ethnicity. Consistent with We promote diversity and encourage the contribution of diverse business our Commitment to Pay Equity, we remain committed to: partners to our success in our employee Short-Term Incentive Plan, which has included a diversity-related metric for over 20 years. • Identifying and promoting best practices in compensation, hiring, promotion and career development. • Developing strategies to reduce unconscious bias. Across the globe, and across • Making hiring, promotion and compensation decisions that promote all of Verizon, we have pay equity. 100% pay equity in salary for women and men. Previous 55 Next 2019 ESG Report Approach Governance Environmental Social Community Appendix Key partners Diversity conferences Women in Technology and adfellows and partnerships Entrepreneurship (WiTNY) In September 2019, Verizon launched the third We sponsor multiple diversity-focused Verizon is a founding sponsor of WiTNY, a year of the adfellows program. The adfellows organizations to build our employer brand collaborative initiative with Cornell Tech, the program is an eight-month marketing fellowship and recruit diverse talent. These conferences City University of New York (CUNY) and other in which participants rotate through Verizon, and partnerships include: industry partners, which propels women—from agency partners and brand partners to gain both high school through graduate school—into client and agency experience and to promote • Grace Hopper rewarding tech careers with programs focused diversity of thought in the marketing industry. In • Society of Women Engineers on education, work experience and community 2019, the program expanded to 34 new adfellows • National Society of Black Engineers building. We partner on a number of initiatives, and 17 partners, including Anheuser-Busch, • Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers including the “winternship” program, threeAmerican Express and Walmart. To date, 98% • Great Minds in STEM (Hispanic Engineering week internships for college freshmen and of former adfellows are currently working within National Achievement Award Conference) sophomores during their winter break. the industry. • Out and Equal • Disability:IN, and many others Previous 56 Next 2019 ESG Report Approach Governance Environmental Social Community Appendix Veterans Proudly working with veterans The rigor, teamwork and leadership exemplified by veterans comprise a great skill set for our business. That’s why we are proud of the veterans we can hire through programs such as our Military Talent Network, which is specifically targeted to recruit veterans and access their diverse skill sets. In 2019, we hired 922 veterans. We also support military spouses with career guidance by connecting them to a military-spouse recruiter. We’re proud to have more than 9,700 veterans serving our customers. Our military leave policy allows our service members to continue serving their country when needed. When V Teamers are called up to active duty, we bridge the gap between military pay and Verizon pay to care for their family members and their financial and healthcare needs. We were proud to receive multiple recognitions for our work with veterans from organizations such as Best for Vets and Military Friendly™. See the full list of awards. Hiring Our Heroes We sponsor the Hiring Our Heroes Corporate Fellowship program, a U.S. Chamber of Commerce initiative that matches service members with participating companies to smooth the transition from military to civilian careers and assist military spouses with meaningful opportunities. In 2019, we sponsored transitioning summits at key military installations, sponsored sports expos and participated in numerous hiring events. We are also a Chairman’s Circle Member of the Chamber’s Veteran Employment Advisory Council. Learn more about our work with veterans and veteran organizations. Previous 57 Next 2019 ESG Report Approach Governance Environmental Social Community Appendix Employee Resource Groups Celebrating differences, championing inclusion As a global information and communications technology leader, we are keenly aware of our responsibility to nurture an inclusive culture that celebrates the diversity of our V Team. Our global Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) are an important channel to drive engagement, with members often becoming de facto ambassadors of diversity and inclusion across Verizon. We have numerous ERGs, each with its own mission. All work together toward four common objectives: • Career: dynamic programming for employee professional development. • Customer: a forum for employees to collaborate to help the company deliver great customer experiences in all market segments. • Community: outreach to enable economic inclusion for underserved communities. • Culture: continue to build an inclusive company culture where everyone can thrive on their uniqueness and contribute to the business. ERGs help the V Team value and champion our differences and celebrate our similarities. By collaborating through ERGs, members bring their whole and authentic selves to their work and contribute their unique perspectives. Knowing their voices are heard and their work is valued, they find a strong sense of belonging, and harnessing this passion enables Verizon to be an employer of choice and a leader in the industry. We want every member of the V Team to bring their best selves and feel included at work every day. Previous 58 Next 2019 ESG Report Approach Governance Environmental Social Community Appendix Learning and development With changes in workforce needs tied to the Fourth Industrial Revolution, shifting and advancing employees’ skills is a major focus area for us. Annually, we invest hundreds of millions of dollars in initiatives to skill up employees and support their professional and leadership development. We provide employees with learning solutions that inspire, engage and enable them with the knowledge and capabilities needed today and tomorrow to deliver great customer experiences, drive revenue, growth and profitability, improve shareholder value and contribute to society. Learning culture Our learning culture includes continuous, purposeful learning that develops V Teamers to their full potential through top-notch learning programs and exceptional development experiences. In 2019: • We invested $215.9 million in learning and development initiatives for our employees. • V Teamers completed more than 3.5 million hours of training and had access to more than 24,600 learning experiences. • The average number of hours of training per team member was more than 25. Verizon ranked 11th in the Association for Talent Development (ATD) 2019 BEST Awards. The ATD BEST Awards recognize companies for best-inclass employee talent development. Previous 59 Next 2019 ESG Report Approach Governance Environmental Social Community Appendix Upskilling In 2019, we launched Learning Portal 2.0, powered by Degreed, a lifelong learning platform that delivers personalized, curated, on-demand content supported by social collaboration. We partnered with LinkedIn Learning, Pluralsight, Harvard ManageMentor and more to enhance employee skills through videos, articles, books, group collaboration and online training. The Portal allows us to create learning pathways for all employees (e.g., 5G, digital transformation, navigating change), functional specific pathways to build technical and leadership skills (e.g., global technology solutions transformation) and certification preparation for personal development and business requirements. With new learning pathways and premium content providers, Learning Portal 2.0 is constantly evolving to help our employees grow and succeed. Emerging tech use Tuition assistance As a technology company, we leverage emerging tech solutions to enrich V Teamers are provided up to $8,000 annually through our Global Tuition and maximize the impact of our learning programs. Examples include: Assistance Program to fund higher education studies from a wide range of accredited schools. In 2019, more than 13,000 V Teamers took advantage • Virtual reality and augmented reality programs on store safety, of our tuition assistance program. Verizon invested over $50 million in this customer interactions and technical processes. program in 2019. • Virtual instructor-led training through our engaging and interactive Adobe Connect 9 platform, which brings employees together from around the globe. • Learning reinforcement through the Allego app, a video-based reinforcement tool that helps our learners retain knowledge with bite-sized content. Previous 60 Next 2019 ESG Report Approach Governance Environmental Social Community Appendix Safety committed to maintaining a safe workplace and environmentally responsible work practices, and we expect our suppliers—who play a critical role in our success—to share that commitment. Certification Our culture of safety begins with our beSAFE principles—be Smart, Aware, Focused and Equipped. These principles emphasize keeping V Teamers Labor relations safe at work, at home and on the road. We maintain certification to Safety We have a long history of working with the Communications Workers Schemes in Procurement (SSIP) and the Occupational Health and Safety of America and the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers—the Assessment Series (OHSAS) 18001 Standard in some markets and are two main unions that represent about 31,600 of our employees. We meet transitioning to ISO 45001. with national and local union leaders to talk about key business topics, including issues such as safety, customer service, plans to improve operational processes, our business performance and the impacts that Training changing technology and competition are having on our customers, our employees and the company. We regularly update our employee health and safety programs, including online and instructor-led training to educate employees about best practices The collective bargaining agreements covering the union-represented and working safely. Topics include operating aerial lifts, splicing fiber, climbing employees who serve customers in our Mid-Atlantic and Northeast service poles, handling ladders and installing fiber. areas extend through August 5, 2023. In keeping with Verizon’s history of providing high-quality service and good jobs, our agreements continue In 2019, our occupational injuries and illnesses rate was 1.36 per to provide our team members with competitive wages and valuable 100 employees, well below the last published Bureau of Labor benefits that rate among the best in our industry. Statistics telecommunications industry average of 2.5. We are Previous 61 Next 2019 ESG Report Approach Governance Environmental Social Community Appendix Supply chain We procure more than $63.5 billion1 in goods and services annually Our Supplier Code of Conduct from around the world, with these goods including a whole host of items such as handsets, accessories and network equipment. Sourcing these We expect our suppliers to comply with our Supplier Code of Conduct, responsibly is a priority for us and one that we enforce with our Supplier which means acting with integrity, obeying all applicable health, safety and Code of Conduct. environmental laws and protecting confidential and proprietary information. Our Supplier Code of Conduct also: • Forbids the use of child labor, forced labor and discrimination. • Protects employees’ rights to freedom of association and collective bargaining, as permitted by local laws. • Describes how suppliers should work with us on compliance and enforcement issues. Verizon reserves the right to review or audit our suppliers’ compliance with the Supplier Code. We also incorporate ongoing compliance into our business relationships and procurement decisions. Additionally, all Verizon employees receive training in social and environmental supply chain issues, including supplier assessments through initiatives such as green bag sessions, monthly Green Insider newsletters and on-site recruiting and engagement events. Our complete Supplier Code of Conduct is available online. Supplier assessments Verizon is committed to partnering with our suppliers to better the world collaboratively. In 2019, we continued to use the third-party assessment tool, EcoVadis, to evaluate our suppliers’ performance. We monitor and assess their performance in four areas: • Environment • Labor and human rights • Ethics 1 This figure does not include Verizon Media. • Sustainable procurement Previous 62 Next 2019 ESG Report Approach Governance Environmental Social Community Appendix Since 2013, we have assessed 413 key suppliers. EcoVadis validates the responses and researches information from other public sources to benchmark suppliers on their performance. When weaknesses are identified, Verizon works with the supplier to create a corrective action plan to improve their current program. Both Verizon and the supplier benefit from this program. We have committed that 80% of our assessed suppliers will be compliant with Verizon’s standards by the end of 2020. In 2019, our assessed suppliers achieved a 75% compliance rate. We also work with Avetta, an external qualifier of supply-chain risk, to review injury rates, environmental health and safety violations, fines, corrective actions and other environmental and safety performance metrics for our suppliers working in areas most prone to environmental and safety risks. Avetta compares our data to industry benchmarks and, when weaknesses are identified, helps us work with our contractors to review the root causes of issues and plan corrective actions. By the end of 2019, more than 2,500 contractors had registered with Avetta for screening on behalf of Verizon. Verizon is a member of the Joint Audit Cooperation (JAC), an association of telecom operators that collaboratively audits common vendors and looks Conflict minerals for opportunities to improve supplier responsibility across our industry. This furthers our efforts to capture not only what suppliers are pledging through We encourage our partners to take steps to verify that their products do their policies but also to survey their performance on-site. 639 supplier not include materials that either directly or indirectly finance or benefit audits have been completed since JAC’s inception in 2010 with 124 audits armed groups in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (or in any adjoining completed in 2019. country). Through Verizon’s membership in GeSI, we are working with other companies to identify several “clean” (conflict-free) sources for tantalum, Verizon joined JAC in 2013 as the first U.S.-based member and serves on an important conflict mineral used in various electronics, and to support both the Leadership Assembly and Operational Board. Other members pilot “bag and tag” programs that can add crucial visibility on a mineral’s include AT&T, Deutsche Telecom, Orange, Telecom Italia, Proximus, KPN, ultimate source. Rogers, Swisscom, Telefónica, Telenor, Telia Company and Vodafone. Verizon also joined the Public-Private Alliance for Responsible Minerals Trade (PPA), a joint initiative of the U.S. State Department, the U.S. Agency for International Development, private sector companies and trade Previous 63 Next 2019 ESG Report Approach Governance Environmental Social Community Appendix associations, civil society and the International Conference on the Great Lakes Region. The PPA works to collectively call for action to address conflict minerals concerns while delivering solutions that benefit those involved in responsible minerals trade in the Democratic Republic of Congo and the Great Lakes Region of Central Africa. Our Conflict Minerals Policy contains more information on our approach to this issue. Supplier diversity Creating the networks that move the world forward means collaborating and innovating every day with diverse suppliers. By valuing diversity and inclusion in our supply chain, we position ourselves to deliver the technology that matters to our customers in a multicultural world. We invest in programs and initiatives with community organizations to foster economic inclusion and drive positive change. Making decisions that start and end with our customers in partnership with diverse suppliers helps create Our supplier diversity framework is based on strong leadership, and we’re the success we’ve achieved. In 2019, we spent more than $5.8 billion in proud to have earned numerous supplier diversity and inclusion awards. goods and services with diverse suppliers, including businesses owned Please see our Awards and Recognitions page to learn more. by people of color, women, veterans, disabled veterans, service-disabled veterans, LGBT and people with disabilities. This brings our total spend with diverse suppliers to nearly $50 billion over the past 10 years. In 2019, we spent more than Verizon is a charter member of the Billion Dollar Roundtable (BDR), a coalition of 29 companies that spend more than $1 billion each year with diverse $5.8 billion suppliers. In 2019, Verizon hosted the BDR’s Annual Summit, which provided in goods and services with diverse suppliers, including a forum for certain Fortune 100 companies, BDR members and diverse businesses owned by people of color, women, veterans, suppliers to explore the power of collaboration, leverage learnings and drive the strategic direction of supplier diversity and inclusion in the supply chain. disabled veterans, service-disabled veterans, LGBT and people with disabilities. Previous 64 Next 2019 ESG Report Approach Governance Environmental Social Community Appendix In this section: 66 Uplifting communities 71 Climate Protection and protecting 72 Human Prosperity our planet 73 Community resilience 67 Digital Inclusion and disaster relief 69 Impact by the numbers Community Previous 65 Next 2019 ESG Report Approach Governance Environmental Social Community Appendix Uplifting communities Verizon is committed to moving the world forward for good by leveraging our technology, innovation and people. Through our focus areas of Digital Inclusion, Climate Protection and Human Prosperity, we’re on a mission to and protecting our planet help solve some of the biggest challenges that face the world today. Previous 66 Next 2019 ESG Report Approach Governance Environmental Social Community Appendix Digital Inclusion Rural access By the end of 2019, Verizon Wireless covered over 99% of the U.S. population, including just over 97% of those living in rural counties. Our rural coverage is supported through our LTE in Rural America (LRA) program. At the end of 2019, Verizon continued to partner with 18 carriers to provide LTE service in their rural areas via a growing network of active sites. The leases for the LRA participants cover just over 2.5 million people and more than 129,000 square miles through more than 1,350 LTE-enabled sites in 13 states. The LRA program continues to be an integral part of Verizon’s dedication to providing high-speed wireless data to rural communities. Moving forward, we are going to evolve our work to be increasingly broadband-led and prioritized based on identifying areas of need. Despite our extensive network map, we recognize that there continue to be areas that can use better broadband coverage—and we are committed to continuing to work with partners to serve more populations in coming years. Expanding access to the underserved According to a Pew Research Center analysis of 2015 U.S. Census Bureau data, some 15% of U.S. households with school-aged children do not have a high-speed internet connection at home.1 We’ve taken on the challenge as an opportunity to bring the power of digital technology to the underserved by partnering with nonprofits, schools and higher learning institutions to bring technology to students through our Verizon Innovative Learning initiative. Source: https://www.pewresearch.org/fact-tank/2020/03/16/as-schools-close-due-to1 the-coronavirus-some-u-s-students-face-a-digital-homework-gap/. Previous 67 Next 2019 ESG Report Approach Governance Environmental Social Community Appendix Verizon Innovative Learning At Verizon, digital inclusion is about ensuring the benefits of technology are realized by all. Right now, millions of under-resourced students in the U.S. lack the connectivity, technology and skills required for success in today’s digital economy. That’s why, since 2014, we have been working to foster digital inclusion through a transformative program called Verizon Innovative Learning. We work hand-in-hand with nonprofit partners and our team of education and technology experts to build and administer STEM-focused programs that create the kinds of transformative opportunities that change lives. Schools Our Verizon Innovative Learning Schools program provides free technology, free internet access and technology-driven curriculum to help give students in under-resourced middle schools the technology, education and opportunity they deserve. Every student and teacher at a Verizon Innovative Learning school is equipped with a free tablet or Chromebook and up to a four-year Future Verizon Innovative Learning labs will be powered data plan, giving more students the ability to achieve, learn and create more both at home and in school. The program also provides ongoing professional by 5G technology. development to teachers to support student learning with technology. Our goal is to reach 350 schools by 2021. of cutting-edge technology. Our goal is to deploy it in 100 schools by Verizon Innovative Learning Labs the end of 2021. 5G enables immersive experiences using virtual and augmented reality, and advanced low-latency robotics which turn lesson The Verizon Innovative Learning Lab program creates a custom-designed, plans into living, breathing, engaging experiences. state-of-the-art, experiential learning space within Verizon Innovative Learning schools. Powered by a next-gen, emerging technology-infused curriculum, Young men of color / Rural young women programs including augmented reality, virtual reality, artificial intelligence and professional learning, the Lab equips students with the opportunity In addition to the schools program, Verizon Innovative Learning offers to change the world by leveraging technology, social innovation and project-based learning experiences for middle school young men of color design thinking to impact their communities. and rural young women. The project-based learning experiences leverage next-gen technologies such as augmented reality, virtual reality, 3D design 5G enabled learning and printing and more in intensive summer camps followed by weekly enrichment classes year-round. These programs are hosted at partner We brought 5G technology to the classroom in the third quarter of 2019, Historically Black Colleges and Universities and Hispanic-Serving giving our students and teachers the opportunity to be at the forefront Institutions as well as community colleges countrywide. Previous 68 Next 2019 ESG Report Approach Governance Environmental Social Community Appendix Impact by the numbers Schools Teachers  eachers’ technology T Students’ attitudes program reported classroom proficiency improved: changed: improvements: 153 total schools have participated 85% of teachers said that the program 89% said the program helped them 59% believed assignments were since 2014 allowed for more individualized explore new ways of teaching easier when using a tablet instruction 85% of students participating in 82% 71% said the program helped them 54% believed having the device 2019 were eligible to receive of teachers said that the program reach goals they already set for improved their confidence free or reduced-cost lunch enhanced their ability to their classroom and teaching in the things they can do differentiate instruction 78% of teachers said that the program enhanced student engagement 63% believe the program enhanced positive interactions among students in the classroom Previous 69 Next 2019 ESG Report Approach Governance Environmental Social Community Appendix Out of school programs Young men of color Rural young women 24 participating institutions 2,177 middle school young men 16 participating institutions 1,449 middle school young women After participating in the 2019 summer program: After participating in the 2019 summer program: 98% increased interest 95% increased confidence 98% increased interest 94% increased confidence in STEM subjects in being successful in STEM subjects in being successful 96% increased interest 89% increased interest 97% increased interest 88% increased interest in a STEM career in school in a STEM career in school Previous 70 Next 2019 ESG Report Approach Governance Environmental Social Community Appendix Climate Protection Addressing climate change and protecting our environment is a responsibility we share with our V Team. Green Team The Green Team is a voluntary, grassroots effort that builds sustainability into everything we do. In 2019, 33,776 employees in 49 countries and territories were part of the Green Team. Green Team members work to help Verizon reduce our environmental impact at work and to reduce their personal impact at home. Our goal is to have 30% of Verizon employees on the Green Team by 2022. By the end of 2019, just over 22% of V Teamers are on the Green Team. In 2019, we held 58 e-waste recycling events for our employees and the community. Through these events we exceeded our 2009-2020 goal to collect 4 million pounds of e-waste. We have set a new goal to collect and recycle 5 million pounds of e-waste between 2009 and 2022. To encourage our V Team members to use electric vehicles (EV) with ease and confidence, we continue to expand access to EV charging across Verizon facilities. In 2019, we had EV charging stations in 71 locations and are on track to meet our goal to expand to 75 locations by 2020. In 2019, we had EV charging stations in 71 locations and are on track to meet our goal. Previous 71 Next 2019 ESG Report Approach Governance Environmental Social Community Appendix Human Prosperity Our V Team members enthusiastically give back through donations and volunteer efforts throughout the year. We have made a bold commitment to dedicate 2.5 million volunteer hours by 2025. During 2019, V Teamers donated generously, ending the year at $7.8 million in employee giving through our Matching Gifts program, with Verizon matching $6.2 million1 in donations. Verizon matches donations up to $1,000 for personal charitable donations and up to an additional $5,000 for eligible higher education institutions. Additionally, V Teamers who volunteer at least 50 hours at eligible nonprofits during a calendar year can generate a $750 donation from Pro Bono focused on criminal justice reform Verizon for up to two organizations, totaling a benefit of $1,500. Verizon employees donated 173,700 hours generating nearly Our Pro Bono program embodies Verizon’s longstanding commitment $2.2 million for nonprofit partners. to social responsibility. At its essence, our core value of social responsibility is about using our talents to uplift individuals and Our Employee Resource Groups also led and/or participated in communities. Year after year, we make a huge difference in the lives numerous volunteer initiatives globally, supporting robotics teams, of individuals in need of assistance: survivors of domestic violence, mentoring students and serving as role models to encourage girls veterans seeking their rightful benefits and immigrants seeking to and students of color to pursue careers in STEM. uphold their rights under the law. Our volunteers have provided valuable legal guidance to nonprofits, enabling them to meet their obligations and focus on their missions. And, we have mentored By the end of 2019, employees students from disadvantaged communities across the U.S. and abroad to become better students and show them the possibilities had volunteered more than of careers at places like Verizon. 173,700 In 2019, the Pro Bono program launched its new Criminal Justice hours of their time to nonprofits Reform initiative to focus on helping individuals with low-level criminal across the U.S. records pursue their legal right to have those records expunged, eliminating the stigma associated with their convictions, removing barriers to securing employment and housing, and restoring their right to vote and participate in this country’s democracy. 1 V  erizon Match amounts reported, which were paid in 2019, related to hours volunteered and to employee gifts that took place in 2019 or prior. Previous 72 Next 2019 ESG Report Approach Governance Environmental Social Community Appendix Community resilience and disaster relief Supporting communities in times of disaster Our employees helped millions of people impacted by disasters in 2019 get back on their feet in a variety of ways. Verizon and our employees donated to disaster recovery and community projects, including relief following Hurricane Dorian, the California wildfires and the Australian bushfires. We also continued to use our Emergency Resource Center Hub to update news media, local officials, employees and others about how we were responding to everything from wildfires to earthquakes to hurricanes. For current information on Verizon’s emergency response efforts, please visit our Emergency Resource Center. Working in the age of COVID-19 Along with the rest of the world, in the first quarter of 2020 we began to address the unparalleled challenges of responding to the COVID-19 pandemic. As a vital provider of the world’s critical communications infrastructure, our primary goal has been to keep our customers, employees and society connected to the people and resources important to them. We have undertaken numerous actions to maintain the top performance of our networks while safeguarding the health and well-being of our employees, Our response to the COVID-19 pandemic is focused on maintaining the top performance meeting the needs of our customers and supporting our communities. of our networks while safeguarding the health and well-being of our employees, meeting The details of our response can be found on the Verizon response to the needs of our customers and supporting our communities. COVID-19 page of our website. Our networks Our company pledged to use the power of connectivity to help keep the nation’s economy moving forward. Equally important, we focused on the future, as demonstrated by the increase of capital investment guidance from $17-$18 billion to $17.5-$18.5 billion in 2020. Previous 73 Next 2019 ESG Report Approach Governance Environmental Social Community Appendix Our employees Balancing the safety of our employees with the critical needs of our customers, we have expanded work-from-home strategies and deployed the technology tools and assets to enable more than 100,000 employees to work remotely. To reduce exposure for our retail staff, we temporarily closed 70% of corporate-owned retail locations and identified temporary work assignments for retail store employees whose stores were closed. For employees who must deploy outside their homes to meet critical customer needs, we implemented a significantly enhanced compensation plan. In addition, we enacted a range of enhanced employee benefit policies, including a COVID-19 specific leave of absence policy offering 100% of pay for up to eight weeks and then 60% of pay beyond eight weeks for employees who are unable to work because they are providing care to loved ones or themselves. And, we went further to protect the most vulnerable by waiving late fees through June 30, adding 15GB of high speed data at no charge, offering Our customers free international calling to CDC level 3 countries and more. During a time of crisis, it is more important than ever that our customers We launched two significant programs to offer free content. The More can rely on news and content they trust. To meet the critical need for at Home...on Us program provides no-cost access to a number of TV information, we created a coronavirus hub page across the Yahoo ecosystem channels, as well as online learning and interactive study tools for (News, Finance, Sports, Lifestyle & Entertainment) to aggregate the latest children and adults, and Pay it Forward Live is a weekly streaming live news about the pandemic in the U.S. and across the globe. entertainment series that offers music, gaming, comedy and more in support of small businesses affected by COVID-19. As a signatory to the FCC’s new “Keep Americans Connected” pledge, Verizon committed to help maintain connectivity and offer assistance to customers and small businesses facing challenges from the global crisis. Previous 74 Next 2019 ESG Report Approach Governance Environmental Social Community Appendix Our communities We are supporting our communities by maintaining the reliable networks and connectivity solutions that enable the communications that are so vitally important in this crisis. We are working closely with first responders, healthcare providers, and federal, state and local government agencies. We have given first responders priority access to our network and have deployed technology to support COVID-19 field efforts at testing and triage centers, as well as to allow thousands of doctors to work remotely, alleviating stress on hospitals. To date, we have committed to more than $50 million in contributions and donations to nonprofits directed at serving students, healthcare workers, first responders and small businesses in the U.S., as well as international relief efforts. Our financial commitments include contributions to the Local Initiatives Support Corporation, focused on supporting small businesses; the Center for Disaster Philanthropy (CDP) COVID-19 Response Fund and Direct Relief, centered on supporting healthcare workers on the front lines; the World Health Organization and UN Foundation Solidarity Response Fund to aid in COVID-19 relief; and contributions to the American Red Cross and international Red Cross organizations. In addition, Verizon Media is donating $10 million of advertising inventory to support mental and public health response efforts. Also, together with the New York Times Company, we have given free access to NYTimes.com digital content to every high school in the U.S. We have also provided support to educators and students throughout the from April 6 through July 6, 2020. U.S. through our network and philanthropic donations. Our partnership with Los Angeles Unified School District has provided internet connectivity to The Corporate Social Responsibility team actively worked with our thousands of students who don’t have internet access at home, enabling the nonprofit partner to facilitate virtual volunteer activities for employees district to continue delivering instruction despite school closures. Through to help communities and individuals hit hardest by COVID-19. Some of Verizon Innovative Learning, we have provided free laptops and tablets with the virtual activities include tutoring students in under-resourced schools, data plans, tripling the program’s normal data allowance to provide up to becoming trained and serving as crisis text line counselors and sewing 30GB per month through June 30. This has provided increased access masks for healthcare workers. to remote instruction to as many as 116,000 students and teachers. In addition, recognizing the important role schools play in providing nutrition for low-income students, we committed a $5 million donation to support No Kid Hungry Responds: Coronavirus. Previous 75 Next 2019 ESG Report Approach Governance Environmental Social Community Appendix In this section: 77 Definition of 82 GRI index material issues 89 SASB index 79 ESG data index 92 UNGC index Appendix Previous 76 Next 2019 ESG Report Approach Governance Environmental Social Community Appendix Definition of material issues Issue Definition Accessibility Providing products and services accessible by anyone, regardless of ability. Access to connectivity Extending high-quality communications access (e.g. reliability, speed, bandwidth, price) to underserved locations. Board compensation, independence Effectively managing compensation, independence and diversity of our Board and senior management. and diversity Child rights Respecting children's right to privacy and freedom of expression and empowering them to have positive experiences online. Climate change mitigation Reducing the climate impact of our operations through energy-efficiency efforts and low-carbon energy generation and sourcing, as well as managing risks to our company and customers presented by climate change. Content standards Regulating content that may be inappropriate for certain audiences, such as adult material or gambling, or that may be illegal, such as content related to child exploitation or terrorism, in addition to addressing issues such as hate speech, misinformation and variable content laws across jurisdictions. Emergency and disaster response Leveraging our technology and resources to assist in disaster preparedness and response efforts. Employee diversity and inclusion Creating a fair, inclusive and diverse work environment by providing equal opportunities regardless of race, national origin, gender, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, disability, veteran/military status, age, experiences, ways of thinking and many other dimensions. Employee engagement Providing opportunities for employees to engage in sponsored activities, as well as providing support for community activities important to our employees. Employee growth and development Training and development of employees with a focus on “upskilling,” including responsible approaches to addressing changing workforce needs. Employee health, well-being and safety Promoting employee health and well-being, particularly through employee benefits, and protecting employees from risk of injury. Ethics and compliance Maintaining integrity through ethical business behavior, including zero corruption, extortion, bribery or other illegal sales practices. E-waste Appropriately managing e-waste, including processes to reuse and recycle products and component parts. Freedom of association Maintaining freedom of association and collective bargaining. Freedom of expression Maintaining the freedom to seek, receive and impart information and ideas through any media and regardless of frontiers. Future pipeline of STEM talent Promoting access to high-quality science, technology, engineering and math education, as well as entrepreneurial skills development. Handling of hazardous materials Reducing and eliminating hazardous materials used in products. Land use Using land resources sustainably and responsibly, respecting the land rights of local communities and minimizing impacts on biodiversity. Misuse of technology Preventing the use of products and services by our customers in ways that harm people, including the use of products and services for illegal activity (e.g., child sexual exploitation), the technological facilitation of human rights violations and/or personally negligent use, like distracted driving. Previous 77 Next 2019 ESG Report Approach Governance Environmental Social Community Appendix Definition of material issues Issue Definition Network, mobile and data security Providing a safe and secure online experience for children and adults, including preventing fraud, identity theft, exploitation and cyber attacks. Open internet Enabling consumer broadband customers to take advantage of all the internet has to offer through full access, full speed, fair handling of traffic, full information and high-quality service. Packaging and logistics Reducing the raw material and waste impacts of product packaging. Political contributions and lobbying Managing political contributions and lobbying responsibly, including being transparent about our political engagement, complying with reporting obligations and striving for consistency between our responsible business and public policy positions. Privacy Protecting and respecting the privacy rights of our customers by employing strong policies and controls during the capture, storage and transfer of personal information. Radio frequency emissions Minimizing the potential effects on human health from electromagnetic fields and frequency emissions. Raw materials sourcing Managing the social and environmental impacts associated with sourcing raw materials, such as conflict minerals. Relationship with law enforcement Collaborating with law enforcement agencies, including an appropriate response to demands for user information or content restrictions, the lawful provision of access to networks, and the development and/or sale of products, services or technologies for use by law enforcement agencies. Responsible marketing Marketing in a manner that is honest, truthful, decent and fair. Security Using security services to protect network assets and other facilities from theft or criminal damage. Supplier diversity Sourcing from diverse suppliers and supporting economic development in traditionally underrepresented groups. Supply chain energy use Managing energy efficiency and the use of low-carbon energy in product manufacturing, transportation and distribution. Supply chain environmental impacts Managing environmental impacts in our supply chain, such as water use, wastewater, waste disposal, non-GHG emissions, etc. Supply chain labor standards Managing labor issues in our supply chain, such as working hours, health and safety, remuneration, sexual harassment, freedom of association and collective bargaining. Sustainable product design Enabling customers to reduce their environmental impact through energy-efficient products and reducing the lifecycle environmental impact of products and network equipment. Sustainable product innovation Developing products and services that provide solutions to social and environmental issues, including education, health and products that support the transition to a low-carbon and circular economy. Tax contributions Fulfilling taxation responsibilities to the economies in which we operate. User access controls Providing customers the ability to control access to or to filter content, e.g., tools for parents to prevent children from accessing inappropriate content. Previous 78 Next 2019 ESG Report Approach Governance Environmental Social Community Appendix ESG data index 2019 2018 2017 Governance Board diversity Percentage of women on the Board of Directors 30% — — Percentage of African-American and Hispanic individuals on the Board of Directors 40% — — Environmental Emissions and carbon intensity Scope 1 emissions (CO2e metric tons) — 385,241 376,735 Scope 2 emissions (CO2e metric tons) — 4,033,579 4,522,261 Total Scope 1 & 2 emissions (CO2e metric tons) — 4,418,820 4,898,996 Scope 3 emissions1 (CO2e metric tons) — 98,188 69,271 Vehicle fuels (CO2e metric tons) — 241,231 237,848 Building and other fuels (CO2e metric tons) — 144,011 138,887 Electricity and other indirect sources (CO2e metric tons) — 4,033,579 4,522,261 Renewable energy On-site renewable energy 20MW 20MW 20MW Buildings and data center LEED-certified projects 357 354 354 ENERGY STAR-certified properties 278 278 254 Fleet Fleet fuel consumption (1,000,000 gallons) 23.5 25 23.9 E-waste Pounds of e-waste recycled 43.3 million — — Pounds of lead acid batteries recycled 5.2 million 7,421,904 7,703,466 Pounds of plastic recycled 2.3 million — — Pounds of total waste recycled 84.8 million 89.5 million 76.9 million Water Water usage reduction from 2016 baseline — 11% 8% 1 Exclusively business travel Previous 79 Next 2019 ESG Report Approach Governance Environmental Social Community Appendix ESG data index 2019 2018 2017 Carbon abatement CO2e avoided (metric tons) 8.8 million 8.2 million 7.7 million Social Digital responsibility Spam calls blocked 2.8 billion — — Human capital Race/ethnicity American Indian/Alaskan Native (% of total U.S. workforce) 0.4% 0.4% 0.5% Asian (% of total U.S. workforce) 9.1% 8.6% 8.6% Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander (% of total U.S. workforce) 0.3% 0.3% 0.3% Black/African American (% of total U.S. workforce) 19.3% 19.4% 19.0% Hispanic/Latino (% of total U.S. workforce) 11.2% 11.0% 10.4% Two or more races (% of total U.S. workforce) 2.4% 2.4% 2.3% Unknown/undeclared (% of total U.S. workforce) 2.7% 2.8% — White (% of total U.S. workforce) 54.6% 55.1% 58.9% Gender Gender worldwide Percentage of total workforce (male) 66.5% 65.8% 65.9% Percentage of total workforce (female) 33.5% 34.2% 34.1% U.S. employee profile by gender Percentage of total workforce (male) 66.2% 65.3% 65.5% Percentage of total workforce (female) 33.8% 34.7% 34.5% International employee profile by gender Percentage of total workforce (male) 69.6% 70.1% 69.8% Percentage of total workforce (female) 30.4% 29.9% 30.2% Senior management ethnicity and gender Percentage of people of color in U.S. senior management (VP and above) 31.2% 30.7% 26.9% Percentage of women in U.S. senior management (VP and above) 34.9% 31.3% 29.7% Previous 80 Next 2019 ESG Report Approach Governance Environmental Social Community Appendix ESG data index 2019 2018 2017 Health & wellness Healthcare benefits and services spend $2.6 billion $2.8 billion $2.8 billion Veterans Number of veteran employees 9,700+ 10,300+ 9,500+ Learning & development Amount invested in learning and development initiatives for our employees $215.9 million $235.3 million $239.8 million Training hours completed by V Teamers 3.5 million+ 5.0 million 5.5 million Number of learning experiences that employees have access to 24,600+ 16.9 thousand 18.1 thousand Average annual hours of training per team member 25+ 33.2 35.3 Verizon funding for tuition assistance $50 million+ $60.1 million $77.0 million Number of team members that took advantage of tuition assistance 13,000+ 15,813 19,388 Safety Occupational injuries and illness rate (per 100 employees) 1.36 1.28 1.3 Supply chain Diverse supplier spend $5.8 billion $5.1 billion $5 billion Community Digital Inclusion Verizon Innovation Learning schools since 2014 153 101 73 Green Team Green Team membership 33,776 27,248 24,920 Countries and territories served by Verizon and Verizon Green Team members 49 36 35 Verizon charging locations with EV charging stations 71 61 49 Number of public recycling rallies 58 53 49 Pounds of e-waste collected at recycling rallies since 2009 4 million+ 3.7 million 3.2 million Human Prosperity Amount donated by Verizon employees to schools and nonprofits $7.8 million $8,109,604 $8,596,675 Amount donated through Verizon's Matching Gifts program $6.2 million $9,175,405 $9,210,117 Volunteer hours by Verizon employees in support of nonprofits 173,700+ 202,005 181,262 Previous 81 Next 2019 ESG Report Approach Governance Environmental Social Community Appendix GRI index Disclosure Disclosure title 2019 response GRI 102: General disclosures Organizational profile 102-1 Name of the organization Verizon Communications Inc. 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 2019 Form 10-K, pgs. 4-11; https://www.verizon.com/about/our-company 102-3 Location of headquarters Our Corporate Headquarters are located in New York, New York, while our Operational Headquarters are located in Basking Ridge, New Jersey. 102-4 Location of operations verizon.com/about/careers/we-are-global 102-5 Ownership and legal form Verizon Communications Inc. is a publicly held holding company, listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE: VZ) and NASDAQ (VZ). 102-6 Markets served 2019 Form 10-K https://www.verizon.com/about/our-company/verizon-fact-sheet https://www.verizon.com/featured/our-network/#maps 102-7 Scale of the organization https://www.verizon.com/about/our-company/verizon-fact-sheet 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Social—Human Capital—V Team: Our workforce by the numbers 102-9 Supply chain Social—Human Capital—Supply chain 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its Approach—Message from the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer supply chain 2019 annual report, pgs. 9, 33-34 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 2019 Form 10-K, pgs. 15-18; Governance—How we govern—Managing risk 102-12 External initiatives UN Global Compact member CDP Climate Change SASB TCFD 102-13 Membership of associations Global Enabling Sustainability Initiative (GeSI): gesi.org Joint Audit Cooperation: jac-initiative.com Family Online Safety Institute: fosi.org Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Approach—Message from the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Previous 82 Next 2019 ESG Report Approach Governance Environmental Social Community Appendix GRI index Disclosure Disclosure title 2019 response Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior Governance—Ethics and compliance; Social—Human capital—Our Credo Supplier Code of Conduct Code of Conduct Governance 102-18 Governance structure Approach—Building trust through transparency—Creating a dedicated ESG team; Governance—How we govern, How we operate Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Approach—Message from the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Our ESG strategy 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Social—Human capital—Labor relations 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Approach—Our ESG strategy—Prioritizing our ESG issues 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Governance—How we govern—Engaging with stakeholders 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Approach—Our ESG strategy—Materiality matrix Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 2019 Form 10-K—Exhibit 21 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries Approach—Our ESG strategy 102-47 List of material topics Approach—Our ESG strategy—Materiality matrix 102-48 Restatements of information None 102-49 Changes in reporting None 102-50 Reporting period January 1, 2019 – December 31, 2019, unless otherwise noted 102-51 Date of most recent report 2019 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report responsibility@verizon.com 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards Core 102-55 GRI content index GRI Index 102-56 External assurance Environmental—Emissions and carbon intensity—External assurance, Water conservation Independent accountants’ review Previous 83 Next 2019 ESG Report Approach Governance Environmental Social Community Appendix GRI index Disclosure Disclosure title 2019 response GRI 200: Economic GRI 203: Indirect economic impacts 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Environmental—Network resiliency; Social—Digital responsibility—Accessibility; Community 103-2 The management approach and its components Environmental—Network resiliency; Social—Digital responsibility—Accessibility; Community 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Environmental—Network resiliency; Social—Digital responsibility—Accessibility; Community 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported Environmental—Network resiliency; Social—Digital responsibility—Accessibility; Community GRI 300: Environmental GRI 301: Materials 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Environmental—E-waste, Paper waste 103-2 The management approach and its components Environmental—E-waste, Paper waste 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Environmental—E-waste, Paper waste 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume Environmental—E-waste GRI 302: Energy 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Environmental; CDP Climate Change Response 2019; 2019 TCFD Report 103-2 The management approach and its components Environmental; CDP Climate Change Response 2019; 2019 TCFD Report 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Environmental; CDP Climate Change Response 2019 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Environmental—Emissions and carbon intensity, Renewable energy, Buildings and data centers; CDP Climate Change Response 2019 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization Environmental—Carbon abatement; CDP Climate Change Response 2019 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Environmental—Emissions and carbon intensity, Renewable energy, Buildings and data centers; CDP Climate Change Response 2019 Previous 84 Next 2019 ESG Report Approach Governance Environmental Social Community Appendix GRI index Disclosure Disclosure title 2019 response GRI 303: Water and effluents 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Environmental—Water conservation 103-2 The management approach and its components Environmental—Water conservation 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Environmental—Water conservation 303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource Environmental—Water conservation 303-2 Management of water discharge-related impacts Environmental—Water conservation 303-5 Water consumption Environmental—Water conservation GRI 305: Emissions 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Environmental; CDP Climate Change Response 2019; 2019 TCFD Report 103-2 The management approach and its components Environmental; CDP Climate Change Response 2019; 2019 TCFD Report 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Environmental; CDP Climate Change Response 2019 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Environmental—Our emissions by scope; CDP Climate Change Response 2019 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Environmental—Our emissions by scope; CDP Climate Change Response 2019 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Environmental—Our emissions by scope; CDP Climate Change Response 2019 305-4 GHG emissions intensity CDP Climate Change Response 2019 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Environmental—Our emissions by scope; CDP Climate Change Response 2019 GRI 306: Effluents and waste 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Environmental—E-waste, Paper waste 103-2 The management approach and its components Environmental—E-waste, Paper waste 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Environmental—E-waste, Paper waste 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Environmental—E-waste GRI 308: Supplier environmental assessment 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Social—Human Capital—Supply chain 103-2 The management approach and its components Social—Human Capital—Supply chain 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Social—Human Capital—Supply chain 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using Social—Human Capital—Supply chain environmental criteria Previous 85 Next 2019 ESG Report Approach Governance Environmental Social Community Appendix GRI index Disclosure Disclosure title 2019 response GRI 400: Social GRI 401: Employment 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Social—Human Capital—Learning and development 103-2 The management approach and its components Social—Human Capital—Learning and development 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Social—Human Capital—Learning and development 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee Social—Human Capital—Learning and development GRI 403: Occupational health and safety 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Environmental—EHS management system; Social—Human Capital—Safety 103-2 The management approach and its components Environmental—EHS management system; Social—Human Capital—Safety 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Environmental—EHS management system; Social—Human Capital—Safety 403-1 Occupational health and safety management system Environmental—EHS management system; Social—Human Capital—Safety 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and Environmental—EHS management system; Social—Human Capital—Safety incident investigation 403-3 Occupational health services Environmental—EHS management system; Social—Human Capital—Safety 403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and communication Environmental—EHS management system; Social—Human Capital—Safety on occupational health and safety 403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety Environmental—EHS management system; Social—Human Capital—Safety 403-6 Promotion of worker health Environmental—EHS management system; Social—Human Capital—Safety 403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and Environmental—EHS management system; Social—Human Capital—Safety safety impacts directly linked by business relationships 403-9 Work-related injuries Environmental—EHS management system; Social—Human Capital—Safety GRI 404: Training and education 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Social—Human Capital—Learning and development 103-2 The management approach and its components Social—Human Capital—Learning and development 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Social—Human Capital—Learning and development 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee Social—Human Capital—Learning and development GRI 405: Diversity and equal opportunity 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Social—Human Capital—Diversity and inclusion 103-2 The management approach and its components Social—Human Capital—Diversity and inclusion Previous 86 Next 2019 ESG Report Approach Governance Environmental Social Community Appendix GRI index Disclosure Disclosure title 2019 response 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Social—Human Capital—Diversity and inclusion 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Governance—How we govern—Fostering Board diversity; Social–Human capital–V Team: Our workforce by the numbers 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men Social—Human Capital—Diversity and inclusion GRI 413: Local communities 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Community—Digital Inclusion 103-2 The management approach and its components Community—Digital Inclusion 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Community—Digital Inclusion 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact Community—Digital Inclusion assessments, and development programs GRI 414: Supplier social assessment 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Social—Human Capital—Supply chain 103-2 The management approach and its components Social—Human Capital—Supply chain 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Social—Human Capital—Supply chain 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria Social—Human Capital—Supply chain GRI 415: Public policy 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Approach—Building trust through transparency—Reports and commitments; Governance—How we govern—Managing risk, How we operate 103-2 The management approach and its components Approach—Building trust through transparency—Reports and commitments; Governance—How we govern—Managing risk, How we operate 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Approach—Building trust through transparency—Reports and commitments; Governance—How we govern—Managing risk, How we operate 415-1 Political contributions https://www.verizon.com/about/sites/default/files/2019-Political-Engagement-Report-End-of-YearDisclosure.pdf Previous 87 Next 2019 ESG Report Approach Governance Environmental Social Community Appendix GRI index Disclosure Disclosure title 2019 response GRI 418: Customer privacy 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Social—Digital responsibility—Privacy and data protection 103-2 The management approach and its components Social—Digital responsibility—Privacy and data protection 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Social—Digital responsibility—Privacy and data protection 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of Except as required by law, Verizon does not disclose this information. customer privacy and losses of customer data GRI 419: Socioeconomic compliance 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Governance 103-2 The management approach and its components Governance 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Governance 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social Verizon discloses all material legal proceedings in our annual reports on Form 10-K and Quarterly and economic area reports on Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). In 2019, we did not disclose any legal proceedings in the social and economic area. We use several external frameworks in addition to GRI to inform the scope of our reporting: CDP Climate Change, SASB and TCFD. Previous 88 Next 2019 ESG Report Approach Governance Environmental Social Community Appendix Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) index This marks the first time that Verizon is reporting our environmental, social and governance performance with reference to the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) framework. This report outlines how our existing disclosures align with the recommended metrics for the SASB Telecommunications Services standard. We do not currently disclose all metrics included in the standard, but we will continue to evaluate them in the future. All data is as of or for the year ended December 31, 2019, unless otherwise noted.1 Activity metrics The SASB standard calls for us to report the number of wireless subscribers, wireline subscribers and broadband subscribers. Consistent with the disclosures we provide in our annual and quarterly reports filed with the SEC (SEC reports), we are reporting the number of connections for each of these categories because these are key indicators that we use to evaluate our operating performance from period to period. Activity metrics SASB code Metric Response or comment TC-TL-000.A Number of wireless retail connections 2 94,544,000 Consumer 25,217,000 Business TC-TL-000.B Number of voice connections3 5,754,000 Consumer 4,959,000 Business TC-TL-000.C Number of broadband connections4 6,467,000 Consumer 489,000 Business TC-TL-000.D Network traffic in petabytes 154,568 petabytes 1 The inclusion of information in this report should not be construed as a characterization regarding the materiality or financial impact of that information. Please see our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019, and other publicly filed documents, which are available at https://www.verizon.com/about/investors/. 2 Wireless retail connections are retail customer device postpaid and prepaid connections as of the end of the period. Prepaid connections apply to the Consumer segment only. Retail connections under an account may include those from smartphones and basic phones, as well as tablets and other internet devices, including wearables and retail IoT devices. 3 Voice connections are the total number of traditional switched access lines in service and Fios digital voice connections as of the end of the period. 4 Broadband connections are the total number of connections to the internet using Digital Subscriber Line (DSL) and Fios Internet services as of the end of the period. Previous 89 Next 2019 ESG Report Approach Governance Environmental Social Community Appendix Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) index Accounting metrics Topic SASB code Metric Response or comment Environmental TC-TL-130a.1 Total energy consumed in gigajoules 42,609,766 GJ footprint of For more information, see Our emissions by scope. operations Percentage grid electricity 85% Percentage renewable energy Immaterial For more information, see Renewable energy: New goals drive progress. Data privacy TC-TL-220a.1 Description of policies and practices relating to behavioral Privacy and data protection advertising and customer privacy Privacy Policy TC-TL-220a.2 Number of customers whose information is used for Verizon does not calculate and report a metric on the bases specified in secondary purposes the standard. Verizon’s Privacy Policy describes the information we collect from our customers and how we use it. TC-TL-220a.3 Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal Verizon discloses all material legal proceedings in our SEC reports. In 2019, proceedings associated with privacy we did not disclose any monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with privacy. TC-TL-220a.4 1. Number of law enforcement requests for Since 2013, Verizon has published a Transparency Report, updated every customer information six months, which presents comparable metrics5 relating to the number of 2. Number of customers whose information was requested demands we receive from law enforcement in the United States and other 3. Percentage resulting in disclosure countries where we do business. Data security TC-TL-230a.1 1. Number of data breaches Except as required by law, Verizon does not report this information. 2. Percentage involving personally identifiable information 3. Number of customers affected TC-TL-230a.2 Description of approach to identifying and addressing Cybersecurity data security risks, including use of third-party cybersecurity standards 5 In Verizon’s Transparency Report, the number of customers whose information was requested is only reported for subpoenas in 2019. The data is reported as the number of customer identifiers requested, which are referred to as “selectors.” Verizon Media publishes a separate report regarding law enforcement requests. Previous 90 Next 2019 ESG Report Approach Governance Environmental Social Community Appendix Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) index Topic SASB code Metric Response or comment Product TC-TL-440a.1 1. Materials recovered through take-back programs in Verizon recycled 44,105,739 pounds of e-waste in 2019. E-waste was end-of life metric tons collected from our customers through product take-back programs, from management 2. Percentage of recovered materials that were (a) reused, our employees and community members through public recycling rallies, (b) recycled and (c) landfilled and from our operations through internal waste management programs. Verizon reports this data by weight, not percentage. For more information on our operational recycling programs, see E-waste: Expanding recycling and reuse. Competitive TC-TL-520a.1 Total amount of monetary losses as a result of Verizon discloses all material legal proceedings in our SEC reports. In 2019, behavior & legal proceedings associated with anti-competitive we did not disclose any monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings open internet behavior regulations associated with anti-competitive behavior regulations. TC-TL-520a.2 Average actual sustained download speed in Megabits per Verizon does not measure download speeds on the bases specified in second (Mbps) of (a) owned and commercially-associated the standard (i.e., owned and commercially associated content versus content and (b) non-associated content purposes non-associated content). TC-TL-520a.3 Description of risks and opportunities associated with net Open internet neutrality, paid peering, zero rating and related practices Please see Verizon’s SEC reports for our disclosures relating to the risks and opportunities associated with laws and regulations addressing net neutrality. Verizon’s Interconnection Policy for Internet Networks establishes separate requirements for each of our three regional internet networks, with the requirements scaled for each network. We also will consider requests for settlement-free interconnection on a national level or in other regions of the world, with the same guiding principles and with appropriately scaled interconnection requirements. Managing TC-TL-550a.1 1. System average interruption frequency per customer as Verizon does not currently calculate and report metrics relating to the systemic the average number of disruptions per customer frequency and duration of system interruptions in the manner specified risks from 2. Customer average interruption duration as the average by the standard. technology number of hours per customer disruptions TC-TL-550a.2 Discussion of systems to provide unimpeded service Network resiliency during service interruptions For more information on how Verizon manages business continuity risk, see our 2019 TCFD Report. Previous 91 Next 2019 ESG Report Approach Governance Environmental Social Community Appendix UN Global Compact index 1. Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer Approach—Message from the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 2. Description of actions Human rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of Approach—Message from the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Aligning with the SDGs internationally proclaimed human rights; and Governance—How we Govern—Engaging with stakeholders, Human rights Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Social—Digital responsibility—Digital safety, Robocalls, Privacy and data protection— Privacy by design Social—Human capital—Supply chain Human Rights Statement Code of Conduct Supplier Code of Conduct Labor Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the Governance—Ethics and compliance, Updated Code of Conduct, Human rights effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Social—Digital responsibility—Digital safety Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Social—Human capital—Moving the world forward together, Diversity and inclusion, Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labor; and Key partners, Veterans, Employee resource groups, Safety, Labor relations, Supply chain Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment Affirmative Action Policy and Equal Employment Opportunity and occupation. Code of Conduct Commitment to Pay Equity Human Rights Statement Supplier Code of Conduct Verizon Disability Accommodations Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach Environmental to environmental challenges; Community—Climate protection Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental CDP Climate Change Response 2019 responsibility; and Paper Sourcing and Use Policy Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally 2019 TCFD Report friendly technologies. Previous 92 Next 2019 ESG Report Approach Governance Environmental Social Community Appendix UN Global Compact index 2. Description of actions Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, Approach—Aligning with the UN SDGs—SDG16 including extortion and bribery. Governance—How we govern—Managing risk, Ethics and compliance, Updated Code of Conduct, Anti-corruption Social—Human capital—Supply chain—Supplier assessments Code of Conduct Supplier Code of Conduct 3. Measurement of outcomes Environmental—Our emissions by scope, Renewable energy, Fleet, E-waste, Paper waste, Tree planting, Water conservation, Carbon abatement, EHS management system —Environmental notices Social—Human capital—V Team, Diversity and inclusion—Pay equity, Safety—Training, Supply chain—Supplier assessments, Supplier diversity Appendix—ESG Data Center CDP Climate Change Response 2019 Previous 93 Next
