UN Global Compact Communication on Progress November 2020 Bernard Looney FREng Chief Executive Officer bp p.l.c. 1 St James’s Square, London SW1Y 4PD +44 (0) 20 7496 4000, looneyb@bp,com 9 November 2020 H.E. Antonio Guterres Secretary-General United Nations New York, NY 10017 USA Dear Secretary-General, bp’s continued commitment to the principles of the UN Global Compact I am pleased to update you on our continued support for the ten principles of the UN Global Compact and how we are embedding them into our business, strategy and operations. As governments take action to address the social and economic impacts of COVID-19 there is a precious opportunity to build back better; to create more sustainable and fairer societies. It is important that the world seizes this opportunity at the start of the Decade of Action to deliver the Sustainable Development Goals. All parts of society will need to work together and contribute, including companies like bp. Our support for the principles has been reinforced this year by our adoption of a new purpose: to reimagine energy for people and our planet. Human rights, labour rights, the environment, safety and anti-corruption are all integral to how we serve our purpose and meet our ambition to become a net zero company by 2050 or sooner, and to help the world get to net zero. And to link our strategy to our purpose we have also put in place a new sustainability frame, informed by the Sustainable Development Goals. The UN Global Compact continues to guide our approach and helps us to focus our efforts on shared principles. We are continually looking to improve our contribution across these areas and to learn from other participating businesses. Our annual communication on progress has been submitted to the UN website and is available on bp.com/reportingcentre. Bernard Looney Registered in England and Wales: No. 102498 Registered Office: 1 St James’s s Square, London, SW1Y 4PD, United Kingdom This communication on progress is relevant to the period 1 January to 31 December 2019. Submitted to the UN Global Compact website 9 November2020 Our purpose is to reimagine energy for people and our planet. We want to help the world get to net zero and improve people’s lives. We aim to do this in ways that support sustainable development. We participate in the UN Global Compact to help deliver this aim, working to implement the 10 principles in the way we do business. We report here on the ten UN Global Compact Principles covering human rights, labour standards, environment and anti-corruption. The index should be read in conjunction with our GRI content index, which provides further detail on our general standard disclosures. Global Compact Principles BP approach GRI indicators Where to find more information Human rights 1. Businesses should support We respect the rights of our workforce and those living in 410-1, 412-1, 412-2 • Human rights webpage and respect the protection communities near our sites who are affected by our activities. We • Human rights policy download of international proclaimed set out our commitments in our human rights policy and code of human rights within their conduct. • Our code of conduct download sphere of influence We recognise our responsibility to respect human rights and avoid 2. Businesses should make complicity in human rights abuses, as stated in the UN Guiding sure that they are not Principles on Business and Human Rights. Our Business and complicit in human rights Human Rights policy sets out our commitments to respect the abuses rights and dignity of all people, and the governance and delivery mechanisms to support these commitments. The policy applies to every BP employee and officer in BP wholly-owned entities, and in joint ventures to the extent possible and reasonable given BP’s level of participation. Our code of conduct also includes our human rights commitments, setting high standards that all BP employees, officers and members of the Board must follow. The code also contains our expectations of business partners, contractors and their employees, encouraging them to act in a way that is consistent with the code. Labour 3. Businesses should uphold Labour rights are one of our human rights focus areas and we 408-1, 409-1 • Human rights webpage the freedom of association respect international standards and principles on labour rights • Human rights policy download and the effective including the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights recognition to the right to at Work. • Engagement and development collective bargaining webpage Our commitments to respect the rights of our workforce and people working at our sites, including those working through our • Diversity and inclusion webpage 4. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms contractors and suppliers, are included in our code of conduct and • Running a responsible business of forced and compulsory Business and Human Rights policy. webpage labour In 2019 we developed and issued the BP Labour Rights and • Our code of conduct – download Modern Slavery Principles. Our expectation is that workers in our • Labour rights and modern slavery 5. Businesses should uphold operations, joint ventures and supply chains are not subject to the effective abolition of principles download abusive or inhumane practices, such as child labour, forced labour, child labour trafficking, slavery or servitude, discrimination, or harassment. The 6. Businesses should principles aim to assist our businesses to check performance on eliminate discrimination in this expectation, including with our contractors and suppliers. respect of employment and occupation Environment 7. Businesses should support We work hard to understand any environmental and social 302-4, 302-5, • Climate change and the energy a precautionary approach sensitivities in the areas where we operate. With this 303-1, 303-2, transition webpage to environmental understanding we aim to avoid, minimize and mitigate any adverse 304-1 – 304-3, • Environment – webpage challenges impacts and respect the local environment and the communities 305-5 that depend on it for resources to support their livelihoods. • Biodiversity position – download 8. Businesses should • Protected areas – download undertake initiatives to In May 2020 we updated our biodiversity position, building on and promote greater strengthening our existing approach. This includes commitments to • Our role in the energy transition – environmental reduce our impact on protected areas and aims to achieve a net webpage responsibility positive impact on biodiversity in our new projects. Through this • Improving our products webpage approach we are taking action to restore, maintain and enhance 9. Businesses should nature. • Creating low carbon businesses encourage the webpage We approach every major project aiming to understand and sustain development and diffusion the local environment through reciprocal engagement with local • Advancing low carbon accreditation of environmentally friendly communities. To identify potential impacts, we carry out detailed scheme webpage technologies environmental and social assessments before starting major • Safety webpage projects. In 2019 we updated our requirements and associated guidance in our operating management system (OMS), for sites to effectively mitigate their environmental and social impacts through the mitigation hierarchy. We’re growing our low carbon and renewables businesses, investing in low carbon activities and working with others. We’re currently investing at least $500 million a year to support low carbon activities, including our renewables businesses and acquisitions. Around $200 million of this investment is used to develop options for lower carbon businesses in five areas: advanced mobility, bio and low carbon products, carbon management, digital transformation, and storage. UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 1 Global Compact Principles BP approach GRI indicators Where to find more information Anti-corruption 10. Businesses should work We operate in parts of the world where bribery and corruption 205-1 – 205-3 • Engagement and development against all forms of present a high risk, so it’s important that we make our position webpage corruption, including regarding both absolutely clear to our employees, contractors, • Diversity and inclusion webpage extortion and bribery suppliers and others in any way connected to our business. • Running a responsible business Our code of conduct explicitly prohibits engaging in bribery or webpage corruption in any form. Our group-wide anti-bribery and corruption policy and procedures include measures and guidance to assess • Anti-bribery and corruption risks and understand relevant laws and report concerns. webpage • Our code of conduct download UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2
