UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT OCTOBER 2020 ABOUT THE REPORTING ORGANIZATION: IPE GLOBAL LIMITED IPE Global Limited (‘the Company’ or ‘IPE Global’) is an international development consultancy group providing Expert Technical Assistance in multiple countries. The Company is group partners with Multilateral and Bilateral Agencies, Governments, Corporates and Not-For-Profit Entities in anchoring development agenda for Equitable Development and Sustainable Growth. IPE Global helps international development sector clients address the challenges of complex socio-economic issues aand thereafter align its solutions with Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs to optimise impacts, transforming the world for the better). IPE Global works with the objective of “Expanding Horizons. Encriching Lives” which was envisaged in the triumphant decade of the 1990s; an age characterised by rapid development, marked by Liberalisation and Globalisation. This coupled with an enactment of 73rd and 74th Constitutional Amendments in the year 1993 – an event of almost epochal importance in the history of local government institutions in India, whereby Government of India had decided to devolve powers down the line to Panchayati Raj Institutions (PRIs) and Urban Local Bodies (ULBs). IPE Global Limited has a team of multicultural people around the world consisting of economists, chartered accountants, sociologists, public sector experts, management professionals, educationists, planners, architects, environmentalists, scientists, project managers and program managers. IPE Global has its headquarters in India with seven international offices in Bangladesh, Ethiopia, Kenya, Myanmar, Nepal, Philippines and United Kingdom, the group offers a range of integrated, innovative and high quality consulting services across several sectors and practices. 1 MISSION AND VISION Our Mission To provide innovative solutions to address the global challenges of sustainable development. Our Vision Becoming a multi-displinary ‘ideas powerhouse’, bringing together cutting edge knowledge and management skills to enable policy reforms for a more inclusive, equitable and sustainable world. 2 STATEMENT OF SUPPORT AND COMMITMENT IPE Global appreciates and agrees the value of dignity of labour, respect for every employee, being fair and developing each and every employee to the best of their abilities, being the basis for human rights. Environment concerns are a top priority in our operational agenda. Further, IPE Global condemns corruption in any form. It has policies which guide people at all levels to exhibit a good moral and ethical behaviour. I am deligted to reaffirm IPE Global’s continued support of the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact (“UNGC”) in the human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Attached is our 3rd Communication on Progress (COP) and it provides confirmation of our on-going commitment to integrate and sustan the COP principles. _________________________________ NAME: M K PADMAKUMAR DESIGNATION: CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER DATE: OCTOBER 16, 2020 3 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT – THE TEN PRINCIPLES The United Nations Global Compact asks its signatories to embrace, support and enact, within their sphere of influence, a set of core values in the areas of human rights, labour standards, the environment and anticorruption. PRINCIPLE STATEMENT Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally Principle 1 proclaimed human rights Principle 2 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective Principle 3 recognition of the right to collective bargaining Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory Principle 4 labour Principle 5 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of Principle 6 employment and occupation Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental Principle 7 challenges Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Principle 8 responsibility Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally Principle 9 friendly technologies Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and Principle 10 bribery 4 IMPLEMENTING THE PRINCIPLES OF THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT The following table provides an overview of how IPE Global has implemented the Ten Principles across our business and service lines. More information is available at http://www.ipeglobal.com/corporatepolicies.php UNGC PRINCIPLE UNGC POLICIES NARRATION NO. PRINCIPLE /PROCEDURES HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 1 Businesses Modern Slavery IPE Global Limited work to guard against should support and Human complicity in Human right Abuses. It respects and respect the Trafficking and follows universal declarations on human protection of Statement rights and fundamental freedom. internationally proclaimed Code of IPE Global Limited has formulated various human rights Conduct Policy policies to ensure protection of Human Rights for all. These policies captures the essence of Equity And our approach to human rights and to building Diversity Policy a culture of respect and inclusion – by clearly setting out the way we expect our people to Zero Tolerance do business. These policies cover issues Session relating to modern slavery, human trafficking, child protection, anti-corruption, protection against harassments and bullying. In addition to this IPE Global has made a Code of Conduct available on its website which sets out our commitment toward respecting human rights by providing more details on the requirements to which Partner firms/Staff members must adhere to. The Company also complies with all human rights related regulatory requirements of the land of incorporation of its businesses across in respect of applicable labour and employment laws. All policies are available in the public domain through our website (http://www.ipeglobal.com/corporatepolicies.php). PRINCIPLE 2 Businesses As an organization, IPE Global has a zeroshould make tolerance approach towards slavery, sure that they servitude, forced and compulsory labour and are not human trafficking, all of which have in complicit in common the deprivation of a person's liberty 5 UNGC PRINCIPLE UNGC POLICIES NARRATION NO. PRINCIPLE /PROCEDURES human rights by another in order to exploit them for abuses personal or commercial gain. IPE Global is committed to acting ethically and with integrity in all its business dealings and relationships, and to implementing and enforcing effective systems and controls to ensure there is no human rights abuse taking place anywhere in its own business or in any of our supply chains. In order to monitor and manage the risk of abuse of human rights, we have policies and statements around prevention of sexual exploitation and abuse, modern slavery and human trafficking, child protection, etc. which are independently monitored by two separate department: (a) Human Resources Department and (b) Corporate Risk and Compliance Department. Both these departments are staffed by Senior level Staff (Vice President level) with necessary qualifications (Management Graduates from reputed institutions) and training to appropriately address and manage the issues as and when they are reported. We have not identified any such instances causing or contributing to any adverse human rights incidents, Activities: 1. Training on Code of Conduct and Zero Tolerance Policies for all staffs as part of Staff On-Boarding Program. 2. Dissemination of posters through information boards within our offices/branch offices. LABOUR PRINCIPLE 3 Businesses IPE Global encourages the right to freedom of should uphold expression and opinion and provides staff a the freedom of climate free of violence, pressure, fear and 6 UNGC PRINCIPLE UNGC POLICIES NARRATION NO. PRINCIPLE /PROCEDURES association and threats to be able to make a free decision. IPE the effective Human Global does not support labour, compulsory recognition of the Resource (HR) or child labour and discrimination. right to collective Manual bargaining IPE Global has a grievance policy in place to Modern redress the grievances of the staff arising from Slavery and any decision, act or omission by any person or Human persons within the organization which is Trafficking considered wrong, mistaken, unjust or Statement discriminatory and is causing concern or distress. Code of Conduct Policy PRINCIPLE 4 Businesses IPE Global respects the dignity of labour and should uphold Environment, denounces from all forms of forced and the elimination of Social, Health compulsory labour for which it has formalized all forms of and Safety statement namely Modern Slavery and forced and (ESHS) Human Trafficking Statement. The said compulsory Commitment statement prohibits bonded, forced labours labour and human trafficking. Social Accountability During induction, staff are informed about all Policy the policies/statements so as to assist them in Statement appreciating the extent of the problem of modern slavery and to identify Child individuals/areas of the business that may be Protection at risk from practices of modern slavery. (CP) Policy In addition to this, IPE Global ensures that its suppliers and service partners and providers adhere to the same and adopt a ‘no forced and compulsory labour” and adopts transparency in its operations. Activities: 1. Training of the Staff. 2. Dissemination of such posters through information boards within our offices/ branch offices. 3. Revision and Communication of HR Policies and procedures that incorporate up-todate local regulations and operating standards. 7 UNGC PRINCIPLE UNGC POLICIES NARRATION NO. PRINCIPLE /PROCEDURES PRINCIPLE 5 Businesses Child IPE Global Limited has a zero-tolerance should uphold Protection approach towards child exploitation or abuse. the effective (CP) Policy IPE Global respects the rights of children and abolition of child is committed to upholding and safeguarding labour their rights to protection against violence, exploitation and abuse. We only employ workers who meet the applicable minimum legal age requirements as prescribed under the applicable law and comply to other child labour laws. IPE Global has a Child Protection Policy, whose purpose is to provide guidance on child protection issues and making the staff members aware of their responsibilities/ duties this Policy places on them. IPE Global takes responsibility to respects the human rights of all employees, and is explicitly against child labor, and unethical and unsocial business practices. IPE Global do not accept the employment or employ any children in the “worst forms of child labour” i.e. all forms of slavery, trafficking of children, forced or compulsory labour, recruitment of children for use in armed conflict, sexual exploitation of children, children used by adults in the commission of crime (including the trafficking or production of drugs) and any work which by its nature is likely to harm the health, safety or morals of children. PRINCIPLE 6 Businesses Code of IPE Global being an equal employment should uphold Conduct Policy opportunity employer does not discriminate the elimination of by ethnic origin, gender, religion, social discrimination in background, disability, political views, or respect of sexual orientation. It respects the local employment and Equity And applicable statutory requirements regarding occupation Diversity labour laws in all countries in which IPE Global Policy conducts business. IPE Global ensures that the workplace is free from all forms of discrimination for which it has a HR policy which outlines that 8 UNGC PRINCIPLE UNGC POLICIES NARRATION NO. PRINCIPLE /PROCEDURES discrimination of any kind is not tolerated and encourages all managers and supervisors to involve employees in problem solving and the creativity process. ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE 7 Businesses Environment IPE Global is committed to operate in an ecoshould support a Policy friendly manner with abiding concern for the precautionary environment and society as a whole. Being in approach to the development sector, we consider climate environmental change to be one of the greatest threats challenges affecting economic stability of countries, vulnerability of communities, and the society at large. IPE Global has an Environment Policy in place, wherein we intend to encourage use of green technologies and environment friendly systems while pursuing business aspirations. IPE Global’s environment policy outlines to improve its environmental performance, setting objectives and targets. This includes: • Assessing and reducing the company's impact on the environment. • Encouraging and training/ educating staff on Eco-Friendly process and procedures. • Comparing current practice with best practice. • For help with establishing environmental objectives. PRINCIPLE 8 Businesses Environment IPE Global aims to fulfil its environmental should undertake Policy commitments through the following broadinitiatives to level actions: promote greater environmental • Integrate energy and environmental responsibility Environment, considerations into the design of new Social, Health infrastructural facilities. and Safety (ESHS) • Improve resource efficiency in operations, Commitment especially for key resources such as energy and water. 9 UNGC PRINCIPLE UNGC POLICIES NARRATION NO. PRINCIPLE /PROCEDURES • Adopt the ‘3-R’ (reduce, reuse and recycle) philosophy for all types of wastes towards prevention of pollution and dispose of ‘inevitable’ wastes, especially electronic waste, in line with regulatory requirements or industry best practice. • Promote ‘green procurement’ to the maximum extent possible. • Set, monitor, and review objectives and targets on an on-going basis towards achieving continuous improvement in environmental performance and the overall environmental management system. • Remain committed to complying with all the applicable environmental and related legal and other requirements and, wherever feasible, better the prescribed standards in all the countries that we operate out of. • Communicate the environmental policy to all employees, business associates, and other stakeholders. • Review the environmental policy and allied management systems periodically to ensure their continuing applicability and relevance to our operations and evolving stakeholder expectations. We want all of our people to consider environmental opportunities in their work every day, and we support them with our sustainability actions. PRINCIPLE 9 Businesses Environment IPE Global is committed to continuously should encourage Policy benchmarking and enhancing its own the development environmental performance through the and diffusion of reduction of our carbon and ecological environmentally footprints with the involvement of our friendly Environment, business associates and partners. Through our technologies Social, Health services and solutions, we endeavor to help to and Safety 10 UNGC PRINCIPLE UNGC POLICIES NARRATION NO. PRINCIPLE /PROCEDURES (ESHS) improve environmental performance towards Commitment sustainability objectives. Few of the initiatives taken by the organization detailed as under: • Conservation of resources, including fuel for vehicles and food in the canteen. It discourages the practice of wasting food and drinking water. • IPE Global supports reduction of electronic waste (e-waste) and focusses on recycling as it is an important part of managing enterprise information technology, regulatory compliance and reputational risk and environmental impact. E-waste covers electrical and electronic equipment, whole or in part discarded as waste as well as rejects from manufacturing, refurbishment and repair processes. • IPE Global has got an efficient collection and recycling of e-wastes mechaninsm with various recycling entities/used product dealers/e-commerce portal vendors who collects a significant proportion of the discarded electronics for reuse which is further processes in an environment friendly manner in accordance with the guidelines set by the Governmental Authorities. • Extensive tree plantation in and around office. • Promoting use of LED lamps. • Promoting energy efficient machines and processes. • Continuously improving our environmental performance in the areas of energy, waste, transportation and employee engagement. • Less use of paper for printing. 11 UNGC PRINCIPLE UNGC POLICIES NARRATION NO. PRINCIPLE /PROCEDURES • Change to glass drinking bottles from plastic bottles. ANTI-CORRUPTION AND PREVENTION OF BRIBERY PRINCIPLE 10 Businesses The IPE Global’s long standing commitment in should work Whistleblower doing business with integrity means avoiding against Policy fraudulent and corrupt means, in any form corruption in all including bribery and complying with fraud its forms, and corruption prevention legislations of including every country in which we operate. IPE Global extortion and prohibits any inducement that results in a bribery personal gain or advantage to the recipient or Anti-Fraud any person or body associated with them and and Antiwhich is intended to influence them to take Corruption action which may not be solely in the interests Policy of IPE Global or of the person or body employing them or whom they represent. This includes facilitation payments. Due-Diligence In order to combat fraud and corruption, most Assessment of the countries in which IPE Global conducts business, have enacted Fraud and Corruption Prevention laws and regulations. Pursuant to such laws and regulations, it is a crime to give, pay or promise “Anything of Value” in order to influence an act or a decision to obtain, retain and/or secure an improper advantage of any kind. IPE Global has the Anti-Fraud and AntiCorruption Policy in place which sets forth IPE Global’s universal standards regarding the prevention of fraud and corruption. It outlines acceptable and non-acceptable behaviour to ensure compliance with the anti-corruption laws; domestic and foreign. If local laws or regulations establish stricter requirements, IPE Global will comply with such stricter requirements. IPE Global strongly believes in accountability and transparency as a mechanism to enable all staff members to voice concerns internally in a responsible and effective manner when 12 UNGC PRINCIPLE UNGC POLICIES NARRATION NO. PRINCIPLE /PROCEDURES they discover information which they believe shows serious malpractice. IPE Global has the Whistleblowing Policy in place to promote highest ethical standards at all levels. IPE Global maintains a workplace that facilitates the reporting of potential violations of Corporate Policies and applicable laws including any incidence of fraud or corruption, in whatever form. It is IPE Global’s policy that staff members with issues or concerns regarding ethical or compliance matters have appropriate channels through which to report their issues or concerns. Activities: 1. Training of the Staff. 2. IPE Global organizes E-Learning Anti Bribery and Anti-Corruption Training Program for its staff members. 3. Due Diligence on Partners/Individuals to check whether they are involved in any such activities relating to Money Laundering/ Corruption Activities. 13
