Profile The SCSK Group continues to grow into a leading company in the IT services industry. Eight straight years of higher Strategic IT partner Actively implement Promoting the career profit on higher revenue to clients working style reforms development of women Rate of consumed annual Number of female executives and line managers Net Sales paid vacation days ¥387 billion 93.0 % 89 Increased around 6-fold in 8 years Operating Profit ¥42.3 billion Percentage of consolidated net Average monthly sales accounted overtime hours 18 hours SCSK Group’s for by top 200 clients 80.3 % client base 8,000 companies 15 minutes Around Net sales ¥387 billion We have posted higher profit on higher revenue* for eight We are building relationships with the goal of becoming We believe that improving employees’ mental and physical We promote career development support based on the consecutive years since the merger. The operating profit clients’ top vendor as an IT partner they can trust. As a wellbeing and increasing their motivation at work will create unique challenges faced by each generation with the goal of margin was 10.9%, while net sales, operating profit and result, the percentage of net sales accounted for by the top a positive cycle where we increase the service value provided further promoting women’s empowerment. As a result, the operating profit margin were all record highs. 200 clients eclipse 80% and we are now receiving projects to clients and provide greater returns of profits to number of female executives and line managers has reached *Operating profit basis with a broader range of domains and higher volumes. stakeholders. As such, we continually work on this area with 89, which is more than 6-times the figure from 2012. the goal of realizing more efficient and flexible working styles. Among the top capital Growing shareholder Facilitating the smooth return Becoming a company with efficiency in the industry returns in line with earnings to work for employees taking a pleasant and rewarding childcare leave workplace ROE 15.6 % Dividend per share increased around 4 -fold since merger Percentage of employees Employee Number of employees returning to work after Satisfaction using childcare leave childcare leave Survey 197 95.7% 90.0% We continue with management mindful of capital efficiency We have continued to pay higher dividends since the merger We have established a flexible work system and facilitated We aim to become a company with a pleasant and while undertaking structural reforms toward a non-labor thanks to growing earnings. Dividend per share has the smooth return to work for employees taking childcare rewarding workplace through various systems and intensive business model, M&A, Group restructuring, and increased around 4-fold to ¥130 per share* in the fiscal year leave and have various work-life balance programs in place measures for diversity aimed at promoting working style efforts to improve profitability. ended March 31, 2020 from ¥32 in the fiscal year ended to support employees in returning from paid leave at an reforms, improving work-life balance and utilizing our March 31, 2012, the first year after the merger. early stage. diverse workforce. *Includes ¥20 commemorative dividend marking our 50th anniversary. *All figures as of March 31, 2020. 01 SCSK Report 2020 SCSK Report 2020 02 Philosophy Contents Editorial Policy Integrated Report 2020 has been compiled as an integrated report that 01 Profile contains information on performance and business strategies as well as 03 Philosophy non-financial information, such as that pertaining to sustainability activities. We hope this report will facilitate understanding with regard to SCSK’s 04 Contents / Editorial Policy efforts to realize stable, ongoing improvements in corporate value from a mediumto long-term perspective while paying attention to stakeholders. Corporate Philosophy SCSK’s Vision Scope of SCSK and Publication October 2020 report the SCSK Group date 05 Chairman’s Message Guidelines referenced 09 Value Creation Process Our Mission • U.N. Global Compact SCSK’s Strategy Create Our Future of Dreams 11 19 President’s Message Past Medium-Term Management Plans 21 New Medium-Term Management Plan We create our future of dreams by establishing 23 Core Business Innovation value based on our customers’ trust. 25 Commercialization of DX 28 Investment in People • ISO 26000 29 Financial and Capital Strategy • The International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC)’s International Integrated Reporting Framework Our Promises • Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) GRI Standards SCSK’s Material Issues • Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry (METI)’s Guidance for Collaborative Value Creation 33 SCSK’s Material Issues Respecting each other 38 Innovating for a Brighter Society 39 Building Trust for a Safe and Secure Society Important Information Regarding Report Terminology We realize our potential by respecting each other. 40 Creating an Inclusive Society The phrase “health and productivity management” appearing in this report is 41 Global Environmental Contributions a registered trademark of Workshop for the Management of Health on 43 Diverse Team of Professionals Company and Employee. Providing excellent service utilizing reliable technology 47 Sustainable Value Chain We delight customers through our service based on reliable technology and passion. 49 Transparent Governance Disclaimer This report is intended to provide information about the performance and business strategies of the SCSK Group and is not intended to solicit the Sustaining growth from a global and future perspective Our Businesses purchase or sales of SCSK’s stock. Estimates, targets, and outlooks included in this report are forward-looking statements based on information available as We, with our stakeholders, pursue sustainable growth for the world and the future. of the date of publication. Results and outcomes may differ materially from 61 Our Businesses the forward-looking statements and no guarantee is made that targets will be 63 Industry-Specific Groups reached. All such statements are subject to change without notice. 65 Manufacturing & Telecommunication Systems The company cannot be held responsible for losses resulting from Business Group information contained in this report. This report should not be reproduced or retransmitted without authorization. 66 Distribution & Media Systems Business Group 67 Financial Systems Business Group 68 Global System Solutions & Innovation Business Group Composition of Information Disclosure Media Code of Conduct 69 Function-Specific Groups 71 Business Solutions Group Integrated Reporting 72 Mobility Systems Group Challenge Commitment Communication 73 IT Platform Solutions Group Aim higher with future Act with integrity and responsibility Facilitate teamwork with 74 IT Management Group creating passion. for our customers and society. respect and understanding. Data Section 75 Financial Highlights 79 Non-Financial Highlights Integrated Report 81 External Recognition Japan Overseas 82 Management’s Discussion and Analysis Investor Relations Sustainability SCSK USA Inc. SCSK ServiceWare Corporation Skeed Co., Ltd. SDC Corporation 87 Business Risks Detailed Information Detailed Information VeriServe Corporation CSI SOLUTIONS Corporation Gran Manibus Co., Ltd. SCSK Europe Ltd. Investor Relations Website Sustainability Website Minori Solutions Co., Ltd. Allied Engineering Corporation SCSK Nearshore Systems Corporation SCSK Shanghai Limited 89 Consolidated Financial Statements https://www.scsk.jp/ir_en/index.html https://www.scsk.jp/corp_en/csr/index.html SCSK KYUSHU CORPORATION WinTechnology Corporation Tokyo Green Systems Corporation SCSK Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd. 96 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements SCSK HOKKAIDO CORPORATION SCSK SYSTEM MANAGEMENT CORPORATION ARGO GRAPHICS Inc.* PT SCSK Global Indonesia 137 Independent Auditor’s Report SCSK PRESCENDO CORPORATION VA Linux Systems Japan KK SCSK Myanmar Ltd. 140 SCSK’s Operations * Company accounted for using the equity method 141 Corporate Outline 144 Glossary 03 SCSK Report 2020 SCSK Report 2020 04 SCSK’s Vision Chairman’s Message We will promote sustainability management as a mediumto long-term growth strategy centered around co-creation with clients and society. Using digitalization effectively to support the new normal in an era with COVID-19 The world has changed at an unprecedented speed since the such as remote work, online learning, and online healthcare 2000s. Globalization and digitalization have been the two to become indispensable to society. Attention is also focused major drivers behind this change. Today people, commodities, on the use of smartphones in countermeasures to stop the products, services, information and money actively move pandemic’s spread. Without a doubt, the effective utilization across international borders thanks to deregulation and of digital technology will become an important factor in innovations in information communication technology achieving a new standard of living that balances infection (ICT). This has brought structural changes to all areas of control and economic activities in this new normal of life with the economy and society, from the manufacturing and COVID-19 in the future. distribution supply chain to financial and capital markets, For example, work styles will likely begin to transition from all the way to our day-to-day lives. However, due to the the traditional concentrated type, where employees gather worldwide spread of the COVID-19 pandemic, a number of at a main office, to a dispersed type, where remote work issues have also emerged, including how to move people and in regions is used to avoid crowding. The SCSK Group will goods safely and maintain the supply chain. Now is a time further accelerate its use of nearshoring offices in regions—an of fundamental change in traditional values, representing an approach we have pioneered—to address this change, and important turning point in human history. shift to new work styles for a new normal. Concurrently, The digitalization of society will likely gain even greater we will contribute to solutions to social issues, such as job traction following the COVID-19 pandemic. This situation creation and economic revitalization in regions. where people must remain at home has caused IT services Taking the lead in resolving social issues by expanding the scope of co-creation As these changes in business climate further accelerate, We drew up a new three-year Medium-Term Management for companies to achieve sustainable growth, it will be Plan as the first step toward realizing both. important to make it clear what we aim for based not only Until now, we have contributed indirectly to society by on near term changes, but fundamental changes in society resolving the issues faced by client companies, but in the from a longer term perspective. Toward this end, the SCSK future we will take more of a lead in contributing directly to Group has established a long-term growth vision as well as society. Joining forces with client companies and companies a mediumto long-term management plan based on the from different industries to resolve issues using each other’s direction of this vision. strengths can become a major driver for transforming With our corporate philosophy of “Create Our Future of society. This represents the value of co-creation found in Dreams” closely in mind, we will now promote sustainability our corporate philosophy. Going forward, we will fulfill our management as a mediumto long-term growth strategy. roles as a company to expand the scope of co-creation with Going forward, for the SCSK Group to achieve sustainable clients and society to work on solutions to social issues aimed growth, it will be important to pursue management that at 2030. contributes to solutions to social issues from a long-term Masao Tabuchi perspective, taking into account the values of our diverse stakeholders and company’s social influence. In recent years, Representative Director social issues have become more complex and larger. The Chairman and Chief Executive Officer progress of digitalization in society is the key to resolving a number of these social issues. Sustainability management involves identifying and contributing to solutions to various social issues together with clients and society by utilizing our core competence in digital technology. This growth strategy involves creating economic value while at the same time creating new value required by society. We formulated Grand Design 2030 as our vision for 2030, and defined “co-creative IT company” as our goal for 2030. 05 SCSK Report 2020 SCSK Report 2020 06 SCSK’s Vision Chairman’s Message Overview of Management Plan Social Issues Corporate Philosophy Stakeholders Worldwide Employees Disruptive innovation driven Clients by technological progress Implementation of Corporate Philosophy Shareholders and other Cyberattacks targeting Material Issues investors companies and organizations Partner companies Changes in natural Local communities environment Vision etc. Japan Grand Design 2030 Impacts Impacts Population aging Population decline Aging of social infrastructure Medium-Term Management Plan (FY2020–2022) etc. Identifying material issues as a compass for implementing our Fostering Co-Creation-Oriented Corporate Culture and increasing corporate philosophy employee morale We have identified material issues facing SCSK to determine will now use these material issues as a compass to determine To become a “co-creative IT company” in our vision for 2030, I months. By creating an employee-driven vision for the Group, and share areas we should prioritize in implementing whether officers and employees are on the same page. believe it is vital for us to foster Co-Creation-Oriented Corporate I feel that more employees are taking ownership and there sustainability management based on our corporate philosophy. Culture. Until now SCSK has focused on contract work, but is growing awareness about social issues. The issues society faces are truly wide ranging. Given this, now we will take the lead in business with the aim to create In order to fully draw out the drive and skills of these we require a compass to determine the direction of priority Material issues for implementation of new value by co-creating with clients and society. Therefore, employees, we will focus on building our training system areas in resolving social issues utilizing the Group’s businesses our corporate philosophy it will be important to have the power to connect various and making our personnel evaluation and compensation and strengths. Material issues represent this compass and partners across organization, company and industry lines, and fair and convincing. We will further upgrade our training by using it, employees also can check whether they are the power to embrace diverse values and individuality as well system including SCSK i-University and utilize our career working on addressing social issues and whether their work as utilize these. To co-create with various people, we must development program, free agent system, and second job is contributing to society. understand, accept, and utilize various viewpoints and ideas. program (Smart Work Plus) to provide opportunities for Material issues we consider vital to “achieve sustainable In other words, fostering Co-Creation-Oriented Corporate employees to experience diverse lines of work. Furthermore, business growth with society” include the three qualities of Culture involves the promotion of diversity and inclusion. Once in July 2020 we revamped our personnel system and “innovating for a brighter society,” “building trust for a safe employees can co-create with various people and feel a keen incorporated an evaluation system where capable employees and secure society” and “creating an inclusive society.” These sense of contributing to solutions to social issues through their are compensated more. crystallize our ideal society of the future based on the three work, morale should increase greatly. Going forward, the SCSK Group will seek to foster and promises in our corporate philosophy. To achieve these three As part of this process for fostering Co-Creation-Oriented penetrate Co-Creation-Oriented Corporate Culture while promises, the SCSK Group will combine its competencies to Corporate Culture, we launched the Future Creation Project increasing employee morale. We will achieve sustainable resolve social issues and achieve business growth at the same mainly comprised of young and mid-career employees to growth together with society as a co-creative IT company time. On the other hand, the four qualities of material issues formulate Grand Vision 2030 and establish our new Mediumwhere a diverse workforce tackles the challenges of actively for “foundation supporting sustainable growth” represent Term Management Plan. These discussions lasted around 18 creating new value. the foundation for pursuing sustainability management from the perspectives of environmental, social, governance (ESG). These material issues were determined based on an employee consensus reached after various discussions; rather than a top down approach from senior management. We 07 SCSK Report 2020 SCSK Report 2020 08 SCSK’s Vision Value Creation Process The SCSK Group will promote sustainability management as a growth strategy. Our goal is to become a “co-creative IT company” in 2030 through our efforts to create new value Sustainable business growth through the resolution of social issues and resolve social issues through our businesses. Creation of social value Business activities >P61, 140 External Environment Surrounding the SCSK Group Financial capital >P29 > P33 BPO Services IT Consulting • A strong financial base Corporate Philosophy Create • High capital efficiency • Strategic business investment Achieving sustainable Paradigm shift business growth with society Client base of technology Intellectual capital >P27 IT hardware/ Systems software sales development AI/IoT • Ability to explore and apply innovative technologies > P15 Fintech • R&D capabilities in commercialization of Human Strengths resources and Service advanced technologies quality xR • SCSK’s quality standard to achieve high technologies 5G quality and improved productivity and platforms underpinning it CASE SCSK Group’s SCSK Group’s vision Human capital >P43 Comprehensive IT Verification • Professional human resources with various skills and experiences management Capabilities services Our Future of Dreams • Workplace environment that encourages continual growth and contributions • Corporate culture that encourages IT co-creation and provides a strong sense infrastructure development Social issues of employee motivation – IT for the next delight – Climate change Social and relationship capital >P47 Health and welfare Medium-Term Management Plan >P21 Foundation supporting • Sustainable value chain Human rights and sustainable growth • Client base for realizing co-creation education across different industries Target net sales Diversity Core Business Investment Commercialization Work-life balance Innovation in People of DX of ¥1 trillion Regional and Secure competitive edge Accelerate business growth Create new businesses healthcare disparities by innovating business through sophistication, through co-creation with Natural capital >P41 processes and client diversification, and expansion clients, across industry contact points of human resources lines, and on a global basis • Highly energy efficient data centers > P23 > P28 > P25 Creation of Managerial Foundation Reinforcement economic value Augmentation of Comprehensive Promotion of Management Fostering of Group Capabilities that Fully Exercises Our Co-Creation-Oriented (Inter-organization collaboration) Employee’s Potential Corporate Culture Corporate governance > P49 Expand management resources 09 SCSK Report 2020 SCSK Report 2020 10 SCSK’s Strategy President’s Message Transforming into a co-creative IT company in 2030 I spent the first part of my career as an engineer for 16 years after joining SCSK in 1982. Even after being promoted to managerial positions and executive officer, I have always relied upon my credo of “Always think from the client’s perspective.” This is because I believe that by identifying the true challenges inherent in the client’s needs and thinking up solutions together, we can become a strategic partner to clients. Therefore, even after being appointed president, I continue to visit the frontline of our operations whenever possible given the importance of dialogue with clients and to convey firsthand to employees the significance of this credo. I believe the Group was able to increase sales and profits even in the fiscal year ending March 31, 2020 because of our strategies under the previous Medium-Term Management Plan as well as my continued focus on the client’s perspective as a corporate manager. In April 2020, we launched a new management plan. Returning to our roots in our corporate philosophy of “Create Our Future of Dreams,” we identified material issues for implementing this corporate philosophy and drew up Grand Design 2030 as our vision for 2030. Our ultimate goal is to become a “co-creative IT company” in 2030 and, toward this end, we have established the ambitious target to reach ¥1 trillion in net sales for the Group. The acceleration in digitalization means the IT industry itself requires a structural transformation, which represents a major opportunity to create new value for society. The grand design we formulated for this business climate contains our strong commitment to transform into a company that generates new value by further promoting co-creation globally for various client industries and formats, using IT as a means and tool, instead of simply carrying on our conventional business model. Aimed at this realization, I am committed to guiding us in the right direction for fundamentally transforming the SCSK Group. Toru Tanihara Representative Director President and Chief Operating Officer 11 SCSK Report 2020 SCSK Report 2020 12 SCSK’s Strategy President’s Message We will continue to enhance and expand core businesses and achieve mediumto long-term growth by creating new value with co-creation. Review of the Previous Medium-Term Management Plan What progress did you make with the core development of advanced driver assistance systems (ADAS) Q strategies of the previous Medium-Term and autonomous driving over changes in development Management Plan? architecture, initially there were delays in adoption compared to our plan. Yet, from the perspective of supporting the We shifted to service-oriented businesses and automotive industry, which stands as a symbol of Japan’s achieved major results in strengthening the manufacturing prowess, I believe this solution has major Group’s business foundation. social significance. Looking ahead, we will work on increasing Under the previous Medium-Term Management Plan spanning sales of the service and expanding the coverage, aimed from April 2015 to March 2020, the Group implemented at adoption in next-generation vehicle models. Also, by three core strategies for “Transform Business Structure (To connecting technologies developed through this process a Non-Labor-Intensive Business) / Dynamic Growth Strategy and the business application world where we have excelled Aiming to Achieve High Profit Growth.” traditionally, we should be able to expand into the domain First, in terms of “shifting to service-oriented businesses,” known as Mobility as a Service (MaaS). For this reason, we net sales in this field in the fiscal year ended March 2020 positioned MaaS—not just in-vehicle solutions—as one of lineup, we dug deeper and actually found pieces we were 5.4% and 8.6%, respectively. In this manner, over the past reached about ¥80 billion, growing to the point where the priority fields of commercialization of DX in the new lacking. If we are unable to fill these gaps before the new five years, we have continued to increase sales and profits it now occupies 20% of the entire company’s net sales. Medium-Term Management Plan. Medium-Term Management Plan starts, it will end up as a despite business investment aimed at business structure Going forward, we will continue to take steps to advance Third is global business expansion. In the fiscal year ended pie in the sky. With this sense of urgency, we tried to do transformation, and operating profit margin increased this initiative. A service-oriented business involves using our March 2020, we established subsidiaries in Indonesia and more than is needed and took thorough steps to reinforce from 9.4% before the start of the previous Medium-Term own strengths and know-how as intellectual properties to Myanmar, marking our first new overseas locations in 12 the Group’s business foundation. Management Plan to 10.9% after. This shows that we have establish services that can be provided jointly. The qualities years. As a foothold for these new bases, we plan to expand been able to increase efficiencies and productivity. we have cultivated during this shift will foster standardization/ into the digital transformation (DX) and new businesses in Next up, I would like to talk about operating profit of automation tools and modularization. This will also link up the business IT domain in the Asia-Pacific region. How do you evaluate business performance ¥50 billion cited as a management target. We fell short with “core business innovation,” one of the core strategies Furthermore, over the past two years we have actively Q during the previous Medium-Term of operating profit target of between ¥5 and ¥10 billion of the new Medium-Term Management Plan that kicked taken steps to reinforce the Group’s structure, including Management Plan? expected from strategic businesses and M&A due to delays off in April 2020 involving the shift to Low-Code No-Code reorganizing Group companies, executing M&A, and in the automotive software systems business, but we made We continued to grow profits at 8.6% CAGR development and automation of operations. expanding nearshoring offices. These efforts represent steady progress according to plan for the operating profit while transforming our business structure, Second is the automotive software systems business, preparations for the new Medium-Term Management target of ¥40 to ¥45 billion from existing businesses and the and broke records for both net sales and considered a strategic business. We developed new Plan. One of the Group’s greatest strengths is our ability shifting to service-oriented businesses. In addition, operating operating profit. automotive basic software called QINeS-BSW, compliant to deliver a full lineup of services, from IT consulting to profit margin was 10.9%, as discussed above, and ROE was with AUTOSAR, a standardized architecture framework systems development, verification services, IT infrastructure Over the past five years we have increased net sales 30.0% 15.6%, both achieved the target. for automotive platform software, and released it to the development, systems maintenance and operation, BPO services, and operating profit 51.1%. Net sales for the fiscal year Regarding the automotive software systems business, market. Since automakers have prioritized investment in and IT hardware / software sales. Despite such an expansive ended March 2020 totaled ¥387 billion, while operating we are steadily moving toward the black and we intend to profit came in at ¥42.3 billion, both record highs. Also, the continue following this trajectory. Reinforcement of Group Structures five-year trailing CAGR of net sales and operating profit was Absorption of JIEC, Minori Solutions into wholly owned subsidiary Gran Manibus into subsidiary Strengthening of IT services Review of Previous Medium-Term Management Plan Operating profit CAGR Strengthening of IT consulting Operating Proﬁt (Billions of Yen) Operating Proﬁt Margin (%) Fiscal2014 Fiscal 2019 10.9 vs 10.7 Results Target Results 10.3 IT IT FY2014 10.2 Systems Verification IT IT Consulting infrastructure hardware/ BPO Services 9.8 development services management Net sales ¥297.6 billion ¥387 billion +30.0% development software sales 33.7 34.6 38.3 42.3 31.7 Operating CAGR profit ¥28 billion ¥50 billion ¥42.3 billion +51.1% 8.6% Operating Skeed into subsidiary Expansion of SCSK Nearshore Systems’ base Establishment of subsidiaries in Indonesia and Myanmar SCSK PRESCENDO into wholly profit margin 9.4% 10–12% 10.9% +1.5pt Incorporation of IoT and (Yokohama, Kagoshima, Kumamoto, Enhancement of global operating structuresowned subsidiary data transfer technologies Akita, Ishikawa) Strengthening of e-commerce services ROE 12.4% 15% 15.6% +3.2pt Reinforcement of nearshore development VeriServe into wholly owned subsidiary Strengthening of verification services EPS ¥150 ¥320 ¥300 +¥150 13 SCSK Report 2020 SCSK Report 2020 14 SCSK’s Strategy President’s Message mid-career employees will be the ones who implement our ability to draw upon their views and commitment and reflect it Growth Vision for 2030 transformation heading toward our long-term vision. The in management is an important task for senior management. Can you provide the background and The target of ¥1 trillion in net sales is very ambitious, and Q overview of Grand Design 2030? it could be seen as impossible to achieve. However, if we can take the lead in business and generate new value for society Strategy of New Medium-Term Management Plan We will work to become a “co-creative IT using co-creation, I believe this number is possible. When company” and aim for net sales of ¥1 trillion setting targets, I find it important for targets to be “at a level as our goals for 2030. where you can somehow touch it with your fingertips after What strategies will you follow during the with clients over a long period of time. The IT service market in Japan continues to see moderate extending as far as humanly possible.” Such a target will Q first three years to realize Grand Design 2030? In terms of Monozukuri innovation, until now, SCSK has growth, but demand for large-scale development projects become a major source of motivation for all of our employees. applied its development process standard SE+ (SmartEpisode We will aim to achieve ¥500 billion or more in appears to be returning to the normal level. In this environment, On this occasion, we decided on tackling the challenge of Plus) to the entire company aiming to increase quality in net sales in the fiscal year ending March 2023 I believe that going forward there will be qualitative changes ¥1 trillion in net sales as a target that is lofty, but realistic. systems development. By rolling this out to partner companies, under the core strategies of core business in client companies’ IT strategies, including a further move Also, from the time when I worked as a manager on the we have achieved not only better quality, but also improved innovation, commercialization of DX and toward cloud solutions and acceleration of DX. Business frontline of our operations, I have been keenly aware that investment in people. productivity and profitability. In addition to these, we will and IT will become even more closely related, and there is a “the power of youth and their free thinking will change the utilize standardization and automation tools along with growing movement for companies to pursue IT in DX domains company.” As a result, when we formulated Grand Design The new Medium-Term Management Plan (covering the modularization on the Monozukuri innovation platform in-house. In addition, following the acceleration in DX, shared 2030, we launched the Future Creation Project involving period from April 2020 to March 2023) that began in April called S-Cred+ (Smart Co-work on Relationship, Engineering services beyond industry lines and the provision of complex select young and mid-career employees. Our young and 2020 is positioned as a milestone for steadily taking the and Design Plus) to tackle Low-code No-code development, services will expand in coming years. The talent demanded company to the next level aimed at realization of Grand automation of development and operations, accumulation for IT services will change from problem solving-oriented to Mediumto Long-Term Business Policy Design 2030. and utilization of intellectual properties, and standardization value creation-oriented, and I believe competition will heat Group Stance Target net of development, maintenance and operation. With this Ongoing creation of value driven by sales of up for this talent, including among our client companies. excellence and earnestness. ¥1 trillion C  ore business innovation: We will secure a platform at the heart of our work, we will push ahead with In this manner, the IT services world finds itself in the Medium-Term competitive edge by innovating business processes automation and standardization of operations thoroughly, wave of major change; not to mention the paradigm shift in Management Plan and client contact points in core businesses. increase productivity, and eliminate personal factors. (FY2020–2022) technology. If we continue with the status quo, in either case The first core strategy is core business innovation. We will Actually, development efficiency and automation is DX Business our growth will peak. This is an unavoidable fact. Therefore, work on Monozukuri innovations contributing to high something I have kept close at heart since my involvement I felt it vital to formulate a mediumto long-term strategy productivity operations and Subdivision innovations where in systems development as an engineer. From the belief that for fundamentally transforming the SCSK Group. As a result, we will transform business by using bases positioned on “we will never be able to escape a labor-intensive business Core Businesses we established Grand Design 2030 as our vision for 2030. client premises—the closest possible location to clients—on model if we simply keep writing programs,” the challenges This Grand Design 2030 calls for us to become a co-creative a full-time basis after having established relationships of trust I took on during my time in charge of development are IT company and achieve net sales of ¥1 trillion. Medium-Term Management Plan Core Strategies Grand Design 2030 Group of professionals characterized by self-driven personal growth 2030 Investment in people Growth Driver (exploitation and exploration of knowledge and skills) Co-Creative IT Company IT for the next delight Core Business Investment Commercialization Target net sales of Innovation in People of DX Businessdriven Creation of new value for society ¥1 trillion Secure competitive edge Accelerate business growth Create new businesses Co-creation by innovating business through sophistication, through co-creation with with society processes and client diversification, and expansion clients, across industry Contribution to growth of contact points of human resources lines, and on a global basis client businesses > P23 > P28 > P25 Co-creation Three Qualities of Societies Collaborative with clients Enhancement and Innovating for a Brighter Society expansion of Co-creation within Building Trust for a Safe and Secure Society core businesses the SCSK Group Managerial Foundation Reinforcement Creating an Inclusive Society Augmentation of Comprehensive Promotion of Management Fostering of Entrusted Group Capabilities that Fully Exercises Our Co-Creation-Oriented (Inter-organization collaboration) Employees' Potential Corporate Culture Client issues Market issues Societal issues 15 SCSK Report 2020 SCSK Report 2020 16 SCSK’s Strategy President’s Message being used today. This is precisely why I intend to make the Commercialization of DX: We will take the lead DX, there is the process of stabilizing it and then beginning society” cited as a material issue. This not only includes necessary investments and accomplish everything that needs to create new businesses that provide new value operations. Consequently, core business transformation previous efforts toward health and productivity management to be done. to society through co-creation with clients, across driven by core business innovation will make it possible for and pursuit of comfortable workplaces, but also the initiative Going forward, it will become more difficult to secure industry lines, and on a global basis. new business creation using DX to move on to the secure to become a highly engaging and motivating organization. engineer talent because of the declining population and other Looking ahead, we will enter a time of declining labor operation phase. In other words, by strongly implementing Finally, third is fostering of Co-Creation-Oriented Corporate factors. Using Monozukuri innovation to increase productivity, population, which will clearly make it impossible for not these two strategies as two axles, we will be able to see Culture. This will involve building a culture where we take improve quality and reduce manpower is an important tool only SCSK but also our client companies to sustain growth the path to Grand Design 2030. In order to move forward the lead in promoting connections and combinations with that will largely determine the competitiveness of IT service using the conventional status quo. To break through this seamlessly without favoring one or the other, human other companies. As a result, we hope to become a group of companies. SCSK will increase productivity and efficiency of situation, we will need to generate new demand by means of resources, which are the drivers of these axles, are vital. companies that realizes value creation through co-creation. projects through Monozukuri innovation, and at the same technological innovation and business model transformation. We want to be a company with a workforce where By promoting these business strategies, we will aim for time allocate the engineer resources secured through these DX will be a powerful means to this end. each and every employee feels a sense of purpose, flexibly net sales of ¥500 billion or more, operating profit margin of efforts to proposals of new projects, optimization of SoR Commercialization of DX represents a strategy where the accommodates change, and tackles the challenge of 10 to 12%, and ROE of 15% or more in the fiscal year ending domain, and demand in the SoE domain. By transforming SCSK Group will take the lead in business under this vantage transformation with a sense of agility and courage. We March 2023, the final fiscal year of the plan. In addition, as a these human resources for commercialization of DX, I believe point to promote DX using various forms of co-creation, are now actively working to implement the programs and result of achieving these targets, we will maintain Return on we will be able to grow our top line. and then attempt to roll out businesses and services that measures for this. Invested Capital (ROIC) at a level between 10.0% and 12.0%. Next is subdivision innovation. Utilizing our strength and create new social and economic value. In the future, we will track record in subdivisions, from maintenance and operation not only support business transformation using DX through  anagerial Foundation Reinforcement: We will M Medium-Term Management Plan Management Targets services to development and maintenance closely tied to co-creation with clients, but also approach a wide range of work on augmentation of comprehensive Group clients, we will transform subdivisions from a full-time IT industries utilizing the Group’s intellectual properties and capabilities, promotion of management that fully FY2019 FY2022 support to value-co-creating business model. Today, there services in an effort to create innovative services through exercises our employees’ potential, and fostering of Results Target are more than 10,000 members, including not only SCSK co-creation with different industries. In addition, we plan Co-Creation-Oriented Corporate Culture. employees, but partner employees, too, working at around to focus on creation of the DX business in new markets on We will work on reinforcing our managerial foundation which Net sales ¥385.2 billion ¥500 billion or more 530 subdivisions across Japan. Since there is a wealth of a global basis, while strengthening our coordination with will serve as a foundation for promoting our core strategies. Operating client needs at these offices, we consider them to be the Sumitomo Corporation and others. First is augmentation of comprehensive Group capabilities. I profit margin 10.4% 10.0-12.0% departure point for co-creation with clients, where we will The priority fields for the commercialization of DX include feel like the time has come to create high value by combining ROE 15.0% 15% or more promote planning and proposals, while performing a deep the mobility field, where we can harness our track record in the Group’s diverse resources and knowledge built up over *Figures for FY2019 have been restated in IFRS. dive into strategy and needs. By doing so, our aim is to automotive software systems development and utilization many years. Our goal is to further refine these comprehensive support the transformation of clients’ business and further of AI solutions, the financial service platform field, where capabilities that cannot be replicated by other companies. Capital efficiency index strengthen clients point. We will shift the traditional full-time IT we can utilize multi settlement technology and our track Second is promotion of management that fully exercises our ROIC maintenance target level: 10–12 % support domain to a remote environment wherever possible, record in development, operations and BPO services for a host employees’ potential. We will promote “creating an inclusive (In the medium-term management plan period) and promote dispersed operations using nearshoring and of different industries, the healthcare field, where we have a offshoring. Meanwhile, by assigning only service managers track record in a wide range of solutions, and the customer or highly skilled engineers to clients, we will think “from experience field, where we have AI and IoT related solutions, the client’s perspective” in the transformation of clients’ in addition to contact centers, e-commerce, and fulfillment businesses, which will make it possible to support the SoE services. For example, in the mobility field there is the world Finally domain and DX where clients should be involved. of MaaS. If we can utilize vehicle usage data together with life insurers and lease and rental companies, we will not only be able to increase user convenience, but also produce a new business What are your ambitions for the future, effective use of IT is more vital than ever before. Looking model that results in solutions to social issues. We expect to Q taking into account the impacts of the ahead, without a doubt social and business transformation will flexibly review these priority fields while examining changes COVID-19 pandemic? accelerate, driven by IT, not only work styles, but also remote in society and technology. Looking ahead, as we utilize the work, cashless, online diagnosis, and visualization of the 3Cs We will boldly tackle the challenges of Group’s strength in co-creation with many different partners, (closed spaces, crowded places, and close-contact settings). transforming business and society using ITwe will carefully examine the risks and opportunities, and push In this manner, as the social role of IT increases further, driven co-creation. ahead with reviews even outside of the current priority fields. in addition to responding to the needs of clients working on The economy in Japan and around the world has suffered a business transformation, we ourselves will boldly take on risks Investment in People: We will accelerate business major blow from the COVID-19 pandemic which has caused and produce business that contributes to various social issues growth through sophistication, diversification, significant restrictions on people’s movements from stay-home through co-creation with clients and society. and expansion of human resources. orders and cut-backs in-person sales. In contrast, however, In essence, the Group will promote sustainability Up to this point, I have explained about core business IT services involving remote work, social media, and online management as a growth strategy. We will work as one to innovation and commercialization of DX. At a quick glance, it shopping have been recast key components of infrastructure tackle reforms, and achieve sustainable business growth and may appear that commercialization of DX is just beyond core for work and living. To balance infection prevention and fulfill management targets. I ask for your further support as business innovation, but after creating new business using economic activities in a future society with COVID-19, the we move forward. 17 SCSK Report 2020 SCSK Report 2020 18 SCSK’s Strategy Medium-Term Management Plan Past Medium-Term Management Plans Medium-Term Management Plan (FY2012 to FY2014) Medium-Term Management Plan (FY2015 to FY2019) Core Strategies Main Results and Review Core Strategies Main Results and Review Reinforcement of Group Structures • Expanded service-oriented businesses that provide standardized and Strengthening of IT consulting IT Consulting • Capitalized on expanded client base from the merger to Shifting to generalized business operations as shared-use systems utilizing our • Gran Manibus into subsidiary Pursue cross-selling promote company-wide cross-selling of services where service-oriented know-how, expertise and IP, and promoted the shift away from a both companies excel and increased sales. labor-intensive business model. Strengthening of IT services businesses IT infrastructure • Expanded scale of business to about 20% (¥80 billion) of total net sales. development • Absorption of JIEC • Minori Solutions into wholly owned subsidiary Enhancement of global operating structures IT management • Establishment of subsidiaries in Indonesia and Myanmar • Developed in-house BSW (basic software) as a platform for automotive • Utilized track record in global markets to develop support software systems and brought to market our proprietary product QINeS-BSW. Expand the system for Japanese companies’ overseas operations, Promoting IT hardware/ Reinforcement of nearshore development • Experienced a delay in increasing profits compared to the initial plan due global solutions business including expanded and reinforced overseas bases and strategic business software sales • Expansion of SCSK Nearshore Systems’ base business assistance, and increased relevant sales. to changes in the automobile market. As a result, we did not turn a profit in this core strategy during this Medium-Term Management Plan. Systems Incorporation of IoT and data transfer technologies development • Skeed into subsidiary Enter into • Promoted the further global business expansion of various IT services, Verification Strengthening of verification service • Newly established the netXDC Chiba Center 2. Expanded services Strengthen the the second stage including support for the IT needs of Japanese companies’ local subsidiaries. • VeriServe into wholly owned subsidiary cloud-based IT services using our network of data cloud solutions business centers, which is among the largest in the industry. of global business • Newly established bases in Myanmar and Indonesia to reinforce the Strengthening of e-commerce services expansion business foundation in ASEAN. BPO Services • SCSK PRESCENDO into wholly owned subsidiary Initiatives to managerial foundation reinforcement 2013/3 2014/3 2015/3 2016/3 2017/3 2018/3 2019/3 2020/3 Newly opened Kagoshima Distributed SE+ nearshoring base Newly opened Kumamoto nearshoring base Operational Quality, Introduced Service guidebook company-wide Began use of SE+ Achieved 100% internal Efficiency and Productivity Check System Introduced SE+ certification program Introduced Core Partner Program compliance with SE+ Introduced SE+ (Navi) Pleasant, Fulfilling Place to Reduced overtime work to less Introduced Work / Promote Health and Launched than 20 hours and achieved a Commenced Introduced the program for Introduced Second Job Kenko Waku Waku Mileage Productivity Management Smart Work Challenge rate of consumed annual paid Dokodemo WORK full-time employment of seniors program (Smart Work Plus) Program >P43 vacation of 95% or greater Enhance Human Launched Technoco, Resource Capabilities Introduced IT Skill Began Kotsukatsu, Began providing a hackathon for cultivating Opened SCSK i-University Level Assessment supporting self-development stipend for learning >P43 self-led talent in IT 19.4 18.2 18.2 ROE (%) 16.5 15.6 15.1 14.6 Operating 12.4 10.2 10.3 10.7 10.9 Profit Margin (%) 9.4 9.8 7.5 8.3 Operating Profit (Billions of Yen) 20.8 23.9 28 31.7 33.7 34.6 38.3 42.3 2013/3 2014/3 2015/3 2016/3 2017/3 2018/3 2019/3 2020/3 • Promoted the true combination of both companies since the merger in October • Made steady progress with reinforcing the management foundation and transform business structure (move away from labor-intensive business model). 2011 by developing a management foundation using various initiatives. Achieved high profit growth, with net sales growth rate at 5.4% CAGR and operating profit growth rate at 8.6% CAGR during this Medium-Term Management Plan. • Achieved business expansion driven by merger synergies as expected and fulfilled • Although the profitability of strategic businesses is delayed, the operating income target of generating ¥40 to ¥45 billion from existing businesses and management targets. service-oriented businesses progressed according to plan. 19 SCSK Report 2020 SCSK Report 2020 20 SCSK’s Strategy Medium-Term Management Plan New Medium-Term Management Plan (FY2020 to FY2022) Background to the New Medium-Term Management Plan With the full-fledged advent of digital society, Japan’s IT imperative to have a long-term perspective considering our market, clients, technologies and trends are undergoing influence on society, to share the values of various significant changes. As the entire IT services industry stakeholders, and to engage in management that m u s t l o o k t o s t r u c t u r a l re f o r m , t h e S C S K G ro u p contributes to solutions to social issues. Core Strategies Management Targets recognizes that continuing on with the status quo of As a result, the SCSK Group has returned to its roots business will make growth opportunities limited. found in the corporate philosophy of “Create Our Future To be the “Co-Creative IT Company in 2030” FY2019* FY2022 Changes driven by digitalization offer great potential for of Dreams” to establish a long-term growth vision. At the described in the new Medium-Term Management creating new value for society and clients. To achieve the same time, we identified material issues for realizing this Plan, SCSK will work on the three core strategies of Results Target n e x t s t a g e o f o u r g ro w t h , w e f e l t i t e s s e n t i a l t o corporate philosophy. Taking into account this direction, Core Business Innovation, Commercialization of DX, Net sales ¥385.2 billion ¥500 billion or more implement a mediumto long-term strategy for we also formulated Grand Design as our vision for 2030 a n d I n v e s t m e n t i n P e o p l e , a l o n g w i t h t h re e Operating fundamentally transforming the Group. and the Medium-Term Management Plan as a roadmap for managerial foundation reinforcement measures profit margin 10.4% 10.0–12.0% For the SCSK Group to achieve sustainable growth, it is achieving this vision. s u p p o r t i n g t h e s e e ff o r t s : A u g m e n t a t i o n o f ROE 15.0% 15% or more Comprehensive Group Capabilities, Promotion of *Figures for FY2019 have been restated in IFRS. Operating Environment for the SCSK Group Management that Fully Exercises Our Employees' Potential, and Fostering of Co-Creation-Oriented Capital efficiency index • Return to normal levels of demand despite modest growth trend • Fundamental changes fueled by cutting-edge technologies • Transition toward in-house IT development as businesses become more intimately linked to IT Corporate Culture. Through these, we will aim to ROIC maintenance target level: 10–12% Domestic IT Market • Shift in human resource demand from problem solving-oriented • Intensification of competition to secure IT personnel with clients (In the medium-term management plan period) to value creation-oriented personnel and other companies, etc. expand our businesses globally. • Expanded provision of integrated, cross-industry services as • Trend toward clients supplying IT services fueled by in-house Client Trend digital transformations accelerate digital transformations, etc. Technologies • Emergence of solutions combining AI, IoT, 5G, sharing, API, etc. as de facto standard, etc. and Trends Core Business Investment Commercialization Innovation in People of DX Need for mediumto long-term strategies for drastically transformation Secure competitive edge Accelerate business growth Create new businesses Response to rapid fundamental changes in IT investment / by innovating business through sophistication, through co-creation with Improvement in value creation capacity in preparation for IT-driven evolution processes and client diversification, and expansion clients, across industry contact points of human resources lines, and on a global basis Formulation Process of the New Medium-Term Management Plan > P23 > P28 > P25 In formulating the new Medium-Term Management Plan, we launched the Future Creation Project in fiscal 2018 composed of young and mid-career employees as representatives of each division to present bottom-up recommendations to complement the ideas of executive management and general managers. In essence, the entire company came together in examining the direction of the SCSK Group. Managerial Foundation Reinforcement Augmentation of Comprehensive Promotion of Management Fostering of Sharing of results of external environment analysis Group Capabilities that Fully Exercises Our Co-Creation-Oriented (Inter-organization collaboration) Employees' Potential Corporate Culture Intensive meeting for general managers Intensive meeting for executive management Sharing In-depth discussions on next Medium-Term Management Plan Augmentation of comprehensive Transformation into a Linking and merging Recommending Group capabilities utilizing company at which employees individual strengths in house Future Creation Project* SCSK’s strengths are empowered to succeed Chairman / President General managers Officers in charge Learning from and utilization • Diverse service lineup • Promote health and productivity of others *Project for soliciting recommendations for • Wide-ranging client base of management, comfortable senior management from employees who will 8,000 companies representing workplaces, and motivation lead the company over the next 10 years all industries • Highly engaging organizations Intensive meeting for executive management • Global network backed by track record Diversity and inclusion Output 1. Vision for 2030 2. Core strategies and management indicators of 3. Themes of managerial foundation the next Medium-Term Management Plan reinforcement measures 21 SCSK Report 2020 SCSK Report 2020 22 SCSK’s Strategy Core Strategies 1. Monozukuri innovation Provide diverse IT services boasting high levels of quality, productivity, and flexibility centered on “Monozukuri innovation platform” Core Business Monozukuri innovation will drastically enhance service S-Cred+ is a platform that combines the SCSK Group’s Innovation quality, productivity and flexibility along with optimize systems in the SoE/SoR domains, diversify service models technologies, methods, intellectual properties, and know-how. Through Low-Code No-Code development, and improve agility to business change, using as a automation of infrastructure building and operation, use Secure competitive edge foundation S-Cred + (Smart Co-work on Relationship, of intellectual properties, and standardization, it not only Engineering and Design Plus), a Monozukuri innovation improves productivity, but also removes the personal by innovating business processes and platform newly developed by SCSK. element. (See P27 for details about S-Cred+.) client contact points in core business IaaS+PaaS Monozukuri Innovation Platform • Low-Code No-Code development • Automation of infrastructure • Technology • Intellectual S-Cred + building and operation • Methodology properties (Initially released in FY2020) • Accumulation and utilization of • Expertise intellectual properties Basic Approach • Standardization of development, maintenance, and operation Representing one of the core strategies, Core Business ballooned costs of legacy systems as well as the lack of Innovation will involve transforming the SCSK Group’s engineers due to aging population and declining birthrate Output business processes and client contact points from the two as issues facing many Japanese companies. The SCSK’s Improvement of Massive Increased Diversification of perspectives of Monozukuri innovation and subdivision Core Business Innovation will provide powerful support to quality through productivity responsiveness to service models SoE system optimization innovation, with the goal of enhancement and expansion solutions for delays in data linkages and data utilization standardization increases business changes (service-oriented businesses) core businesses. attributed to these issues. The DX report published by Japan’s Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry entitled the “2025 Digital *Quoted from the report on digital transformation (DX) published by the Ministry of 2. Subdivision innovation Economy, Trade and Industry on September 7, 2018 entitled “Overcoming of '2025 Cliff”* discusses the obsoleteness, black box nature, and Digital Cliff' Involving IT Systems and Full-fledged Development of Efforts for DX” Transform subdivisions from full-time IT support organizations to value-co-creating organizations supporting clients’ business and IT strategies System-Related Issues Facing Many Japanese Companies Subdivisions are full-time IT support organizations located value-co-creating organizations underpinning clients’ business -“2025 Digital Cliff”at clients’ places of business and established based on and IT strategy. We will assign to clients service managers, • Legacy system issues (black box nature, obsoleteness, expansiveness, and complexity) long-standing relationships of trust fostered with clients. who perform deep dives into strategies and needs, and • Inability to coordinate and utilize data through individual system optimization There are more than 10,000 members, including not only highly skilled engineers, who provide swift and optimized • Lack of engineers at system-using companies, etc. SCSK employees, but partner employees, too, working at services based on changes in business, to strengthen these subdivisions. The subdivision business is considered a clients point. In addition, we will relocate existing full-time unique strength of the SCSK Group which values frontline support members to the SCSK Group’s remote bases to interactions. evolve efforts to a new co-creation stage with clients, Under subdivision innovation, we will transform this including dispersed operations, while further building subdivision business from full-time IT support organizations to upon collaboration with clients. Core Business Innovation Client Bases SCSK and its Remote Bases Support client business with deeper Coordinated approach toward delivering understanding of strategies and needs services that utilizes frameworks and Full utilization of tools (points for co-creation with clients) intellectual properties 1. “Monozukuri innovation” 2. “Subdivision innovation” contributing to high productivity for transitioning toward value Positioning / Education SCSK Bases Remote co-creation with clients • Creation of client value (HUB) Nearshore Service Offshore • Business / IT strategies managers • Sourcing strategies, etc. Development and enhancement of tools underpinning business innovation • Optimization of base functions and human • Provision of swift and Client issue and needs resource positioning Highly skilled (Platforms, methods, standardized processes, tools, nearshore and offshore development systems) engineers optimal services in response Information linkage • Promotion of Monozukuri innovations to business changes • Full utilization of Group intellectual properties 23 SCSK Report 2020 SCSK Report 2020 24 SCSK’s Strategy Core Strategies Assisting Clients’ Commercialization after Identifying Four Priority Fields with Significant Social Impacts Commercialization First, we will work on business creation in the fields of mobility, financial services platform, healthcare and We will increase business creation capabilities by continuing to increase and review these priority fields in the future. of DX customer experience (CX). Together these are positioned as priority fields under Commercialization of DX. In In promoting Commercialization of DX, we will use our global network of bases to explore the advanced response to the social issues of each field, we will examine technologies and business models of North America and Create new businesses through cross-functionally and company-wide how we can harness Europe and focus on business creation in emerging our strengths and generate new value through a markets predominantly in Southeast Asia. This will position co-creation with clients, co-creative approach with partners. us to expand our business globally. across industry lines, and on a global basis Four Priority Fields Mobility Field Financial Service Platform Field Basic Approach Solutions to Social Issues Solutions to Social Issues The digital transformation (DX) the SCSK Group is working value for society through co-creation where SCSK takes • Realize sustainable, safe, and secure transportation systems • Enhance financial systems in response to operating on is broken down into “DX Foundations,” “DX Support” the lead, unlike its conventional contract-based approach, (Modes of transportation for senior citizens and environment changes by digitization underpopulated areas, alleviation of traffic congestion, etc.) • Develop financial systems that contribute to healthy and “Commercialization of DX.” while utilizing the strengths of core businesses. • Mitigate CO2-associated climate change risks economic growth in emerging countries DX Foundations and DX Support, the two areas found Aimed at Commercialization of DX, one of the core at the bottom of the figure, involve further accelerating strategies, the SCSK Group will focus on the three types of our current initiatives in core businesses and supporting co-creation: “co-creation with clients,” “co-creation cross Co-Creative Co-Creative Approach Approach the growth of clients and industries. Commercialization of targeted industry” and “global co-creation with Sumitomo DX, at the very top of the figure, involves creating new Corporation.” Branch out from shared connected platforms to Provide financial service platforms for specific telematics and MaaS fields industries through broad-ranging co-creation Creation of new value for With Clients society through co-creation Automotive equipment track record Track record in development, operation, and BPO Strengths (embedded development / verification), Strengths services for all industries, multi-payment Commercialization SCSK-driven approach to new business and Deepening of understanding of traffic accident detection track record, etc. technologies, etc. service development through increased of DX co-creation client business needs Co-Creation Sumitomo Corporation Group’s business Client base, Sumitomo Corporation’s overseas Co-Creation operating foundations, partners specializing in • Mobility • Financial services platform foundation base of clients in other industries specific fields Co-creation businesses built between • Healthcare • Customer experience, etc. clients, SCSK, and other entities Provision of client and industry business value-improving services Cross Industry Healthcare Field Customer Experience Field DX Services underpinning proactive IT provided as partner to clients Approach capitalizing on intellectual Solutions to Social Issues Solutions to Social Issues Support Industry-standard platform services for increasing value properties and services • Address disparities in access to healthcare (respond to lack of • Develop industries that are responsive to the diversification • DX framework • Linguistic AI physicians, bolster regional healthcare systems) of values Data coordination-fueled intellectual • SNN*1 • X. CONNECT,*2 etc. property service expansion • Reduce healthcare expenses through appropriate medicine use • Incorporate customer input into products and services with • Maintain social security functions by extending healthy digital technologies and thereby contributing to social lifespans prosperity Co-Creative Co-Creative Provision of comprehensive IT system Global Approach Approach DX optimization services Strengthening of coordination Promote data-linkage between individuals and Help create greater levels of corporate value System modernization and inter-system data coordination Foundations Development, maintenance, and operation with Sumitomo Corporation healthcare-related companies for healthcare system by aiding in the development of supply and enhancement and streamlining preventative value chains attuned to customer input standardization and comprehensive outsourcing medicine and healthcare management Digital businesses in new markets Call center, e-commerce, and fulfillment services, Strengths Track record in wide-ranging healthcare fields Strengths etc. *1 SNN: SCSK Neural Network toolkit (a solution that builds an AI model using advanced deep learning technology). *2 X.CONNECT: A cloud-based IOT service platform provided by SCSK. Healthcare institutions, pharmaceutical industry, Co-Creation pharmaceutical wholesalers, pharmacies, health Co-Creation Customer base from multiple industries On April 1, 2020, we newly established the DX Strategic Marketing Center, DX & Innovation Business Center, and DX Technology Development Center, after integrating and restructuring the DX & Innovation Business Center, the Strategy Solutions Sales Coordination Division, part of the and life insurance industries Sales Coordination Group, and certain sales functions, in order to further strengthen and enhance functions for promoting and supporting the DX businesses aimed at Commercialization of DX. While working closely with each division and the R&D Center, we will now make steady progress toward Commercialization of DX. 25 SCSK Report 2020 SCSK Report 2020 26 SCSK’s Strategy Core Strategies S-Cred+ Supporting Core Business Innovation and Commercialization of DX Investment in We will promote Core Business Innovation and Commercialization of DX utilizing a platform that can aptly use proactive IT and defensive IT for their different purposes. People Position people as our greatest asset and growth driver Defensive IT Proactive IT Accelerate business growth by sophistication, diversifying, (Improving quality and productivity) (Value creation and DX) and expanding human resources Low-Code No-Code development Cloud native development (container and server-less) ProActive and atWill Template, etc. Utilization SNN and X.CONNECT, etc. Basic Approach of IP The SCSK Group’s greatest asset and most important The focus of these investments will include revamping Standard platforms and managed operating services (Multi cloud and hybrid cloud) growth driver is its people. With a focus on sophistication, our personnel system, promoting diversity and inclusion diversifying and expanding our workforce, we will actively for co-creation with a diverse workforce, and expanding invest in our people to accelerate business growth. our workforce in Japan and abroad. Waterfall-type Agile-type Focus of Human Resource Investment Company that attracts and fosters ambitious human Reinvention of SCSK’s human resource systems >P44 resources propelled to At SCSK, we introduced SmartEpisode Plus (SE+ ), a collaboration between development and operation. pursue self-driven growth • Compensation matched to employee ability and role process standard for project management and As a way to expand S-Cred + , we will develop an IP Sophistication • Recruitment of highly skilled personnel (Establishment of ADV positions / ¥30 million earners) systems development, in fiscal 2012 to realize higher utilization platform to encourage the use of IP under operational quality. Since then, we have worked to organizations and systems that reinforce this entrench this standard company-wide, and by concierge function. As a result, we will further Co-creative organization development spurred by implementing all development projects in compliance increase productivity and quality of defensive IT and at Diversification diverse human resources >P45 with SE+ we have improved quality. the same time develop an environment for creating • Promotion of diversity and inclusion to breed innovation S-Cred + represents a Monozukuri (software value with proactive IT. Fuel value engineering) innovation platform for delivering IT creation with diverse human resources solutions that increase clients’ business value by Initiatives for Proactive IT Expanding of worldwide human resources >P40 promoting further standardization using SE + in S-Cred+ is compatible with application development Expansion • Amassment of 1,000 nearshore development staff response to the changing demands on IT systems using cloud technologies (container and server-less, • Redoubling of global human development and recruitment efforts Bolster global human around the world. S-Cred+ features development and etc.) and development methods such as agile and resource pool supporting ongoing business growth operation tools as well as project management tools DevOps*. Therefore, we will now evolve it into a for improving quality and productivity with the platform that can fully address changes in clients’ purpose of business process innovation in core businesses in a speedy and flexible manner. By Core Business Innovation / Commercialization of DX and Investment in People business domains. Moreover, it can be used for incorporating advanced technologies such as AI and Commercialization of DX, too, as it is compliant with IoT in the form of SNN or X.CONNECT, we will be able SCSK will provide IT services that serve as a foundation for advanced technologies and new methods. As such, t o a d d re s s t h e n e e d s o f i m p ro v i n g c u s t o m e r • Delivery of IT services founded on safe and secure society, while using investment in people to drive forward Core Business dispersed use we can evolve it into a platform compatible with both experience. the two basic business strategies of Core Business Innovation • Provision of remote work environments and leading-edge initiative examples proactive IT and defensive IT. Adding SCSK’s in-house Innovation and Commercialization of DX. This will enable Working Styles Envisioned by the SCSK Group knowledge to S-Cred+ will make it possible to create In this manner, we will make powerful headway in Core us to resolve the challenges of society and clients as well Investment “Remote work available nationwide” value while optimizing the entire company. Business Innovation and Commercialization of DX by as to provide value. in People (Transition from in-office work to telework and finally freedom in living location) using S-Cred+ for company-wide development projects In addition to providing remote work environments Initiatives for Defensive IT since it can be used differently for proactive IT and and IT services using dispersed operations with Improving quality, productivity and continuity is now defensive IT depending on the nature of the project. Commercialization nearshoring to address the fundamental shift in work of DX • Enhancement and convenience improvement using possible with S-Cred + based on the concepts of styles, we will enhance and improve system convenience digital technologies Low-Code No-Code development, automation of • Value provision in mobility, financial service platform, *DevOps: systems development method promoting swift development through using digital technology to provide value in response to Investment healthcare, and customer experience priority fields infrastructure building and operation, and closer close cooperation/coordination between Development and Operations the needs of society in terms of the security and in People sustainability of countries, companies and individuals. 27 SCSK Report 2020 SCSK Report 2020 28 SCSK’s Strategy Financial and Capital Strategy We will generate returns in excess of capital costs through aggressive investment in growth during the new Medium-Term Management Plan. innovation and commercialization of DX, both cited as core building and operation, we will increase utilization of SCSK’s Review of the Previous Medium-Term strategies in the Medium-Term Management Plan, we will Initiatives for Increasing Profitability intellectual properties to actively improve productivity and Management Plan and Policy for the New strategically deploy capital in areas that make our managerial operational quality. Medium-Term Management Plan foundation stronger and in priority fields strategically. The results of these initiatives have started to materialize SCSK will not only actively invest in these growth Previously, the Group has actively shifted to a service-oriented in the form of sustained improvement in various profit margin domains, but also pursue management focused on capital business model. Driven by the evolving IT business climate indicators. By further reinforcing initiatives going forward, The previous Medium-Term Management Plan, which efficiency more so than before to unlock growth of high surrounding SCSK and the accelerating IT investment of we will achieve even greater business growth and steadily concluded in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2020, focused margin businesses and improve capital efficiency at the same clients, we are working to increase business profitability and improve profitability. on shifting our business structure away from a labor-intensive time. As part of these efforts, the SCSK Group has established sales growth of service-oriented businesses, mainly the SaaS business model, investing in strategic businesses, executing a strategic target to achieve ROE, a management indicator business in platform systems and the subscription-based IT M&A and Group restructuring for reinforcing our medium-term we have used for some time, of 15% or higher in the fiscal service business based on SCSK’s intellectual properties. business foundation, and improving the profitability of our year ending March 31, 2023. Also, we will use return on Additionally, as part of core business innovation, we are Our Policies for Business Investment businesses. As a result of these efforts, we have been able to invested capital (ROIC) as a new benchmark for measuring working to improve service productivity, quality and flexibility achieve year-on-year growth in both profit and revenue every capital efficiency during the new Medium-Term Management centered on our proprietary platform for Monozukuri year since the merger in 2011. The management indicators of Plan, with a target for business operations to maintain ROIC innovation platform called S-Cred+ (Smart Co-work on The Group is implementing a number of core strategies operating profit margin and ROE for the final fiscal year of the of between 10 and 12%. Relationship, Engineering and Design Plus) released in under the new Medium-Term Management Plan with the previous Medium-Term Management Plan were 10.9% and Through the pursuit of this business strategy, we will April 2020. By utilizing S-Cred+, we are striving to improve aim of boosting profitability as well as enhancing corporate 15.6%, respectively. Both exceeded the target of operating increase profits and operating cash flows. At the same time, productivity and profitability of the system development value over the medium term, seeking to convert its business profit margin between 10 and 12% and ROE of 15%. In we will secure agile and diverse means of financing for business, while seeking to optimize SoE/SoR and capitalize structure ahead of major changes in technology paradigm terms of returning profits to shareholders, we have increased addressing various capital expenditure needs with the goal of on the diversification of service models along with improved and business climate. To achieve future growth, we intend the dividend for eight consecutive years since the merger, and expanding the earnings base and business investment aimed agility toward business change. Moreover, from the fiscal year to make large-scale investments totaling ¥100 billion over the dividend payout ratio reached a level that exceeds 40%. at reinforcement and expansion of strategic businesses. ended March 31, 2020, the MONOKAKU Center, which was the three-year period focused on the three core strategies Under the current Medium-Term Management Plan Toward this end, we will pursue optimization of capital and established in April 2019 to incorporate the latest software of core business innovation, commercialization of DX, and starting in fiscal 2020, we will sustain aggressive investment debt structure for maintaining and strengthening our robust engineering technology into our business, spearheaded a investment in people. as well as aim to further boost earnings power and enhance financial standing. Furthermore, we will aim to sustainably project to build a software engineering environment that can Roughly half of the total investment amount will go to corporate value over the medium-term, in order to achieve improve corporate value and share value, which includes be used cross-functionally by the entire company. Through the commercialization of DX for businesses that will generate sustainable growth into the future. In particular, as we working continuously to increase returns to shareholders Monozukuri innovation aimed at the shift to Low-Code new value. The four priority fields for commercialization transform our business portfolio through core business centered on cash dividends. No-Code development and automation of infrastructure of DX have been defined as mobility, financial services Operating Profit Margin Return on Equity (ROE) Investment Targets under the new Medium-Term Management Plan % % 14.0 30.0 Core strategies Investment Targets Investment amount 12.0 10.9 24.1 Augmenting Managed Service Platforms (MSP) and MONOKAKU platform functions ¥30 billion 10.7 25.0 Core business 10.2 10.3 9.8 innovation 9.4 Service-oriented business software ¥10 billion 10.0 19.4 8.3 20.0 18.2 18.2 7.5 16.5 8.0 15.1 15.6 R&D investments for commercialization of DX 6.4 14.6 15.0 12.4 Commercialization 6.0 Priority fields (M&As and joint venture establishment, etc.) ¥50 billion of DX 10.0 4.0 Venture companies worldwide to drive cutting-edge R&D 5.0 2.0 Enhancement of human resource recruitment and development efforts, Investment in people ¥10 billion improvement of compensation levels 0 2012/3 2013/3 2014/3 2015/3 2016/3 2017/3 2018/3 2019/3 2020/3 0 2012/3 2013/3 2014/3 2015/3 2016/3 2017/3 2018/3 2019/3 2020/3 Total investment amount: ¥100 billion 29 SCSK Report 2020 SCSK Report 2020 30 SCSK’s Strategy Financial and Capital Strategy platforms, healthcare and customer experience (CX). In order As for working capital on hand, we will introduce a cash Generate returns in excess of capital cost to accelerate business growth in these priority fields, we management system (CMS) at SCSK and our consolidated must reinforce our own businesses by organically combining subsidiaries in Japan in order to centralize the surplus funds of Return on shareholders' equity technologies and services inside and outside the company all companies and manage them effectively. This will make it (ROE) based on cutting edge new technologies and business possible to supply funds to Group companies in an expedited Shareholders’ Medium-Term models including IoT and AI. To utilize these technologies manner, ensure ample liquidity at the Group level and allow capital cost Management Plan indicator and services in an integrated manner, we are promoting tieus to optimize capital efficiency. ROE of 15% or higher Maximize ups with venture firms inside and outside Japan, including Furthermore, the worldwide economic contraction Maximize corporate value / establishment of corporate venture capital, investment in caused by the COVID-19 pandemic has made it extremely ROIC Return on invested capital shareholder value venture funds, and participation in accelerator programs, difficult to forecast the extent and duration of impacts on Weighted average (ROIC) with the aim of business transformation and business creation our business climate and earnings. Given this awareness, cost of capital Target level of ROIC during the （WACC） through DX. to prepare for unforeseen circumstances, we will not only Medium-Term Management Plan Promoting tie-ups with venture firms will involve secure ample liquidity on hand, but also further reinforce 10 to 12% commercialization by piggybacking the advanced technology agile means of financing. and services of the venture firm on our business infrastructure. Tie-ups will also harness open innovation with a venture firm Summary of Consolidated Balance Sheet with a technology or service that can resolve medium-term (As of March 31, 2020) (Unit: billions of yen) promote management more mindful of capital efficiency standing as well as the profit level forecast for this fiscal challenges in our clients’ business strategies. than before. Consequently, return on invested capital year. This represents an increase of ¥20 per share over the Current assets Total liabilities Further, we will continue to consider M&A deals that 214.7 134.4 (ROIC), which measures the extent to which invested capital previous year for a dividend payout ratio of 40% or higher, contribute to the acceleration of business growth, including Borrowings / generates a return, will be used as benchmark. During the which closely follows our capital policy and dividend policy. Cash and cash Corporate bonds strengthening client foundation and service expansion, 55.4 period of the Medium-Term Management Plan, our goal is to As a result, this will be the ninth consecutive year we have equivalents from the perspective of both the company and individual 111.6 maintain ROIC at a level between 10 and 12%. As a result, increased our dividend as a return of profits to shareholders. business divisions. we will more actively invest in business while appropriately The promotion of such business investment requires managing the balance sheet, and by further improving capital Cash Dividend per Share / Dividend Payout Ratio skills unlike our conventional operations, so we will work to efficiency, we will strive to maintain and enhance corporate Cash Dividend per Share Dividend Payout Ratio Net assets develop the necessary talent, which will reinforce our business 208 value and shareholder value. Yen % investment promotion system. Non-current 150 50 assets 46.6 127.7 130 130 43.3*1 125 Our Policies for Shareholder Returns 20*2 40 Our Policies for Financing 37.2 33.2 32.8 100 100 95 90 110 Management Mindful of Capital Cost With regard to how we return our profits to shareholders, 28.9 30.4 30 We intend to fund these investments required for reinforcing we aim to provide dividends in line with improvements in 75 75 and expanding our business without raising capital by using consolidated business results, while comprehensively taking 22.3 cash flows from operating activities and internal reserves, but SCSK aims to further enhance corporate value and shareholder into account financial position, earnings trends, dividend 22.6 20 when necessary, we plan to use various forms of financing value through the sustainable growth of its businesses. payout ratio, and the need to maintain sufficient internal 50 50 such as borrowings from financial institutions, syndicated From this perspective, we believe ROE, a major indicator for reserves for future business investments. 40 36 loans, and different forms of corporate bonds, backed by measuring capital efficiency, is an important management The full-year dividend for the fiscal year ended March 32 10 9.6 our robust financial base as discussed below. performance indicator; thus, we have established a 31, 2020, which was our 50th anniversary, totaled ¥130 per 25 At the end of fiscal 2020, the SCSK Group’s interestmanagement target to maintain ROE of at least 15% in share. This marks an increase of ¥30 compared to ¥100 per bearing debt totaled ¥55.4 billion in the form of bank the fiscal year ending March 31, 2023. In addition, as we share in the previous fiscal year, including a commemorative borrowings and corporate bonds. Cash and cash equivalents expand various business investment and capital expenditures dividend of ¥20 per share to mark our anniversary. 0 2012/3 2013/3 2014/3 2015/3 2016/3 2017/3 2018/3 2019/3 2020/3 2021/3 (Forecast) totaled ¥111.6 billion, far exceeding these debts, indicating to qualitatively shift the business portfolio away from laborThe full-year dividend forecast for this fiscal year calls *1 Dividend payout ratio of ordinary dividend excluding commemorative dividend: 36.6% our robust financial base. intensive business, we are strongly aware of the need to for a dividend of ¥130 per share, based on our financial *2 Commemorative dividend marking the company's 50th anniversary 31 SCSK Report 2020 SCSK Report 2020 32 SCSK’s Material Issues Basic Approach Implementation of Corporate Philosophy Material Issues While AI and other cutting-edge technologies have made Against this backdrop, the SCSK Group evaluated a range Achieving sustainable business tremendous advances in recent years, social issues such as of issues faced by society from a business perspective, seeking Corporate Philosophy growth with society By achieving three qualities of society climate change and widening regional disparity have also to achieve its corporate philosophy of “Create Our Future of through our business activities, we aim to intensified. In hand with this, companies irrespective of Dreams,” and specified the issues that it views as particularly Implementation of Corporate Philosophy resolve social issues and achieve sustainable business growth. industry are being called on to conduct management aimed important and that it should prioritize taking action on to Material Issues The three material issues are mutually at resolving social issues through their business and achieving achieve growth together with society as material issues. related to one another and link with “IT for sustainable growth together with society. the next delight.” Vision Grand Design 2030 Foundation supporting sustainable growth We are creating a foundation for achieving Medium-Term Management Plan the three material issues outlined above at (FY2020–2022) the same time as solidifying SCSK’s management foundation by accelerating initiatives centered around environmental, social and governance (ESG). Material Issues and Concrete Initiative Examples Material Issues Concrete Initiative Examples Related SDGs While engaging in co-creation with our customers • AI utilization and partners with a focus on the major changes • Commercialization of DX Innovating for a digital technology is bringing to industry and (Support customers’ transformation of Brighter Society society, we create greater affluence and comfort business model and business process) by turning technology into innovation to address social challenges and create social value. • Realization of more comfortable mobility Our resilient and reliable business platforms • Secure and stable operation of social infrastructure Building Trust for a connect customers and partners across industries • Cybersecurity and support increased safety and security for all by Safe and allowing companies to improve the quality of their • Platform services (for specified industries, Secure Society business activities and people to have better processes, etc.) everyday experiences. • Financial irregularity detection system Our business is global and contributes to growth • ICT solutions enabling work-style reforms Creating an and development in many countries and regions. • Global business support We use our understanding of technology and its Inclusive Society impacts to help build more inclusive societies that • Near shore development base deployment offer more opportunities to more people. (revitalization and HR development in regional areas) We are addressing the impacts climate change is • Implementation of environmental action plan having on our business while helping create a • Environmental impact reduction initiatives Global Environmental better global environment by integrating environmental considerations into our business • Development of environmental impact Contributions reduction solutions activities and creating and expanding environmentally sustainable business opportunities. • Utilization of renewable energy We are a team of professionals with diverse expertise and experience and a shared set of • Support for ongoing employee skill development Diverse Team values. Since we embrace diversity as a source of and realization of diverse career paths of Professionals creativity, we strive to create workplaces and • Establishment of environments conducive to opportunities to engage our team and keep them contributions by diverse human resources growing professionally and as individuals. We minimize any negative impacts associated with • Quality and productivity improvements through our value chain. In addition to service quality, we coordination with partner companies Sustainable also work with partners to advance environmental • Improvements in project and development Value Chain and social goals such as sustainability, diversity, process quality human rights and innovation to support our customers' sustainable growth. • Dissemination and exercise of sustainability policies We conduct effective management oversight • Compliance and respect for human rights Transparent while ensuring transparency and compliance, and • Appropriate information and risk management have established and maintain management Governance frameworks for sound information and risk • Reinforcement of corporate governance systems management. needed for sustainable growth 33 SCSK Report 2020 SCSK Report 2020 34 SCSK’s Material Issues Process for Compiling Material Issues Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Step 4 Step 5 Assessment of importance of social issues Preparation of draft Dialogue with Formulation of Identification of social issues from long-term perspective and mapping of material issues stakeholders material issues Identified social issues from the perspectives of materiality matrix Prepared draft material issues Conducted interviews of employees Formulated material issues after social value creation and management foundation considering importance for both and outside experts, etc., to solicit resolution passed by Management Held discussions on social issues identified in Step 1 from the perspectives of management and stakeholders stakeholder opinions Committee and Board of Directors social value creation and management foundation to assess importance Perspective of social value Discussions from a Social Value Creation Perspective Mapping of Materiality Matrix Ultimately, seven material issues identified creation Each social issue evaluated from the perspectives • Each business division examined services and business ideas that contribute to (Business opportunities/CSV) of social value creation and management solutions to social issues and the business growth of clients from a long-term Identified social issues to address from perspective through co-creation with clients and society (see page 37 for comments foundation was mapped out on a materiality High the perspective of achieving from employees of business divisions who took part in the review process). matrix from the perspectives of management and sustainable growth by resolving social stakeholders. Discussions were also held with • From the examined services and business ideas, social issues that SCSK should issues through business outside experts regarding the materiality matrix address for its sustainable growth were identified after considering social and a survey of employees was conducted (see Importance for stakeholders (Co-creation with clients and society) impacts and needs. Material issues the results of this survey on page 37). • Each social issue was discussed from multiple perspectives including expectations of clients and society and SCSK’s strengths to establish importance through relative assessment. Social value creation Management foundation (Sustainability of society) High Importance Low High Importance Low List of social issues to address (long list) Examined services and business ideas (co-creation with clients and society) High Identified and organized social issues to address Importance for management High from these services and business ideas Relatively assessed each social issue and determined the level of importance Importance for stakeholders Material issues Focus theme Material issues Perspective of management Discussions from Management Foundation Perspective (Sustainability of society) foundation Social transformation Innovating for a Brighter Society • Referencing international guidelines such as ISO 26000 and SASB, discussions Social value creation (Risk controls/ESG) were held on social issues that SCSK should address, and the impacts on Identified social issues to consider from management were categorized as positive impacts from initiatives (business High Safety and security Building Trust for a the perspective of mitigating negative expansion) and negative impacts from no initiatives (risks). Social infrastructure Safe and Secure Society Importance for management impacts that business has on the • The level of importance was determined based on a relative assessment of the Overseas and regional environment and society (ISO 26000, positive and negative impacts that each issue has on management from development Creating an Inclusive Society SASB, GRI, ESG, SDGs) internal and external perspectives. Work styles and active roles Global Environmental Management foundation Environment List of social issues to consider (long list) Contributions Human resources Diverse Team of Professionals Held discussions on positive and negative impacts each social issue has on management Value chain Sustainable Value Chain Relatively assessed the importance of each social issue from internal and external perspectives Governance Transparent Governance In-house review in progress 35 SCSK Report 2020 SCSK Report 2020 36 SCSK’s Material Issues Innovating for a Brighter Society While engaging in co-creation with our customers and partners with a Comments from Employees Who Participated in the Material Issue Compilation Process focus on the major changes digital technology is bringing to industry and society, we create greater affluence and comfort by turning technology When I participated in the project, I became aware that clients I had previously covered were into innovation to address social challenges and create social value. utilizing sustainability in their own management. Their approach was to make society a more vibrant place with a long-term perspective, and I remember this resonating with me greatly. At the same time, I felt this same approach was needed by SCSK, too, as we move forward. During the project, I spoke in detail with other participants about how SCSK can contribute to society. Because SCSK engages in BtoB business, rather than contributing directly to society, we Background and Approach found it important to co-create with various companies while combining our eco systems. These discussions proved to be a valuable experience for thinking about what is needed for our mediumIn recent years, a number of environmental and social issues developed over many years in a various fields. To address to long-term vision. that threaten a sustainable society have grown more serious. these increasingly complex social issues, we need to join Building Trust for a Safe and Secure Society is one of the material issues we identified during This requires that not only countries and governments, but forces with clients and partners from different industries this project. The presence of safe and secure infrastructure is an important factor for diversity and Arata Sakaguchi also all people and organizations including companies and to harness one another’s strengths while utilizing digital inclusion in society and the workplace. Knowing that we play an important role in a safe and General Manager secure society, I hope to continually contribute to society in the future. communities work together to take action toward solutions technologies. This will become a major driving force behind IT Outsourcing Services Dept II Nishinihon IT Management Business Div. to these issues. the transformation of society and lead to more sustainable Digital technologies such as AI and IoT are in the spotlight growth of society as a whole. I’m grateful to have participated in such an exciting project. as integral to these solutions. The advancement of digital SCSK will provide innovative businesses and services Unlike my daily work, where I often think with a micro perspective, this project mainly involved technologies represents an important key in resolving social by further reinforcing its initiatives in technical innovation a very macro world, such as resolving social issues with a timeline of 10 years in the future and no issues considered to be impossible before. They are expected and DX promotion, aimed at balancing sustainable business restrictions on location. The review process had me escape momentarily from my daily routine to to play a vital role in this regard. growth and solutions to social issues. By expanding areas examine the future. This process of considering what exactly makes people happy was almost SCSK has supported management foundations and of co-creation with clients and society and working to find spiritual. the digitalization of Japanese companies using systems solutions to social issues, we will create a comfortable and From this macro perspective, we asked such questions as why does SCSK exist and what can representing a culmination of its technologies and know-how vibrant future society. we offer that is unique. I was very grateful to have the chance to discuss this with people from other divisions. It was a valuable and eye-opening experience in terms of our vision and goals. Using this experience, I look forward to approaching my job with awareness of taking small steps toward large goals. Examples of Initiatives Eri Usami Manager Accounting Solution Section Administrative Systems Management Dept. II The spread of computers and smartphones has led to new by greatly reducing the number of incoming calls to call SC Systems Business Div. forms of shopping among consumers unrestricted by time centers and cutting the time needed for user support. It or place and has made it common place to make inquiries. also contributes to work style improvements by increasing Companies must now address the growing diversification of the quality and efficiency of client operations we provide user needs and greater complexity of channels. This requires services to. finding new approaches to solutions, such as automation Going forward, SCSK will contribute to the creation Employee Survey Results using advanced technology. of a comfortable and vibrant future society by leveraging SCSK developed Desse, a proprietary AI-powered question advanced technologies and creating new businesses and During the material issue compilation process, SCSK shared Understanding of the Social issues link to discovery and answer system. Desse is a service that combines SCSK’s services required by society together with clients and proposed material issues with a broad range of executives importance and significance and exploitation of new many years of development experience in voice recognition business partners. and employees, and conducted a survey with the goal of of material issues business opportunities systems and text mining along with operational know-how soliciting many different opinions. The many opinions provided by executives and employees for call centers. Desse is expected to increase the accuracy were utilized in the compilation process, and reported to the of responses by using AI to learn ways of improving the Management Committee and Board of Directors. performance of the voice analysis engine and increasing the The survey results show a good understanding of the correct response rate. importance and significance of material issues as well as a Desse is able to troubleshoot user issues and questions high level of resonance with the approach that social issues I understand It resonates with me because it interprets requests/questions and responds to link to discovery and exploitation of new business opportunities. Meanwhile, some employees noted views that 94 % 96% them optimally by interacting with users online with a mascot character. As a result, Desse helps to resolve labor shortages ongoing efforts were needed for better penetration internally. Toward this end, going forward we plan to Note: The response rate to the survey was 97% of all executives and employees. implement initiatives to foster greater understanding. 37 SCSK Report 2020 SCSK Report 2020 38 SCSK’s Material Issues Building Trust for a Creating an Safe and Secure Society Inclusive Society Our resilient and reliable business platforms connect customers and Our business is global and contributes to growth and partners across industries and support increased safety and security development in many countries and regions. We use our for all by allowing companies to improve the quality of their understanding of technology and its impacts to help build more business activities and people to have better everyday experiences. inclusive societies that offer more opportunities to more people. Background and Approach Background and Approach With modern society transitioning to a digital society, IT security is also needed. SCSK is actively expanding its business and offices globally economies. Also, by broadening new, flexible work styles, has come to occupy an important position as a platform The SCSK Group has supported the development and while also using nearshoring. This is one measure for such as remote work, people who have left small communities essential to the creation of new services and businesses operation of business platforms that connect a multitude expanding SCSK’s businesses and resources, but at the same to come to the Greater Tokyo Area for work will now be able for clients. As many activities become digitalized and data of industries and clients. It is our role as IT professionals to time, it also greatly contributes to the development of to remain in their community and still contribute their skills. linkages accelerate, IT will become a huge social infrastructure provide IT as a form of social infrastructure securely and safely. local communities. In this manner, working toward an inclusive society will connecting industries together, and the stable operation of In this regard, we maintain untold responsibility and social By expanding our offices, we are providing employment produce social value in response to the challenge of regional IT will be vital to a safe and secure society. significance. The SCSK Group will support a safe and secure opportunities in local communities and fostering excellent revitalization and will help us secure excellent IT talent and At the same time, social infrastructure using multiple society by increasing the quality of daily living and corporate IT talent. In addition, sustained close cooperation with realize business growth. platforms will increase system complexity and accumulate activities through the provision of resilient and trustworthy local partners, including ways of improving quality and SCSK is committed to building a more inclusive society beyond vast amounts of highly confidential data including personal business platforms together with clients. promoting work style reforms, revitalizes the IT industry that the countries and regions where we operate by contributing information. For this reason, sophisticated information contributes to corporate activities, improves the productivity to the growth and development of local communities while and convenience of local communities and develops local utilizing the diverse qualities of our workforce. Examples of Initiatives Examples of Initiatives The ability for consumers to go into a store and purchase for over ¥10 trillion in commercial transactions annually. products on the shelves, an act that has become almost In addition, this service aims for usability and broadly As part of its new Medium-Term Management Plan beginning regions, while collaborating with partner companies and mundane in our daily lives, is made possible with the stable responds to order placement and order taking work for the in fiscal 2020, SCSK will actively expand regional bases by educational institutions such as universities and the local operations of electronic data interchange (EDI) systems. manufacturing and wholesale industries. SCSK also supports positioning the expansion of our nearshore system mainly authorities of regional cities. Through such efforts toward Despite the spread of COVID-19 and even after Japan’s system operations which run 24 hours a day, 365 days a covering enhancement projects* as a key measure that will building a regional IT industry that attracts people, the state of emergency, supermarkets continued to operate as year. The system is compliant with legal systems (invoicing, lead to the acceleration of business growth. company will continue contributing to the development of people’s lifeline. The need for sustainable ordering with a large etc.) in Japan and also features BCP functions in case of a SCSK Nearshore Systems Corporation, a subsidiary sustainable local communities that are inclusive. number of employees unable to come into work has become major disaster. responsible for SCSK’s nearshore development, opened new * System maintenance projects that involve expanding and improving the functions of a common issue facing all industries. To address this issue, SUMAKURA makes high-quality services and operations bases in Kagoshima in September 2016 and Kumamoto in existing systems SCSK and sinops Inc. are planning a new emergency ordering possible as a cloud lifeline supporting B2B transactions November 2018. As of March 2020, the company operates data provision system that can be introduced in a short period (EDI) in Japan. It works behind the scenes to support the 10 bases in nine prefectures with a team of 625, including Nearshore Development Bases of time for an affordable price. This system will automatically daily mundane of going into a store to select and purchase business partners. In addition, it opened new bases in Akita place orders by combining SCSK’s “SUMAKURA” EDI service products. SCSK will contribute to supporting a safe and and Ishikawa in April 2020. The company is now working Okinawa Pref. (Naha City/Haebaru Town*) and sinops’ “sinops” automated ordering system. This system secure society by increasing the quality of daily living and to promote the active roles of women and seniors as well had been made available free of charge until September 30, corporate activities through the provision of daily platforms as to hire IT engineers looking to return home to regional Akita Pref. (Akita City) 2020. This will make it possible to sustain the stable supply of that are reliable and trustworthy. communities in order to increase its workforce to 1,000 Iwate Pref. Ishikawa Pref. (Kanazawa City) (Morioka City) food, even when order placement becomes difficult, thereby as soon as possible. It is also collaborating with partner * Japan Supermarkets Association, All Japan Supermarket Association, National Supermarket Fukui Pref. (Fukui City) ensuring food makes it into the hands of consumers. Association of Japan, Japan Voluntary Chain Association companies who endorse the SCSK-NS model and support SUMAKURA is a cloud-based service compliant with the the long-term sustained implementation of enhancement Kumamoto Pref. Kanagawa Pref. (City of Yokohama) Ryutsu BMS, Japan’s domestic EDI standard, recommended projects for major corporations in urban centers at bases in (Kumamoto City) by four distribution industry groups*. It has already been regional locations. Miyazaki Pref. (Miyazaki City) adopted at more than 200 companies in the distribution Looking ahead, the company will work on creating job Kagoshima Pref. (Kagoshima City) and retail industry alone, while more than 30,000 companies opportunities for IT talent in regions, fostering talent, and using connected terminals. SUMAKURA continues to account promoting work-style reforms such as work-life balance in * Completion of new building in Urasoe City, Okinawa Prefecture planned for 2021 39 SCSK Report 2020 SCSK Report 2020 40 SCSK’s Material Issues *See page 80 for detailed data concerning the environment. Global Environmental Contributions We are addressing the impacts climate change is having on our business while helping create a better global environment by integrating Climate Change Risks and Opportunities environmental considerations into our business activities and creating and expanding environmentally sustainable business opportunities. At SCSK, each division identifies the frequency and severity of ranking they establish. Currently, we are working mainly on risks and opportunities related to climate change, and then the following risks and opportunities. determines specific fields to take action based on a priority Main Opportunities Background and Approach Resource • Reduce operation costs by using energy efficiently efficiency In recent years, the review of social and economic systems The SCSK Group actively supports responses to these is underway around the world driven by the growing social changes through its IT services. Our support for business Products • Growing demand for services such as cloud-based energy management systems for using energy efficiently in collaboration with power companies seriousness of various environmental issues. Starting with transformation and greater operating efficiencies utilizing AI, and services the Paris Agreement in 2015, there has been a growing social IoT and cloud-based services not only helps to reduce clients’ movement to mitigate environmental impacts, which has environmental impacts from the more efficient use of energy, Resilience • Rising demand for data centers resilient against natural disasters that contribute to clients’ business continuity included governments tightening environmental regulations, but it also contributes to clients’ business continuity during expanding ESG investment, and rising awareness of the disasters by providing robust data centers and BCP solutions. Main Risks environment among stakeholders. The impacts of these By working to improve our own environmental performance developments are now spreading to corporate activities. and response to emergencies, while collaborating with clients • Tighter environmental regulations driven by the Paris Agreement Policies and Abnormal weather and wind and flood damage have and partner companies from a broad range of industries, we • Rising costs for the purchase of emissions credit that occur when we failed to meet the greenhouse gas reduction targets set to comply regulations with Tokyo Metropolitan Environmental Security Ordinance untold impacts on social life and business activities. As a will implement business activities adaptable to climate change result, efforts to carbon-free societies for mitigating climate and considerate of the environment as well as contribute • Impacts on business operations that could be caused by the instable supply of electricity from changes in natural environment or weather hazards Physics change risks and initiatives from the standpoint of containing to a better global environment through the creation and • Possibility of challenges to business continuity in case weather hazards destroy the Group’s facilities and equipment business continuity risk are accelerating. expansion of business opportunities. Others • Impacts on financing that may occur if our initiatives to address climate change are deemed not proactive by investors Management of Climate Change Issues SCSK has acquired ISO 14001 certification, which is an chain, we need to consider both the impacts from our own AI-Powered Air Conditioning Control at Data Centers to Protect the Environment environmental management system standard. A system is offices and data centers along with the impacts caused by also in place for management reviews requiring approval of clients’ use of our IT products and services. Energy use and Today, as environmental issues are growing more serious, balance stable server operation and contributions to global the Corporate Environmental Officer. We host environmental greenhouse gas emissions at data centers have a particularly there is strong demand for companies to tackle energy environmental issues. By combining our established conservation meetings to share future measures for improving large impact. As such, efforts to reduce both are considered conservation. In particular, the amount of electricity know-how and latest technologies including AI, we can environmental performance and other activities in order one of our top priorities. consumed by data centers is rising steadily following the provide an environment to clients that balance stable to manage the climate change initiatives of each business We regularly monitor energy use and greenhouse gas increase in the amount of data handled and higher operations and energy saving. In addition, reducing electricity division in a company-wide manner. emissions at SCSK’s offices and data centers, and have set performance equipment. The focal point of countermeasures costs using AI will also lower clients’ usage costs. To curtail environmental impacts caused by energy use reduction targets, based on which various measures are is air conditioning. Cooling is vital to preventing the runaway As a professional operator of data centers, SCSK will help heat of IT equipment, but vast amounts of electricity are to efficiently and effectively mitigate environmental impacts and greenhouse gas emissions throughout SCSK’s value underway. needed to operate air conditioning. of clients and society as a whole as well as contribute to the To reduce electricity used for air conditioning, we are sustainable value enhancement of client companies. considering air conditioning controls powered by AI using SCSK Neural Network toolkit (SNN), an AI model building Third Party Verification and Assurance service with many base models, including image recognition and sensor data analysis. The concentrated cooling of only We obtained Third Party Verification and Assurance from 2019 and Scope 3 emissions are for fiscal 2018. the areas that become hot and adjusting cooling using air Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Limited concerning Scope Going forward, we will continue to disclose reliable conditioning before temperature changes occur will improve 1, 2 and 3 emissions for the disclosure of greenhouse gas information. cooling efficiency and increase the stability of equipment. emissions for fiscal 2019. Currently, we are conducting verification testing with the The scope is set as SCSK Group companies excluding ultimate goal of reducing air conditioning costs by 30%. The Independent Assurance Statement is available on the SCSK Website. The greatest advantage of introducing AI is the ability to Verification test on an AI-powered cooling system those outside of Japan. Scope 1 and 2 emissions are for fiscal https://www.scsk.jp/corp_en/csr/pdf/assuarance_statement_e.pdf 41 SCSK Report 2020 SCSK Report 2020 42 SCSK’s Material Issues *See page 79 for detailed data concerning human resources. Diverse Team of Professionals We are a team of professionals with diverse expertise and experience Developing IT Engineers in order to foster a culture that embraces a diverse workforce and a shared set of values. Since we embrace diversity as a source of We have introduced a career development program for young and promotes innovation. During the program, participants creativity, we strive to create workplaces and opportunities to engage professionals with the objective of having up-and-coming learn about various management approaches based on the our team and keep them growing professionally and as individuals. employees acquire multiple skills ahead of changes in future strengths and challenges of each organization quantified technology needs. University graduates joining the company using the results of the company-wide employee survey, are provided with a total of 1,350 hours of methodology, which maximizes organizational performance. technology and human skills training over a four-year period. By combining this with career advice and job rotations, we Second Job Program (Smart Work Plus) Background and Approach aim to foster this young talent at an early stage of their career. SCSK instituted a second job program called Smart Work For mid-career employees and above, we have expanded Plus in January 2019. This program aims to foster diverse, With the full-fledged advent of a digital society, companies skills of employees. We believe that increasing opportunities job-specific curriculum for improving practical work skills. At vibrant human resources and create innovation by helping now must address the complex and diversified needs of and venues for interacting with different ideas, technologies the same time, we promote the development of elemental employees to broaden their experience and knowledge society using sophisticated business activities incorporating and know-how, while having each employee embrace diverse technology curriculum expected to grow in importance in outside the company through a second job. Another objective the latest digital technologies. IT services companies such as values and personalities through the fostering of professional the future, such as agile development, AI and IoT, and the of the program is to hire and deploy outside human resources SCSK play an important role in the utilization of sophisticated talent, promotion of diversity, and introduction of the second acquisition of related qualifications, in order to secure talent with advanced expertise in a second job capacity to play an IT and the promotion of digitalization. To address such varied job program (Smart Work Plus) will lead to new value creation in quality and quantity for addressing the full-fledged growth active role at SCSK. Through the hiring of diverse people and needs, we must foster and secure talent with a broad range in the form of innovative businesses and services. Going of the DX business. utilization of their knowledge, we will aim to generate new of experience and knowledge, beyond conventional IT forward, we will provide opportunities and workplaces that value through the creation of innovation and new businesses. technologies. enable continual growth and involvement, while utilizing our Fostering Management Talent The SCSK Group is implementing a number of measures diversity and expertise, so that our team of professionals can We have introduced a training program targeting general to increase morale and fully draw out the motivation and actively tackle the challenges of new value creation. managers, the cornerstone of organizational management, Fostering Professional Talent New Personnel System Human Resources Development Program includes systems and infrastructure for supporting active Background to New Personnel System develop and contribute their skills independently. We have —SCSK i-University communication. We are committed to supporting each SCSK aims to become a group of professionals capable of put into place a mechanism for fostering the optimum SCSK i-University is a framework for providing all employees and every employee’s learning goals, recognizing that the sustained value creation using our rich spirit and intellect talent and providing the right compensation, based on their with opportunities for continual growth and learning. It active role of all employees drives SCSK’s growth. Common geared toward self-development as a vision for its organization expected roles in each career track such as “General manager represents a training program as well as a company-wide company-wide training is provided according to the four and people aimed at becoming a co-creative IT company in position” which is responsible for business growth through integrated human resources development program that categories of career development, leadership development, 2030. As a first step, under the Medium-Term Management organizational management and “Professional position” basic business skills development, and specialized skills Plan launched in April 2020, we have positioned investment which is dynamically evaluated the degree of utilization of SCSK i-University development, with the goal of strengthening both mind in people as one of its core strategies. And as a fundamental their own skills. (people skills) and skills (job skills), based on personnel grade starting point, we introduced a new personnel system in Career Leadership Shared development development and specialization level. July 2020. Fostering and Acquiring High-Level Talent companyIn the IT industry, where technology is rapidly changing and Learning wide Specialized Basic business and skills development skills development Kotsukatsu—Supporting Self-Development Vision for New Personnel System becoming sophisticated, the value of human resources with growth As we move toward a truly aging society, we must prepare The purpose of the new personnel system is to fully draw advanced expertise is growing. The advanced level position, Division• Supplementing company-wide training • Development of skills unique to each business for an era of longer working and longer learning as well as out the skills of employees by further strengthening human one of the positions under the new personnel system, has the specific division adapting to intense changes driven by technology. At SCSK, resources development, giving employees with the right skills purpose of fostering and acquiring talent that will drive core • Job category-based communication workshops we have been implementing Kotsukatsu since fiscal 2017 bigger roles regardless of age or experience, and providing business innovation and the commercialization of DX through Communication • Workshops for departments in charge, divisions, and workplaces, etc. as a way of supporting our employees to engage in active compensation suited to their roles. The ultimate goal is to their advanced expertise. The system makes it possible for learning, guided by the notion that steady effort is the key to become a company that can foster and attract diverse talent them to earn over ¥30 million per year in compensation, • Remote participation (training) success. Kotsukatsu aims to both support continual learning with ambition and the drive for self-development, through and we are working to expand human resources both by Mechanisms and • On-demand (e-learning) infrastructure • SCSK Learning Park (training facility) tied to growth by sharing the many learning activities of the introduction and effective implementation of this new promoting from within the company and by hiring from • MA-N@vi (Learning Management System) • ProActive (HR management system) employees within the company and build mechanisms for personnel system. outside the company. employees to work together to raise one another’s skill levels. Multi-Track Personnel and Career Systems Under the new personnel system, we will adopt a multitrack personnel system so that our diverse workforce can 43 SCSK Report 2020 SCSK Report 2020 44 SCSK’s Material Issues Compensation in Line with Skills and Roles of higher role jobs and promotions to positions suited to Under the new personnel system, employees will be evaluated actual skills, and provide compensation that is based on role Health and Productivity Management with emphasis given to skills and roles they play regardless of and performance. In addition, to facilitate hiring of talented age or experience, and the results of this evaluation will be human resources and their retention at SCSK, we made Principles for Health and Productivity Initiatives for Health and Productivity reflected in compensation. By objectively evaluating roles and revisions to compensation to make it more competitive in Management Management responsibilities, we will encourage taking on the challenge external human resources markets. In October 2015, SCSK established its principles for health We carry out a number of health advancement measures, and productivity management. “The health of employees including improving facilities such as the in-house medical underpins the happiness of individual employees and their clinic and a cessation of cigarette smoking program. The families as well as the development of the Company’s Kenko Waku Waku Mileage program, one of the core Diversity and Inclusion business. It is only when employees are able to deliver their measures, provides employees with points for taking part best performance due to being in good mental and physical in and recording healthy activities, with incentives provided Basic Approach to Diversity and Inclusion System for Promoting Diversity and Inclusion health and feeling motivated in their work that the Company based on the number of points earned in one year. Since SCSK is promoting diversity and inclusion as a way to SCSK established an organization dedicated to the promotion will be able to delight its customers with services of the roll out in 2015, the program continues to be used by 99% become a company with a pleasant and rewarding workplace of diversity and inclusion in 2012. Since then, we have highest caliber.” SCSK lays this out in clear language in its of employees. where all employees can fully maximize their skills. We aim implemented a number of initiatives for promoting women’s work rules including the responsibilities of SCSK employees. to be a company that grows sustainably and continually empowerment, leveraging the skills of seniors and supporting Results and Future Policy for Health and creates new value by ensuring its workforce from varying employment opportunities for people with disabilities. With System for Promoting Health and Productivity Productivity Management backgrounds respects one another and actively contributes the foundation a workplace where our diverse workforce can Management An in-house survey found that health advancement measures to the organization. thrive professionally, in 2019 we held rank-based training At SCSK, top management serves as the Chief Health Officer have led to changes in employee behavior and habits, such and workshops along with a seminar for all employees and works to foster penetration of the principles and as decline in the ratio of employees who smoke. More and Policy for Promoting Diversity and Inclusion for penetrating diversity and inclusion. In addition, we related measures. In addition, we have established a more employees feel a keen sense of health and productivity SCSK’s diversity and inclusion has the goal of increasing published the Inclusion Promotion Guidebook to promote dedicated department for promoting health and productivity management penetration and feel like health advancement organizational strengths by having its diverse workforce the penetration and instilment of diversity and inclusion management along with advancement of employee health. In is having positive results at work. SCSK plans to promote accept and understand one another as colleagues. We throughout our corporate culture. this manner, we have a system in place to implement various health and productivity management continuously as a core are working to deploy organization-wide measures that measures while working with the employee mutual aid society measure underpinning the mediumto long-term growth embrace diversity based on “visible” diversity such as gender, and the health insurance association SCSK belongs to. of the company. nationality, age and on “invisible” diversity such as opinions, perspectives, ideas, skills/experiences so as to fully draw out the ability of all employees which can then be harnessed for SCSK’s business growth. Working Style Reforms Creating a Positive Cycle with Working Style 18.3 hours and the number of days of annual paid vacation Diversity and inclusion training for general managers Reforms days taken by employees was 18.1 days (93%). SCSK has been working continuously to create more From fiscal 2016, we launched the Dokodemo WORK efficient and flexible working styles since 2012 before the program for promoting remote work. During Telework term working style reform was coined in Japan. Improving Days 2019, more than 50% of employees teleworked and Initiatives for empowering a Initiatives for preventing harassment employees’ physical and mental health and increasing their this fiscal year more than 70% of employees worked from diverse workforce • Harassment prevention training: We have held motivation toward work will give rise to a positive cycle where home during Japan’s state of emergency declared due to the • Measures for women: We are supporting career training on the theme of sexual harassment since we improve the service value provided to clients and increase COVID-19 pandemic. development based on the issues unique to each fiscal 2015 and on power harassment since fiscal generation, having established a target for the number 2018 for all employees in order to create a stakeholder returns. Toward this end, we are implementing of women in officer and line management positions as comfortable workplace environment where various measures. Future Initiatives for Working Style Reforms a main indicator of women's empowerment. We have employees and other stakeholders respect one To achieve the SCSK Group’s vision of becoming a “co-creative promoted 119 women to manager positions, which another at work. As for prevention of power is roughly 9x the level at the start of this measure. harassment, while also deepening knowledge and Smart Work Challenge and Dokodemo WORK IT company in 2030,” and driven by intense changes in • Measures for LGBT: We are working to develop an encouraging proper behavior using practical cases (Work Anywhere Project) business climate, we must update our reforms to integrate as curriculum including self-checks and case studies environment where all employees can work with of other companies, we compiled the SCSK Power Smart Work Challenge launched in fiscal 2013 is a core our business strategy and working styles. As a pioneer in peace of mind, which includes allowing same sex Harassment Guidelines. By making these widely measure of SCSK for promoting the target of reducing working style reform, and as a IT service company supporting and common-law partners to be considered known internally, we raise awareness of common “spouse” under the company’s internal programs. average monthly overtime hours to less than 20 and ensuring social infrastructure, we will continue with our initiatives knowledge regarding words and actions that could be harassment, including gray areas, working to employees take on average 20 days of annual paid vacation under the new policy of Working Style Reform 2.1, a next• Measures for seniors: We are focusing on creating a workplace environment where all employees can reinforce measures to eliminate all forms of days every year. generation working style strategy that integrates business thrive regardless of age, having introduced a harassment in the workplace. Average monthly overtime hours in fiscal 2019 totaled strategy, working styles, and concepts of offices. program for the full-time employment of seniors up to age 65. 45 SCSK Report 2020 SCSK Report 2020 46 SCSK’s Material Issues Sustainable Value Chain We minimize any negative impacts associated with our value chain. In addition to service quality, we also work with partners to advance Collaboration with Partners environmental and social goals such as sustainability, diversity, human rights and innovation to support our customers' sustainable growth. SCSK continues with its initiatives for improving quality Toward this end, we are working closely with partner and productivity together with partner companies. This companies on solutions for more efficient operations and has enabled us to provide stable systems development, improving quality and productivity. As a positive outcome, we maintenance and operation using the SCSK development have seen overtime working hours reduced with each passing standard (SE+). We are now working on initiatives for year for employees of both SCSK and partner companies. Background and Approach achieving more sophisticated development and operation In recent years, we have been making efforts to enhance using S-Cred+, a platform for promoting Low-Code No-Code work-life balance by proactively introducing teleworking at Companies provide their customers with various products to activities for consistent quality, such as mutual evaluation development, aimed at next-generation solutions. satellite offices or working from home as flexible working and services. The ability to deliver consistent and high-quality of each project. In addition, we will transform our approach by requesting styles that can utilize time and place effectively. services to customers requires close collaboration with various Furthermore, demand for a responsible supply chain is work of partner companies on a contract basis in order to Finally, SCSK requires its partner companies to comply partner companies in the value chain of business activities. rising from the perspectives of sustainability in recent years. To further promote the move away from our reliance on people. with its Information Security Guidelines when handling SCSK has worked with its partner companies to achieve deal with this, we share the Supply Chain Sustainability Policy Furthermore, we mutually evaluate each project together information that is considered an important asset of clients. high quality and productivity, carrying out initiatives jointly with partners and ask their understanding and acceptance with core partners and then analyze and utilize the results to We ensure compliance and rectify any issues through regular for utilizing SCSK’s development standard (SE+) in systems in implementing these initiatives. continually improve project quality and productivity. briefings and field audits. To eliminate information security development, maintenance and operation. We are also Going forward, SCSK will continue to support the Also, we are promoting working style reforms together incidents, we will continue to ensure thorough information committed to the work-life balance of partner company sustainable growth of clients by providing high-quality, safe with partner companies with the goal of creating an IT security compliance so that we can earn the strong trust of employees, including putting into place solutions for greater and secure services using a value chain that is conscious not industry that attracts talent. clients and society in the future. operational efficiencies as working style reforms, in addition only of quality, but also the environment and society. Initiative Themes Theme Key point Examples of initiatives Various Policies in the Supply Chain • Development and management • Rollout of SCSK development standards (SE+) and software Operational Quality standardization (SE+, etc.) engineering platform (S-Cred+) at partner companies for stable and Productivity systems development, maintenance and operation Supply Chain Sustainability Policy • Collaboration from upper processes Improvement • Transformation to business style driven by work requests made to SCSK has established the Supply Chain Sustainability Policy, Core Partner Conference • Promotion of subcontracting partner companies using subcontracting recognizing its social responsibilities in the supply chain SCSK designates main partner companies that help it • Establishment of average overtime hours and rate of consumed for purchasing that is conscious of sustainability. We share achieve higher quality and productivity and engage in Working Style Reforms / • Sharing of health and productivity annual paid vacation days as indicators for core partners and this recognition with partners who we work closely with to continuous and stable transactions as core partners. Health and Productivity management measures / initiatives commendation of companies that demonstrate specific activities resolve social issues while gaining their understanding and We share SCSK’s business policy with these core Management • Tracking of shared indicators and outcomes partners so that they engage in business transactions • Active introduction and promotion of telework for development work acceptance. with an understanding of the direction of our business. Once a year we host the Core Partner Conference. This fiscal year we streamed video of the • Enhancement of information • Requirement of partner companies to comply with the Information Information Security security Security Guidelines and rectification of any issues through field audits For details, please visit: conference online due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Enhancement and https://www.scsk.jp/corp_en/csr/fairpractices/supply_chain.html • Strict observance of laws related to • Briefings for partner companies to ensure and strengthen information We plan to continue holding the conference using Compliance Promotion this same format given the new normal of life with outsourcing security and compliance Purchasing Guidelines COVID-19. SCSK has established its basic corporate stance toward purchasing within its Purchasing Guidelines. We define and implement themes for specific initiatives based on Comment from a Partner Company these guidelines and promote them together with partner IST-Software has been implementing initiatives for working style companies. reforms as a key management task. Implementing initiatives SCSK provided the impetus behind our initiatives and it has for working style reforms provided us with advice. Having learned so much from SCSK, we For details, please visit: are very honored to have been recognized by SCSK for our https://www.scsk.jp/corp_en/csr/fairpractices/partner.html as a key management task working style reforms, which has provided encouragement to our Koshiro Someya employees. Representative Director and President Going forward, I look forward to learning even more from IST-Software Co., Ltd. SCSK as we move ahead with further reforms. 47 SCSK Report 2020 SCSK Report 2020 48 SCSK’s Material Issues Transparent Governance We conduct effective management oversight while ensuring Board of Directors Audit and Supervisory Committee transparency and compliance, and have established and As of June 23, 2020, SCSK’s Board of Directors comprises The Audit and Supervisory Committee comprises four maintain management frameworks for sound information and 11 members, including four independent outside directors. directors, including three independent outside directors as risk management. The Board of Directors makes decisions on important members. The committee carries out organized audits using management issues and supervises operational execution. the internal control system and supervises and audits business The main matters discussed by the Board of Directors include execution from an independent and objective position. One matters stipulated by law, matters stipulated in company director who is an Audit and Supervisory Committee member regulations, and important matters regarding management is a certified public accountant with considerable knowledge Basic Policy such as management strategy and management plans. of finance and accounting. SCSK’s Board of Directors meets in principle on a monthly Embracing its focus on corporate social responsibility Rating these matters high among management priorities, we basis, but also convenes extraordinary meetings when Governance Committee (sustainability), the SCSK Group conducts business activities aim to build an optimal management structure that benefits necessary. Meetings of the Board of Directors were held 14 We have also established the Governance Committee, a with an eye to shareholders and other stakeholders. SCSK the most. times in fiscal 2019. majority of whose members are independent outside From this perspective, the SCSK Group considers raising We implement each of the principles set forth in the In addition, SCSK has concluded a liability limitation directors and an independent outside expert, as an advisory the efficiency and soundness of management as well as Tokyo Stock Exchange’s Corporate Governance Code and agreement with directors (excluding directors who also act committee to the Board of Directors. This committee is ensuring transparency in the decision–making process as provide detailed disclosures within our Corporate Governance as executive officers, etc.) for the minimum liability amount charged with ensuring fairness and transparency, and that the most basic components of its corporate governance. Report based on each principle. stipulated in Article 425-1 of the Companies Act, pursuant consideration is given to the interests shared by SCSK and to Article 427-1 of the Companies Act and Article 29-2 of SCSK’s shareholders, during decision making by directors Strengthening of Corporate Governance the Articles of Incorporation. and the Board of Directors. The Governance Committee deliberates on the following matters and reports to the Board June 25, 2015 onward June 28, 2016 onward June 23, 2017 onward June 26, 2018 onward June 25, 2019 onward Executive Officers of Directors and other meeting bodies. SCSK introduced an executive officer system on January 1, 1: Matters involving transactions that could pose a conflict Number of 18 19 16 12 11 2005. Through this system, executive officers are assigned of interest between the company and directors and that Directors (3 Outside Directors) (5 Outside Directors) (7 Outside Directors) (4 Outside Directors) (4 Outside Directors) responsibility for areas of operational execution under the require approval of the Board of Directors as per the directions of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Companies Act. Company with Audit Company with Audit Company with Audit Company with Audit Company with Audit and President and Chief Operating Officer and act in 2: Matters involving transactions between the company Institutional and Supervisory and Supervisory and Supervisory and Supervisory and Supervisory design Board Committee Committee Committee Committee accordance with the management policies decided by and relevant parties that the Board of Directors ask the (4 Company Auditors) (4 Audit and Supervisory Committee members) (7 Audit and Supervisory Committee members) (4 Audit and Supervisory Committee members) (4 Audit and Supervisory Committee members) the Board of Directors. Governance Committee to deliberate on as necessary for This system clarifies that authority for making decisions ensuring the fairness of decision making by the Board Voluntary Nomination and Remuneration Governance Governance Governance committee Advisory Committee Committee Committee Committee on important management matters and supervising of Directors. for deliberating nomination (6 members including 3 independent directors) (5 members including (6 members including (5 members including operational execution collectively resides with the Board of 3: Matters concerning the selection criteria and election 3 independent 4 independent 4 independent and remuneration outside directors) outside directors) outside directors) Directors. In addition, the system allows for the establishment process of directors and executive officers as well as the and strengthening of supervising systems to ensure that appointment and dismissal of directors. effective operational execution can be conducted based 4: Matters concerning the remuneration of directors and on swifter decisions regarding management policies by executive officers. Corporate Governance Structure the Board of Directors. In these ways, the executive officer 5: Other matters that the Board of Directors inquire about as General Meeting of Shareholders system contributes to the enhanced corporate governance necessary for ensuring the fairness of their decision making. Appointment, dismissal Appointment, dismissal of the company. Appointment, Audit and Supervisory dismissal Audit Department Board of Directors Report Committee Cooperation Management Committee SCSK’s Audit Department is in charge of the company’s Governance Committee 7 directors (excluding the Audit and 4 directors Accounting Auditor The Management Committee, made up of executive officers, internal audits. It is independent from departments that Supervisory Committee members) (Audit and Supervisory Inquiry Chair: independent outside director Committee members) etc., functions as an advisory body to the Chairman and Chief execute business operations, and examines and evaluates Executive Officer and President and Chief Operating Officer control activities and risk management covering all Supervision and Appointment, Appointment, decision making dismissal dismissal Audits, etc. Audit Instruction Report, assist with regard to important operational execution matters. This management activities of SCSK and its subsidiaries from Operational Execution Audit Department committee was created with the aim of strengthening both the standpoint of improving operational effectiveness and corporate governance and operational execution capabilities efficiency and securing the reliability of financial reporting. Management Committee Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Report by creating a system with clear separation of management The Audit Department reports the results of internal audits President and Chief Operating Officer Compliance Committee supervision and execution functions in which executive to the Audit and Supervisory Committee as it is under the Instructions, directives officers including the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer direct supervision of the Audit and Supervisory Committee. It Executive Officers and the President and Chief Operating Officer, have authority also reports these results directly to the Chairman and Chief Business Groups, Branch Offices Audit and responsibility for matters of daily operational execution. Executive Officer and President and Chief Operating Officer. Corporate Group, Business Support Group Accounting audit 49 SCSK Report 2020 SCSK Report 2020 50 SCSK’s Material Issues Composition of Board of Directors and Committees Chairperson Committee Member Attendance record*1 Election and Dismissal of Directors and Procedures Audit and Governance Title Name Board of Directors Supervisory Committee Committee*4 Directors (excluding those directors that serve as members directors. Directors that serve as members of the Audit and Representative Director of the Audit and Supervisory Committee) are elected and Supervisory Committee must have specialized knowledge Masao Tabuchi (14/14 meetings) Chairman and Chief Executive Officer dismissed by the General Meeting of Shareholders after and experience and be able to carry out audits from an Representative Director a resolution is passed by SCSK’s Board of Directors based objective standpoint. Toru Tanihara (14/14 meetings) President and Chief Operating Officer on certain criteria and take into account the results of In addition to the above, candidates for outside director Director examinations by the Governance Committee, which mainly are determined based mainly on whether they have specialized Tetsuya Fukunaga (14/14 meetings) Senior Managing Executive Officer consists of independent outside directors, and the views of the and wide-reaching knowledge concerning various fields and Director Audit and Supervisory Committee. These criteria include the corporate management. Kei Kato (12/12 meetings) Senior Managing Executive Officer necessary knowledge, experience and track record to serve Currently, one female director has been elected Director as a director of SCSK, the ability to contribute to constructive considering diversity, including both gender and international Tatsuro Tamura (12/12 meetings) Managing Executive Officer discussion at meetings of the Board of Directors, excellent experience. This director possesses a wealth of experience management skills and understanding of compliance with and broad insight concerning the international situation. Director Bin Haga*3 (-) laws and regulations, high levels of corporate ethics, and SCSK continually appoints independent outside directors for directors who also act as executive officers, sufficient without any concern of conflict of interests with general Director *2 Kiyoto Matsuda (14/14 meetings) knowledge in the field they are in charge of. shareholders in order to maintain and improve directors’ The election and dismissal of candidates for directors that supervision of management execution by executive officers. Director serve as members of the Audit and Supervisory Committee Outside directors with management discernment gained Yasunori Anzai (14/14 meetings) (Audit and Supervisory Committee Member) (Full-time) (16/16 meetings) are determined by the Board of Directors with the consent through a wide range of business activities attend meetings Director of the Audit and Supervisory Committee, taking into account of the Board of Directors and provide recommendations for Kimitoshi Yabuki (12/14 meetings) (14/16 meetings) (Audit and Supervisory Committee Member)*2 the results of examinations by the Governance Committee, a the maximization of corporate value. Director majority of whose members consists of independent outside Masaichi Nakamura (12/14 meetings) (16/16 meetings) (Audit and Supervisory Committee Member) *2 Director Reasons for Elections of Outside Directors Kazuko Shiraishi (13/14 meetings) (16/16 meetings) (Audit and Supervisory Committee Member)*2 Reason *1 Attendance records from April 2019 to March 2020 *2 Outside Director Kiyoto Matsuda has a breadth of experience and a wealth of knowledge in corporate Kiyoto Matsuda management. He has been selected since we believe the experience and knowledge *3 Newly elected (from June 2020) Independent Director *4 One independent outside expert (lawyer) was also appointed as a member. The Governance Committee also deliberates on matters other than those concerning nomination and remuneration, (Chairman of the Board) accumulated through his business career qualify him to maintain and improve the supervision of the execution of operations of SCSK. and currently totals seven members. Audit and Supervisory Kimitoshi Yabuki has specialized knowledge and experience as a lawyer. He has been elected as Kimitoshi Yabuki Committee Member an outside director and member of the Audit and Supervisory Committee because we believe the experience and knowledge accumulated through his career qualify him to audit the Independent Director execution of duties by directors of SCSK from an objective standpoint. Policy on the Protection of Minority Shareholders Masaichi Nakamura has been elected as outside director and member of the Audit and Audit and Supervisory Masaichi Nakamura Committee Member Supervisory Committee because he is qualified for carrying out audits of the execution of duties by directors of SCSK objectively based on his professional experience and knowledge Independent Director Policy on the Protection of Minority Shareholders Policy on Protection of Minority Shareholders in and his specialized knowledge and experience as a certified public accountant. in Transactions with Parent Company Ensuring Independence from Parent Company Audit and Supervisory Kazuko Shiraishi has been elected as outside director and member of the Audit and Supervisory SCSK engages in transactions with its parent company From the perspective of protecting minority shareholders, Kazuko Shiraishi Committee Member Committee because she is qualified for carrying out audits of the execution of duties by directors of SCSK objectively based on her professional experience and knowledge and her Independent Director Sumitomo Corporation under the same conditions as other the Board of Directors is composed of 11 directors including breadth of experience and broad insight concerning international situation. business counterparties without capital ties to ensure that four outside independent directors without a conflict of minority shareholders are not subjected to disadvantages. interest with general shareholders (as of June 23, 2020). Important transactions are deliberated on in advance by In this manner, SCSK independently supervises the execution the Governance Committee, a majority of whose members of business and decision making on matters important Stimulating Deliberations of the Board of Directors are independent outside directors and an independent to management. outside expert. In turn, the Board of Directors determines In addition, we give appropriate consideration to the The secretariat of the Board of Directors led mainly by the schedule and deliberation matters of the Board of Directors whether to go ahead with the transaction based on the shared interests of SCSK and its shareholders. To ensure Legal Department strives to endeavor handout materials in advance to every extent possible, continuously reviews reports of the Governance Committee. fairness and transparency, we have established the for the Board of Directors and to ensure discussions during agenda standards, and carefully selects matters requiring Furthermore, we ensure the fairness of transactions with Governance Committee, a majority of whose members are meetings of the Board of Directors are active and substantial resolution of the Board of Directors. In this manner, sufficient the parent company by means of regular reporting to the independent outside directors and an independent outside by conducting prior explanations for outside directors. time is dedicated to deliberations on truly material matters. Governance Committee. expert, as an advisory committee to the Board of Directors. Additionally, the secretariat determines the annual 51 SCSK Report 2020 SCSK Report 2020 52 SCSK’s Material Issues Performance-Linked Compensation Policy and Indicators Breakdown of Base Compensation and PerformanceEvaluating the Effectiveness of the Board of Directors in Fiscal 2019 SCSK has established a compensation system which uses Linked Compensation in Officer Compensation business performance and profit growth to determine the PerformancePosition as executive officer Base linked SCSK carries out self-evaluation and analysis concerning the that the overall effectiveness of the Board of Directors is amount of compensation. Performance-linked compensation compensation compensation effectiveness of the Board of Directors in order to improve the being secured. is designed in a way so that it fluctuates between 50% and Representative Director functions of the Board of Directors and enhance corporate In particular, in the previous fiscal year, we took steps to 110% based on the target achievement rate. The calculation Chairman and 66% 34% value as a result. improve deliberations on determination of the management formula used for determining the achievement rate of the Chief Executive Officer This self-evaluation and analysis was carried out by plan, which was identified as an issue in the previous forecast is presented below: Representative Director President and 66% 34% asking all directors to complete a questionnaire in February evaluation of board effectiveness, and we believe that the Chief Operating Officer 2020 that was prepared with the help of an outside advisor. results of these improvements are steadily materializing. Target achievement rate = Target achievement rate of net sales x 30% + Executive Vice President 67% 33% Anonymity was assured by having directors reply directly to In addition, regarding the succession plan, we continue to the outside advisor. Based on the tabulation results from deepen discussions at meetings of the Board of Directors. Target achievement rate of operating income x 70% Senior Managing Executive 73% 27% Officer the outside advisor, analysis, discussion and evaluation was Opinions were shared about regular reviews of the carried out at the regular meeting of the Board of Directors Group’s entire business portfolio. We also shared other held in May 2020. tasks such as further improvement of the Board of Directors’ A summary of these results is as follows: Responses to functions and energization of discussions. Internal Control the questionnaire indicate generally positive assessments Looking ahead, taking into account the results of this regarding the composition of the Board of Directors, evaluation, SCSK’s Board of Directors will swiftly address SCSK has established the Basic Policy on Establishing the In accordance with this basic policy, we continuously appropriate management of transactions with conflicts issues based on a thorough review and will continue to Internal Control System so that the execution of duties by check the effectiveness of the internal control system and of interest, open and constructive discussions, training of promote measures for enhancing the functions of the Board directors conforms to laws and the Articles of Incorporation conduct reviews based on the changing management directors, information exchanges among outside directors, of Directors. and that other operations along with the operations of the climate, which allows us to modify the internal control system and general management matters. As a result, we believe corporate group comprising SCSK and its subsidiaries are on occasion as the need arises. performed appropriately. Remuneration for Directors Enhancing Information Disclosures and Communication SCSK pays out annual remuneration to directors including and Supervisory Committee. The specific amount of bonuses, within the maximum amount as determined at the remuneration to be paid to individual directors is determined Basic Policy governance. Also, as a measure to ensure this transparency, Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders. jointly among the representative directors. However, the Information disclosure represents an important responsibility the company has established the following system for the The policies, procedures, and calculation methods, determination process involves reporting to the Audit and of management from the standpoint of ensuring the disclosure of corporate information. Through this system, and level of remuneration of directors (excluding those Supervisory Committee, which we have confirmed to be an transparency and fairness of the company’s decision making. we work to disclose information in a timely, appropriate, directors that serve as members of the Audit and Supervisory appropriate process. We strive to carry out information disclosure in an and fair manner. Committee) are decided by the Board of Directors taking In addition, directors that serve as members of the appropriate and timely manner in order to help deepen 1: The Corporate Planning, Corporate Communications & into account the results of examinations by the Governance Audit and Supervisory Committee are given sole discretion understanding among various stakeholders, including Sustainability Group, Human Resources & General Affairs Committee, a majority of whose members consists of regarding their own compensation pursuant to the provisions shareholders and other investors, about decision making by Group, Legal & Risk Management Group, Accounting & independent outside directors, and views of the Audit of Article 361, Paragraph 3 of the Companies Act. SCSK’s management and the company’s business activities. IR Group, and Finance & Business Investment Promotion The company’s basic policy on information disclosures Group carry out the effective collection of information that Remuneration of Directors in Fiscal 2019 is to disclose information in a proactive manner. In addition is subject to disclosure, screen what is to be disclosed, and to disclosures on operating results and financial information prepare drafts for disclosure. Total remuneration Total remuneration by type (millions of yen) Number of pursuant to laws and regulations, non-financial information 2: Upon receiving authorization from the President and Category eligible directors (millions of yen) Basic Bonus Other (persons) (including ESG elements concerning governance along with Chief Operating Officer, information handling officers— remuneration social and environmental issues) deemed material by SCSK the persons responsible for supervising the management Directors (excluding those directors that serve as 258 185 59 14 11 is also communicated using various means, including the and disclosure of information—confirm the content and Audit and Supervisory Committee members) (12) (12) (0) (0) (1) corporate website and SCSK report. determine whether disclosure is required. (of whom, outside directors) 3: The information handling officers appropriately disclose Directors that serve as Audit and Supervisory 53 53 0 0 4 Structure for Timely Disclosure corporate information after receiving approval from the Committee members (of whom, outside directors) (36) (36) (0) (0) (3) SCSK recognizes that a high level of management Board of Directors when necessary. transparency is an important component of corporate 53 SCSK Report 2020 SCSK Report 2020 54 SCSK’s Material Issues Structure for Timely Disclosure Communication with Shareholders and Other Whistleblower System Audit and Supervisory Committee. Investors We have established a whistleblower system (or “speak Tokyo Stock Exchange (Disclosure) SCSK actively holds constructive communication with up” system) for quickly resolving compliance violations Education and Training shareholders and other investors according to a scope and and preventing such violations from occurring by enabling Recognizing that employees are the foundation of compliance, Information Handling Officer (Person responsible for handling corporate information) means acceptable in order to contribute to sustainable employees of the SCSK Group and partner companies to we provide information on compliance as well as various growth and the enhancement of mediumto long-term report and consult on problems they notice. forms of compliance training, including group training for Board of Directors (Approval, Reporting) corporate value. We have created a structure for promoting new employees and newly appointed managers, e-learning constructive communication with shareholders and other Contact Points and Reporting Methods and group discussions, so that regardless of the situation Persons Responsible for Handling Information investors, led by a Corporate IR officer. This officer is mainly Employees may report a problem to any of the three the correct decision and action are taken following rules and General Manager (Corporate IR Officer) responsible for establishing an internal system for disclosing following contact points by email or another method at regulations on compliance. We have compiled a Compliance Examinations pertaining to disclosure of Approval information on our business activities to shareholders and their own discretion. Manual that contains detailed commentary on particularly corporate information Necessity of disclosure and content to be disclosed other investors in an appropriate and timely manner. In 1. Chair of Compliance Committee important laws and regulations. We also strive to foster President and Chief Operating Officer terms of actual communication, we work to facilitate direct 2. Audit and Supervisory Committee greater awareness of compliance through our in-house Departments Related to Information Disclosure (Approval) The Corporate Planning, Corporate Communications & discussions between this officer and shareholders and other 3. Outside lawyer (reports may be anonymous) website and other means. Sustainability Group, Reporting investors whenever possible. Regardless of the point of contact, the privacy of the Human Resources & General Affairs Group, Legal & Risk Management Group, Accounting & IR Group, As a means to promoting communication with shareholders person filing the report and other related parties is strictly Fair Transactions Finance & Business Investment Promotion Group (Conduct screening of information to be disclosed, and other investors, we hold quarterly briefings on financial protected along with the confidentiality of reported matters. The SCSK Compliance Manual clearly stipulates that and prepare drafts for disclosure) results, and plan and conduct briefings on business Guarantees are in place to ensure persons who report a we must ensure fair transactions as specific rules about activities and business strategies as appropriate to deepen problem are not subjected to unfair treatment, and the compliance. Its standards include a Code of Business Financial Information Information understanding about the SCSK’s operations. We also actively system has been well used each year. Activities, which sets forth requirements for compliance Information Confirmed Recognized engage in IR activities both inside and outside of Japan. with the Anti-Monopoly Act and prohibition of unfair Corporate Planning, Corporate Communications & In particular, outside of Japan, we hold IR meetings for Investigating Matters competition. These standards support the development of Sustainability Group (Corporate Planning, Budget Drafting) institutional investors in Europe, the United States as well as All reports and consultations are handled promptly. commercial relationships based on trust with our suppliers Human Resources & General Affairs Group (Human Resources) in Asia, including Hong Kong and Singapore. SCSK also takes Investigation is conducted in cooperation with relevant through fair and free competition. Legal & Risk Management Group (Legal, Risk Management) part in investor conferences for overseas institutional investors departments based on policies established by the Chair of The manual also outlines corporate ethics required for fair Accounting & IR Group (Closing Account, Budget Controlling) Finance & Business Investment Promotion Group (Capital Policy) hosted by securities companies as part of its efforts to engage the Compliance Committee, when required. operating practices in its Code for Employees as Members Other Corporate Groups (Retain Information) with investors. Opinions received through communication The results of investigations are promptly informed to of Society, which includes rules against corruption and rules with shareholders and other investors inside and outside the whistleblower. concerning political donations and stresses the importance Business Groups Group Companies (Retain information) (Retain information) Japan are shared with management in an appropriate and The results of investigations and details of corrective of resisting organized crime. timely manner for use in SCSK’s business planning. measures are also reported to senior management and the Compliance Risk Management Basic Approach follow through with our commitment to compliance. This Basic Policy on Risk Management Consistent Increase the consistency of performance and ensure SCSK views compliance as observing laws and regulations, committee determines and revises company-wide policies SCSK defines risk as the possibility of incurring loss and the performance sustainable growth by administering operations so and growth that actual results do not vary from forecasts. and acting with a high sense of ethics within the norms on compliance, maintains and manages the compliance possibility that returns obtained from business activities fall of society. Based on its corporate philosophy and Code of system, coordinates with relevant departments, monitors short of expectations. To ensure the stability of the SCSK Reinforcing Limit losses from latent risks posed by the business Conduct, SCSK considers acting sincerely and appropriately implementation status and shares information. Group’s business activities and enhance corporate value, we corporate model to enable business continuity even when structure risks emerge. as members of society and corporate citizens to be the most examine all possible forms of risk during execution of business important principle for director and employee conduct. Each System to Promote Compliance activities and engage in continuous risk management with Maintain and increase trust by fulfilling corporate Maintain trust social responsibilities including legal compliance. individual director and employee is responsible for his/her the purposes described at right. Compliance Committee own actions based on the concept of compliance, and strives Report Audit and Nomination Supervisory to produce results that fulfill the social responsibility of the Chair of Compliance Committee Committee President and entire company as an organization. Chief Operating Nomination Officer Outside Compliance Committee Report lawyer members Structure and System Approval Following our basic approach to compliance, we have Recommendation and established Compliance Rules and compiled a Compliance promotion of education Report Report and preventive measures Manual as well as built an organizational structure for compliance. We have set up a Compliance Committee to Executives and employees 55 SCSK Report 2020 SCSK Report 2020 56 SCSK’s Material Issues Risk Management System Corporate Group responsible for each risk. Risk management SCSK has established the Risk Management Regulations and activities are carried out by the entire company, including Response to Security Incidents the Risk Management Department as a dedicated department training and education. In addition, the status of each process in charge of risk management, so that we can appropriately is also reported to the Board of Directors. SCSK-CSIRT Initiatives Aimed at Timely Initial Response manage risks that could have a serious adverse effect on the We have organized SCSK-CSIRT in order to carry out activities 1. Identify and 2. Review risk 3. Implement risk SCSK Group’s business. evaluate risk countermeasures countermeasures to ensure a prompt response and that minimize damages Responding to Emergencies Based on these regulations, each Corporate Group should a computer security incident occur. To minimize damages should an incident occur, SCSKis responsible for relevant risks based on their individual 5. Review of each risk 4. Monitoring CSIRT convenes related parties for determining the prompt countermeasure operations. All persons heading up an organization including SCSK-CSIRT System shutdown of systems and restoration. It has also compiled business groups are in charge of risk management for their We established the CSIRT system under the belief that response procedures as a set of rules that it shares internally respective organizations. Specific Risk Countermeasures: Emergency coordination and collaboration with related departments in order to increase the effectiveness of responses. The Risk Management Department centrally identifies Response and Business Continuity Plan based on their roles will be vital in the case of an emergency. and evaluates whether risk management is functioning To prepare for the occurrence of major disasters, pandemics and In dealing with an incident appropriately, the CSIRT Training and Drills appropriately from a companywide perspective and regularly other unforeseen circumstances that may have a grave impact Secretariat, Corporate Systems Department and Security We provide information security training using e-learning to reports its findings to the President and Chief Operating on the SCSK Group, SCSK has established rules of conduct and Services Department collaborate to analyze the incident and prevent damages from cyberattacks and conduct email drill Officer, who provides instructions regarding the response organizational frameworks to respond to emergencies. We are deliberate on response policy and methods. At the same for targeted attack. policy to risks. Additionally, risks determined to require taking a number of advanced measures led by the Disaster Risk time, they also coordinate with outside institutions such as In addition, we conduct tabletop emergency response more focused countermeasures are defined as important Management Subcommittee. These include stockpiling food, JPCERT and NISC. drills based on scenarios with specific incidents so that the risk management items, with countermeasures and water and other supplies; conducting drills for adopting an The Legal Department and Corporate Planning CSIRT Secretariat and related departments can collaborate implementation progress reported to the Board of Directors. employee safety confirmation system and setting up disaster Department, or other departments in charge collaborate to smoothly and carry out a swift response. headquarters; establishing a system to address emergencies accurately determine the scope of impacts from an incident, Risk Management System Diagram that take place at night or on holidays; and sharing information including whether an incident breaches compliance rules or Response to Vulnerabilities Board of Directors and raising awareness among employees through the disaster laws, or whether it will impact SCSK’s operations. We have established security countermeasure standards Reporting Status report Status report of response portal, e-learning and disaster preparedness seminars. Information obtained in this manner through for servers and cloud services accessible from the Internet. of risk President and risk management Chief Operating Furthermore, we review our business continuity plan each year collaboration with departments in charge is compiled by We confirm conformity with these standards and regularly Instruction of Instruction of risk Officer response response policy to ensure it is up to date and improve its effectiveness. the CSIRT Secretariat and reported to the CSIRT Chair, which diagnose vulnerabilities and perform fixes. Departments Inventory risk Department responsible ensures we can make a determination of the response quickly responsible for risk and reporting for risk management (Corporate Groups) of results (Risk Management Department) depending on the degree of impacts. Response to risk and Support for risk Confirmation and implementation of risk response, etc. evaluation of risks and risk SCSK-CSIRT System Diagram management process response Identification and Information communication route internally Incident information sharing route externally Identification Support and training for collaboration of status of risk risk response measures, etc. regarding risk management status Organizations implementing risk management Internal External All organizations Group companies President and Chief Operating Officer (business groups, etc.) Information Security Compliance with company Compliance with company Management System Reporting regulations and regulations and Collaboration Officer in Charge of implementation of risk implementation of risk Information Security General Manager management process management process Instructions for Initiatives in Disaster Risk Reduction at Reporting response External related parties Home following Working Style Reforms Business groups / branch offices SCSK-CSIRT Other companies’ CSIRT Risk Management Process At SCSK, we are working on not only natural disaster Information Security Management Officer Determination of response Information sharing Under the risk management system described above, we Government institutions countermeasures for offices, but also activities to CSIRT Chair raise awareness about countermeasures at home Reporting Instructions Deliberation on continually implement a series of processes as follows in response Information gathering Client companies (disaster risk reduction at home) following the Reporting order to unlock more sophisticated risk management and growing number of employees teleworking as a Information Security Implementation Officer Consumers adapt to changes in business climate. result of working style reforms. As part of this, in CSIRT Secretariat To identify and evaluate risks, every year, we regularly take August 2019 we published a guidebook on Deliberation on preventing damages from wind, floods and landslides Collaboration response policy Information exchange Nippon CSIRT inventory of risks for the entire organization, including Group and provided an e-learning program on the subject Related departments CSIRT members Association, etc. companies inside and outside Japan. At the same time, the Risk matter to all employees, taking into account the Management Department gathers risk information from inside growing risk of wind, floods and landslide disasters in External Reporting Reporting contact point recent years. and outside the company, reporting it to the President and Chief We continue working to improve our business Reporting Employees User help desk Security Operation Center (SOC) Reporting Operating Officer and sharing it with relevant organizations. continuity system by continuously implementing Police, JPCERT, etc. The examination, implementation, monitoring and countermeasures against natural disasters for the office and home. review of risk countermeasures are carried out mainly by the 57 SCSK Report 2020 SCSK Report 2020 58 SCSK’s Material Issues Board of Directors Current position(s) of directors as of June 2020 Masao Tabuchi Toru Tanihara Tetsuya Fukunaga Masaichi Nakamura Kazuko Shiraishi Representative Director Representative Director Director Outside Director Outside Director Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, SCSK President and Chief Operating Officer, SCSK Senior Managing Executive Officer (Audit and Supervisory Committee Member) (Audit and Supervisory Committee Member) Chief Health Officer General Manager, Finance & Business Independent Director Independent Director Investment Promotion Group Outside Director, ARGO GRAPHICS Inc. Representative, Masaichi Nakamura CPA Office External Director, MODEC, Inc. External Corporate Auditor, Sumitomo Heavy Industries, Ltd. Outside Director (Audit and Supervisory Committee Member), Terumo Corporation Executive Officers Current position(s) of directors as of June 2020 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Masao Tabuchi Shigehiro Seki Executive Officer Naoki Ike Senior Executive Officer Yoshinori Imai Eri Kawanabe President and Chief Toru Tanihara Koichi Naito Toshiya Uchida Operating Officer Yoshinori Kawashima Hiroyuki Miyagawa Executive Vice Masatoshi Endo Akihiko Harima Junichi Horie President Kei Kato Tatsuro Tamura Bin Haga Takayuki Okuhara Kenji Toda Director Director Director Senior Managing Executive Officer General Manager, Global System Solutions & Managing Executive Officer General Manager (Corporate Planning, Managing Executive Officer of Sumitomo Corporation Senior Managing Executive Officer Tatsuyasu Kumazaki Tadashi Miyagawa Hideyuki Miyashita Innovation Business Group Corporate Communications & Assistant General Manager, Media & Digital Deputy General Manager (DX Strategic Sustainability Group） Business Unit Tetsuya Fukunaga Takaya Yamamoto Shoji Shiuchi Marketing Center, DX & Innovation Business Executive Officer of Sumitomo Corporation General Manager, Digital Business Division Center, DX Technology Development Center, Assistant to General Manager, Media & Research & Development Center) Digital Business Unit Kei Kato Koji Watanabe Kenji Ichiba Corporate Officer of Sumitomo Corporation Assistant to General Manager, Digital Business Division Managing Executive Officer Toshiaki Kudo Toshihiko Mitsuishi Shu Wei Tetsuya Ueda Yukihiko Saito Shunichiro Fukushima Hideki Tazai Yasuhiko Oka Tomoo Kawana Atsushi Innami Mineo Yokoyama Ikuo Uchiyama Makoto Nakamura Hiroyuki Komiya Shinji Miyanishi Atsushi Watanabe Kan Takahashi Toshihiko Kusakabe Takashi Shinjo Akira Yamano Osamu Kubo Yasushi Shimizu Ken Takano Yoshinari Kobayashi Takaaki Touma Masahiro Otani Yousuke Tsutaya Kiyoto Matsuda Yasunori Anzai Kimitoshi Yabuki Outside Director Director Outside Director Tatsuro Tamura Tomishige Tamura Masaki Komine (Audit and Supervisory Committee Member) (Audit and Supervisory Committee Member) Independent Director Chairman of the Board Assistant to General Manager, Independent Director Yasuo Sugahara Masaaki Mori Tomoyuki Naruke Media & Digital Business Unit, Chairman of the Board, TOPAZ CAPITAL, INC. Sumitomo Corporation Partner, Yabuki Law Offices Outside Director, Hotto Link Inc. Hisanao Takei Takaaki Ishida Masayuki Tanabe Outside Director, SURUGA bank Ltd. Yoshiyuki Shinbori Hideya Nakashima 59 SCSK Report 2020 SCSK Report 2020 60 Our Businesses SCSK Group’s Business Structure SCSK Group’s Client Base Client base of around 8,000 companies Client Base Spanning Multiple Industries Ideal for Co-Creation For many years, the SCSK Group has provided IT services to Net Sales Broken Down by Client Industry a broad range of industries including manufacturing, (Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2020) distribution, finance, and communications/transport. The Other 4.7 % SCSK Group’s strength can be found in its broad operational Services 9.8 % know-how and technologies that address demand for IT Industry-Specific Groups services unique to specific industries along with its robust Electricity / Gas 2.2 % client base covering major companies in these industries. Manufacturing & Distribution & Global System The four industries of manufacturing, distribution, finance Manufacturing Telecommunication Media Systems Financial Systems Solutions & Systems Business Business Group Innovation and communications/transport account for around 80% of our 28.8 % Business Group Net Sales Group Business Group client base, which now totals roughly 8,000 companies. >P65 >P66 >P67 >P68 Continually providing a broad range of clients with IT services Communications / Transport ¥387 billion has enabled us to establish solid relationships of trust built atop 17.7 % Business Solutions Group deep comprehension and awareness of clients’ strategies and Function-Specific Groups >P71 unique business operations. With these relationships integral to Distribution our success, we will continue to provide truly added value to 15.5 % Mobility Systems Group >P72 Finance our clients and in the future realize new co-creation that 21.3 % connects clients from different industries together utilizing our IT Platform Solutions Group >P73 track record with clients representing a wide range of industries. IT Management Group >P74 Powerful Relationships with Major Clients The SCSK Group has engaged in the service-oriented closely examining client needs utilizing our relationships of business based on its knowledge and know-how from its trust built up with clients over many years. Distribution of Net Sales (FY2019) Distribution of Operating Profit (FY2019) experience of continually supporting the IT needs of clients, Going forward, we will continue to listen intently to the providing subscription-based services targeting a broad voices of clients and provide solutions that fully capitalize on Manufacturing & Adjusted total Manufacturing & range of clients after having developed services that comprehensive Group capabilities of SCSK. As a strategic IT Telecommunication Telecommunication Other Systems Business Group Other ¥-2.2 billion (-5.2%) Systems Business Group generalize industry-standard operations. partner clients can trust, we will continue to focus on ¥5.3 billion (1.4%) ¥49.9 billion (12.9%) ¥6.2 billion (14.7%) For strategic IT investment for business expansion building and strengthening client relationships. ¥0.08 billion (0.2%) IT Management Group unique to specific companies, we allocate engineers with Distribution & ¥48.4 billion (12.5%) Media Systems IT Management Group Distribution & experience in the related industry to provide the highest Share of Top 200 Clients in Consolidated Net Sales Media Systems Business Group ¥6.4 billion (15.1%) Business Group value added systems and services to clients, aiming to Consolidated net sales Share of top 200 clients in net sales IT Platform Solutions Group ¥62.3 billion ¥7.3 billion become their top vendor. As a result, our transactional (16.1%) IT Platform Billions of yen % ¥63.8 billion (16.5%) ¥387 Financial Solutions Group ¥8.2 billion ¥42.3 (17.3%) volume with our top 200 clients in terms of sales continues 400 80.3% 100 billion Systems (19.4%) billion to grow with each passing year since the merger. These Mobility Systems Business Group Financial Systems clients now account for more than 80% of consolidated 300 70.9% 80 Business Group Group ¥63.8 billion Mobility Systems Group ¥7.2 billion (17.0%) net sales in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2020. This is 60 ¥22.2 billion (5.8%) (16.5%) ¥1.2 billion (2.8%) mainly because the SCSK Group is expanding the domains 200 40 Business Solutions Global System Solutions & Global System Solutions & and scale of its work entrusted from these major clients. Group Innovation Business Group Business Solutions Group Innovation Business Group Under the new Medium-Term Management Plan, we 100 ¥52.5 billion (13.6%) ¥18.2 billion (4.7%) ¥5.1 billion (12.1%) ¥2.5 billion (5.9%) 20 will shift focus to the value co-creation business that supports the business transformation of clients while more 0 0 61 SCSK Report 2020 SCSK Report 2020 62 Our Businesses Industry-Specific Groups Business group Business lines Strengths (competitive edge) Focus solutions The Manufacturing & Telecommunications Systems Business • Client base of more than 600 companies atWill Template Group provides systems development as well as maintenance representing a broad range of industries services for a full range of operational processes. We cater to The atWill Template is a next-generation production management system that • Strong relationships with clients through the develops operational functions required of the manufacturing industry using a clients in diverse range of industries such as manufacturing, Manufacturing & telecommunications and utilities. For manufacturing industries, subdivision business where staff are deployed at more than 250 client bases on a full-time basis template based on long-standing know-how from the frontlines. Since partial Telecommunication we deliver systems for production management, global supply • High-quality services based on operational introduction of operational templates is possible based on industry, atWill Template can quickly and flexibly build highly expandable systems tailored to operation. chain management (SCM), as well as sales force automation and Systems order management. For the telecommunications and utilities expertise and technical prowess developed through in-depth experience in many industries Business Group industries, we provide customer management operation and • Suite of original solutions with a track record of utilities management systems. Moreover, we aim to contribute supporting the manufacturing industry directly to client's business by creating new value through the evolution of services and utilization of cutting edge technologies. >P65 The Distribution & Media Systems Business Group provides • Providing a wealth of services and solutions WEBSAS comprehensive IT services, such as systems development, that make diversifying customer contact points maintenance, operation and network equipment installation, more sophisticated WEBSAS represents a full lineup of services, from consulting to planning, for a variety of client industries, including food, drugstores, development, building, maintenance and operation, in order to support measures • Integrated EDI services leading the retail industry with the goal of increasing website effectiveness and enhancing appeal. Utilizing Distribution & dispensing pharmacies, cable television, real estate, sports • Healthcare related services supporting accumulated know-how from our track record of building and operating a number of gyms, and apparel. Our group also excels at the introduction of drugstores and dispensing pharmacies Media Systems solutions supporting the sophistication of customer contact websites, we are capable of short lead times and high quality. Based on our • Robust operating base underpinned by an long-standing experience, we select the right technologies and applications for Business Group point domains, such as provision of website management, established track record of providing a full range clients’ ideal website to provide systems that are used in a stable manner. sales support, and customer management solutions. Group of IT services to the cable television industry company SCSK PRESCENDO CORPORATION provides e-commerce fulfillment services to apparel companies and • Cloud services that enable persons in charge of >P66 SCSK HOKKAIDO CORPORATION uses IT to support the operations to create apps easily business growth and management problem solving needs of • SCSK’s proprietary application know-how clients mainly in Hokkaido. developed over many years of experience (food, drugstores, dispensing pharmacies, real estate, sports clubs, etc.) The Financial Systems Business Group offers a broad range of • Knowledge and operational experience built up BankSavior®, BankSavior Filter and BankSavior ScoreBoard services, from systems development, maintenance and operation through systems development, maintenance, to call centers and BPO services for financial industry fields and operation services for a wide range of BankSavior® is a suite of solutions supporting various financial crime countermeasures including banking, life and non-life insurance, securities, leasing financial institutions against money laundering, remittance fraud, anti-social forces, and unauthorized use and credit cards. We are now working on the following • Team capable of providing high quality and of debit cards. This solution supports all operations related to financial crime Financial Systems measures capitalizing on comprehensive Group capabilities along stable maintenance and operation services for countermeasures, including preventing crime during account opening and overseas remittances by real time filtering, batch filtering of existing customers, continuous Business Group with our accumulated experience and knowledge, to address the trend of clients investing management resources into solutions massive legacy systems of financial institutions fraud monitoring of domestic and international transactions, investigation and • IP and services for attaining a higher dimension to strategic management issues. of productivity and service level essential to response to crime detection, and ongoing operational support for various procedures • Outsourcing of individual operations for the more effective and improving the competitiveness of clients for regulators. In addition, it delivers a high level of monitoring based on ongoing >P67 efficient maintenance, operation and development of existing systems customer management and customer risk assessment. • Team able to support clients from development • Creation of new services and businesses together with clients using to operation and maintenance of various systems Fintech utilizing information technology, such as AI, blockchain and RPA • Construction of a system for our team of service provision to address the globalization of financial institutions professionals to deliver local IT support while also collaborating with the SCSK Group's offices around the world The Global System Solutions & Innovation Business Group • Know-how and team for developing and Core and peripheral systems solutions centered around SAP S/4HANA provides safe and secure IT systems and infrastructure that operating core systems and peripheral systems for contributes to the local business expansion of Japanese trading companies inside and outside of Japan We provide solutions globally to trading companies including Sumitomo Corporation, companies with global operations, in addition to a full lineup of along with the finance, manufacturing, distribution and services industries using SAP Global System services provided to the Sumitomo Corporation Group, including • Ability to provide services globally with six overseas offices Concur, SAP SuccessFactors (HR), DIVA (consolidated accounting), PEGA (workflow), Solutions & development, maintenance and operation of core systems and • New business creation using business IT and DX and Blue Prism (RPA), as well as SAP S/4HANA and SAP S/4HANA Cloud. peripheral systems. Innovation We have six overseas business sites, with the Indonesia and through partnership with the Sumitomo Corporation Group Business Group Myanmar offices newly opened in 2019 to complement existing • Provision of solutions through alliances with offices located in New York, London, Shanghai and Singapore. prominent overseas IT companies We are tackling the challenges of commercialization of DX through co-creation with prominent local companies. In • Co-creation through open innovation with >P68 Sumitomo Corporation addition, as a strategic IT partner transforming the Sumitomo Corporation Group’s business model with digital technology, we are promoting the commercialization of DX on a global basis. 63 SCSK Report 2020 SCSK Report 2020 64 Our Businesses Manufacturing & Officer in Charge Shigehiro Seki Distribution & Officer in Charge Atsushi Innami Telecommunication Managing Executive Officer General Manager, Manufacturing & Media Systems Managing Executive Officer General Manager, Distribution & Systems Business Group Telecommunication Systems Business Group Business Group Media Systems Business Group Market Environment Analysis Market Environment Analysis Opportunities Threats Opportunities Threats • Growing utilization of digital technologies to improve companies’ • Declining competitiveness of manufacturing industry caused by • Growing demand for IT investment for DX and working style • Rapid changes in business model and management environment competitive advantage, such as on the manufacturing fields or difficulty securing human resources and passing on technologies reforms of distribution and retail industries following the declining labor customer contact points • Worsening supply-demand balance of manufacturing industry due • Increasing opportunities for service provision to the diversification population • Shift of IT investment to new business value creation from to economic friction overseas, disasters and pandemics of customer contact points from changes in consumers and • Declining volume of work and transactions of clients caused by maintenance of existing business • Delay in shift to new business caused by difficulty securing System purchasing styles declining population • Emergence of industry amalgamation or new frameworks born of Engagement (SoE) talent • Growing demand for use of systems, such as corporate system from new changes in social structure driven by DX integration resulting from active M&A Strategy for Achieving Medium-Term Management Plan Strategy for Achieving Medium-Term Management Plan Our group will engage in the following strategies with the 3. Evolve and increase sophistication of conventional Our group covers clients from a wide range of industries, • Living: We will contribute to the greater use of IT in living through business models co-creation with companies involved in the living domain, such as vision of transformation into a service integrator. We will including food, drugstores, dispensing pharmacies, cable media, telecommunications and power, and new service create new value together with clients and grow to occupy • Shift the subdivision business, one of SCSK’s strengths, from television, real estate, sports gyms, and apparel. Our main development for the real estate industry. supporting development operations to supporting strategy • Health: In the healthcare domain, we will provide value to the a presence that directly contributes to clients’ businesses planning and execution to evolve it for direct contributions to focus is on contributing to the business growth of clients production-distribution-sales value chain through utilization of and industries. clients’ business value creation and their industries based on our long-standing data mainly for dispensing services, and aim to provide IT services • Utilize Monozukuri innovation Platform and resource sharing to k n o w l e d g e a n d k n o w h o w. I n t h e f o u r d o m a i n s that enhance regional medicine. swiftly respond to clients’ business changes and deliver 1. Build model for commercialization of DX high-quality and highly productive IT services considered to be the basics of social living—clothing, food, living and health—we will generate new value through In addition, for the sophistication of customer contact • Utilize technical strengths in digital technologies such as AI and xR as well as our broad client base and Group companies to connect 4. Strengthen business foundation, foster HR, co-creation with clients and industry to contribute to the point domains related to all industries, we will consolidate clients and industries for transformation of business processes and improve technological capabilities for shifting to and strengthen resources within the SCSK Group and commercialization of DX that creates new business models and realization of a vibrant society. services operations that create business value for clients provide the optimum solutions to clients. • Develop service managers who support clients’ business value creation as well as strategy formulation and execution • Clothing: We will create new business and work on DX in the 2. Evolve and expand IP-driven business model apparel industry where Group company SCSK PRESCENDO Examples of Solutions Provided • Foster advanced engineers in cloud native, AI and IoT for CORPORATION provides fulfillment services. • Help strengthen competitiveness of client businesses by turning providing the optimum service quickly in response to clients’ • Service platforms where consumers can have the same purchasing knowledge of peripheral systems built up through past business changes • Food: We will contribute to problem solving for the entire food experience as brick-and-mortar stores development centered around atWill Template into solutions industry driven by our specialty of EDI services so that food • Creation of new purchasing experiences that utilize data to • Foster DX talent who can lead business process transformation makers, in addition to the retail and wholesale industries, can • Provide new awareness and help expand clients’ businesses by and actively utilize external resources through partnerships and combine brick-and-mortar and e-commerce connecting the series of operating processes from product design widely use solutions. alliances and manufacturing to sales and after-sales service with data on the manufacturing fields and customer contact point domains Strategy of the Distribution & Media Systems Business Group Strategy of the Manufacturing & Telecommunication Systems Business Group New value creation for society Commercialization of DX Core Business Innovation Provision of value-added services that can contribute to society as a whole through co-creation with clients and client industries Transformation into service integrator 2. Evolve and 3. Evolve and 1. Build model for expand IP-driven increase sophistication Contribution to clients’ business growth commercialization of DX business model of conventional Contribution to clients’ business growth by resolving client and industry-wide issues (improving productivity and profitability) Create new DX businesses and services together Contribute to increasing business business models with clients profits by connecting clients’ Create business value for clients operations and data using sophistication of subdivision business Sophistication and expansion of core domains IP (knowledge, methods, SCSK services, data analysis) SCSK’s solutions and IP Accumulation of industry knowledge and know-how Customer Base 4. Strengthen business foundation, foster HR, improve technological capabilities Foster HR and acquire technologies that create business value for clients Focus industries Investment in People Clothing Food Living Health 65 SCSK Report 2020 SCSK Report 2020 66 Our Businesses Financial Systems Officer in Charge Toshiaki Kudo Global System Officer in Charge Kei Kato Business Group Managing Executive Officer General Manager, Financial Solutions & Innovation Senior Managing Executive Officer General Manager, Global System Systems Business Group Business Group Solutions & Innovation Business Group Market Environment Analysis Market Environment Analysis Opportunities Threats Opportunities Threats • Structural changes in financial markets caused by environmental • Declining number of large-scale systems development projects by • Increasing demand for rebuilding of core systems to transform • Changes in companies' IT investment driven by diversification of changes such as full-scale DX, declining population, changes in financial institutions and contracting conventional system clients’ businesses and response to DX people's living patterns behavioral patterns, and promotion of client-centric financial integration market due to growing use of the cloud • Increasing business opportunities driven by emergence of new • Acquisition of new technologies and establishment of new transactions • Stagnant growth in labor-intensive business model following labor technologies and business models business models • Emergence of new players providing financial functions following shortage in IT market and aging population • Rapid digitalization and social IT infrastructure transformation on a • Changes in global business environment structural changes and creation of new markets driven by global scale • Further enhancement of human resources that understand both establishment of financial eco systems business and IT Strategy for Achieving Medium-Term Management Plan Strategy for Achieving Medium-Term Management Plan Our group aims to transform its business structure using transforming service models. In particular, outsourcing and Our group will provide new value to society and clients under Vietnamese IT company that we concluded a strategic two scenarios based on changes in clients’ management global are considered key strategic domains to achieve the conviction of “creating innovation with the power of alliance with in 2018, we will expand collaboration across environment, changes in social values, and structural stable business growth and increase earnings power. thought and IT for a more exciting picture of the future” many fields including initiatives for DX projects inside and changes in financial markets over the medium to long term. In terms of the financial platform business, over the aimed at becoming a “Co-Creative IT Company” in 2030. outside of Japan. In terms of initiatives for open The first scenario is an “enclave” where we seek the interim we will focus on the key strategic domains of FiaaS We will build a network starting with the Sumitomo innovation, we will identify the latest technologies and sophistication of core businesses using our organic (Financial as a Service), Fintech on MaaS and financial Corporation Group and branching out to clients and new business models through collaboration with strengths of knowledge and operational expertise gained brokerage platforms where our group has knowledge and prominent local companies overseas across a wide range of Sumitomo Corporation’s global CVC and a joint fund set from many years of systems development, maintenance and where new market creation is anticipated. We will aim to industries along with partners we collaborate with globally up with Sumitomo Corporation in the United States. operation services for a wide range of financial institutions. create new businesses in these domains. and venture companies, to lead the commercialization of DX In the key profit drivers of core systems and peripheral The second scenario is an “exclave” where we create Through the steady promotion of these measures, we aiming for business transformation using digital technology. systems, we will pursue thorough enhancement and financial platform businesses using co-creation with various will support clients’ digital technologies more so than Toward this end, we will harness the knowledge and IP of the efficiency of operations. Specifically, we will aim to establish companies including clients and Fintech ventures. before and establish the mediumto long-term vision for SCSK Group to think up solutions to market issues together corporate IT and realize safe and secure operations to In terms of the enhancement of core business, we will our group of becoming a digital financial provider that with clients and partners and focus on proposal activities. support companies’ DX. Systems co-created with clients will increase added value by (1) providing sophisticated generates new value for society as a financial function For example, we will consider the new trends of be developed into industry platforms for various partners as technologies, (2) pursuing operational expertise; and (3) player within new financial eco systems. m o b i l i t y, F i n t e c h , a n d s m a r t c i t i e s a s b u s i n e s s business infrastructure to provide new value to society. opportunities, and move ahead with business development As an initiative for investment in people under the Strategy of the Financial Systems Business Group mainly in Southeast Asia where rapid digitalization of the Medium-Term Management Plan, we will strengthen economy is taking place. In addition to collaboration in resource management by fostering and expanding human offshore development with FPT Corporation, the largest resources strategically for new business creation. Clients Banks and trust banks Leasing and credit Insurance Securities Different industries Strategy of the Global System Solutions & Innovation Business Group Southeast Asian Mobility and Business IT expansion Total outsourcing IT due diligence Platform business Co-creation of valuable businesses markets Fintech, etc. Commercialization of DX together with Financial Systems Business Group Enhancement and expansion of core business prominent local partners from different industries Sumitomo Financial platform business Enhancement of core business Corporation Group Prominent local Key strategy Fintech on Financial companies Sumitomo Corporation Group Co-creative IT partner companies overseas FiaaS Outsourcing Global domains MaaS brokerage platform Strategic overseas partner Venture companies Open innovation M&A / Alliances Human resources development Strategic alliances globally Promotion of open innovation Externally Venture capital Alliance partners Accelerators Consulting firms Tapping into Global HR Offshore Corporate Research into Comprehensive new markets development development venture capital new technology Group capabilities 67 SCSK Report 2020 SCSK Report 2020 68 Our Businesses Function-Specific Groups Business group Business lines Strengths (competitive edge) Focus solutions The Business Solutions Group delivers an integrated line-up of • Provision of not only product introduction and CollaboView services from system introduction to customized development, development, but also maintenance and operation and maintenance, with a focus on standard IT enhancements thereafter as application We released CollaboView in May 2020.This solution enables various working styles products and SCSK’s original products covering domains such as management outsourcing (AMO) services and approaches to collaboration at companies. Utilizing IoT systems based on BLE ERP, CRM, data management, contact center platforms, and IoT. tags and autonomous dispersed networks, CollaboView organically connects business • Mediumto long-term relationships of trust Business Solutions In addition to stable functions and quality, we provide solutions with clients applications that contain positional information of people and things, various sensor data, scheduler, attendance systems, and workflow to promote the effective use of Group that contribute to the business of clients from various sectors • Partner-focused proposal capabilities, such as teamwork and offices. and business lines through mediumto long-term support. proactive IT investment and response to changes in operations after launch >P71 The Mobility Systems Group provides services and products for • Development standard process with ISO 26262 QINeS the development of automotive software systems aimed at c e r t i fi c a t i o n f o r f u n c t i o n a l s a f e t y a n d clients in the automotive industry. We offer a broad range of development team for automotive software Improving development efficiency and ensuring quality have become challenges as a solutions for the software used for the Electronic Control Unit systems compatible with large-scale systems result of the greater sophistication of onboard functions and growing size of (ECU) that controls a vehicle’s onboard electronics. These automotive software systems. QINeS provides a suit of solutions centered on basic • Full-time onsite presence at clients for Mobility Systems solutions also include entrusted development of model-based understanding client development trends and software (BSW) that enables high quality and highly efficient development of automotive software systems compliant with AUTOSAR, a standardized architecture Group systems, provision of proprietary middleware (QINeS-BSW), needs in a timely manner framework developed in Europe. software testing, and process improvement. We will continue to • Experience, IP, and knowledge in various contribute to the business development of clients using our domains from over 35 years of experience in accumulated know-how and trust as a foundation. automotive software systems development >P72 • Business track record not dependent on a specific automaker and its affiliates The IT Platform Solutions Group offers product sales, • Service quality only possible by SCSK that adds Aras Innovator and DASSAULT Systèmes’ 3DEXPERIENCE development and support in the six main categories of security, value to our leading product lineups sourced These systems centrally manage in a higher dimension digital data in the process network equipment, servers / storage, middleware, CAD, and from around the world chain of engineering departments in the manufacturing industry (planning, design, analysis / CAE. We coordinate and tailor this extensive lineups • Engineers with broad knowledge and experience development, production preparations, manufacturing and maintenance). This with our group’s engineering skills and know-how to client IT Platform tasks, while constantly expanding products that promote to complement an extensive product lineup enables us to shorten development lead time and lower manufacturing cost by linking • Strong relationships built up over many years with production systems with management of design and analysis work. Solutions Group corporate DX, to pave the way for solutions, increasing client vendors (suppliers), resellers and clients satisfaction and expanding the business of the entire group. >P73 We provide infrastructure development, on-site operation, and • Proprietary service platform grounded in USiZE data center operation services centered around, our original Monozukuri innovations service platform for existing systems. By combining each service USiZE is a cloud service that responds to diverse needs using a broad lineup centered • Secure and highly connected data centers that optimally, we are able to address various challenges in clients’ IT around public cloud (AWS, Microsoft Azure and Google Cloud Platform) and support multi-cloud solutions strategies. We engage in the service business, which contributes managed cloud for core operating systems. We have established a track record with IT Management to the creation of new value underpinning DX and the account • Sophisticated engineer team, including service several hundred mainly major corporations using our high reliability and development managers with in-depth operational expertise and operation technologies at SCSK’s data centers that are among the highest class Group business, which provides as a sophisticated management service and IT architects well versed in advanced in Japan. all aspects from planning, development and operation technologies management to improvement proposals for the optimization of • Training programs for fostering globally-minded IT platforms. >P74 human resources 69 SCSK Report 2020 SCSK Report 2020 70 Our Businesses Business Solutions Officer in Charge Hideki Tazai Mobility Systems Officer in Charge Makoto Nakamura Group Managing Executive Officer General Manager, Group Managing Executive Officer General Manager, Business Solutions Group Mobility Systems Group Market Environment Analysis Market Environment Analysis Opportunities Threats Opportunities Threats • Growing demand for proactive IT investment driven by automation • Dampening of economic and corporate investment activities • Growth of market driven by social issues and changes in lifestyle • Structural changes in mobility industry caused by entry of of operations and working style reforms with an eye on lifestyle caused by changing situation globally patterns companies from different industries changes • Staged decline in demand for conventional license sales, • Increased weighting of software in mobility development and • Shortage of engineers for automotive software • Rising demand for services that provide new value by combining introduction and development following SAP replacements outsourcing for non-advanced domains / derivatives operational know-how and IT, both SCSK’s strengths, aimed at a running their course • Acceleration of dispersed development, simulation development DX era and automation of development Strategy for Achieving Medium-Term Management Plan Strategy for Achieving Medium-Term Management Plan The group plays a new role as an organization providing such as accounting and personnel systems (automation of The group has defined its vision for 2030 as a “co-creative Investment in People common functions aimed at making SCSK a co-creative IT expense reimbursement, apps for audits, and AI-driven IT company building a new mobility society by combining We will also focus on developing and acquiring engineers company cited in Grand Design 2030. sales forecasts, etc.). in-car and out-car expertise.” First, aimed at 2022, we will in the In-Car domain, a core domain of the group. We will In the field of data management, we will build systems promote a shift of business following the strategies implement strategic career recruitment from the Basic Approach that can manage all processes from data collection and outlined below (qualitative shift in core domains plus automotive industry, in addition to developing talent with • Move away from simple function provision business for accumulation to processing, usage and analysis, and business development in new domains). advanced knowledge for achieving the shift from software applications and business tools, such as ERP, CRM and PBX* provide consulting, aimed at corporate DX. domain to system domain, and from single control to • Become an organization that connects and creates together with In the field of contact center services, we will roll out a Business Innovation (In-Car Domain) integrated control (optimal control). Also, we will make clients and industry players co-creative solutions based on stronger collaboration with channels inside and outside the next-generation contact center platform compatible with We will engage in the following core measures in the contributions to fostering talent at partner companies and company digitalization and multi-channel solutions by revamping In-Car domain, a core domain of the group. secure human resources in the Out-Car domain for • Engage in data-oriented business that generates synergies with PrimeTiaas voice platform. Furthermore, we will systemize • Software development assistance: We will utilize “SE+ commercialization of DX. peripheral businesses using data and built-up operational knowledge to create value knowledge of contact center operations built up at SCSK for Automotive,” a software development standard *PBX: Private Branch eXchanger ServiceWare Corporation and provide solutions together process by SCSK to support high quality and highly Strategy of the Mobility Systems Group with its operational framework. productive software development. We will contribute to In the ERP field, a core operating system, we will steadily In this manner, we will mutually connect information End users (companies / individuals) clients’ mobility development by expanding the scope of roll out new solutions focused on efficiency of overall systems that once mainly fulfilled a single function to contract development processes. We will actively work operations and linkages with front and back end operating utilize the latest technologies and data for generating new on dispersed development, which is now rapidly Customer contact points processes, beyond the framework of individual functions value in a DX era. penetrating the market, using co-creation with SCSK’s development bases around Japan and SCSK Nearshore Solutions Map of the Business Solutions Group Systems Corporation along with partner companies and New domains offshore companies. Servicer Service platform Platform solutions Contact center services • Software Tier1: We will aim to be a Tier 1 software Support mobility Application platform Peripheral ERP CRM • Cloud-type voice platform • Cloud platform for domain • Sales management • Production management • Sales support services supplier that offers software platform supported by QINeS. companies with connected ultrahigh-speed development • Voice recognition MaaS services (2022) • Human resources • Purchasing • Customer service development • Customer management • Vendor management • Knowledge database • Text analysis We will acquire new technical expertise through OEM platformer • Accounting • Corporate management • BPO platforms • Inventory management • Chatbots co-creation with clients, engineering companies, and Core domains device manufacturers to tackle the challenge of Tier 1 Module suppliers supplier Tier 1 software strengthening the product business. Office IoT cloud service supplier (2022) • Working style reforms Tier 2 Device • Positional information of people and things Commercialization of DX (Out-Car Domain) suppliers supplier We will aim for new value creation in mobility with mobility considered an IoT device. This will be achieved by Conventional automotive industry New IoT/Big data identifying the key domains we should focus on and Information distribution Data management through co-creation inside and outside of the company. platform SCSK’s current software development support domains • Data linkages • Master data management • Data analysis • High-speed data transmission/ streaming AMO services (maintenance and operation) 71 SCSK Report 2020 SCSK Report 2020 72 Our Businesses IT Platform Officer in Charge Takashi Shinjo IT Management Officer in Charge Tetsuya Ueda Solutions Group Managing Executive Officer General Manager, Group Managing Executive Officer General Manager, IT Platform Solutions Group IT Management Group Market Environment Analysis Market Environment Analysis Opportunities Threats Opportunities Threats • Growing demand for network (5G / wireless), security (VPN / • Worldwide acceleration of new product development using new • Expanding utilization of the cloud in all industries including finance • Contraction of existing business markets following declining authentication) and communication platforms due to the spread of technologies • Sharply rising needs for building environments for remote investment caused by integration / elimination of legacy systems telework • Weakening of competitiveness of existing products and decline or communication and operation • Commoditization of build / operate domains and tougher • Increasing trend for efficiency, transformation and creation of extinction of their markets competition caused by service expansion, such as mega cloud, and business using data mainly AI driven by DX promotion • Major transformation of business caused by understanding / the emergence of platformers penetration of DX and declining labor population in Japan Strategy for Achieving Medium-Term Management Plan Strategy for Achieving Medium-Term Management Plan The group will establish and implement a growth strategy PLM, IoT, AI, 5G, and containers* as target domains with The business climate is changing rapidly from the core business innovation to achieve greater efficiency in for each product category. Since the existing six categories strong expectations for the future, aimed at creating the contraction of the existing business market and emergence infrastructure development and Low-Code No-Code largely differ from one another based on market seventh and eighth product categories. These domains are of platformers symbolized by mega cloud. In the development. It also provides a DX promotion environment environment, competition, and SCSK’s standing, we believe at the dawn of the market, and today their market has yet Medium-Term Management Plan, we have reorganized our for clients in a one-stop setting. Simply by connecting to this the key to business growth is establishing a medium-term to become large enough to warrant an individual category. previous three businesses of onsite operation, infrastructure center, clients have access to many forms of IT services. strategy for each product category and constantly Going forward, we will aim to create new product development, and data center operations into the service Furthermore, this data center has a total management reviewing it using the PCDA cycle over the short term. categories, while monitoring the market growth rate, business and account business. We have decided to function where it can completely control hybrid operations To implement the strategy for each product category, it launch of SCSK trademarks, and compatibility of technical restructure our conventional organization by service with the cloud as well as multi-cloud operations. This will be important to foster and secure human resources. resources. As for PLM, we established the PLM Solutions function into the service business, an organization that powerful strength makes it possible to freely utilize engines, We are now working on fostering global and marketing Department within the Chubu & Kansai IT Platform creates and operates new differentiated solutions, and services and data provided by mega clouds. Instead of talents who can contribute to establishment of an Solutions Division in fiscal 2020, and began operations the account business, an organization that provides simply viewing emerging platformers as threats, and ecosystem for identifying and launching new products, or aimed at establishing the seventh product category. services based on individual client requests using these combating them, we will aim to produce leverage effects by business promotion in product categories across corporate Regarding AI which can become a focal point of DX solutions. This will enable us to build a team capable of mutually utilizing each other’s services. organizations. Additionally, in terms of the group’s promotion, we established the AI Products Technologies contributing in a timely and accurate manner to improving Today, with the trend of companies and society in engineers, currently most are “I-class” engineers that have Department within the IT Engineering Center which has clients’ value. general moving greatly toward DX, we will provide services advanced specialization in each product, so we also have initiated activities to foster engineers. One of the specific solutions is our data center where we utilizing these data centers as a powerful weapon, and established the IT Engineering Center as a specialist As a professional in product sales, we will focus on have greatly differentiated ourselves from other companies. contribute to improving clients’ value, which is one strategy organization focused on fostering “T-class” engineers with creating cutting edge solutions and services closely in tune This data center has an MSP platform*1, supporting SCSK’s aimed at achieving the Medium-Term Management Plan. a wide range of specializations. with market needs. At the same time as formulating and implementing *Container: A technology for achieving virtualization that can be built quickly and operates Strategy of the IT Management Group at high speed compared to conventional virtual machine type software. A container also strategy for existing product categories, we will focus on makes it easy to run applications from one computing environment to another. Clients Business Model of the IT Platform Solutions Group SCSK data center One-stop services “Product sales professional” that identifies excellent products from around the world and then adds on SCSK’s original services for the Japan market Client server MSP platform*1 Efficient development Overseas vendors Japanese vendors ENGINE Hybrid operation SERVICE Total management IT Platform Solutions Group’s product lineup DATA Multi-cloud operation IoT / AI Security Networks Server / Storage Middleware CAD Analysis / CAE PLM Support service IX*2, etc. Platformers *1 MSP platform: Platforms that pass the certification audit for next-generation Company A Company B Company C operation capacity advocated by AWS Direct sales Channel sales *2 IX: Internet Exchange (Mutual connection ENGINE SERVICE DATA ENGINE SERVICE DATA ENGINE SERVICE DATA points of the Internet) End users 73 SCSK Report 2020 SCSK Report 2020 74 Data Section Financial Highlights Consolidated Management Indicators Net Sales Operating Profit / Operating Profit Margin (Unit: millions of yen) Systems Development System Maintenance and Operation / Services Operating Proﬁt Operating Proﬁt Margin Income Statements 2012/3*1 2013/3 2014/3 2015/3 2016/3 2017/3 2018/3 2019/3 2020/3 Packaged Software / Hardware Sales Prepaid Card Business Net sales 200,326 278,634 288,236 297,633 323,945 329,303 336,654 358,654 387,003 Billions of yen Billions of yen % 387 Systems Development 73,811 112,316 117,597 117,843 124,470 127,051 128,387 140,092 155,835 400 358.6 50 25 323.9 329.3 336.6 42.3 System Maintenance and Operation / Services 68,296 104,284 107,577 110,720 119,170 125,802 129,071 134,132 143,429 38.3 297.6 278.6 288.2 40 20 Packaged Software / Hardware Sales 56,496 58,731 60,019 65,691 77,087 73,147 76,247 84,430 87,738 300 33.7 34.6 31.7 Prepaid Card Business*2 1,722 3,302 3,042 3,378 3,217 3,302 2,948 30 28 15 200.3 23.9 Gross profit 46,370 64,466 68,724 72,469 78,021 81,754 83,555 88,742 97,954 200 20.8 9.8 10.2 10.3 10.7 10.9 8.3 9.4 20 7.5 10 Gross profit margin (%) 23.1 23.1 23.8 24.3 24.1 24.8 24.8 24.7 25.3 12.8 SG&A expenses 33,490 43,663 44,749 44,466 46,235 48,040 48,953 50,363 55,628 100 10 6.4 5 Operating profit 12,879 20,803 23,974 28,003 31,785 33,714 34,602 38,378 42,326 Operating profit margin (%) 6.4 7.5 8.3 9.4 9.8 10.2 10.3 10.7 10.9 0 0 2012/3 2013/3 2014/3 2015/3 2016/3 2017/3 2018/3 2019/3 2020/3 0 Ordinary profit 16,659 22,228 25,690 30,667 33,610 36,121 36,291 38,650 43,014 Profit attributable to owners of parent 25,669 16,730 18,387 15,638 26,956 28,458 32,488 27,892 31,201 Net sales increased 7.9% year on year to ¥387 billion. This (Unit: millions of yen) was the result of robust demand for IT investment among Operating profit increased 10.3% year on year to ¥42.3 billion clients driven by the business climate and market conditions and operating profit margin rose 0.2 points to 10.9% thanks to Cash Flows from the start of the fiscal year, causing net sales across every the increase in profits from higher sales along with continuous segment including Systems Development, System improvement in profitability centered on systems development, Cash flows from operating activities 22,249 25,156 35,342 29,707 34,730 37,161 37,096 33,511 48,950 Maintenance and Operation / Services, and Packaged which offset the impacts of unprofitable projects. Cash flows from investing activities (8,112) (249) (26,045) 5,166 (9,473) (11,982) (35,394) (7,163) (27,338) Software / Hardware to rise. Free cash flows *3 14,137 24,907 9,297 34,873 25,257 25,178 1,702 26,348 21,612 Cash flows from financing activities (7,965) (5,512) (33,739) (8,395) (12,338) 476 (25,763) (19,995) (16,309) Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 63,661 83,247 59,004 85,713 98,445 123,935 99,797 106,198 111,695 Equity Capital / ROE Cash Dividend per Share (Unit: millions of yen) Equity Capital ROE Interim Year-end Financial Position Billions of yen % Yen Total assets 300,928 322,828 317,932 334,290 352,676 389,537 303,914 314,844 342,485 250 50 150 Net assets 124,419 108,208 126,159 138,536 151,546 173,674 196,600 194,468 208,072 207.6 130 Equity capital 119,189 102,799 120,488 132,458 145,420 166,897 189,214 193,412 207,681 200 189.2 193.4 40 120 166.8 95 100 Interest-bearing debt + preferred shares *4 84,860 84,860 57,000 55,000 50,000 60,000 45,000 55,000 55,400 145.4 90 65 150 119.1 132.4 30 90 75 (Unit: yen) 120.4 24.1 102.7 47.5 50 19.4 18.2 18.2 47.5 Per Share Data 100 15.1 16.5 20 60 50 40 14.6 15.6 860.37 36 40 BPS 991.48 1,161.29 1,276.37 1,401.00 1,607.74 1,822.54 1,862.78 2,000.16 32 25 50 12.4 10 30 20 65 EPS 334.19 161.39 177.26 150.71 259.72 274.16 312.95 268.64 300.50 16 18 42.5 47.5 50 35 20 25 Annual dividend per share 32 36 40 50 75 90 95 100 130*5 16 18 0 2012/3 2013/3 2014/3 2015/3 2016/3 2017/3 2018/3 2019/3 2020/3 0 0 2012/3 2013/3 2014/3 2015/3 2016/3 2017/3 2018/3 2019/3 2020/3 Major Indicators ROE (%) 24.1 15.1 16.5 12.4 19.4 18.2 18.2 14.6 15.6 Equity capital increased 7.4% year on year to ¥207.6 billion We paid a commemorative dividend of ¥20 per share because ROA (%) 7.9 7.1 8.0 9.4 9.8 9.7 10.5 12.5 13.1 and ROE rose 1.0 point to 15.6% attributed mainly to the the company marked its 50th anniversary in the fiscal year increase in net profits. ended March 31, 2020. When combined with the ordinary Equity ratio (%) 39.6 31.8 37.9 39.6 41.2 42.8 62.3 61.4 60.6 dividend of ¥110, the annual dividend per share was ¥130, Debt / Equity ratio (times) 0.46 0.83 0.47 0.42 0.34 0.36 0.24 0.28 0.27 marking a ¥30 increase from the previous year. Number of employees 11,995 11,797 11,689 11,754 11,769 11,910 12,054 12,365 13,979 Capital expenditures (millions of yen) 7,954 10,219 9,441 14,842 12,046 15,335 15,588 15,163 13,604 Depreciation and amortization (millions of yen) 5,380 6,690 6,841 6,865 8,003 8,972 11,245 10,530 10,358 Total Shareholder Return (TSR) R&D expenses (millions of yen) 417 566 449 267 117 266 280 725 1,190 % SCSK TOPIX (including dividends) Stock prices (yen) 1,312 1,835 2,781 3,365 4,400 4,420 4,595 4,935 4,815 600 Price-book ratio (PBR) (times) 1.5 1.9 2.4 2.6 3.1 2.7 2.5 2.6 2.4 500 Price-earnings ratio (PER) (times) 3.9 11.4 15.7 22.3 16.9 16.1 14.7 18.4 16.0 400 Total shareholder return (TSR) (%) *6 107.3 152.4 232.1 283.3 372.9 381.8 403.6 439.2 440.0 300 *1 Figures of CSK before the merger date (October 1, 2011) are not included. *2 All the shares of QUO CARD Co., Ltd., which constitutes Prepaid Card Business, were transferred as of December 1, 2017. 200 *3 Free cash flows = Cash flows from operating activities + Cash flows from investing activities *4 The figure as of March 31, 2012 includes ¥30.0 billion of preferred stocks assumed by the company in fiscal 2011 as a result of the merger with CSK Corporation. 100 All of these preferred stocks were acquired from the financial institutions holding the shares on May 31, 2012, and based on a resolution passed at the Ordinary General Meeting of 0 Shareholders held on June 27, 2012, all of these preferred stocks were cancelled on the same day, June 27, 2012. 2012/3 2013/3 2014/3 2015/3 2016/3 2017/3 2018/3 2019/3 2020/3 *5 Includes ¥20 commemorative dividend marking our 50th anniversary. *6 Calculated with the merger date (October 1, 2011) as 100%. *October 3, 2011 indexed as 100 75 SCSK Report 2020 SCSK Report 2020 76 Data Section Summary of Financial Results for the Net sales increased 7.9% year on year to ¥387.0 billion. to ¥392.6 billion and backlog rose 6.9% year on year to COVID-19 pandemic. However, this experience will also Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2020 The main contributing factors were growth in sales to ¥146.9 billion. mark a major turning point in how people perceive value, manufacturing industry customers centered on automakers, * Minori Solutions Co., Ltd. became a consolidated subsidiary in the fourth quarter of the and the Company expects the value of IT to only increase fiscal year ended March 31, 2020. Minori Solutions’ net sales amounted to approximately In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2020, sales and profits along with increases in systems development and system ¥4.3 billion and operating profit amounted to just over ¥0.1 billion, including amortization further. Therefore, we believe that the SCSK Group will have increased for the eighth consecutive year since the merger. maintenance and operation services for financial industry of goodwill. Incoming orders and backlog were ¥5.6 billion and ¥5.2 billion, respectively. an extremely vital part to play as an IT services provider over Net sales rose 7.9% year on year to ¥387.0 billion and customers, and systems development and packaged the medium and long terms. operating profit rose 10.3% year on year to ¥42.3 billion. software and hardware sales for communications industry Full-Year Consolidated Financial Forecasts The operating profit margin improved 0.2 point to 10.9%. customers. Another contributing factor was firm sales from for the Fiscal Year Ending March 31, 2021 Net sales, operating profit, and the operating profit margin redevelopment of enterprise resource planning systems. Net Sales (Announced on April 28, 2020) all finished the year at all-time highs. Backlog for the business Gross profit increased 10.4% year on year to ¥97.9 Net Sales (Unit: billions of yen) as a whole increased 6.9% year on year to ¥146.9 billion. billion. The main factors behind this increase were Voluntary Adoption of International Financial Reporting 385.2 continuous profitability enhancements centered on systems Standards (IFRS) 380 development and the positive effect of a 0.6 point year-onBeginning with the consolidated financial statements and △1.4% Net Sales ¥387 billion Up 7.9% YoY year improvement in the gross profit margin, in addition to the consolidated financial reports for the fiscal year ending the increase in profits from higher sales. This was despite the March 31, 2021, the Company will voluntarily adopt impact of unprofitable projects. International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) in place On the other hand, selling, general and administrative of the previously employed Japanese generally accepted Operating Profit ¥42.3 billion Up 10.3% YoY (SG&A) expenses increased 10.5% year on year to ¥55.6 accounting principles (J-GAAP). This decision was made for billion. This increase mainly reflected the impact of the the purpose of improving the international comparability addition of three new consolidated subsidiaries, including of the Company’s financial information. Accordingly, given Operating Profit / Operating Profit Margin Operating Profit Improved Minori Solutions Co., Ltd.*, and the payment of special that the financial forecast figures for the fiscal year ending Margin 10.9 % 0.2 point YoY support lump-sum grants as a measure to counter the COVIDMarch 31, 2021 will be based on IFRS, figures for the fiscal Operating Proﬁt Operating Proﬁt Margin 41 (Unit: billions of yen) 40 19 pandemic. Other factors behind the increase were higher year ended March 31, 2020 have been restated from J-GAAP +2.4% business investment and R&D expenses. to IFRS for comparison purposes. 10.4 10.8 Backlog ¥146.9 billion Up 6.9% YoY As a result, operating profit increased 10.3% year on year to ¥42.3 billion, and the operating profit margin improved Full-Year Consolidated Financial Forecast Figures 0.2 point year on year to 10.9%. It is difficult to accurately estimate financial forecasts at this Both incoming orders and backlog increased from the time due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Based on business Net Sales previous fiscal year. Incoming orders rose 3.6% year on year performance for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2020, the Billions of yen Company’s financial forecasts for the fiscal year ending March 400 387 31, 2021 call for consolidated net sales of ¥380 billion and 358.6 Profit attributable to owners of parent 323.9 329.3 336.6 consolidated operating profit of ¥41 billion. 297.6 (Unit: billions of yen) Proﬁt attributable to owners of parent (Unit: billions of yen) 300 278.6 288.2 With regard to net sales, the Company is projecting an increase in sales based on the inclusion of Minori Solutions 29 Fiscal Fiscal Amount Percentage 28.7 200.3 2018 2019 of change of change Co., Ltd. in the scope of consolidation. On the other hand, 200 +0.1% it is also projecting decreases in sales based on expected Net Sales 358.6 387 28.3 7.9% delays in product development for next-generation models 100 in network equipment sales to communications industry Gross profit 88.7 97.9 9.2 10.4% customers and a downturn in demand for large-scale system 0 2020/3 sales to manufacturing industry customers due to the COVID(Gross profit margin) (24.7%) (25.3%) * Figures of CSK before the merger date (October 1, 2011) are not included 19 pandemic. SG&A expenses 50.3 55.6 5.2 10.5% With regard to operating profit, the Company is Operating Profit / Operating Profit Margin projecting increased costs in the fiscal year ending March (Unit: billions of yen) Operating Proﬁt Operating Proﬁt Margin Operating Profit 38.3 42.3 3.9 10.3% 31, 2021 due to factors such as the implementation of a Billions of yen % Fiscal Fiscal Amount Percentage new human resources system. However, SG&A expenses 2019* 2020 (forecast) of change of change 50 20 (Operating Profit Margin) (10.7%) (10.9%) are expected to remain mostly flat year on year, because 42.3 38.3 the Company recorded special support lump-sum grants Net Sales 385.2 380 −5.2 −1.4% 40 33.7 34.6 15 Ordinary profit 38.6 43 4.3 11.3% 31.7 as a measure to counter the COVID-19 pandemic and oneOperating Profit 40 41 0.9 2.4% 28 30 10.9 Profit attributable to time costs such as R&D expenses in the previous fiscal year. Operating Profit 10.4 10.8 0.4 23.9 10.2 10.3 10.7 27.8 31.2 3.3 11.9% Margin (%) 9.8 owners of parent 20.8 8.3 9.4 10 Therefore, taking into consideration the impact of newly 20 7.5 Profit attributable 12.8 consolidated subsidiaries and other factors, operating profit 28.7 29 0.2 0.1% Incoming orders 378.9 392.6 13.6 3.6% to owners of parent 10 6.4 5 is forecast to increase slightly. Backlog 137.3 146.9 9.5 6.9% Looking ahead, corporate business performance is * Figures for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2020 have been restated from Japanese generally accepted accounting principles (J-GAAP) to IFRS. 0 2012/3 2013/3 2014/3 2015/3 2016/3 2017/3 2018/3 2019/3 2020/3 0 expected to remain under pressure due to the global 77 SCSK Report 2020 SCSK Report 2020 78 Data Section Non-Financial Highlights Human Resources Data Environmental Performance Data FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 *2 FY2018 *2 FY2019 *2 Number of employees 7,490 7,385 7,328 7,261 7,241 7,273 7,280 7,384 Total (MWh) * :1 84,450 91,861 109,992 89,808 91,266 93,013 88,931 78,985 Entire SCSK Group (73,786) (82,071) (99,170) Male 6,254 6,162 6,091 6,022 5,976 5,955 5,919 5,940 Electricity Offices in Japan 18,057 16,463 15,072 14,124 13,687 25,384 24,373 24,671 consumption Break (MWh) *1 (14,720) (14,583) (13,849) Female 1,236 1,223 1,237 1,239 1,265 1,318 1,361 1,444 down Recruitment 93 90 99 122 162 205 234 227 Data centers (MWh) 71,751 74,803 77,941 74,807 65,298 59,066 67,488 85,321 Number of Male 68 61 67 80 104 122 156 140 Total (GJ) 3,572 3,768 1,945 2,613 2,521 2,789 2,605 3,018 new recruits (newly Female 25 29 32 42 58 83 78 87 Kerosene (kl) 18 8 9 19 17 20 16 19 graduated) Turnover Turnover rate *1 2.6% 2.2% 2.0% 2.2% 2.3% 2.3% 2.3% 2.6% Light oil (kl) 18 Fuel Break Number of people with disabilities *2 139 153 171 179 219 248 263 262 down Diesel (kl) 14 20 21 20 18 23 12 27 Diversity Number of female executives 14 32 44 54 64 72 78 89 LPG (t) 19 39 and line managers Number of non-Japanese employees 46 46 42 45 43 42 38 36 Utility gas (m3) 16,000 16,000 16,000 25,000 26,000 26,000 35,000 28,000 Average monthly 26 hours, 10 minutes 22 hours, 03 minutes 18 hours, 16 minutes 18 hours, 00 minutes 17 hours, 47 minutes 16 hours, 22 minutes 17 hours, 41 minutes 18 hours, 15 minutes Heat consumption (steam, hot water, cold water)*1 (GJ) 2,346 2,595 3,395 2,590 3,268 2,822 11,510*3 13,029*3 overtime hours *3 per month per month per month per month per month per month per month per month Rate of consumed annual CO2 Emissions (Scope1 and Scope2) *1 (t-CO2) 41,393 47,341 48,636 45,612 39,820 42,783 43,632 46,577 paid vacation days *3 78.4% 95.3% 97.8% 95.3% 95.3% 96.4% 94.4% 93.0% (36,664) (38,081) (40,828) Employee satisfaction *4 79.9% 82.6% 84.0% 90.2% 89.2% 90.0% Volume of office paper purchased (1,000 sheets) 37,771 33,363 32,577 34,390 29,234 23,079 20,250 17,767 Number of employees 163 189 208 208 220 220 208 197 General waste (t) *4 309 331 361 357 294 267 215 203 using childcare leave (Male:2, Female: 161) (Male:7, Female: 182) (Male:8, Female:200) (Male:8, Female:200) (Male:11, Female:209) (Male:14, Female: 206) (Male:16, Female:192) (Male:19, Female:178) Percentage of employees returning 93.1% 96.6% 96.8% 92.0% 96.9% 96.8% 93.5% 95.7% Industrial waste (t) * 4 95 161 130 172 172 148 187 159 to work after childcare leave Annual Tokyo Center 1 1.62 1.63 1.58 1.63 1.64 1.63 1.63 1.65 Number of employees 3 3 4 1 3 6 1 1 average using nursing care leave (Male:2, Female: 1) (Male:3, Female: 0) (Male:4, Female:0) (Male:1, Female:0) (Male:1, Female:2) (Male:2, Female:4) (Male:1, Female:0) (Male:1, Female:0) Work– PUE at Chiba Center 1.46 1.47 1.53 1.49 1.76 1.74 1.73 1.65 life Number of employees using 182 179 191 216 264 249 254 265 data reduced work hour programs (Male:2, Female: 180) (Male:2, Female: 177) (Male:2, Female:189) (Male:3, Female:213) (Male:3, Female:261) (Male:3, Female:246) (Male:4, Female:250) (Male:7, Female:258) centers Sanda Center 1.75 1.80 1.74 1.79 1.82 1.79 1.80 1.81 balance Number of employees using maternity leave *5 86 76 74 85 76 70 62 63 *1 Data for fiscal 2012 to fiscal 2016 only includes certain group companies. Data for fiscal 2017 and afterwards indicate electricity usage and CO2 emissions for the entire SCSK Group, Number of employees using excluding overseas Group companies. Data for fuel and heat energy from fiscal 2018 represents the total volume for the Group, excluding overseas Group companies. parental leave 187 184 152 169 145 143 131 122 *2 Parentheses indicate data within the same scope up to fiscal 2016. *3 Cold water usage from certain locations that could not be calculated up to fiscal 2017 were newly included from fiscal 2018. Number of employees using 449 496 621 729 839 1,006 993 1,068 balance support leave *6 (Male:307, Female:142) (Male:335, Female:161) (Male:399, Female:222) (Male:455, Female:274) (Male:516, Female:323) (Male:642, Female:364) (Male:629, Female:364) (Male:669, Female: 399) *4 The company does not produce any hazardous waste from its business operations. Number of employees using 363 419 438 458 492 508 465 496 child nursing leave (Male:228, Female:135) (Male:266, Female:153) (Male:265, Female:173) (Male:260, Female:198) (Male:286, Female:206) (Male:284, Female:224) (Male:253, Female:212) (Male:261, Female:235) Number of seminars Nursing care held (times) 3 3 16 14 17 21 11 10 support Number of seminars *7 participants 192 155 1,088 1,126 1,630 1,523 715 429 *1 Voluntary resignation of full-time employees and specialized full-time employees (excluding mandatory retirement and job transfers, etc.). Number of persons as of April 1 each fiscal year used as the parameter. *2 Employment ratio of the 10 Group companies in Japan certified as affiliates. Figures for each year are as of June 1. *3 Average for all employees including those under the discretionary work system and supervisors. *4 The results tabulated for “Agree” and “Agree somewhat.” The question in fiscal 2016 on “A company with a pleasant and rewarding workplace” was split into two from fiscal 2017. *5 Available to pregnant women in half-day increments to allow them to take time off for various related ailments, such as morning sickness, and for prenatal checkups (10 days a year). *6 Available in half-day increments for the following reasons (5 days a year). • When the employee is providing nursing care to a family member (the employee’s spouse, or an equivalent person) • When the employee must accompany his or her child to receive necessary vaccinations, or attend an event at his or her child’s school, up until the child graduates from junior high school • When the employee goes to the hospital for infertility treatment *7 Partial changes were made to the seminar’s format from fiscal 2019 Average Monthly Overtime Hours / Rate of Number of Female Executives and Behavioral Changes from the Changes in Awareness from Various Health Consumed Annual Paid Vacation Days Line Managers Kenko Waku Waku Mileage Program Promotion Initiatives Average monthly overtime hours Rate of Consumed Annual Paid Vacation Days Number of female executives and line managers Before initiative After initiative I feel keenly aware I feel somewhat aware (FY) (FY) Hours per month 95.3 97.8 95.3 95.3 96.4 94.4 93.0 % Persons Ratio of employees 2014 34 30 100 who go for walks 2019 73 26 : 10 Philosophy of 2014 38 35 25 22 : 03 Ratio of employees 2014 71 health and 78.4 80 who eat breakfast 2019 85 productivity management 18 : 16 18 : 00 17 : 47 18 : 15 2019 59 30 16 : 22 17 : 41 20 Ratio of employees 2014 60 who have an 82 15 alcohol-free day 2019 90 40 Ratio of employees 2014 31 2014 42 36 who receive 10 dental checkups 2019 78 Health and performance 20 Rate of employees 2008 36 2019 61 30 5 who smoke cigarettes 2019 16 % % 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) 0 50 100 0 50 100 We tackled the challenge of working style reforms mainly Aiming to be a company where female employees are We have seen major improvements in behaviors and habits from We have seen major changes in employees’ awareness of health intended to reduce average monthly overtime hours and empowered to succeed, we have established a target to reach initiatives that encourage employees to make better health related and their health literacy, including the penetration of the philosophy improve the rate of consumed annual paid vacation days. 100 female executives and line managers and are working choices using the Kenko Waku Waku Mileage Program introduced of health and productivity management and sense of relationship Instead of adopting a uniform rule forbidding overtime work toward career development support, including holding from fiscal 2015 as an all-hands-on-deck health promotion initiative. with performance, by implementing various health related initiatives over a certain threshold, each workplace thought up approaches training based on the challenges faced by female employees *The rate of employees who smoke cigarettes compares with the figures such as the Kenko Waku Waku Mileage Program. before the smoke cessation program was implemented prior to the Kenko unique to their needs, which has produced significant results. of each generation. Waku Waku Mileage Program. 79 SCSK Report 2020 SCSK Report 2020 80 Data Section Data Section Management’s Discussion and Analysis External Recognition I. OVERVIEW OF RESULTS 1. Economic and Industry Trends growth, especially for reinforcing and expanding overseas SCSK’s initiatives have been recognized by a number of institutions inside In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2020, the Japanese economy operations. In addition, this demand will arise from measures experienced a moderate recovery backed by robust corporate for realizing more sophisticated online banking and Internet and outside of Japan. earnings and employment, as well as improvement in income services, such as the application of FinTech, artificial conditions. From the start of 2020, however, the COVID-19 intelligence (AI), and other new IT technologies, as well as • Received the Chairman’s Prize at the • Fourth consecutive year selected for • Selected for inclusion in the 2017, 18th Telework Promotion Awards inclusion in the SNAM Sustainability 2018, 2019 and 2020 FTSE pandemic has depressed broad swaths of consumer spending the diversification of payment methods. sponsored by the Japan Telework Index established by Sompo Japan Blossom Japan Index and adversely impacted employment conditions. Furthermore, In communications and transportation industries, IT Association Nipponkoa Asset Management Co., Ltd. (2017, 2018, 2019 and 2020) concerns about an economic downturn have mounted as investment demand has been on an uptrend with growth corporate earnings were weakened by a slowdown in the in project development for augmenting customer services at • Third consecutive year to win the Human Resources Prize at the Nikkei Chinese economy, centered on the manufacturing sector, while telecommunications firms, as well as an increase in projects for Smart Work Awards that selects leading companies in productivity supply chains were disrupted. rebuilding and updating core systems at transportation firms. through working style reforms Regarding the outlook for the Japanese economy, SCSK In addition, demand for various cloud-based IT (2018, 2019 and 2020) expects challenging conditions to continue as long as the services has been on the rise in IaaS, PaaS, and other IT • Achieved the top ranking as an • Selected for inclusion in the MSCI COVID-19 outbreak persists. Due to the risk that COVID-19 infrastructure sectors against a backdrop of shortages of “Eruboshi” certified excellent • Received the Minister of Health, Japan ESG Select Leaders Index company based on the Act of Labor and Welfare Award at the Promotion of Women’s Participation (2017, 2018, 2019 and 2020) will further undermine the domestic and global economies, in-house IT engineers at customer companies and a strong Good Career Company Awards 2019 and Advancement in the Workplace the Company believes a conservative outlook for economic interest among these companies for investment to enhance organized by the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare trends is warranted in corporate management. operational efficiency. A similar increase was seen in demand In this environment, the IT services market saw high for system operation outsourcing services in the operational • Second consecutive year received the levels of demand for systems investments to alleviate labor system field, although here it was limited to certain sectors. Gold rating, the highest rating, in • Selected for inclusion in the MSCI the PRIDE Index* (2018 and 2019) shortages and advance working style reforms, as well as Japan Empowering Women Index * A n i nd ex used by wor k wit h Pr ide, a (WIN) (2017, 2019 and 2020) strong demand for systems that improve productivity, increase 2. Consolidated Results volunteer organization with the mission of achieving comfortable workplaces for the • Sixth consecutive year selected as automation and reduce work at customer companies, in In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2020, net sales, LGBT community in Japan beyond the Nadeshiko Brand designation frameworks of companies and organizations. jointly organized by the Ministry of addition to heightened demand for strategic IT investment operating profit, and ordinary profit increased as a result Economy, Trade and Industry and the Tokyo Stock Exchange (FY2014, geared toward reinforcing strategic businesses and ensuring of the aforementioned strong operating environment FY2015, FY2016, FY2017, FY2018 competitive advantages. Furthermore, IT spending remained and IT investment demand trends, making for the eighth and FY2019) brisk overall on growing demand for upgrading business consecutive year of higher sales and profit. operation systems, such as converting legacy systems that Net sales increased 7.9% year on year, to ¥387,003 million, still exist in various sectors into open systems, and migration due in part to robust performance in all business segments, THE INCLUSION OF SCSK CORPORATION IN ANY • Sixth consecutive year selected as MSCI INDEX, AND THE USE OF MSCI LOGOS, services for software approaching the end of its service life. including systems development, system maintenance and Brand of Companies Enhancing Corporate Value through Health & • Selected for THE DIVERSITY TRADEMARKS, SERVICE MARKS OR INDEX In the fiscal year under review, we believe the COVID-19 operation/services, as well as packaged software/hardware NAMES HEREIN, DO NOT CONSTITUTE A Productivity jointly organized by the MANAGEMENT 2.0 PRIME (FY2018) SPONSORSHIP, ENDORSEMENT OR PROMOTION outbreak had only a limited impact on the IT services market. sales, against a backdrop of brisk demand for IT investment Ministry of Economy, Trade and OF SCSK CORPORATION BY MSCI OR ANY OF Industry and the Tokyo Stock ITS AFFILIATES. THE MSCI INDEXES ARE THE In the manufacturing industry in particular, demand among customers in the manufacturing industry, an area in Exchange (FY2014, FY2015, FY2016, FY2017, FY2018 and FY2019) EXCLUSIVE PROPERTY OF MSCI. MSCI AND THE was strong for business process outsourcing (BPO) services which demand strengthened during the fiscal year ended MSCI INDEX NAMES AND LOGOS ARE TRADEMARKS OR SERVICE MARKS OF MSCI OR for products and services, including strategic investments March 31, 2019. • Selected for inclusion in the 2017, ITS AFFILIATES. to expand business and sharpen competitiveness, for the Operating profit was up 10.3% year on year, to 2018, 2019 and 2020 FTSE4 Good pre-market verification of products, which are becoming ¥42,326 million, due to the higher net sales coupled with Index Series more advanced, and for upgrading business systems, such improved profitability attributable to increased development as converting some legacy systems into open systems. productivity, which itself stemmed from efforts to boost work In the financial industry, most financial institutions were quality and streamline operations. • Awarded the Top Prize of Platinum hesitant to make capital investments in a market environment In tandem with growth in operating profit, ordinary profit Career Award organized by Toyo Keizai Inc. and supported by Cabinet of negative interest rates. Looking ahead, demand for IT expanded 11.3%, to ¥43,014 million, and profit attributable Secretariat / Ministry of Health, Labor investment for augmenting operations should show robust to owners of parent rose 11.9%, to ¥31,201 million. and Welfare. 81 SCSK Report 2020 SCSK Report 2020 82 Data Section ■■ IT Management ■■ Others II. OVERVIEW OF RESULTS BY REPORTABLE SEGMENT Net sales were up 8.2% year on year, to ¥48,457 million, Owing to the addition of a new consolidated subsidiary to and segment profit grew 10.3%, to ¥6,447 million, this segment, net sales were 642.2% higher than last year, Business results by reportable segment are presented in the table below. Net sales by segment are based on sales to thanks to solid demand for management services and the at ¥5,389 million, and segment profit totaled ¥80 million, external customers. datacenter business. compared with a loss of ¥86 million in the previous fiscal year.  (Millions of yen) Change from previous Year ended March 31, 2019 Year ended March 31, 2020 fiscal year Sales Profit Sales Profit Sales Profit III. NET SALES BY SALES SEGMENT Manufacturing & Telecommunication Systems Business ¥ 43,369 ¥ 6,308 ¥ 49,960 ¥ 6,280 ¥ 6,591 ¥ (28) Distribution & Media Systems Business 63,054 6,589 62,382 7,326 (671) 737 Net sales in the sales segments of Systems Development, System Maintenance and Operation/Services, Packaged Financial Systems Business 63,932 7,349 63,860 7,223 (71) (125) Software/Hardware Sales are described below. Global System Solutions & Innovation Business 15,553 2,576 18,249 2,592 2,696 15 Business Solutions 48,829 5,016 52,578 5,112 3,749 96  (Millions of yen) Mobility Systems 19,550 (265) 22,279 1,246 2,728 1,512 Comparison with previous IT Platform Solutions 58,857 7,163 63,844 8,242 4,986 1,078 Year ended March 31, 2019 Year ended March 31, 2020 fiscal year IT Management 44,780 5,845 48,457 6,447 3,677 601 Share Share Change Sales Sales Sales (%) (%) (%) Others 726 (86) 5,389 80 4,662 166 Systems Development ¥140,092 39.1 ¥155,835 40.3 ¥15,742 11.2 Adjustments — (2,120) — (2,226) — (106) System Maintenance and Operation/Services 134,132 37.4 143,429 37.1 9,297 6.9 Total ¥358,654 ¥38,378 ¥387,003 ¥42,326 ¥28,348 ¥3,948 Packaged Software/Hardware Sales 84,430 23.5 87,738 22.7 3,308 3.9 Total ¥358,654 100.0 ¥387,003 100.0 ¥28,348 7.9 ■■ Manufacturing & Telecommunication Systems Business ■■ Global System Solutions & Innovation Business Net sales increased 15.2% year on year, to ¥49,960 million, Net sales rose 17.3% year on year, to ¥18,249 million, thanks reflecting brisk demand for system development projects to an increase in projects for trading companies. Segment In Systems Development, net sales rose 11.2%, to ¥155,835 e-commerce total outsourcing, net sales increased 6.9%, to for the automotive industry and at gas providers and profit edged up 0.6%, to ¥2,592 million, as costs increased million, reflecting IT investment to reinforce strategic ¥143,429 million, as a result of strong performance in BPO telecommunications firms, as well as an increase in business as a result of entering the Southeast Asian market. businesses and sharpen competitive advantages, projects business for products and services, in addition to growth system update projects at construction companies. However, for rebuilding enterprise resource planning systems, and in the system maintenance business and validation services segment profit declined 0.4%, to ¥6,280 million, owing to ■■ Business Solutions demand targeted at improving productivity and saving for product development, on the back of positive trends in some projects becoming unprofitable. Net sales increased 7.7% year on year, to ¥52,578 million, labor, against a backdrop of strong IT investment in the systems development. as a result of demand for enterprise resource planning manufacturing, logistics, financial, communications and In Packaged Software/Hardware Sales, net sales increased ■■ Distribution & Media Systems Business system upgrade investments and brisk performance in the transportation industries. 3.9%, to ¥87,738 million, due to higher sales of network IT Net sales decreased 1.1% year on year, to ¥62,382 million, BPO business. Segment profit grew 1.9% year on year, to In System Maintenance and Operation/Services, despite equipment to communications industry customers in the first half due to a decline in the large-scale projects for logistics industry ¥5,112 million, due to the growth in sales, despite a drag the decline in sales for some fulfillment services related to of the year and sales of hardware to the manufacturing industry. customers recorded in the previous fiscal year, and a decline from higher R&D expenses. in fulfillment service sales in e-commerce total outsourcing services, despite brisk performance in the first half with sales ■■ Mobility Systems of packaged software and hardware to telecommunications Net sales expanded 14.0% year on year, to ¥22,279 firms. Segment profit, meanwhile, increased 11.2%, to million, owing to firm demand for inspection services for ¥7,326 million, due to the disappearance of R&D spending the automobile industry, and strong demand for automotive related to business investments last year. embedded software development. Segment profit was ¥1,246 million, a turnaround from losses of ¥265 million ■■ Financial Systems Business within the prior fiscal year. Net sales were down 0.1% year on year, to ¥63,860 million, due to a decline in the large-scale hardware sales recorded ■■ IT Platform Solutions in the previous fiscal year, despite robust demand for system Net sales increased 8.5% year on year, to ¥63,844 million, and upgrades from the banking, consumer credit and leasing segment profit rose 15.1%, to ¥8,242 million, due to increased industries. Segment profit slipped 1.7%, to ¥7,223 million, sales of packaged software/hardware to manufacturers. due to unprofitable projects. 83 SCSK Report 2020 SCSK Report 2020 84 Data Section Capital Procurement Allocation of Management Resources and Approach IV. FINANCIAL POSITION The Group plans to use its own funds generated by the cash to Shareholder Returns flow from operating activities to primarily meet the financing With regard to working capital in hand, the Group has Assets, Liabilities and Net Assets ■■ Net Assets requirements related to these investment activities. However, introduced a Cash Management System (CMS) at the Minori Solutions Co., Ltd. was included in the scope of Net assets as of March 31, 2020 were ¥208,072 million, an the Group also intends to use a broad range of financing Company and its domestic consolidated subsidiaries. Under consolidation under the Others segment on December 19, increase of ¥13,603 million compared to March 31, 2019. methods as necessary (loans from financial institutions, this CMS, the Group pools surplus funds from the Group 2019, following acquisition of 100% of its shares. For details The main factor behind this increase was profit attributable syndicated loans, the issuance of various bonds, etc.), backed companies and centrally manages the funds at the Company regarding the impact on results, please refer to “Note 19. to owners of parent, in the amount of ¥31,201 million. by its solid financial base as described below, in order to as a means of ensuring adequate liquidity and optimizing BUSINESS COMBINATION, Notes to Consolidated Financial Factors that decreased net assets included dividend payments address financing requirements. funding efficiency. Statements.” of ¥5,202 million (¥50.00 per share) for the year-end dividend The Group had interest-bearing debt of ¥57,818 million In our approach to shareholder returns, we will of the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019, and ¥6,763 million as of March 31, 2020 through bank loans and the issuance of comprehensively consider the Group’s financial position, ■■ Total Assets (¥65.00 per share, including a ¥10.00 per share dividend bonds and suchlike. In comparison, cash and cash equivalents earnings trends, and internal reserves for future business Assets as of March 31, 2020 totaled ¥342,485 million, an commemorating the Company’s 50th anniversary) for the stood at ¥111,695 million, surpassing the amount of interestinvestments, then aim to make full use of the Group’s increase of ¥27,640 million compared to March 31, 2019. interim dividend of the fiscal year ended March 31, 2020, bearing debt, underscoring the Group’s solid financial base. growing cash flow as funds for making investments in and changes in ownership interests in subsidiaries that do With regard to the Group’s ability to stably procure businesses related to digital transformation, a business area ■■ Liabilities not result in a change in scope of consolidation. external funding, as of the publication of this report, it has that can support future corporate growth. At the same time, Liabilities as of March 31, 2020 were ¥134,413 million, an The equity ratio stood at 60.6%. Net assets per share obtained an A/Stable Long-term Issuer Rating from the Japan in order to strengthen returns to shareholders, we will aim to increase of ¥14,037 million compared to March 31, 2019. amounted to ¥2,000.16, an increase of ¥137.38 from March Credit Rating Agency, Ltd. and maintains good relationships increase the amount of dividends in line with our envisaged 31, 2019. with its principal trading financial institutions. The Group growth in earnings. is therefore confident that it has sufficient capability for procuring the necessary operating and investment capital V. CASH FLOWS to expand and operate its businesses. Cash and cash equivalents (“cash”) as of March 31, 2020 ■■ Cash Flows from Financing Activities increased ¥5,496 million compared to March 31, 2019, to Net cash used in financing activities was ¥16,309 million ¥111,695 million. The changes in each type of cash flow and (increased ¥3,686 million compared to March 31, 2019). the main factors for such changes are as follows. The main cash outflow factors consisted of payments from changes in ownership interests in subsidiaries that do ■■ Cash Flows from Operating Activities not result in a change in scope of consolidation of ¥3,569 Net cash provided by operating activities was ¥48,950 million million, dividend payments of ¥5,202 million (¥50.00 per (¥15,438 million higher than March 31, 2019). share) for the year-end dividend of the fiscal year ended The main cash inflow factors were profit before income March 31, 2019, and ¥6,763 million (¥65.00 per share, taxes of ¥43,961 million, depreciation of ¥10,358 million, an including a ¥10.00 per share dividend commemorating the increase in accrued consumption taxes of ¥4,830 million and Company’s 50th anniversary) for the interim dividend of the an increase in notes and accounts payable-trade of ¥2,231 fiscal year ended March 31, 2020. million. The main cash outflow factors were an increase in notes and accounts receivable – trade of ¥1,584 million, an ■■ Liquidity and Capital Resource increase in inventories of ¥1,409 million, and income taxes Basic Policy and Capital Requirements paid of ¥7,660 million. The Group has been advancing the aforementioned core strategies under the Medium-Term Management Plan in order ■■ Cash Flows from Investing Activities to transform its business structure, thereby achieving strong Net cash used in investing activities was ¥27,338 million (a growth and high profitability over the medium term, amid a decline of ¥20,175 million compared to March 31, 2019). paradigm shift currently underway in technologies and other The main cash outflow factors consisted of payments for major changes, such as increasingly sophisticated customer the acquisition of property, plant and equipment of ¥9,721 requirements. The Group plans to invest in software and million, acquisition of intangible assets of ¥3,183 million and datacenters while advancing its existing businesses further, and a payment of ¥12,590 million for the acquisition of shares in is proactively examining investments in business development subsidiary Minori Solutions Co., Ltd. that resulted in a change on various fronts in order to facilitate digital transformation in the scope of consolidation. as a business, including the use of IoT and AI technologies. Moreover, the Group has been continuously acquiring cuttingedge technologies, strengthening its customer base, and considering M&As that will accelerate business growth. 85 SCSK Report 2020 SCSK Report 2020 86 Data Section Business Risks The following risks could potentially have a significant impact standards covering aspects such as checks at the negotiation comply with the Information Security Guidelines established result in changes in product specifications or the termination on SCSK Group’s business, operating results and/or financial and estimate stages, management of the project’s progress by the Company, and we work to ensure that subcontractors of supplies, which could have an impact on the Group’s results. position. Matters in this section regarding future developments by specialist divisions, and quality checks, along with rigorous maintain the same levels of information security and In order to cope with such circumstances, we utilize are based on the Company’s judgment as of March 31, 2020. general inspections of subcontractors and progress, as well information management as those of SCSK through regular our overseas offices and networks with an aim to identify, If the COVID-19 pandemic causes a significant decline in the as quality management for system development operations. monitoring of subcontractor compliance using confirmation procure new products and to keep pace with technological economy it may have an impact on the Group’s performance, sheets, as well as carrying out on-site reviews (field audits), trends overseas. Also, we pursue joint business strategies but the degree of that impact cannot be forecast now. 3. Risks Related to Addressing Technological issuing instructions to make fixes and conducting related with vendors in Japan and overseas to keep abreast of The Group’s basic policy in response to the COVID-19 Innovation measures at subcontractors when necessary. The Group has developments and enable stable product procurement. pandemic is not just to take measures against it, but also The information services industry in which the SCSK Group taken out special insurance policies in preparation for any promote highly productive, satisfying new working styles such operates experiences extremely fast-paced technological unforeseen information leaks. 8. Risks Related to Non-Recovery of Assets as taking a flexible response to duties, including remote work. innovation, which creates the possibility that the Group’s The SCSK Group sells products, undertakes systems development The Group is implementing preventative measures technologies, technical abilities, and expertise will become 5. Risks Related to Investment and provides services to a large number of customer companies. complying with the government’s New Lifestyle and the outdated. In addition, rapid changes in industry standards The SCSK Group invests in or provides credit such as loans The payment for many of these transactions takes place after Guidelines for Preventing the Spread of Novel Coronavirus for the software and hardware used to construct the systems to operating companies and venture capital companies for the product or service is delivered. Deterioration in the customer Disease formulated by the Japan Business Federation. and provide the services of customers, which are the source the purpose of strengthening their solutions, maintaining company’s financial position could lead to delay in the recovery of the Group’s earnings, could lead to a loss of technical production capacity, acquiring and enhancing technical of SCSK’s claims or make recovery difficult, and this could have 1. Risks Related to the Business Environment or price advantages for those systems and services. As a capabilities in cutting-edge areas, and maintaining the ability an impact on the Group’s results. The information services industry in which SCSK Group result, if the Group is unable to predict or recognize trends to procure the latest hardware and software, and purchases Therefore, the Group manages credit, confirms the operates experiences intense competition among specialist in technological changes or is able to predict but not able to prototype products from these companies. Investments are status of customer companies’ credit and sets appropriate IT service companies, from IT hardware vendors attempting respond appropriately to those changes, this could have an also made for packaged software development and service credit limits independently of the operating division and also to enter the IT service sector and from overseas companies. impact on the Group’s results. development in priority business and new business areas. regularly monitors the status of unpaid claims and recovery. Given this situation, changes in the business environment To appropriately respond to technological innovation in The failure to get returns as initially anticipated as a result of Appropriate accounting measures, including the recording can lead to major and rapid changes in customers’ IT investment a timely manner, the Group promotes the enhancement deterioration in earnings or shortfalls in the business plans of allowances for doubtful accounts, are taken as necessary. needs, and these changes, as well as continued price competition of employees’ capabilities and the systematic identification of the invested businesses or the borrowers could have an within the industry significantly beyond the level being seen at and acquisition of new technologies. In addition, the Group impact on the Group’s results. 9. Risks Related to Large-Scale Natural Disasters this time, could have a major impact on the Group’s results. disperses the technical capabilities and product procurement Therefore, the Group has established a risk management Many of the SCSK Group’s offices and assets, including the In addition, the Group provides a range of IT services to capacity used to build systems and provide services. At the structure and strives to enhance the structure to give thorough head office, are concentrated in large metropolitan areas, customer companies in a variety of industries and with various same time, it promotes business operations that are not overly consideration to the entities to be invested in and to the and the occurrence of a major natural disaster such as an business formats, and the timing and scope of customers’ reliant on any particular technology, expertise or product. borrowers, their business plans and the risk versus return on earthquake occurring directly beneath Tokyo or in the Nankai IT investment are both directly and indirectly affected by the investments when making investment decisions, and to Trough or the outbreak of a novel virus or other infectious the economic environment and factors such as interest rate 4. Risks Related to Information Security confirm and monitor the progress under the plan after the disease with the potential to spread globally could have an and currency movements. Therefore, this could also have an The SCSK Group provides various information system services investment is made. impact on the Group’s results. impact on the Group’s results. to customers. In addition, from systems development through In order to strengthen its structure to ensure business to the operational stage, the Group handles various types of 6. Risks Related to Intellectual Property continuity in the event of unforeseen circumstances, 2. Risks Related to Systems Development confidential information, including personal information held The SCSK Group sells and delivers software and hardware the Group has formulated business continuity plans and The SCSK Group undertakes information systems development by customer companies and technical information related to products developed and manufactured outside the Group established a disaster control headquarters and backup offices for customer companies. However, as systems development customer companies’ systems. Information system services for to a large number of customer companies, and there is the where managerial duties can be performed in the event of becomes increasingly complex with shorter delivery schedules, customers could be suspended or personal and confidential possibility of litigation arising as a result of infringement of such circumstances. In addition, the SCSK Group strives to there is the possibility that costs will increase if quality information could be leaked or altered because of a computer intellectual property rights held by third parties during the ensure employees‘ safety by allowing their employees and cannot be maintained as planned, development cannot be virus, cyberattacks such as unauthorized access, human error, course of these business activities. The details and outcomes partners of its Group companies to work from home. completed as planned or development cannot be completed damage to the customer’s system or for any other reason. of such litigation could have an impact on the Group’s result. within the scheduled timeframe. This could have an impact As a result, the customer could seek compensatory damages As a result, the Group may survey the intellectual property 10. Risks Related to Retaining and Development on the Group’s results. In addition, the Group uses many and the Group could suffer a loss of confidence that could rights of customer companies and conduct in-house training of Human Recourses subcontractors, including nearshore development companies, have an impact on its results. and raise awareness regarding intellectual property rights to The SCSK Group’s business activities rely heavily on human to maintain production capacity, increase cost efficiency and Therefore, the Group has introduced security systems ensure that customer companies’ intellectual property rights resources. In the event that the Group fails to secure needed utilize technological capabilities and expertise. With this use and established a framework for responding to the detection are not infringed. personnel and to develop human resources as originally of subcontractors, there is the possibility that productivity or occurrence of a cyberattack. In addition to maintaining planned, there could be an impact on its results. and quality cannot be maintained as expected. thorough compliance and strengthening physical security 7. Risks Related to Product Procurement While SCSK focuses on maintaining a workplace The Group therefore strives to reduce risk through measures, the Group implements programs to strengthen The SCSK Group procures a wide range of specially selected environment that emphasizes four perspectives of worksystematic efforts to ensure that unforeseen malfunctions information security throughout education and training, hardware and software products in Japan and from overseas, life balance, diversity, health maintenance and career do not arise in the overall systems delivered, through the including at subcontractors that handle confidential and supplies these products to customers. Sudden and development, the Group strives to hire, retain, and develop establishment and implementation of Company-wide information. The Group requires subcontractors to fully unexpected changes in vendors’ business strategies could quality human resources in all of its business areas. 87 SCSK Report 2020 SCSK Report 2020 88 Data Section Consolidated Balance Sheets SCSK Corporation and Consolidated Subsidiaries March 31, 2020 and 2019 Thousands of Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars (Note 1) Millions of yen U.S. dollars (Note 1) ASSETS 2019 2020 2020 LIABILITIES 2019 2020 2020 Current assets: Current liabilities: Cash and deposits ¥ 21,170 ¥ 32,072 $ 294,700 Notes and accounts payable – trade ¥ 22,087 ¥ 25,054 $ 230,219 Notes and accounts receivable – trade (Note 7-* ) 4 74,698 78,828 724,330 Short-term loans payable 15,000 15,400 141,505 Lease receivables and investment assets 334 340 3,130 Current portion of long-term loans payable — 10,000 91,886 Securities — 299 2,754 Lease obligations 843 836 7,690 Merchandise and finished goods 7,831 9,150 84,076 Income taxes payable 4,898 5,091 46,782 Work in process (Note 7-*3) 360 671 6,171 Provision for bonuses 5,910 6,972 64,070 Raw materials and supplies 117 133 1,231 Provision for directors’ bonuses 57 65 603 Deposits paid 85,028 79,703 732,365 Provision for loss on construction contracts (Note 7-*3) 228 507 4,665 Other 11,496 13,600 124,973 Other 23,499 29,960 275,296 Allowance for doubtful accounts (31) (48) (446) Total current liabilities 72,525 93,889 862,720 Total current assets 201,007 214,752 1,973,288 Non-current liabilities: Bonds payable 40,000 30,000 275,659 Lease obligations 1,909 1,581 14,530 Non-current assets: Provision for directors’ retirement benefits 20 11 103 Property, plant and equipment: Net defined benefit liability 2,902 5,532 50,835 Buildings and structures, net (Note 7-*2) 43,566 44,587 409,694 Asset retirement obligations 2,779 3,115 28,627 Tools, furniture and fixtures, net (Note 7-*2) 9,233 9,878 90,773 Long-term lease and guarantee deposited 154 156 1,433 Land 14,169 14,204 130,516 Other 83 127 1,169 Leased assets, net (Note 7-* ) 2 1,552 1,384 12,726 Total non-current liabilities 47,850 40,523 372,358 Construction in progress 2,310 4,745 43,600 Total liabilities 120,375 134,413 1,235,078 Other, net (Notes 7-*2) 0 1 16 NET ASSETS Total property, plant and equipment 70,833 74,801 687,327 Shareholders’ equity: Intangible assets: Capital stock 21,152 21,152 194,365 Goodwill 53 13,889 127,626 Retained earnings 175,223 191,881 1,763,128 Other 8,155 7,494 68,868 Treasury shares (694) (698) (6,417) Total intangible assets 8,208 21,384 196,494 Total shareholders’ equity 195,681 212,335 1,951,076 Investments and other assets: Accumulated other comprehensive income: Investment securities (Note 7-* ) 1 11,773 11,854 108,928 Valuation difference on available-for-sale securities 2,076 1,066 9,796 Long-term prepaid expenses 1,563 1,599 14,694 Deferred gains or losses on hedges (21) 23 212 Lease and guarantee deposits 6,759 7,178 65,965 Foreign currency translation adjustments (182) (197) (1,814) Deferred tax assets 13,709 10,044 92,298 Remeasurements of defined benefit plans (4,141) (5,547) (50,972) Other 1,042 918 8,441 Total accumulated other comprehensive income (2,269) (4,655) (42,778) Allowance for doubtful accounts (53) (50) (460) Subscription rights to shares 40 30 279 Total investments and other assets 34,794 31,546 289,867 Non-controlling interests 1,015 361 3,320 Total non-current assets 113,837 127,732 1,173,689 Total net assets 194,468 208,072 1,911,899 Total assets ¥314,844 ¥342,485 $3,146,978 Total liabilities and net assets ¥314,844 ¥342,485 $3,146,978 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 89 SCSK Report 2020 SCSK Report 2020 90 Data Section Consolidated Statements of Income Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income SCSK Corporation and Consolidated Subsidiaries SCSK Corporation and Consolidated Subsidiaries For the years ended March 31, 2020 and 2019 March 31, 2020 and 2019 Thousands of Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars (Note 1) Millions of yen U.S. dollars (Note 1) 2019 2020 2020 2019 2020 2020 Net sales ¥358,654 ¥387,003 $3,556,036 Profit ¥28,688 ¥31,294 $287,557 Cost of sales (Note 8-*7) 269,912 289,048 2,655,966 Other comprehensive income (loss): Gross profit 88,742 97,954 900,070 Valuation difference on available-for-sale securities (185) (981) (9,015) Selling, general and administrative expenses (Notes 8-*1, *6) 50,363 55,628 511,147 Deferred gains or losses on hedges (15) 44 406 Operating profit 38,378 42,326 388,922 Foreign currency translation adjustments (20) (29) (275) Non-operating income Remeasurements of defined benefit plans, net of tax (1,199) (1,410) (12,960) Interest income 65 65 599 Share of other comprehensive income of entities accounted for using Dividend income 71 79 726 equity method (18) (6) (61) Share of profit of entities accounted for using equity method 750 923 8,484 Total other comprehensive loss (Note 9) (1,440) (2,384) (21,906) Other 173 212 1,953 Comprehensive income ¥27,248 ¥28,910 $265,651 Total non-operating income 1,061 1,280 11,764 Comprehensive income attributable to: Non-operating expenses Comprehensive income attributable to owners of parent ¥26,513 ¥28,815 $264,773 Interest expenses 115 123 1,136 Comprehensive income attributable to non-controlling interests 735 95 878 Loss on sales of investment securities 2 8 75 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Bond issuance cost 48 — — Subsidiary stock acquisition-related cost 495 342 3,146 Other 128 117 1,083 Total non-operating expenses 789 592 5,442 Ordinary profit 38,650 43,014 395,244 Extraordinary income Gain on sales of non-current assets (Note 8-*2) 371 10 100 Gain on sales of investment securities 1,024 331 3,049 Gain on sales of membership 0 — — Gain on step acquisitions 47 1,556 14,304 Gain on reversal of share acquisition rights — 5 49 Settlement received — 123 1,131 Total extraordinary income 1,443 2,028 18,635 Extraordinary losses Loss on retirement of non-current assets (Note 8-*3) 57 53 491 Loss on sales of non-current assets (Note 8-*4) 44 6 57 Impairment loss (Note 8-* ) 5 — 508 4,672 Loss on sales of investment securities 1 — — Loss on valuation of investment securities — 4 41 Loss on sales of membership 0 0 0 Compensation expenses 294 505 4,646 Disaster loss 217 — — Loss on liquidation of subsidiaries — 2 22 Total extraordinary losses 615 1,080 9,931 Profit before income taxes 39,477 43,961 403,948 Income taxes – current 6,567 7,723 70,970 Income taxes – deferred 4,221 4,943 45,420 Total income taxes 10,788 12,666 116,391 Profit 28,688 31,294 287,557 Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 796 93 855 Profit attributable to owners of parent ¥ 27,892 ¥ 31,201 $ 286,702 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 91 SCSK Report 2020 SCSK Report 2020 92 Data Section Consolidated Statements of Changes in Net Assets SCSK Corporation and Consolidated Subsidiaries For the years ended March 31, 2020 and 2019 Millions of yen Millions of yen Shareholders’ equity Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) Total Valuation Foreign Reaccumulated Total differences on Deferred currency measurements other Capital Capital Retained Treasury shareholders’ available-for-sale gains or losses translation of defined comprehensive Subscription Non-controlling stock surplus earnings shares equity securities on hedges adjustments benefit plans income (loss) rights to shares interests Total net assets Balance at April 1, 2018 ¥21,152 ¥ 1,299 ¥168,363 ¥(711) ¥190,104 ¥ 2,274 ¥ (5) ¥(154) ¥(3,004) ¥ (890) ¥ 57 ¥ 7,329 ¥196,600 Changes of items during period: Dividends of surplus — — (10,144) — (10,144) — — — — — — — (10,144) Profit attributable to owners of parent — — 27,892 — 27,892 — — — — — — — 27,892 Change in ownership interest of parent due to transactions with non-controlling interests — (12,178) — — (12,178) — — — — — — — (12,178) Purchases of treasury shares — — — (11) (11) — — — — — — — (11) Disposals of treasury shares — (8) — 28 19 — — — — — — — 19 Transfer to capital surplus from retained earnings — 10,887 (10,887) — — — — — — — — — — Change in the scope of consolidation — — — — — — — — — — — — — Net changes of items other than shareholders’ equity — — — — — (198) (15) (27) (1,137) (1,378) (16) (6,313) (7,709) Total changes of items during period — (1,299) 6,860 16 5,577 (198) (15) (27) (1,137) (1,378) (16) (6,313) (2,131) Balance at March 31, 2019 21,152 — 175,223 (694) 195,681 2,076 (21) (182) (4,141) (2,269) 40 1,015 194,468 Balance at April 1, 2019 21,152 — 175,223 (694) 195,681 2,076 (21) (182) (4,141) (2,269) 40 1,015 194,468 Changes of items during period: Dividends of surplus — — (11,966) — (11,966) — — — — — — — (11,966) Profit attributable to owners of parent — — 31,201 — 31,201 — — — — — — — 31,201 Change in ownership interest of parent due to transactions with non-controlling interests — (2,497) — — (2,497) — — — — — — — (2,497) Purchases of treasury shares — — — (13) (13) — — — — — — — (13) Disposals of treasury shares — (2) — 9 6 — — — — — — — 6 Transfer to capital surplus from retained earnings — 2,500 (2,500) — — — — — — — — — — Change in the scope of consolidation — — (77) — (77) — — — — — — — (77) Net changes of items other than shareholders’ equity — — — — — (1,010) 44 (15) (1,405) (2,386) (10) (653) (3,050) Total changes of items during period — — 16,657 (3) 16,653 (1,010) 44 (15) (1,405) (2,386) (10) (653) 13,603 Balance at March 31, 2020 ¥21,152 ¥ — ¥191,881 ¥(698) ¥212,335 ¥ 1,066 ¥23 ¥(197) ¥(5,547) ¥(4,655) ¥ 30 ¥ 361 ¥208,072 Thousands of U.S. dollars (Note 1) Thousands of U.S. dollars (Note 1) Shareholders’ equity Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) Total Valuation Foreign Reaccumulated Total differences on Deferred currency measurements other Capital Capital Retained Treasury shareholders’ available-for-sale gains or losses translation of defined comprehensive Subscription Non-controlling stock surplus earnings shares equity securities on hedges adjustments benefit plans income (loss) rights to shares interests Total net assets Balance at April 1, 2019 $194,365 $ 0 $1,610,066 $(6,381) $1,798,051 $19,078 $(193) $(1,675) $(38,058) $(20,849) $375 $ 9,328 $1,786,905 Changes of items during period: Dividends of surplus — — (109,951) — (109,951) — — — — — — — (109,951) Profit attributable to owners of parent — — 286,702 — 286,702 — — — — — — — 286,702 Change in ownership interest of parent due to transactions with non-controlling interests — (22,947) — — (22,947) — — — — — — — (22,947) Purchases of treasury shares — — — (122) (122) — — — — — — — (122) Disposals of treasury shares — (27) — 85 58 — — — — — — — 58 Transfer to capital surplus from retained earnings — 22,974 (22,974) — 0 — — — — — — — — Change in the scope of consolidation — — (713) — (713) — — — — — — — (713) Net changes of items other than shareholders’ equity — — — — — (9,282) 406 (139) (12,914) (21,929) (95) (6,007) (28,032) Total changes of items during period 0 — 153,062 (36) 153,025 (9,282) 406 (139) (12,914) (21,929) (95) (6,007) 124,993 Balance at March 31, 2020 $194,365 $ — $1,763,128 $(6,417) $1,951,076 $ 9,796 $ 212 $(1,814) $(50,972) $(42,778) $279 $ 3,320 $1,911,899 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 93 SCSK Report 2020 SCSK Report 2020 94 Data Section Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements SCSK Corporation and Consolidated Subsidiaries SCSK Corporation and Consolidated Subsidiaries For the years ended March 31, 2020 and 2019 Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars (Note 1) 1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 2019 2020 2020 Cash flows from operating activities: (1) Basis of Presentation statements have been prepared by using the accounts of Profit before income taxes ¥ 39,477 ¥ 43,961 $ 403,948 SCSK Corporation (“The Company”) and its domestic foreign consolidated subsidiaries and affiliates prepared in Depreciation 10,530 10,358 95,179 subsidiaries maintain their books of account in conformity accordance with either IFRS or accounting principles generally Amortization of goodwill 30 428 3,939 Impairment loss — 508 4,672 with the financial accounting standards of Japan, and its accepted in the United States. Increase (decrease) in allowance for doubtful accounts (76) 11 106 foreign subsidiaries maintain their books of account in Increase (decrease) in net defined benefit liability (1,003) (1,142) (10,500) conformity with those of their countries of domicile. (3) Changes in Presentation Loss on retirement of non-current assets 57 53 491 Loss (gain) on sales of non-current assets (326) (4) (42) The accompanying consolidated financial statements Effective from the year ended March 31, 2017, the Company Loss (gain) on valuation of investment securities — 4 41 have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles presents its consolidated financial statements in accordance Loss (gain) on sales of investment securities (1,020) (323) (2,973) generally accepted in Japan, which are different in certain with the Ordinance on the terminology, Forms and Preparation Share of (profit) loss of entities accounted for using equity method (750) (923) (8,484) Loss (Gain) on step acquisitions (47) (1,556) (14,304) aspect in terms of the application and disclosure requirements Methods of Consolidated Financial Statements (Ordinance of Interest and dividend income (137) (144) (1,325) of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), and have the Ministry of Finance No. 28 of 1976). Received settlement fee — (123) (1,131) been compiled from the consolidated financial statements Interest expenses paid on loans and bonds 115 123 1,136 Compensation expenses 294 505 4,646 prepared by the Company as required by the Financial (4) U.S. Dollar Amounts Disaster loss 217 — — Instruments and Exchange Act of Japan. The accompanying consolidated financial statements are Decrease (increase) in notes and accounts receivable – trade (7,995) (1,584) (14,556) Certain amounts in the prior year’s financial statements expressed in Japanese yen, and solely for the convenience Decrease (increase) in inventories (2,213) (1,409) (12,954) Increase (decrease) in notes and accounts payable – trade 2,078 2,231 20,504 have been reclassified to conform to the current year’s of the reader, have been translated into U.S. dollars at the Increase (decrease) in advances received 535 2,162 19,874 presentation. rate of ¥108.83 to U.S.$1.00, the prevailing exchange rate at Increase (decrease) in accrued consumption taxes (1,004) 4,830 44,381 As permitted by the Financial Instruments and Exchange March 31, 2020. This translation should not be construed as Other, net 1,241 (1,162) (10,681) Subtotal 40,002 56,805 521,965 Act of Japan, amounts of less than one million yen have been a representation that the amounts shown could be converted Interest and dividend income received 327 381 3,506 omitted. As a result, the totals shown in the accompanying into U.S. dollars. Settlement received — 123 1,131 consolidated financial statements (both in yen and U.S. Interest expenses paid (114) (123) (1,135) Compensation expenses paid (224) (385) (3,539) dollars) do not necessarily agree with the sums of the (5) Foreign Currency Translation Payments for loss on disaster (6) (191) (1,755) individual amounts. (a) Translation of accounts Income taxes (paid) refund (6,472) (7,660) (70,387) All shortand long-term monetary receivables and payables Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities 33,511 48,950 449,786 Cash flows from investing activities: (2) Principles of Consolidation and Accounting denominated in foreign currencies are translated into Purchase of property, plant and equipment (12,022) (9,721) (89,328) for Investments in Unconsolidated Japanese yen at the prevailing exchange rates on the balance Proceeds from sales of property, plant and equipment 8,168 1 13 Purchase of intangible assets (3,234) (3,183) (29,249) Subsidiaries and Affiliates sheet date. Gains and losses resulting from the translation Purchase of investment securities (1,274) (2,102) (19,318) The accompanying consolidated financial statements include are recognized in the consolidated statements of income Proceeds from sales and redemption of investment securities 1,210 578 5,319 the accounts of the Company and any significant companies as incurred. Payments for sales of shares of subsidiaries resulting in change in scope of consolidation (Note 11-*2) — (12,590) (115,688) controlled directly or indirectly by the Company. Payments of short-term loans receivable (208) (4) (37) Companies over which the Company exercises significant (b) Financial statements denominated in foreign Collection of short-term loans receivable 154 5 47 influence in terms of their operating and financial policies have currencies Proceeds from withdrawal of investments in partnership 113 49 451 Payments for lease and guarantee deposits (483) (511) (4,703) been accounted for by the equity method. In accordance with Balance sheets of foreign consolidated subsidiaries are Proceeds from collection of lease and guarantee deposits 614 347 3,191 the “Practical Solution on Unification of Accounting Policies translated into Japanese yen at the year-end rate except for Other, net (199) (207) (1,902) Applied to Foreign Subsidiaries for Consolidated Financial shareholders’ equity accounts, which are translated at the Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities (7,163) (27,338) (251,205) Cash flows from financing activities: Statements” (Accounting Standards Board of Japan (ASBJ) historical rates. Statements of income of foreign consolidated Increase in short-term loans payable 15,000 15,300 140,586 Practical Issues Task Force (PITF) No. 18) and the “Practical subsidiaries are translated at average rates except for Decrease in short-term loans payable (10,000) (15,335) (140,910) Solution on Unification of Accounting Policies Applied transactions with the Company, which are translated at the Repayments of long-term loans payable (5,000) (78) (724) Proceeds from issuance of bonds 10,000 — — to Associates Accounted for using the Equity Method” rates used by the Company. Repayments of lease obligations (615) (590) (5,428) (PITF No. 24), the accompanying consolidated financial Purchase of treasury shares (12) (14) (132) Proceeds from sales of treasury shares 2 1 12 Cash dividends paid (10,144) (11,967) (109,961) Dividends paid to non-controlling interests (181) (55) (512) Payments for acquisition of subsidiary’s shares not resulting in a change in scope of consolidation (19,045) (3,569) (32,794) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities (19,995) (16,309) (149,866) 2. MATTERS RELATED TO THE ISSUE OF A GOING CONCERN Effect of exchange rate change on cash and cash equivalents (21) (19) (180) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 6,330 5,281 48,533 Not applicable Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 99,797 106,198 975,824 Increase in cash and cash equivalents from newly consolidated subsidiary 70 214 1,973 Cash and cash equivalents at end of period (Note 11-*1) ¥106,198 ¥111,695 $1,026,331 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 95 SCSK Report 2020 SCSK Report 2020 96 Data Section Exchange Act of Japan are stated at the amount of net shares iv) Long-term prepaid expenses 3. SIGNIFICANT ITEMS FOR THE PREPARATION OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS based on their available financial statements at reporting dates Long-term prepaid expenses are amortized using the straightdesignated by partnership agreements. line method. (1) Scope of Consolidation (2) Equity-Method Affiliates (a) Consolidated subsidiaries: 25 Affiliates (consolidated) accounted for by the equity ii) Inventories (c) Recognition standards for allowances and provisions SCSK ServiceWare Corporation method: 2 Merchandise and finished goods: i) Allowance for doubtful accounts VeriServe Corporation ARGO GRAPHICS Inc. Merchandise and finished goods are principally stated using Allowance for doubtful accounts is provided in an amount VERISERVE OKINAWA TEST CENTER CORPORATION Presidio SCSK Digital Fund the specific identification method of writing down the book sufficient to cover probable losses on collection. The JIEC Co., Ltd. value to reflect a decline in the profitability. allowance for doubtful accounts consists of the estimated Minori Solutions Co., Ltd. Non-consolidated subsidiaries not accounted for by the uncollectible amount with respect to certain identified SCSK KYUSHU CORPORATION equity method (Tokyo Green Systems Corporation) are Work in process: doubtful receivables and an amount calculated using the SCSK HOKKAIDO CORPORATION excluded from the method’s application because their overall Work in process is stated by the specific identification method of actual historical percentage of collection losses. SCSK PRESCENDO CORPORATION importance within the Group is low and the impact on net writing down the book value to reflect a decline in the profitability. SCSK USA Inc. profit, retained earnings and other factors would be minor. ii) Provision for bonuses SCSK Europe Ltd. Effective from the first quarter of the fiscal year ended iii) Derivative transactions Provision for bonuses is provided based on the estimated SCSK Shanghai Limited March 31, 2020, Gran Manibus Co., Ltd. was excluded from Derivative transactions are carried at fair value. amounts payable at the balance sheet date. SCSK Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd. the scope of equity method application and included in the PT SCSK Global Indonesia scope of consolidation to reflect its increased materiality. (b) Depreciation method of significant assets iii) Provision for directors’ bonuses SCSK Myanmar Ltd. Effective from the second quarter of the fiscal year ended i) Property and equipment (excluding leased assets) Provision for directors’ bonuses is provided based on the Skeed Co., Ltd. March 31, 2020, an investment in the Presidio SCSK Digital Depreciation of property and equipment is calculated principally estimated amounts payable at the balance sheet date. CSI SOLUTIONS Corporation Fund is included into the scope of equity-method accounting. by the straight-line method over the estimated useful life of Allied Engineering Corporation the asset and the residual value determined by the Group. iv) Provision for loss on construction contracts WinTechnology Corporation (3) Fiscal Year of Consolidated Subsidiaries Significant overhauls and additions are capitalized at cost. Provision for loss on construction contracts is provided for SCSK SYSTEM MANAGEMENT CORPORATION The fiscal year-end of SCSK Europe Ltd., SCSK Shanghai Maintenance and repairs are recognized as expense as incurred. estimated future losses related to construction contracts. VA Linux Systems Japan K.K Limited, SCSK Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd., PT SCSK Global Indonesia SDC Corporation and one investment partnership is December 31. For those ii) Intangible assets (excluding leased assets) v) Provision for directors’ retirement benefits Gran Manibus Co., Ltd. companies, preparation of the consolidated financial Software for external sales: The Company and certain consolidated subsidiaries record SCSK Nearshore Systems Corporation statements for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2020 is based Capitalized costs of software developed for external sales are provision for directors’ retirement benefits based on an One investment partnership and one silent partnership on the financial statements for the period from January 1, amortized at the higher of (a) the amount based on projected estimated amount payable to directors upon retirement. 2019 through December 31, 2019. sales amounts, or (b) the amount equally allocated for the An estimate is based only on the period prior to the date of Effective from the first quarter of the fiscal year ended March 31, Note that necessary adjustments have been made for remaining period (within 3 years). abolishment of the directors’ retirement benefit plan, which 2020, Gran Manibus Co., Ltd. and Skeed Co. Ltd. were included consolidation purposes with regard to material transactions was approved at the shareholders’ meeting in previous years. in the scope of consolidation to reflect their increased materiality. that took place between the above period-end and the fiscal Software for internal use: Effective from the second quarter of the fiscal year year-end of the Company. Capitalized costs of software for internal use are amortized (d) Retirement benefits ended March 31, 2020, PT SCSK Global Indonesia and SCSK using the straight-line method over the estimated useful life i) Calculation method for retirement benefit obligation Myanmar Ltd. were included in the scope of consolidation (4) Significant Accounting Policies of the software (within 5 years). The retirement benefit obligation for employees is attributed following investments to establish these companies. (a) Valuation bases and valuation methods for assets to each period by a benefit formula basis over the estimated Effective from the third quarter of the fiscal year ended March i) Securities Other intangible assets: years of service of the eligible employees. 31, 2020, Minori Solutions Co., Ltd. was included in the scope of Held-to-maturity debt securities are stated at amortized cost Other intangible assets are amortized using the straight-line consolidation following the acquisition of stock in this company. computed based on the straight-line method. method. ii) Recording methods of actuarial gains/losses and past Shares of non-consolidated subsidiaries that are not service costs (b) Major non-consolidated subsidiaries and affiliates accounted for by the equity method are stated at the moving iii) Leases Actuarial gains and losses are amortized by the straight-line Tokyo Green Systems Corporation average cost. Non-cancellable lease transactions that transfer substantially method over a defined period not exceeding the average all risks and rewards associated with the ownership of assets estimated remaining service period, which is mainly 5 to 13 Effective from the first quarter of the fiscal year ended Available-for-sale securities: are accounted for as finance leases. years, beginning from the following fiscal year. March 31, 2020, Skeed Co., Ltd. was included in the scope Available-for-sale securities with fair value are stated at fair All other lease transactions are accounted for as operating Past service costs are amortized by the straight-line of consolidation to reflect its increased materiality. value at the balance sheet date. Valuation differences on leases and related payments are charged to profit or loss as method over a defined period not exceeding the average these securities are reported, net of applicable income taxes, incurred. estimated remaining service period of mainly 1 to 12 years. Non-consolidated subsidiaries are excluded from the scope as a separate component of net assets. Realized gains and Leased assets of finance leases except for those that Unrealized actuarial gains and losses and unrealized past of consolidation because they are all small in size and their losses on the sale of such securities are computed using the transfer ownership of the leased assets to the lessee are service costs are recorded as remeasurements of defined total assets and net sales and the portions of net profit and moving average method. depreciated by the straight-line method over the lease periods benefit plans in accumulated other comprehensive income, retained earnings attributable to the Company would be Available-for-sale securities without fair value are stated at with no residual value. net of tax. immaterial to the consolidated financial statements. the moving average cost. Investments in partnership considered 97 SCSK Report 2020 as securities in accordance with the Financial Instruments and SCSK Report 2020 98 Data Section (e) Deferred assets v) Other 4. STANDARDS AND GUIDANCE NOT YET ADOPTED Bond issuance cost: All derivative transactions are carried with domestic financial Bond issuance cost is expensed in full when paid. institutions that have high credit ratings, and credit risk arising The following standard and guidance were issued but not i) Overview from contractual default by these counterparties is assumed yet adopted. The Accounting Standard for Fair Value Measurement and (f) Revenue recognition to be low. • “Accounting Standard for Revenue Recognition” (ASBJ Implementation Guidance on Accounting Standard for Fair Revenue from construction contracts: Statement No. 29, March 31, 2020) Value Measurement (hereinafter, “fair value measurement The percentage of completion method is applied to contracts (h) Amortization of goodwill • “Implementation Guidance on Accounting Standard for accounting standards”) are being developed to improve for which substantial progress toward certain results is reliably Goodwill is amortized over a period of 5 to 10 years by the Revenue Recognition” (ASBJ Guidance No. 30, March comparability and align with international accounting estimated at the end of the fiscal year under review. The straight-line method. However, the full amount of goodwill 31, 2020) standards, and guidance has been issued for measuring fair estimation of the degree of completion of a contract at the that is not material is expensed as incurred. value. The fair value of the following items will be measured fiscal year-end is determined by the percentage of the cost i) Overview based on the below fair value measurement accounting incurred to the estimated total costs. The completed contract (i) Cash and cash equivalents The above standard and guidance provide comprehensive standards. method is applied to other contracts. In preparing the consolidated statements of cash flows, principles for revenue recognition. Under the standard and • Financial instruments subject to the Accounting Standard cash on hand, readily available deposits and short-term guidance, revenue is recognized by applying the following for Financial Instruments (g) Derivative and hedge accounting highly liquid investments with insignificant risk of changes 5 steps: Implementation Guidance on Disclosures about Fair Value of i) Hedge accounting methods in value, maturities not exceeding three months at the time Step 1: Identify contract(s) with customers. Financial Instruments has been revised, and a breakdown of Derivative financial instruments are carried at fair value with of purchase and Money Management Funds and other are Step 2: Identify the performance obligations in the contract. the fair value of financial instruments by level is disclosed in changes in unrealized gains or losses charged or credited to considered to be cash and cash equivalents. Step 3: Determine the transaction price. the notes to the financial statements. operations, except for those that meet the criteria for deferral Step 4: Allocate the transaction price to the performance hedge accounting under which unrealized gains or losses (j) Consumption taxes obligation in the contract. ii) Effective date are deferred as a component of net assets. Appropriation Consumption taxes and local consumption taxes are excluded Step 5: Recognize revenue when (or as) the entity satisfies a Effective from the beginning of the fiscal year ending March treatment is applied for receivables and payables denominated from the revenue and expenses accounts, which are subject performance obligation. 31, 2021. in foreign currencies hedged by forward foreign exchange to such taxes. contracts. With appropriation treatment, receivables and ii) Effective date iii) Effects of the application of the standard and guidance payables denominated in foreign currencies for which forward (k) Application of consolidated taxation system Effective from the beginning of the fiscal year ending March The Company and its consolidated domestic subsidiaries foreign exchange contracts are used to hedge the foreign The Company and certain domestic consolidated subsidiaries 31, 2021. are currently in the process of assessing the effects of these currency fluctuations are translated at the contracted rate if applied a consolidated taxation system. new standard and guidance on the consolidated financial the forward contracts qualify for specific hedge accounting. iii) Effects of the application of the standard and guidance statements. (l) Application of tax-effect accounting for transition The Company and its consolidated domestic subsidiaries are ii) Hedging instruments and hedged items from consolidated taxation system to group currently in the process of determining the effects of these • Accounting Standard for Disclosure of Accounting Estimates Hedging instruments: taxation system new standard and guidance on the consolidated financial (ASBJ Statement No. 31, March 31, 2020) Forward foreign exchange contracts Other significant matters in preparation of the consolidate statements. financial statements i) Overview Hedged items: Application of tax effect accounting for the transition from • Accounting Standard for Fair Value Measurement (ASBJ For better understanding of users of the financial statements, Receivables and payables denominated in foreign currencies the consolidated tax payment system to the group taxation Statement No. 30, July 4, 2019) the standard requires to disclose estimation uncertainty at the system • Implementation Guidance on Accounting Standard for Fair end of the reporting period, that may have a significant risk iii) Hedging policy Having regard to paragraph 3 of “Practical Solution on the Value Measurement (ASBJ Guidance No. 31, July 4, 2019) of resulting in a material adjustment to the carrying amounts Derivative transactions are implemented based on actual Treatment of Tax Effect Accounting for the Transition from • Accounting Standard for Financial Instruments (ASBJ of assets and liabilities within the next financial year. demands and not for trading or speculative purposes. the Consolidated Taxation System to the Group Tax Sharing Statement No. 10, July 4, 2019) System” (PITF No. 39, March 31, 2020), the Company and its • Implementation Guidance on Disclosures about Fair Value ii) Effective date iv) Assessment of hedge effectiveness domestic consolidated subsidiaries did not follow paragraph of Financial Instruments (ASBJ Guidance No. 19, March Effective from the end of the fiscal year ending March 31, 2021. In accordance with the risk management policies, forward 44 of “Implementation Guidance on Tax Effect Accounting” 31, 2020) foreign exchange contracts with the same amounts and (ASBJ Guidance No. 28, February 16, 2018) but applied maturities denominated in the same foreign currencies, are provisions of pre-amended tax laws when calculating the appropriated when the forward foreign exchange contracts amounts of deferred tax assets and liabilities that relate are entered into. As a result, their following correlation in to transitioning to the group taxation system and related exchange fluctuations is fully confirmed, and therefore, hedge amendments of tax laws for transitioning to the single tax effectiveness is not assessed at the balance sheet date. payment system. 99 SCSK Report 2020 SCSK Report 2020 100 Data Section *4 Notes maturing as of the fiscal year-end are treated as settled on the relevant clearing dates. 5. CHANGES IN PRESENTATION Since the last day of the fiscal year was a holiday for financial institutions, the following amounts of notes maturing as of the fiscal year-end are included in the balance as of the fiscal year-end. Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows As a result, net inflow of ¥772 million presented as IIncrease (decrease) in advances received and increase other, net under cash flows from operating activities in the March 31 March 31 (decrease) in consumption tax payable were included in other, consolidated statement of cash flow for the previous fiscal 2019 2020 2020 net under cash flows from operating activities in the previous year has been reclassified as increase in advances received Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars fiscal year. These were presented separately in this fiscal year of ¥535 million, decrease in accrued consumption taxes of due to increased materiality. In order to reflect the changes ¥1,004 million, and other, net of ¥1,241 million. Notes receivable ¥69 ¥— $— of presentation retrospectively, the respective amounts in the previous fiscal year have been reclassified. 8. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME 6. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION *1 Major elements of “Selling, general and administrative expenses” for the years ended March 31, 2019 and 2020 were as follows: Year ended March 31 Year ended March 31 The Company exercised judgement in estimating the impact in the year ending March 31, 2021 as similar level of this fiscal of COVID-19 for the areas of revenue recognition under the year whereas the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic in Japan 2019 2020 2020 Thousands of percentage of completion method, recognition of the provision and overseas remains uncertain. This assumption was taken into Millions of yen U.S. dollars for loss on construction contracts, recoverability analysis of account in forming business plan and will provide the basis of Salaries and bonuses ¥21,043 ¥22,269 $204,622 deferred tax assets and assessment of impairment on nonaccounting estimates. However, the future outcome may differ Retirement benefit expenses 1,709 1,805 16,590 current assets. The Company expected customers’ demands from these accounting estimates as new facts become available. Welfare expenses 4,765 5,152 47,345 Rent expenses 3,316 3,473 31,913 Depreciation 1,619 1,619 14,881 Business consignment expenses 2,504 2,570 23,620 Taxes and dues 3,034 3,263 29,982 7. CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS Provision for bonuses 1,465 2,103 19,326 Provision for directors’ bonuses 57 65 603 *1 Investment in unconsolidated subsidiaries and affiliates was as follows: March 31 March 31 *2 Gain on sales of non-current assets was as follows: 2019 2020 2020 Thousands of Year ended March 31 Year ended March 31 Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2019 2020 2020 Investment Securities ¥5,632 ¥6,336 $58,219 Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars Buildings and structures ¥(1,363) ¥ 0 $ 0 *2 Accumulated depreciation of property, plant and equipment Tools, furniture and fixtures 1 0 8 Land 1,733 — — March 31 March 31 Software — 10 91 2019 2020 2020 Thousands of Other — 0 0 Millions of yen U.S. dollars Total ¥ 371 ¥10 $100 Accumulated depreciation of property, plant and equipment ¥46,628 ¥50,156 $460,871 In the fiscal year under review, the gains on sale and losses on sale from the same transaction have been offset and presented *3 Presentation of inventories and provision for loss on construction contracts as gain on sale of property, plant and equipment. The following inventories and provision for loss on construction contracts that are likely to incur losses are not offset but presented in gross amounts. March 31 March 31 2019 2020 2020 Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars Work in process (Amount of inventories corresponding to provision for loss on construction contracts) ¥125 ¥375 $3,453 101 SCSK Report 2020 SCSK Report 2020 102 Data Section *3 Loss on retirement of non-current assets was as follows: *7 Provision for loss on construction contracts included in “Cost of sales” was as follows: Year ended March 31 Year ended March 31 Year ended March 31 Year ended March 31 2019 2020 2020 2019 2020 2020 Thousands of Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars Millions of yen U.S. dollars Buildings and structures ¥13 ¥22 $203 ¥227 ¥505 $4,645 Tools, furniture and fixtures 39 27 254 Leased assets 1 — — Software 3 3 33 Other 0 0 0 Total ¥57 ¥53 $491 9. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME *4 Loss on sales of non-current assets was as follows: The following table presents the components of reclassification adjustments and income tax of other comprehensive income for the years ended March 31, 2019 and 2020. Year ended March 31 Year ended March 31 2019 2020 2020 * Other comprehensive income: Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars Year ended March 31 Year ended March 31 Buildings and structures ¥ — ¥4 $37 2019 2020 2020 Tools, furniture and fixtures 44 2 20 Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars Total ¥44 ¥6 $57 Valuation difference on available-for-sale securities: (Losses) gains arising during the year ¥(1,290) ¥(1,738) $(15,971) *5 Impairment loss Reclassification adjustments for gains (losses) included in income statements 1,022 323 2,973 The Group recognized an impairment loss on the following asset group: Before tax amounts (268) (1,414) (12,997) Tax (expenses) benefits 82 433 3,982 Year ended March 31, 2019 Subtotal, net of tax (185) (981) (9,015) Deferred gains or losses on hedges: Not applicable (Losses) gains arising during the year (22) 63 585 Reclassification adjustments for gains (losses) included in income statements — — — Year ended March 31, 2020 Before tax amounts (22) 63 585 Location Use Type of assets Tax (expenses) benefits 6 (19) (179) Koto-ku, Tokyo Business asset Software Subtotal, net of tax (15) 44 406 Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo Business asset Software Foreign currency translation adjustments: (Losses) gains arising during the year (20) (29) (275) In principle, the Group classifies business assets by the booking of impairment losses equivalent to their book value of Reclassification adjustments for gains (losses) included in income statements — — — smallest unit independently generating cash flows based on ¥202 million ($1,857 thousand), assuming zero utility value. Before tax amounts (20) (29) (275) business segments. Business assets in Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo, are no longer in Tax (expenses) benefits — — — However, idle assets are grouped together as a sum of service due to a decision to stop using a core system at a Subtotal, net of tax (20) (29) (275) their individual asset values. subsidiary, resulting in the booking of impairment losses Remeasurements of defined benefit plans: Business assets in Koto-ku, Tokyo, have become idle due equivalent to their book value of ¥306 million ($3,664 (Losses) gains arising during the year (2,437) (2,997) (27,545) to an undetermined date for service provision, resulting in the thousand), assuming recoverable amounts of zero. Reclassification adjustments for gains (losses) included in income statements 692 958 8,810 Before tax amounts (1,745) (2,038) (18,734) *6 Research and development expenses included in “Selling, general and administrative expenses” were as follows: Tax (expenses) benefits 546 628 5,774 Subtotal, net of tax (1,199) (1,410) (12,960) Year ended March 31 Year ended March 31 Share of other comprehensive income of entities accounted for using equity 2019 2020 2020 method: Thousands of (Losses) gains arising during the year (18) (6) (61) Millions of yen U.S. dollars Reclassification adjustments for gains (losses) included in income statements — — — ¥725 ¥1,190 $10,942 Subtotal, net of tax (18) (6) (61) Total other comprehensive income ¥(1,440) ¥(2,384) $(21,906) 103 SCSK Report 2020 SCSK Report 2020 104 Data Section (2) Number of treasury shares 10. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN NET ASSETS Class of shares Number of shares as of April 1, 2019 Increase Decrease Number of shares as of March 31, 2020 Year ended March 31, 2019 Common Stock 351,781 2,404 4,346 349,839 (1) Number of issued shares Class of shares Number of shares as of April 1, 2018 Increase Decrease Number of shares as of March 31, 2019 Outline of reasons for changes: Common Stock 104,181,803 — — 104,181,803 The increase in the number of treasury shares was due to the following: Purchases of less-than-one-unit shares: 2,404 shares The decrease in the number of treasury shares was due to the following: (2) Number of treasury shares Disposals of less-than-one-unit shares: 246 shares Class of shares Number of shares as of April 1, 2018 Increase Decrease Number of shares as of March 31, 2019 Exercise of subscription rights to shares: 4,100 shares Common Stock 362,918 2,373 13,510 351,781 (3) Subscription rights to shares Outline of reasons for changes: Number of shares Amount outstanding at March 31, 2020 The increase in the number of treasury shares was due to the following: Description of Number of shares Number of shares Purchases of less-than-one-unit shares: 2,373 shares subscription rights Type of shares for outstanding at outstanding at Thousands of Company Name to shares subscription rights April 1, 2019 Increase Decrease March 31, 2020 Millions of yen U.S. dollars The decrease in the number of treasury shares was due to the following: SCSK Subscription rights Disposals of less-than-one-unit shares: 610 shares as stock options — — — — — ¥30 $279 Exercise of subscription rights to shares: 12,900 shares (3) Subscription rights to shares (4) Matters related to dividends (a) Dividend payments Number of shares Description of Number of shares Number of shares Amount outstanding at Total amount of dividends Dividends per share subscription rights Type of shares for outstanding at outstanding at March 31, 2019 Thousands of Company Name to shares subscription rights April 1, 2018 Increase Decrease March 31, 2019 (Millions of yen) Approved by Types of shares Millions of yen U.S. dollars Yen U.S. dollars Record date Effective date SCSK Subscription rights Board Meeting held at as stock options — — — — — ¥40 April 26, 2019 Common Stock ¥5,202 $47,804 ¥50.00 $0.45 March 31, 2019 June 4, 2019 Board Meeting held at October 30, 2019 Common Stock ¥6,763 $62,147 ¥65.00 $0.59 September 30, 2019 December 2, 2019 (4) Matters related to dividends Note: Dividends per share approved by the Board of Directors on October 30, 2019, include a commemorative dividend of ¥10.00 per share for the Company’s 50th anniversary. (a) Dividend payments Total amount of dividends Dividends per share (b) Dividends whose record date is attributable to the year ended March 31, 2020 but whose effective date is to be after the Approved by Types of shares (Millions of yen) (Yen) Record date Effective date balance sheet date Board Meeting held on April 27, 2018 Common Stock ¥4,941 ¥47.50 March 31, 2018 June 5, 2018 Total amount of dividends Dividends per share Board Meeting held on Thousands of October 29, 2018 Common Stock ¥5,202 ¥50.00 September 30, 2018 December 3, 2018 Approved by Types of shares Source of funds Millions of yen U.S. dollars Yen U.S. dollars Record date Effective date Board Meeting held at Common Accumulated April 28, 2020 Stock income ¥6,763 $62,147 ¥65.00 $0.59 March 31, 2020 June 2, 2020 (b) Dividends whose record date is attributable to the year ended March 31, 2019 but whose effective date is to be after the Note: Dividends per share includes a 50th anniversary commemorative dividend of ¥10.00 per share. balance sheet date Total amount of dividends Dividends per share Approved by Types of shares Source of funds (Millions of yen) (Yen) Record date Effective date Board Meeting held at Accumulated April 26, 2019 Common Stock income ¥5,202 ¥50.00 March 31, 2019 June 4, 2019 Year ended March 31, 2020 (1) Number of issued shares Class of shares Number of shares at April 1, 2019 Increase Decrease Number of shares at March 31, 2020 Common Stock 104,181,803 — — 104,181,803 105 SCSK Report 2020 SCSK Report 2020 106 Data Section (2) Lessee – Operating leases 11. CASH FLOW INFORMATION Lease commitments under non-cancellable operating leases were as follows: *1 Reconciliation of cash and deposits in the consolidated balance sheets and cash and cash equivalents in the consolidated March 31 March 31 statements of cash flows was as follows: 2019 2020 2020 Thousands of Year ended March 31 Year ended March 31 Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2019 2020 2020 As a lessee: Thousands of Due within one year ¥3,409 ¥2,251 $20,684 Millions of yen U.S. dollars Due over one year 6,346 4,109 37,759 Cash and deposits ¥ 21,170 ¥ 32,072 $ 294,700 Total ¥9,755 ¥6,360 $58,444 Deposits paid 85,028 79,703 732,365 Total 106,198 111,775 1,027,066 Time deposits in excess of three months — (80) (735) Cash and cash equivalents ¥106,198 ¥111,695 $1,026,331 13. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS *2 The significant components of assets and liabilities of companies that were newly consolidated as a result of the acquisition of shares (1) Matters related to financial instruments For year ended March 31, 2019 Year ended March 31, 2020 (a) Policy for financial instruments The breakdown of assets and liabilities at the time Minori Solutions Co., Ltd. became a consolidated subsidiary as a result of For the management of surplus funds, the Group’s policy is to invest only in short-term deposits at banks and investment the acquisition of shares, the acquisition amount for shares in Minori Solutions Co., Ltd., and the net expenditure to acquire securities. The Group mainly raises funds through bank loans and corporate bonds and uses funds on hand. The Group does Minori Solutions Co., Ltd., is as follows: not use derivative instruments for speculative or trading purposes and only uses forward foreign exchange contracts to mitigate Thousands of the risk of currency rate fluctuations for debts and credits denominated in foreign currencies. Millions of yen U.S. dollars Current assets ¥ 9,750 $ 89,598 (b) Types of financial instruments, related risks and risk management for financial instruments Non-current assets 1,317 12,105 Trade receivables such as trade notes and accounts receivable are exposed to customer credit risk. Goodwill 14,045 129,058 In accordance with the internal policy of the Group for managing credit risk arising from receivables, the Group monitors Current liabilities (1,946) (17,888) the credit worthiness of its main customers on a regular basis and monitors due dates and outstanding balances by individual Non-current liabilities (778) (7,149) customers. Non-controlling interests (478) (4,400) The Group holds investment securities which mainly consist of stocks issued by companies with which the Group has business Amount acquired until acquisition of control (873) (8,023) relationships. Investment securities are exposed to market risk. The Group periodically reviews market prices of these securities Net gain on step acquisition (1,556) (14,304) in order to mitigate market risk. Transaction price 19,479 178,994 Substantially all trade payables, such as trade notes and accounts payable, have payment due dates within one year and Cash and cash equivalents (6,889) (63,305) are exposed to liquidity risk. Net: Payments for acquisition of stock ¥12,590 $115,688 Some trade payables denominated in foreign currency arising from import transactions are exposed to foreign currency exchange risk. The Group enters into forward foreign exchange contracts to reduce foreign currency exchange risk with financial institutions which have high credit ratings in order to reduce credit risk. Short-term loans payable are mainly for raising working capital for operating transactions. These loans payable with the final due date in September 2019 are exposed to liquidity risk. 12. LEASE TRANSACTIONS Bonds payable are issued and used mainly for capital expenditures. These bonds with the final due date in September 2023 are exposed to liquidity risk. (1) Lessee – Finance leases Trade payables, loans payables and bonds payable are exposed to liquidity risk, which is the risk of failing to settle as Finance leases that do not transfer ownership of the leased assets to the lessee scheduled. The Company comprehensively manages the Group’s cash flow by using CMS. In addition, the Company receives a monthly cash flow report from each Group company and maintains Group-wide cash management. (a) Description of leased assets Regarding derivative transactions, forward foreign exchange contracts were entered into for the purpose of hedging foreign Leased assets consist mainly of property, plant and equipment in head offices and data centers. currency exchange risk deriving from trade payables and trade receivables denominated in foreign currencies. (b) Calculation method of depreciation equivalents (c) Supplementary explanation regarding matters related to fair value of financial instruments Depreciation equivalents are calculated using the straight-line method over the lease term without residual value. The notional amounts of derivative transactions in the notes (derivative transactions) do not necessarily represent the amount of market risk associated with the derivative transactions. 107 SCSK Report 2020 SCSK Report 2020 108 Data Section For year ended March 31, 2020 At March 31, 2019 (a) Policy for financial instruments Carrying For the management of surplus funds, the Group’s policy is to invest only in short-term deposits at banks and investment value(*a) Fair value(*a) Difference securities. The Group mainly raises funds through bank loans and corporate bonds and uses funds on hand. The Group does Millions of yen not use derivative instruments for speculative or trading purposes and only uses forward foreign exchange contracts to mitigate Assets: the risk of currency rate fluctuations for debts and credits denominated in foreign currencies. (1) Cash and deposits ¥ 21,170 ¥ 21,170 ¥ — (2) Notes and accounts receivable – trade 74,698 74,698 — (b) Types of financial instruments, related risks and risk management for financial instruments (3) Deposits paid 85,028 85,028 — (4) Investment securities Trade receivables such as trade notes and accounts receivable are exposed to customer credit risk. Available-for-sale securities 5,513 5,513 — In accordance with the internal policy of the Group for managing credit risk arising from receivables, the Group monitors Shares of subsidiaries and associates 5,185 11,167 5,982 the credit worthiness of its main customers on a regular basis and monitors due dates and outstanding balances by individual (5) Lease and guarantee deposits 6,759 6,695 (63) customers. (6) Notes and accounts payable – trade (22,087) (22,087) — The Group holds investment securities which mainly consist of stocks issued by companies with which the Group has business (7) Short-term loans payable (15,000) (15,000) — relationships, and bonds held to maturity. Investment securities are exposed to market risk. The Group periodically reviews (8) Bonds payable (40,000) (40,023) (23) market prices of these securities in order to mitigate market risk. Bonds held to maturity are bonds with high credit ratings, (9) Derivative transactions (*b) (30) (30) — and therefore carry minimal credit risk. (*a) Liabilities are presented in parentheses. (*b) Receivables and payables incurred as a result of derivatives are presented on a net basis. Substantially all trade payables, such as trade notes and accounts payable, have payment due dates within one year and are exposed to liquidity risk. Some trade payables denominated in foreign currency arising from import transactions are exposed to foreign currency At March 31, 2020 exchange risk. The Group enters into forward foreign exchange contracts to reduce foreign currency exchange risk with financial Carrying Carrying institutions which have high credit ratings in order to reduce credit risk. value(*a) Fair value(*a) Difference value Fair value Difference Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars (Note 1) Short-term loans payable are mainly for raising working capital for operating transactions. These loans payable with the final Assets: due date in September 2020 are exposed to liquidity risk. (1) Cash and deposits ¥ 32,072 ¥ 32,072 ¥ — $ 294,700 $ 294,700 $ — Bonds payable are issued and used mainly for capital expenditures. These bonds with the final due date in September 2023 (2) Notes and accounts receivable – trade 78,828 78,828 — 724,330 724,330 — are exposed to liquidity risk. (3) Securities Trade payables, loans payable and bonds payable are exposed to liquidity risk, which is the risk of failing to settle as scheduled. Available-for-sale securities 299 299 — 2,754 2,754 — The Company comprehensively manages the Group’s cash flow by using CMS. In addition, the Company receives a monthly (4) Deposits paid 79,703 79,703 — 732,365 732,365 — cash flow report from each Group company and maintains Group-wide cash management. (5) Investment securities Regarding derivative transactions, forward foreign exchange contracts were entered into for the purpose of hedging foreign Held-to-maturity securities 306 301 (4) 2,814 2,770 (44) currency exchange risk deriving from trade payables and trade receivables denominated in foreign currencies. Available-for-sale securities 3,174 3,174 — 29,165 29,165 — Shares of subsidiaries and associates 5,873 16,803 10,929 53,971 154,399 100,428 (c) Supplementary explanation regarding matters related to fair value of financial instruments (6) Lease and guarantee deposits 7,178 7,064 (114) 65,965 64,910 (1,054) The notional amounts of derivative transactions in the notes (derivative transactions) do not necessarily represent the amount (7) Notes and accounts payable – trade (25,054) (25,054) — (230,219) (230,219) — of market risk associated with the derivative transactions. (8) Short-term loans payable (15,400) (15,400) — (141,505) (141,505) — (9) Current portion of bonds * ( b) (10,000) (10,000) — (91,886) (91,886) — (2) Fair values of financial instruments (10) Bonds payable (30,000) (30,000) (0) (275,659) (275,659) (0) (11) Derivative transactions (*b) 33 33 — 306 306 — The carrying value of financial instruments on the consolidated balance sheets at March 31, 2019 and 2020 and estimated (*a) Liabilities are presented in parentheses. fair value are shown in the following table. The following table does not include financial instruments for which it is extremely (*b) Receivables and payables incurred as a result of derivatives are presented on a net basis. difficult to determine the fair value. Note 1. M  atters related to the calculation method of the fair value of financial instruments, as well as securities and derivative transactions For fiscal year ended March 31, 2019 (1) Cash and deposits, (2) Notes and accounts receivable – trade and (3) Deposits paid Since these items are settled in a short period of time, their carrying value approximates fair value. (4) Investment securities The fair value of these securities is based on either quoted market prices or prices provided by the correspondent financial institutions. The carrying value is used as the fair value for certain securities with short-term maturities because the fair value is nearly equal to the carrying value. (5) Lease and guarantee deposits The fair value of lease and guarantee deposits with maturities exceeding one year is based on the present value discounted by reasonable rates. (6) Notes and accounts payable – trade, and (7) Short-term loans payable Since these items are settled in a short period of time, their carrying value approximates fair value. (8) Bonds payable The fair value of bonds payable is based on the present value of total principal and interest discounted by the interest rate to be applied if similar new bonds are issued. (9) Derivative transactions Information on the fair value of derivatives is included in Note 13, “Derivative transactions.” 109 SCSK Report 2020 SCSK Report 2020 110 Data Section For fiscal year ended March 31, 2020 At March 31, 2020 (1) Cash and deposits, (2) Notes and accounts receivable – trade and (3) Securities Since these items are settled in a short period of time, their carrying value approximates fair value. (4) Deposits paid and (5) Investment securities Due within 1 to 5 5 to 10 Over 10 Due within 1 to 5 5 to 10 Over 10 The fair value of these securities is based on either quoted market prices or prices provided by the correspondent financial institutions. The carrying value is used as the fair value for certain 1 year years years years 1 year years years years securities with short-term maturities because the fair value is nearly equal to the carrying value. Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars (Note 1) (6) Lease and guarantee deposits The fair value of lease and guarantee deposits with maturities exceeding one year is based on the present value discounted by reasonable rates. Cash and time deposits ¥ 32,072 ¥ — ¥— ¥— $ 294,700 $ — $— $— (7) Notes and accounts payable – trade, (8) Short-term loans payable and (9) Bonds due within one year Since these items are settled in a short period of time, their carrying value approximates fair value. Notes and accounts receivable – trade 78,828 — — — 724,330 — — — (10) Bonds payable The fair value of bonds payable is based on the present value of total principal and interest discounted by the interest rate to be applied if similar new bonds are issued. Securities (11) Derivative transactions Available-for-sale securities Information on the fair value of derivatives is included in Note 13, “Derivative transactions.” with maturities: Corporate bonds 300 — — — 2,756 — — — Note 2. Financial instruments for which it is extremely difficult to determine the fair value Deposits paid 79,703 — — — 732,365 — — — March 31 Investment securities 2019 Held-to-maturity securities — 300 — — — 2,756 — — Millions of yen Available-for-sale securities Unlisted equity securities ¥ 551 with maturities: Investments in partnership 523 Corporate bonds — 900 — — — 8,269 — — Total ¥1,074 Total ¥190,904 ¥1,200 ¥— ¥— $1,754,153 $11,026 $— $— Note: None of the available-for-sale securities are subject to change due to fluctuation in fair value. As the quoted market price was not available and it was extremely difficult to estimate future cash flows, the carrying values Note 4. The repayment schedule for bonds payable and long-term debts after March 31, 2019 and 2020 are as follows. of the above financial instruments were not included in (4) Investment securities. Unlisted equity securities include the shares in non-consolidated subsidiaries and affiliates of ¥447 million at March 31, 2019. At March 31, 2019 March 31 March 31 Due within 1 to 2 2 to 3 3 to 4 4 to 5 Over 5 2020 2020 1 year years years years years years Thousands of Millions of yen Millions of yen U.S. dollars (Note 1) Short-term loans payable ¥15,000 ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥— Unlisted equity securities ¥1,894 $17,407 Corporate bonds — 10,000 10,000 10,000 10,000 — Investments in partnership 606 5,569 Total ¥15,000 ¥10,000 ¥10,000 ¥10,000 ¥10,000 ¥— Total ¥2,500 $22,977 As the quoted market price was not available and it was extremely difficult to estimate future cash flows, the carrying values At March 31, 2020 of the above financial instruments were not included in (5) Investment securities. Unlisted equity securities include the shares in Due within 1 to 2 2 to 3 3 to 4 4 to 5 Over 5 non-consolidated subsidiaries and affiliates of ¥462 million ($4,248 thousand) at March 31, 2020. 1 year years years years years years Millions of yen Note 3. The redemption schedule for monetary receivables and marketable securities with maturities at March 31, 2019 and Short-term loans payable ¥15,400 ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥— ¥— 2020 was as follows: Corporate bonds 10,000 10,000 10,000 10,000 — — Total ¥25,400 ¥10,000 ¥10,000 ¥10,000 ¥— ¥— At March 31, 2019 Due within 1 to 5 5 to 10 Over 10 Due within 1 to 2 2 to 3 3 to 4 4 to 5 Over 5 1 year years years years 1 year years years years years years Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Cash and time deposits ¥ 21,170 ¥ — ¥— ¥— Short-term loans payable $141,505 $ — $ — $ — $— $— Notes and accounts receivable – trade 74,698 — — — Corporate bonds 91,886 91,886 91,886 91,886 — — Deposits paid 85,028 — — — Total $233,391 $91,886 $91,886 $91,886 $— $— Investment securities Available-for-sale securities with maturities: Corporate bonds — 1,200 — — Total ¥180,897 ¥1,200 ¥— ¥— Note: Available-for-sale securities of ¥41 million with scheduled amounts subject to change due to fluctuation in fair value were not included in available-for-sale securities with maturities in the above table. 111 SCSK Report 2020 SCSK Report 2020 112 Data Section At March 31, 2020 14. INFORMATION ON SECURITIES Carrying Acquisition Carrying Acquisition value cost Difference value cost Difference Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars The following tables summarize acquisition cost and carrying value of securities with fair value. 1. ‌Securities with fair value exceeding acquisition cost: (1) Bonds held to maturity Equity securities ¥2,032 ¥662 ¥1,370 $18,676 $ 6,083 $12,593 Debt securities: Year ended March 31, 2019 Governmental/municipal bonds — — — — — — Corporate bonds — — — — — — Not applicable Other — — — — — — Sub-total 2,032 662 1,370 18,676 6,083 12,593 Year ended March 31, 2020 Amount on Amount on 2. ‌Securities with fair value not exceeding consolidated consolidated balance sheet Fair value Difference balance sheet Fair value Difference acquisition cost: Classification Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Equity securities 243 294 (51) 2,233 2,710 (476) Bonds with fair value higher than amount Debt securities: ¥ — ¥ — ¥— $ — $ — $ — shown on consolidated balance sheet Governmental/municipal bonds — — — — — — Bonds with fair value no higher than amount Corporate bonds 1,198 1,200 (1) 11,009 11,026 (16) 306 301 (4) 2,814 2,770 (44) shown on consolidated balance sheet Other — — — — — — Total ¥306 ¥301 ¥ (4) $2,814 $2,770 $(44) Sub-total 1,441 1,494 (53) 13,243 13,736 (493) Total ¥3,473 ¥2,157 ¥1,316 $31,920 $19,819 $12,100 (2) Available-for-sale securities with fair value Note: Unlisted equity securities of ¥1,432 million ($13,159 thousand) and investments in partnership of ¥606 million ($5,569 thousand) were not included in the above table since the quoted market price was not available and it was extremely difficult to estimate future cash flows. At March 31, 2019 (3) Sales of available-for-sale securities Carrying Acquisition value cost Difference At March 31, 2019 Millions of yen 1. ‌Securities with fair value exceeding Sales proceeds Aggregate gains Aggregate losses acquisition cost: Classification Millions of yen Equity securities ¥4,270 ¥1,763 ¥2,507 Equity securities ¥1,210 ¥1,024 ¥ 3 Debt securities: Debt securities — — — Governmental/municipal bonds — — — Other — — — Corporate bonds 1,001 1,000 1 Total ¥1,210 ¥1,024 ¥ 3 Other — — — Sub-total 5,272 2,763 2,508 At March 31, 2020 2. Securities ‌ with fair value not exceeding Sales proceeds Aggregate gains Aggregate losses Sales proceeds Aggregate gains Aggregate losses acquisition cost: Classification Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Equity securities — — — Equity securities ¥535 ¥331 ¥— $4,923 $3,049 $— Debt securities: Debt securities — — — — — — Governmental/municipal bonds — — — Other 42 — 8 390 — 75 Corporate bonds 200 200 — Total ¥578 ¥331 ¥ 8 $5,314 $3,049 $75 Other 41 50 (8) Sub-total 241 250 (8) Total ¥5,513 ¥3,014 ¥2,499 (4) Losses on valuation of available-for-sale securities with fair value Note: Unlisted equity securities of ¥104 million and investments in partnership of ¥523 million were not included in the above table since the quoted market price was not available and it was Not applicable for the year ended March 31, 2019. extremely difficult to estimate future cash flows. For the year ended March 31, 2020, losses on valuation of investment securities of ¥4 million ($41 thousand) were recognized. With regard to equities for which quoted market prices were not available and for which it was extremely difficult to estimate future cash flows, if the effective price of such an equity declines due to factors such as a deterioration in the financial condition of the issuer, the Company determines whether or not impairment is necessary by considering factors such as the likelihood of a recovery in the future price. 113 SCSK Report 2020 SCSK Report 2020 114 Data Section 15. DERIVATIVE TRANSACTIONS 16. EMPLOYEES’ PENSION AND RETIREMENT BENEFITS Derivative transactions for which hedge accounting has been applied (1) Outline of employees’ pension and retirement benefit plans adopted by the Company Currency-related The Company and certain consolidated subsidiaries have defined benefit plans and defined contribution plans. At March 31, 2019 (2) Defined benefit plans (a) Movement in retirement benefit obligations Portion due after one year included Notional in notional March 31 March 31 amount amount Fair value 2019 2020 2020 Type of transaction Hedged item Millions of yen Thousands of Derivative transactions for which deferral hedge accounting has been applied Millions of yen U.S. dollars Forward foreign exchange contracts Balance at beginning of the year ¥76,868 ¥79,647 $731,848 Sell Service costs 3,235 3,295 30,285 Forecast USD, GBP ¥2,498 ¥ — ¥(43) Interest costs 524 432 3,974 transactions in Buy Actuarial gains and losses 1,303 (904) (8,313) foreign currency USD, EUR, GBP, SGD 2,360 90 13 Benefits paid (2,407) (2,609) (23,979) Derivative transactions for which appropriation treatment has been applied Past service costs — — — Forward foreign exchange contracts Increase from change in scope of consolidation — 774 7,118 Sell Accounts Others 121 44 409 USD, EUR, GBP receivable – trade 1,612 — (Note 2) Balance at the end of the year ¥79,647 ¥80,680 $741,343 Buy Accounts USD, EUR, GBP, SGD payable – trade 2,052 — (Note 2) (b) Movement in plan assets Total ¥8,523 ¥90 ¥(30) Notes: 1. Fair value was based on the prices obtained from financial institutions. March 31 March 31 2. Forward foreign exchange contracts for which appropriation treatment had been applied were accounted for together with accounts payable and accounts receivable designated as hedged items. Therefore, their fair values were included in the fair value of the hedged accounts payable and accounts receivable. 2019 2020 2020 Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars At March 31, 2020 Balance at beginning of the year ¥75,400 ¥76,744 $705,176 Portion due after Portion due after Expected return on plan assets 1,508 1,534 14,103 one year included one year included Notional in notional Notional in notional Actuarial gains and losses (1,134) (3,902) (35,858) amount amount Fair value amount amount Fair value Contributions paid by the employer 3,323 3,374 31,004 Type of transaction Hedged item Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Benefits paid (2,353) (2,602) (23,917) Derivative transactions for which deferral hedge accounting has been applied Others — — — Forward foreign exchange contracts Balance at the end of the year ¥76,744 ¥75,147 $690,508 Sell Forecast USD, GBP ¥ 5,045 ¥ — ¥(22) $ 46,359 $ — $(210) transactions in (c) Reconciliation from retirement benefit obligations and plan assets to net defined benefit liability (asset) Buy foreign currency USD, EUR, GBP, SGD 6,333 317 56 58,195 2,920 517 March 31 March 31 Derivative transactions for which appropriation treatment has been applied 2019 2020 2020 Forward foreign exchange contracts Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars Sell Accounts Funded retirement benefit obligations ¥ 79,181 ¥ 80,170 $736,661 USD, EUR, GBP receivable – trade 1,331 — (Note 2) 12,234 — (Note 2) Plan assets (76,744) (75,147) 690,508 Buy Accounts 2,437 5,022 46,153 USD, EUR, GBP, SGD, CNY payable – trade 1,914 — (Note 2) 17,590 — (Note 2) Unfunded retirement benefit obligations 465 509 4,682 Total ¥14,624 ¥317 ¥ 33 $134,380 $2,920 $ 306 Notes: 1. Fair value was based on the prices obtained from financial institutions. Total net liability for retirement benefits 2,902 5,532 50,835 2. Forward foreign exchange contracts for which appropriation treatment had been applied were accounted for together with accounts payable and accounts receivable designated as Net defined benefit liability 2,902 5,532 50,835 hedged items. Therefore, their fair values were included in the fair value of the hedged accounts payable and accounts receivable. Net defined benefit asset — — — Total net liability for retirement benefits ¥ 2,902 ¥ 5,532 $ 50,835 115 SCSK Report 2020 SCSK Report 2020 116 Data Section (d) Retirement benefit expenses (g) Plan assets i) Categories of plan assets March 31 March 31 The ratios of plan assets in each major category to total plan assets were as follows: 2019 2020 2020 Thousands of March 31 Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2019 2020 Service costs ¥ 3,235 ¥ 3,295 $ 30,285 Bonds 49% 44% Interest costs 524 432 3,974 Equity securities 28% 23% Expected return on plan assets (1,508) (1,534) (14,103) Cash and deposits 5% 14% Net actuarial gains and losses amortization 707 998 9,178 Assets in an insurer’s general account 8% 9% Past service costs amortization (15) (20) (185) Hedge fund 6% 6% Other 371 396 3,645 Other 4% 4% Total retirement benefit expenses ¥ 3,316 ¥ 3,569 $ 32,795 Total 100% 100% (e) Remeasurements of defined benefit plans, before tax ii) Long-term expected rate of return Items included in the remeasurements of defined benefit plans, before tax, were as follows: Current and target asset allocations, historical and expected returns on various categories of plan assets have been considered March 31 March 31 in determining the long-term expected rate of return. 2019 2020 2020 Thousands of (h) Actuarial assumptions Millions of yen U.S. dollars The principal actuarial assumptions (weighted average rate) were as follows: Past service costs ¥ (15) ¥ (20) $ (185) Actuarial gains and losses (1,729) (2,018) (18,548) Year ended March 31 Total balance ¥(1,745) ¥(2,038) $(18,734) 2019 2020 Discount rate 0.6% 0.6% (f) Accumulated remeasurements of defined benefit plans Long-term expected rate of return 2.0% 2.0% Items included in the accumulated remeasurements of defined benefit plans, before tax, were as follows: (3) Defined contribution plans March 31 March 31 Amounts which the Company and certain consolidated subsidiaries contributed to the defined contribution plans were ¥1,404 2019 2020 2020 million and ¥1,458 million ($13,401 thousand) for the years ended March 31, 2019 and 2020, respectively. Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars Past service costs that are yet to be recognized ¥ (125) ¥ (105) $ (970) Actuarial gains and losses that are yet to be recognized 6,227 8,256 75,862 Total balance ¥6,101 ¥8,150 $74,891 117 SCSK Report 2020 SCSK Report 2020 118 Data Section 4. Treatment of subscription rights to shares in the event of organizational restructuring measures 17. STOCK OPTIONS If the Company specifies in agreements, plans or other such documents prepared upon organizational restructuring that it will issue subscription rights to shares of a Restructured Company as set forth below, the Company shall issue subscription rights to shares of the Restructured Company to the original Holders based on the relevant organizational restructuring ratio. (1) Mergers (only mergers under which the Company is to be dissolved) A Restructured Company that will survive after the merger or a Restructured Company that will be established through the merger (1) Outline, number and movement of stock options (2) Absorption-type company split (a) Outline of stock options A Restructured Company that succeeds to all or part of the rights and obligations with respect to the business that are held by the company that conducts the absorption-type company split (3) Incorporation-type company split A Restructured Company established through an incorporation-type company split Stock option 2007 Stock Option 2008 Stock Option 2009 Stock Option 2010 Stock Option (4) Share exchange A Restructured Company that acquires all of the issued shares of a company that conducts a share exchange Date of resolution July 27, 2007 June 26, 2008 June 25, 2009 June 25, 2010 (5) Share transfer A Restructured Company established through a share transfer 10 directors 9 directors 9 directors 9 directors 5. Provisions for acquiring subscription rights to shares Grantees’ position 14 executive officers 12 executive officers 16 executive officers 14 executive officers (1) If a Holder of subscription rights to shares fails to meet the conditions for exercising the subscription rights to shares, the Company may acquire the relevant subscription rights to shares at no cost. Number of share options by Common stock Common stock Common stock Common stock (2) If a General Meeting of Shareholders approves a proposal for approval of a merger agreement under which the Company is to be dissolved, or a proposal for approval of a share exchange types of shares (Note 1) 16,400 shares 22,900 shares 31,100 shares 45,400 shares agreement or share transfer plan under which the Company is to become a wholly owned subsidiary, the Company is entitled to acquire the subscription rights to shares at no cost. Date of grant July 27, 2007 July 29, 2008 July 30, 2009 July 30, 2010 (Additional Information) Vesting condition No provisions No provisions No provisions No provisions Notable matters that should be disclosed in “Outline of stock options” under “15. STOCK OPTIONS” have been disclosed collectively in the notes related to stock options. Applicable period of service No provisions No provisions No provisions No provisions (b) Number and movement of stock options July 28, 2007– July 30, 2008– July 31, 2009– July 31, 2010– Exercisable period July 26, 2027 July 28, 2028 July 29, 2029 July 29, 2030 (i) Number of stock options Number of subscription rights to 6 13 53 [50] 171 shares (Note 2) Number of shares Common stock 2007 Stock Option 2008 Stock Option 2009 Stock Option 2010 Stock Option Class, content and number of Common stock Common stock 5,300 shares Common stock shares issued upon exercise of 600 shares 1,300 shares [Common stock 17,100 shares Non-vested: stock acquisition rights (Note 2) (Note 3) (Note 3) 5,000 shares] (Note 3) Outstanding at March 31, 2019 — — — — (Note 3) Granted — — — — Amount to be paid upon exercise of Forfeited — — — — subscription rights to shares 1 1 1 1 (Yen) (Note 2) Vested — — — — Issue price and amount included in Outstanding at March 31, 2020 — — — — Issue price 1 Issue price 1 Issue price 1 Issue price 1 capital in case of the issuance of Amount included Amount included Amount included Amount included shares upon exercise of subscription in capital 1 in capital 1 in capital 1 in capital 1 Vested: rights to shares (Yen) (Note 2) *1 *2 *3 *4 Outstanding at March 31, 2019 1,200 2,600 8,100 19,700 Terms and conditions for the exercise of subscription rights to shares In the case where the Holders die, succession of their share subscription rights by heirs shall be permitted. Vested — — — — (Note 2) Other terms and conditions shall be stipulated in the Agreement on Stock Option Exercised — — 1,500 2,600 entered into between the Company and the Holder. Forfeited 600 1,300 1,300 — Matters concerning the transfer of subscription rights to shares The transfer of the subscription rights to shares shall require the approval of the Board of Directors. Outstanding at March 31, 2020 600 1,300 5,300 17,100 (Note 2) Matters related to the issuance of subscription rights to shares in (ii) Price information of stock options Note 4 Note 4 Note 4 Note 4 connection with organizational restructuring measures (Note 2) Year ended March 31, 2019 Matters concerning provisions for the acquisition of subscription rights Note 5 Note 5 Note 5 Note 5 to shares (Note 2) Yen 2007 Stock 2008 Stock 2009 Stock 2010 Stock Notes: Option Option Option Option 1. The number of stock options by class of shares has been converted and stated as number of shares. 2. The information is presented as of March 31, 2020. Certain matters have changed during the period from March 31, 2020 to the end of the month (May 31, 2020) preceding the filing Exercise price ¥ 1 ¥ 1 ¥ 1 ¥ 1 date of the Securities Report. This information is presented as of May 31, 2020 in brackets (“[ ]”). There have been no changes to other matters from March 31, 2020. *1 The Holders can exercise the rights for only two years from the day following the date when they lose their positions of director or executive officer of the Company (hereinafter, the Average market price of the stock at the time of exercise 5,080 5,080 5,080 4,947 “initial day of exercise period”). Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Holders will not reach the initial day of the exercise period until July 31, 2025, they shall be able to exercise the Fair valuation price (date of grant) 2,156 1,774 1,363 1,149 rights on and after August 1, 2025. *2 The Holders can exercise the rights for only two years from the day following the date when they lose their positions of director or executive officer of the Company (hereinafter, the “initial day of exercise period”). Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Holders will not reach the initial day of the exercise period until July 31, 2026, they shall only be able to exercise the rights on and after August 1, 2026. Year ended March 31, 2020 *3 The Holders can exercise the rights for only two years from the day following the date when they lose their positions of director or executive officer of the Company (hereinafter, the “initial day of exercise period”). Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Holders will not reach the initial day of the exercise period until July 31, 2027, they shall be able to exercise the rights on and after August 1, 2027. Yen *4 The Holders can exercise the rights for only ten years from the day following the date when they lose their positions of director or executive officer of the Company (hereinafter, the 2007 Stock 2008 Stock 2009 Stock 2010 Stock “initial day of exercise period”). Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Holders will not reach the initial day of the exercise period until July 31, 2028, they shall be able to exercise the Option Option Option Option rights on and after August 1, 2028. 3. In the event that the Company conducts a stock split or stock consolidation, the number of shares granted for each subscription right to shares shall be adjusted by the following formula: Exercise price ¥ 1 ¥ 1 ¥ 1 ¥ 1 However, this adjustments will apply only to the number of shares granted for those subscription rights to shares that have not already been exercised prior to the relevant date. Fractions of less than one share arising from the adjustments shall be discarded. Average market price of the stock at the time of exercise — — 4,880 5,373 Adjusted number of shares granted = Preadjusted number of shares granted x stock split or stock consolidation ratio Fair valuation price (date of grant) 2,156 1,774 1,363 1,149 If the Company conducts a merger, a company split, share exchange or share transfer (hereinafter collectively “Mergers, etc.”), a free distribution of the Company’s shares, or any other event requiring an adjustment of the number of shares granted, the Company can make a reasonable adjustment of the number of shares granted, taking into account the terms and conditions of the Mergers, etc. and free distribution of shares. 119 SCSK Report 2020 SCSK Report 2020 120 Data Section Year ended March 31, 2019 U.S. dollars Millions of yen 2007 Stock 2008 Stock 2009 Stock 2010 Stock Due within 1 year 1 to 2 years 2 to 3 years 3 to 4 years 4 to 5 years Over 5 years Total Option Option Option Option Carryforward tax loss (a) ¥13,000 ¥ 456 ¥4,725 ¥ 79 ¥— ¥ 136 ¥18,398 Exercise price $ 0.00 $ 0.00 $ 0.00 $ 0.00 Valuation reserve (7,531) (115) (28) (48) — (131) (7,854) Average market price of the stock at the time of exercise — — 44.84 49.37 (Net) Deferred tax assets 5,469 340 4,697 30 — 4 10,543(b) Fair valuation price (date of grant) 19.81 16.30 12.52 10.55 (a) The carryforward tax loss shown in the above table represents amounts after multiplying the statutory tax rate. (b) A deferred tax asset of ¥10,543 million was recognized for a carryforward tax loss of ¥18,398 million (amount multiplied by the statutory tax rate). The deferred tax asset of ¥10,543 million was recognized primarily for a portion of the Company’s outstanding carryforward tax loss of ¥17,968 million (amount multiplied by the statutory tax rate). No valuation reserve is recognized (2) Method of estimating exercised stock options for the carryforward tax loss since the amount was determined to be recoverable based on expected future taxable income. Since it is fundamentally difficult to reasonably estimate the number of options that will expire in the future, the number of Year ended March 31, 2020 Millions of yen options that have actually been forfeited is reflected. Due within 1 year 1 to 2 years 2 to 3 years 3 to 4 years 4 to 5 years Over 5 years Total Carryforward tax loss (a) ¥ 460 ¥4,704 ¥ 45 ¥ 0 ¥ 109 ¥ 402 ¥5,722 Valuation reserve (119) (6) (14) — (109) (395) (645) (Net) Deferred tax assets 341 4,697 30 0 — 6 5,076(b) 18. INCOME TAXES Thousands of U.S. dollars Due within 1 year 1 to 2 years 2 to 3 years 3 to 4 years 4 to 5 years Over 5 years Total (1) Significant components of deferred tax assets and liabilities Carryforward tax loss (a) $ 4,235 $43,227 $ 419 $ 0 $ 1,001 $ 3,696 $52,580 Valuation reserve (1,102) (60) (135) — (1,001) (3,634) (5,934) March 31 March 31 (Net) Deferred tax assets 3,133 43,166 283 0 — 61 46,646 2019 2020 2020 (a) The carryforward tax loss shown in the above table represents amounts after multiplying the statutory tax rate. Thousands of (b) A deferred tax asset of ¥5,076 million ($46,646 thousand) was recognized for a carryforward tax loss of ¥5,722 million ($52,580 thousand) (amount multiplied by the statutory tax rate). Millions of yen U.S. dollars The deferred tax asset of ¥5,076 million ($46,646 thousand) was recognized primarily for the Company’s outstanding carryforward tax loss of ¥5,038 million ($46,299 thousand) (amount Deferred tax assets: multiplied by the statutory tax rate). No valuation reserve is recognized for the carryforward tax loss since the amount was determined to be recoverable based on expected future taxable income. Accrued enterprise taxes ¥ 538 ¥ 557 $ 5,120 Accrued payable bonuses 1,917 2,281 20,966 (2) The reconciliation between the statutory tax rate reflected in the consolidated statements of income and the Loss on valuation of membership 153 151 1,389 effective tax rate for the years ended March 31, 2019 and 2020 was as follows: Provision for loss on construction contracts 70 157 1,447 Year ended March 31 Net defined benefit liability 896 1,703 15,648 2019 2020 Carryforward tax loss (Note 2) 18,398 5,722 52,581 Allowance for doubtful accounts 24 31 286 Statutory tax rates: 30.6% 30.6% Depreciation 53 248 2,286 Effect of: Impairment 933 678 6,231 Expenses not deductible for income tax purposes 0.4 0.3 Loss on valuation of investment pension plans 59 54 504 Share of profit of entities accounted for using the equity method (0.6) (0.6) Asset retirement obligations 959 1,006 9,248 Base portion of inhabitants’ taxes 0.5 0.4 Others 675 957 8,795 Change in valuation allowance (4.0) (1.3) Total gross deferred tax assets 24,681 13,549 124,505 Retained earnings 0.2 0.3 Valuation reserve for carryforward tax loss (Note 2) (7,854) (645) (5,934) Net gain on step acquisition — (1.1) Valuation reserve for deductible temporary differences (1,182) (1,232) (11,322) Others 0.2 0.2 Valuation allowance (Note 1) (9,037) (1,878) (17,257) Effective tax rate 27.3% 28.8% Total deferred tax assets 15,644 11,671 107,248 Deferred tax liabilities Valuation differences on available-for-sale securities (881) (434) (3,996) Removal expenses for asset retirement obligations (475) (479) (4,406) Others (577) (712) (6,549) Total deferred tax liabilities (1,934) (1,627) (14,953) Net deferred tax assets ¥13,709 ¥10,044 $ 92,295 Notes: 1. The valuation reserve decreased by ¥7,159 million ($65,783 thousand). This decrease was mainly due to a decline in the carryforward tax loss following the expiration of carryforward periods as of March 31, 2020. 2. Carryforward tax loss and its deferred tax assets by expiration periods 121 SCSK Report 2020 SCSK Report 2020 122 Data Section (3) Breakdown of acquisition cost and value of acquired company 19. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars Year ended March 31, 2019 Fair value of shares held before business combination as of the date of business combination with Minori Solutions Co., Ltd. ¥ 2,430 $ 22,328 Omitted as it is not significant to the Group. Cash expenditure to acquire additional shares 19,479 178,994 Acquisition cost ¥21,909 $201,322 Year ended March 31, 2020 Business combination via share acquisition (4) Difference between acquisition cost for acquired company and total acquisition cost for transactions until acquisition (1) Outline of business combination Net gain on step acquisition (a) Name of acquired company and business description ¥1,556 million ($14,304 thousand) Name of acquired company: Minori Solutions Co., Ltd. Business description: Software development, system operations and management, system equipment sales (5) Amount, source, amortization method and amortization schedule for goodwill (a) Amount of goodwill (b) Reason for business combination ¥14,045 million ($129,058 thousand) Maximize corporate value of both companies by pursuing greater scales of business expansion and management strategies The amount of goodwill is a provisionally calculated amount because the allocation of acquisition costs was not completed in tune with the changing times. in the fiscal year under review. (c) Date of business combination (b) Source of goodwill December 19, 2019 (deemed acquisition date: December 31, 2019) Potential for excess returns from future business development (d) Legal form of business combination (c) Goodwill amortization method and schedule Acquisition of shares in exchange for cash Straight-line method over 10 years (e) Name of companies after business combination (6) Breakdown of amount of assets and liabilities assumed on the date of business combination No change Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars (f) Acquired voting right ratio Current assets ¥ 9,750 $ 89,598 Voting rights before business combination: 10.45% Non-current assets 1,317 12,105 Voting rights after acquisition: 94.26% Total assets ¥11,068 $101,703 (g) Main reason for determining acquiring company Current liabilities ¥ 1,946 $ 17,888 SCSK acquired shares in Minori Solutions Co., Ltd. in exchange for cash Non-current liabilities 778 7,149 Total liabilities ¥ 2,724 $ 25,038 (2) Earnings of acquired company included in consolidated financial statements From January 1, 2020 to March 31, 2020 123 SCSK Report 2020 SCSK Report 2020 124 Data Section 20. ASSET RETIREMENT OBLIGATIONS 21. SEGMENT INFORMATION Asset retirement obligations carried on the consolidated balance sheets (1) Segment information (a) Method of designating reportable segments (1) Overview of asset retirement obligations The Company designates its reportable segments according to the clients’ business category and business characteristics of IT Asset retirement obligations include the obligation to restore assets to their original state, etc., related to real estate lease services. The Board of Directors and the President and Chief Operating Officer decide the allocation of business resources, evaluate agreements on the head office building and other office buildings. business performance and conduct other managerial duties in reference to these reportable segments, with such management decision directly reflected in the operations of those reportable segments. (2) Calculation method for asset retirement obligations The Company has designated eight reportable segments according to the clients’ business category and business characteristics of The expected period of use is estimated as mainly 15 years from the acquisition of property, plant and equipment, and the IT services: Manufacturing & Telecommunication Systems Business, Distribution & Media Systems Business, Financial Systems Business, amounts of asset retirement obligations are calculated by using a discount rate ranging from 0.000% to 1.744%. Global System Solutions & Innovation Business, Business Solutions, Mobility Systems, IT Platform Solutions, and IT Management. Businesses not included within the above are presented in aggregate as “Others.” (3) Changes in asset retirement obligations for the years ended March 31, 2019 and 2020 Presented below is an overview of the business activities for each of the reportable segments. (i) Manufacturing & Telecommunication Systems Business: This business group provides a wide range of IT solutions on March 31 March 31 a global scale. These solutions include core systems, manufacturing management systems, information management 2019 2020 2020 systems, supply chain management (SCM) systems, and customer relationship management (CRM) systems. The Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars business group’s services leverage the experience and know-how it has cultivated over many years throughout the Balance at beginning of period ¥2,412 ¥2,949 $27,099 chain of operational processes from production to sales. The customers of this business are primarily companies in the Increase due to acquisition of property and equipment 224 368 3,389 manufacturing, telecommunications, and energy industries. Adjustments due to passage of time 22 21 194 (ii) Distribution & Media Systems Business: This business group provides IT solution packages configured from various core Decrease due to fulfillment of asset retirement obligations (111) (227) (2,093) systems, information systems, SCM systems, CRM systems, and e-commerce systems, primarily to customers in the Increase due to change in estimates (Note 1) 399 7 69 distribution, service, and media industries. Decrease from change in scope of consolidation — 0 0 (iii) Financial Systems Business: This business group engages in systems development, maintenance, and operation for Balance at end of period (Note 2) ¥2,949 ¥3,119 $28,660 financial institutions. As professionals that understand financial operations and possess a strong track record of creating Notes: 1. At March 31, 2019, it became clear that a cost required for the asset retirement increased. Thus, the Company added ¥399 million from the balance of asset retirement obligations sophisticated financial systems, members of this business group’s staff support secure and efficient management and as a change in estimate. help customers implement their financial business strategies. The business group provides these services primarily to At March 31, 2020, it became clear that a cost required for the asset retirement increased. Thus, the Company increased the balance of asset retirement obligations by ¥7 million ($69 thousand). financial institutions, such as banks and trust banks as well as insurance, securities, lease and credit companies. 2. T he balance at end of period for March 31, 2019 included ¥169 million of asset retirement obligations under other current liabilities. The balance at end of period for March 31, 2020 included ¥3 million ($33 thousand) of asset retirement obligations under other current liabilities. (iv) Global System Solutions & Innovation Business: This business group provides optimal IT solutions primarily to trading companies and the global bases of customers from among a lineup that includes core systems, information management systems, SCM systems and CRM systems. (v) Business Solutions: This business group provides a wide range of IT solutions. These solutions include contact center services as well as application management outsourcing (AMO) services that cover the entire system lifecycle, from development and installation to maintenance and operation, for enterprise resources planning (ERP) and CRM products, such as the Company’s internally developed ProActive ERP package, SAP, and Oracle offerings as well as Salesforce. In addition, this business group offers the type of business process outsourcing services that only an IT company can provide. These services merge support provided by human workers with IT. (vi) Mobility Systems: This business group develops embedded software using model-based development practices for software embedded in electronic control units (ECUs) that electronically control automobiles for customers in the automobile industry. It also provides in-house developed middleware (QINeS-BSW), inspects software, improves processes and offers a broad variety of other solutions to the global market. (vii) IT Platform Solutions: This business group draws on solid technical capabilities and know-how to leverage cutting-edge technologies in the fields of IT infrastructure and manufacturing, including computer-aided design (CAD) and computeraided engineering (CAE). In this way, IT Platform Solutions provides services and products that accurately address the needs of customers and offer flexible support for a wide range of customer businesses. (viii) IT Management: This business group develops solutions-oriented netXDC data centers, which boast robust facilities and high-level security, in east and west Japan to provide customers with proposal-based outsourcing services that address their management issues pertaining to operating cost reductions, infrastructure integration and optimization, governance enhancement, and business risk mitigation. The business group also supplies cloud infrastructure and on-site management services, along with SE support 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. 125 SCSK Report 2020 SCSK Report 2020 126 Data Section (b) Matters related to changes in reportable segments Reportable segment Amount recorded in the consolidated Effective from the fiscal year under review, SCSK created the Mobility Systems segment with the aim of further strengthening Adjustments financial statements business management, including strategic planning for the business, and building a more robust business promotion structure IT Management Other (Note 3) Total (Note 1) (Note 2) that integrates its automotive apps (MBD) and platforms (QINeS) in the strategic automotive systems business domain. Millions of yen As a result, Mobility Systems was created as a new reportable segment. In the prior reportable segments, the automotive Sales, profit and assets by reportable segment systems business of the Business Solutions segment was transferred to the Mobility Systems segment. Segment information for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019, has been restated to reflect this change in reportable segments. Net sales: Sales to third parties ¥44,780 ¥ 726 ¥358,654 ¥ — ¥358,654 (2) Calculation of sales, profit, assets and other items by reportable segment Inter-segment sales and transfers 16,090 3,766 40,309 (40,309) — The accounting treatment for the Group’s reportable segments is generally the same as described in Note 1, “Summary of Total 60,871 4,492 398,964 (40,309) 358,654 significant accounting policies.” Profit 5,845 (86) 40,498 (2,120) 38,378 The profit figures stated in the reportable segments are based on operating profit. The intersegment sales or the intersegment Assets 66,057 1,858 185,746 129,098 314,844 figures are based on actual market prices. Other items (3) Sales, profit, assets and other items for each reportable segment Depreciation and amortization 3,893 256 9,099 1,430 10,530 Segment data for the years ended March 31, 2019 and 2020 were as follows: Investments in equity-method affiliates — 438 5,623 — 5,623 Net increase in tangible/intangible fixed assets 10,160 63 14,793 369 15,163 Year ended March 31, 2019 Notes: 1. Adjustments were as follows: (1) The adjustment of ¥(2,120) million to profit represented general corporate expenses that were not allocated to a reportable segment. (2) The adjustment of ¥129,098 million to assets represented corporate assets that were not allocated to a reportable segment. Reportable segment (3) The adjustment of ¥1,430 million to depreciation represented charges to corporate assets that were not allocated to a reportable segment. (4) The adjustment of ¥369 million to net increase in tangible/intangible fixed assets represented investments in corporate assets, including the Company’s headquarters building. Manufacturing & Distribution & Global System 2. Profit was reconciled to operating profit in the consolidated statements of income. Telecommunication Media Systems Financial Systems Solutions & Business Mobility IT Platform 3. The “Other” category includes business segments that are not part of reportable segments. Systems Business Business Business Innovation Business Solutions Systems Solutions Millions of yen Year ended March 31, 2020 Sales, profit and assets by reportable segment Reportable segment Net sales: Manufacturing & Distribution & Global System Sales to third parties ¥43,369 ¥63,054 ¥63,932 ¥15,553 ¥48,829 ¥19,550 ¥58,857 Telecommunication Media Systems Financial Systems Solutions & Business Mobility Systems Business Business Business Innovation Business Solutions Systems Inter-segment sales and transfers 1,096 903 869 5,505 4,761 397 6,918 Millions of yen Total 44,466 63,957 64,802 21,058 53,591 19,947 65,776 Sales, profit and assets Profit 6,308 6,589 7,349 2,576 5,016 (265) 7,163 by reportable segment Assets 12,412 19,973 22,535 8,893 13,635 9,787 30,593 Net sales: Sales to third parties ¥49,960 ¥62,382 ¥63,860 ¥18,249 ¥52,578 ¥22,279 Other items Inter-segment sales and transfers 833 1,313 1,357 10,106 5,020 613 Depreciation and amortization 71 803 326 233 688 2,179 645 Total 50,793 63,696 65,217 28,356 57,599 22,893 Investments in equity-method affiliates — — — — — — 5,185 Profit 6,280 7,326 7,223 2,592 5,112 1,246 Net increase in tangible/intangible fixed assets 69 1,372 71 697 696 1,016 645 Assets 14,222 15,676 19,613 10,292 15,750 8,997 Other items Depreciation and amortization 75 1,009 238 374 595 1,173 Investments in equity-method affiliates — — — 459 — — Net increase in tangible/intangible fixed assets 125 794 113 326 1,560 1,204 127 SCSK Report 2020 SCSK Report 2020 128 Data Section Reportable segment Amount recorded in Reportable segment Amount recorded in the consolidated the consolidated IT Platform Adjustments financial statements IT Platform Adjustments financial statements Solutions IT Management Other (Note 3) Total (Note 1) (Note 2) Solutions IT Management Other (Note 3) Total (Note 1) (Note 2) Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Sales, profit and assets Sales, profit and assets by reportable segment by reportable segment Net sales: Net sales: Sales to third parties ¥63,844 ¥48,457 ¥5,389 ¥387,003 ¥ — ¥387,003 Sales to third parties $586,642 $445,261 $ 49,518 $3,556,036 $ — $3,556,036 Inter-segment sales and transfers 6,931 15,099 4,919 46,195 (46,195) — Inter-segment sales and transfers 63,693 138,739 45,206 424,472 (424,472) — Total 70,776 63,556 10,308 433,198 (46,195) 387,003 Total 650,336 584,001 94,724 3,980,508 (424,472) 3,556,036 Profit 8,242 6,447 80 44,553 (2,226) 42,326 Profit 75,737 59,242 738 409,384 (20,462) 388,922 Assets 35,634 69,429 27,317 216,932 125,552 342,485 Assets 327,428 637,958 251,006 1,993,316 1,153,661 3,146,978 Other items Other items Depreciation and amortization 629 4,732 219 9,049 1,308 10,358 Depreciation and amortization 5,782 43,488 2,016 83,153 12,025 95,179 Investments in equity-method affiliates 5,873 — — 6,333 — 6,333 Investments in equity-method affiliates 53,971 — — 58,195 — 58,195 Net increase in tangible/intangible fixed assets 747 7,853 126 12,853 750 13,604 Net increase in tangible/intangible fixed assets 6,871 72,165 1,162 118,110 6,893 125,004 Notes: 1. Adjustments were as follows: (1) The adjustment of ¥(2,226) million ($(20,462) thousand) to profit represented general corporate expenses that were not allocated to a reportable segment. Reportable segment (2) The adjustment of ¥125,552 million ($1,153,661 thousand) to assets represented corporate assets that were not allocated to a reportable segment. (3) The adjustment of ¥1,308 million ($12,025 thousand) to depreciation represented charges to corporate assets that were not allocated to a reportable segment. Manufacturing & Distribution & Global System Telecommunication Media Systems Financial Systems Solutions & Business Mobility (4) The adjustment of ¥750 million ($6,893 thousand) to net increase in tangible/intangible fixed assets represented investments in corporate assets, including the Company’s Systems Business Business Business Innovation Business Solutions Systems headquarters building. 2. Profit was reconciled to operating profit in the consolidated statements of income. Thousands of U.S. dollars 3. The “Other” category includes business segments that are not part of reportable segments. Sales, profit and assets by reportable segment (4) Related information Net sales: Sales to third parties $459,072 $573,209 $586,790 $167,692 $483,129 $204,719 Year ended March 31, 2019 and 2020 Inter-segment sales and transfers 7,654 12,072 12,474 92,865 46,127 5,637 Total 466,727 585,281 599,264 260,557 529,257 210,357 (a) Information about products and services Profit 57,710 67,324 66,378 23,822 46,975 11,454 Sales data by products and services was not presented as similar information was disclosed in the above segment information. Assets 130,687 144,041 180,224 94,569 144,724 82,675 (b) Information about geographic area Other items (i) Net sales Depreciation and amortization 694 9,276 2,191 3,445 5,473 10,784 Sales data by geographic area was not presented as the sales in Japan represented more than 90% of net sales in the consolidated Investments in equity-method affiliates — — — 4,223 — — statements of income. Net increase in tangible/intangible fixed assets 1,150 7,302 1,046 2,999 14,338 11,071 (ii) Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment data by geographic area was not presented as property, plant and equipment located in Japan represented more than 90% of total property, plant and equipment in the consolidated balance sheets. (c) Information about major customers Of the net sales to external customers, no customer accounted for 10% or more of net sales in the consolidated statement of income. 129 SCSK Report 2020 SCSK Report 2020 130 Data Section (5) Information regarding impairment loss on fixed assets by reportable segment (6) Information regarding amortization of goodwill and remaining balances of goodwill by reportable segment Year ended March 31, 2019 Year ended March 31, 2019 Amortization of Remaining Not applicable goodwill balances Millions of yen Year ended March 31, 2020 Manufacturing & Telecommunication Systems Business ¥30 ¥53 Distribution & Media Systems Business — — Impairment loss Financial Systems Business — — Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars Global System Solutions & Innovation Business — — Manufacturing & Telecommunication Systems Business ¥ — $ — Business Solutions — — Distribution & Media Systems Business 202 1,857 Mobility Systems — — Financial Systems Business 306 2,814 IT Platform Solutions — — Global System Solutions & Innovation Business — — IT Management — — Business Solutions — — Others — — Mobility Systems — — Corporate Assets and Eliminations — — IT Platform Solutions — — Total ¥30 ¥53 IT Management — — Others — — Year ended March 31, 2020 Corporate Assets and Eliminations — — Total ¥508 $4,672 Amortization of Remaining Amortization of Remaining goodwill balance goodwill balance Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Manufacturing & Telecommunication Systems Business ¥ 30 ¥ 22 $ 280 $ 210 Distribution & Media Systems Business — — — — Financial Systems Business — — — — Global System Solutions & Innovation Business — — — — Business Solutions — — — — Mobility Systems — — — — IT Platform Solutions — — — — IT Management — — — — Others 398 13,866 3,658 127,415 Corporate Assets and Eliminations — — — — Total ¥428 ¥13,889 $3,939 $127,626 131 SCSK Report 2020 SCSK Report 2020 132 Data Section (7) Information about related parties 22. AMOUNTS PER SHARE (a) Transactions between related parties (i) Transactions between the Company and related parties Year ended March 31 Year ended March 31 2019 2020 2020 (A) Sumitomo Corporation Yen U.S. dollars Net assets ¥1,862.78 ¥2,000.16 $18.38 Year ended March 31 Earnings: 2019 2020 Basic 268.64 300.50 2.76 Attribute Parent Company Parent Company Diluted 268.55 300.43 2.76 Name of the Company Sumitomo Corporation Sumitomo Corporation Note: Net profit per share and fully diluted net profit per share are calculated on the following basis: Location Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo Common stock amount (Millions of yen) ¥219,448 ¥219,612 Basic net profit per share was computed based on the net profit available for distribution to shareholders of common stock ($2,017,942 thousand) and the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the year. Diluted net profit per share was Type of business Trading Company Trading Company computed based on the net profit available for distribution to shareholders and the weighted average number of shares of Percentage of voting shares in the Company Direct Direct common stock outstanding during each year after giving effect to the dilutive potential of shares of common stock to be issued 51.0% 51.0% upon the exercise of warrants and subscription rights to shares. Relationship of related party 1 Providing of data processing services and Providing of data processing services Net assets per share was computed based on the net assets, excluding share subscription rights and minority interests, and software development services and software development services the number of common stock outstanding at the year end. Transaction amounts (Millions of yen) (Sales of data processing services and software Year ended March 31 Year ended March 31 development services) ¥16,565 ¥16,574 2019 2020 2020 ($152,296 thousand) Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars Balance at year-end Earnings per share: (Accounts receivable – trade) Profit attributable to owners of parent ¥ 27,892 ¥ 31,201 $286,702 (Millions of yen) ¥2,778 ¥2,269 Amount not attributable to common shareholders — — — ($20,852 thousand) Profit attributable to common shareholders 27,892 31,201 286,702 Relationship of related party 2 Depositing of funds Depositing of funds Weighted average number of common stock (Shares) 103,827,903 103,831,412 103,831,412 Transaction amounts (Millions of yen) ¥2,222,500 ¥2,053,500 Diluted earnings per share: (Depositing of funds) ($18,868,878 thousand) Adjustments to profit attributable to owners of parent ¥ — ¥ — $ — Balance at year-end (Millions of yen) ¥83,500 ¥78,000 (of which, change in holdings in equity method affiliates due to their (Depositing of funds) ($716,714 thousand) issuance of subscription rights) (—) (—) (—) Transaction amounts (Millions of yen) ¥16 ¥8 Increase in shares of common stock (Shares) 35,558 26,622 26,622 (Interest receipt) ($77 thousand) (of which, exercise of subscription rights to shares) (35,558) (26,622) (26,622) Balance at year-end (Millions of yen) ¥0 ¥0 Outline of dilutive shares excluded from the calculation of diluted net (Accrued income) ($0 thousand) income per share because they have no dilutive effect — — — Notes: 1. In the amounts above, consumption taxes were included in the outstanding balances at year end, but not in transaction amounts. 2. Transaction conditions and policy on determining transaction conditions The terms and conditions applicable to the above transactions regarding data processing services and software development services were determined on an arm’s length basis after presenting the Company’s quotations and conducting price negotiations for each project, with reference to normal market prices and cost ratios. The interest rates for the depositing of funds were determined on an arm’s length basis and with reference to normal market interest rates. (ii) Transactions between the consolidated subsidiaries of the Company and related parties 23. SIGNIFICANT SUBSEQUENT EVENTS Not applicable Not applicable (b) Notes regarding the parent company or important affiliates (i) Parent company information Sumitomo Corporation (Listed on the Tokyo, Nagoya and Fukuoka stock exchanges) (ii) Summary of financial information of important affiliates Not applicable 133 SCSK Report 2020 SCSK Report 2020 134 Data Section Note: 3. Lease obligations (excluding the current portion scheduled for repayment within one year) within five years after March 31, 2020 are as follows: 24. CONSOLIDATED SUPPLEMENTARY SCHEDULES Thousands of Year ending March 31 Millions of yen U.S. dollars Short-term loans payable and long-term debts 2022 ¥634 $5,826 April 1 March 31 March 31 2023 437 4,017 2019 2020 2020 2024 351 3,230 Thousands of 2025 111 1,021 Millions of yen U.S. dollars 0.33% unsecured bonds ¥10,000 ¥ 10,000 $ 91,886 (maturity period: from June 24, 2015 to June 24, 2020) (10,000) (91,886) Schedule of asset retirement obligations 0.14% unsecured bonds The schedule of asset retirement obligations is not presented as the amounts of asset retirement obligations as of the beginning (maturity period: from December 15, 2016 to December 15, 2021) 10,000 10,000 91,886 and end of the year ended March 31, 2020 accounted for no more than 1% of the total liabilities and net assets as of the 0.14% unsecured bonds beginning and end of the year ended March 31, 2020. (maturity period: from July 21, 2017 to July 21, 2022) 10,000 10,000 91,886 0.14% unsecured bonds Other (maturity period: from September 14, 2018 to September 14, 2023) 10,000 10,000 91,886 Quarterly information for the year ended March 31, 2020 ¥40,000 ¥ 40,000 $367,545 Total (10,000) (91,886) (Cumulative period) 1st Quarter 2nd Quarter 3rd Quarter Full Year Notes: 1. Brackets in the March 31 column show amounts scheduled to be repaid within one year. Net sales (Millions of yen) ¥90,967 ¥187,329 ¥280,722 ¥387,003 2. The annual redemption schedule for the five years after March 31, 2020 is as follows: Profit before income taxes (Millions of yen) 8,002 19,993 32,821 43,961 Thousands of Profit attributable to owners of parent (Millions of yen) 5,542 13,796 23,049 31,201 Year ending March 31 Millions of yen U.S. dollars Net income per share (Yen) ¥ 53.38 ¥ 132.88 ¥ 221.99 ¥ 300.50 2021 ¥10,000 $91,886 2022 10,000 91,886 2023 10,000 91,886 (Quarterly accounting period) 1st Quarter 2nd Quarter 3rd Quarter 4th Quarter 2024 10,000 91,886 Net income per share (Yen) ¥53.38 ¥79.50 ¥89.12 ¥78.51 2025 — — (Cumulative period) 1st Quarter 2nd Quarter 3rd Quarter Full Year Schedule of borrowings Net sales (Thousands of U.S. dollars) $835,868 $1,721,302 $2,579,459 $3,556,036 Profit before income taxes (Thousands of U.S. dollars) 73,529 183,711 301,583 403,948 April 1 March 31 March 31 Profit attributable to owners of parent (Thousands of U.S. dollars) 50,924 126,772 211,797 286,702 2019 2020 2020 Net income per share (U.S. dollars) $ 0.49 $ 1.22 $ 2.03 $ 2.76 Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars Maturity Period Short-term loans, principally from banks, with average annual (Quarterly accounting period) 1st Quarter 2nd Quarter 3rd Quarter 4th Quarter interest rate of 0.12% ¥15,000 ¥15,400 $141,505 — Net income per share (U.S. dollars) $0.49 $0.73 $0.81 $0.72 Current portion of long-term loans payable — — — — Current portion of lease obligation with average annual interest rate of 2.02% 843 836 7,688 — Long-term loans (excluding current portion) — — — — From Lease obligations (excluding current portion), with average annual April 2021 to interest rate of 2.18% 1,909 1,581 14,529 March 2029 Other interest bearing debt — — — — Total ¥17,752 ¥17,817 $163,722 — Notes: 1. The average interest rate represents a weighted average interest rate relative to the year-end balance of borrowings. 2. In cases where the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries have different fiscal year-ends, the schedule includes borrowings with maturity dates falling within one year of the Company’s fiscal year-end. 135 SCSK Report 2020 SCSK Report 2020 136 Data Section 137 SCSK Report 2020 SCSK Report 2020 138 Data Section Information SCSK’s Operations We offer a full lineup of IT services required for business, from IT consulting and systems development to verification services, IT infrastructure development, IT management, BPO services, and IT hardware/software sales. These empower us to deliver solutions to clients’ business challenges and contribute to new value creation. Clients Manufacturing Distribution Finance Communications / Transport IT IT Systems Verification infrastructure IT hardware/ SCSK IT Consulting development services development management software sales BPO Services Categories of Sales Systems Maintenance and Systems Development Packaged Software / Hardware Sales Operation Services • We provide all forms of IT services related • We provide IT management services post • We procure and sell IT hardware such as to systems development, from consulting to system implementation, such as system servers and network equipment and systems development, and IT infrastructure monitoring and failure response, to software such as ERP, CAE solutions, and development, in order to develop unique operate these systems securely and in a groupware. systems for individual companies to expand stable manner. their business footprint. • We capitalize on our networks in Japan • This sales category includes BPO services, and overseas to identify new products and • We design operations for stability, build such as contact centers and e-commerce services and support the optimal system environments for system operation, fulfillment services, along with verification integration based on the clients’ network develop applications, and design required services and service-oriented businesses*. and security environments. functions, based on the requirements *Sales related to software licenses within definition of systems needed by clients. service-oriented businesses are categorized as packaged software / hardware sales. Service-Oriented Business Model Many companies are actively investing in strategic IT standardization and generalization within business for strengthening competitiveness and increasing operations unique to specific industries, and then corporate value. This has given rise to demand for IT building shared-use systems to provide to clients in a services that reduce and eliminate manpower in pay-per-use type. business operations. By providing subscription-based systems for SCSK has expanded service-oriented businesses by industry standardized and generalized business actively utilizing its long-standing business know-how operations or for domains where clients don’t need to and intellectual properties, based on its in-depth differentiate themselves, we can achieve even greater experience with business operations unique to specific efficiencies and propel forward clients’ business industries through close working relationships with transformation. countless clients. This business model involves identifying Clients Company A (first user) Company B Company C Company D Tailor-made Service Pay-perService Pay-perService Pay-perContracting development usage usage usage usage usage usage Systems development for Company A Shared-use system SCSK Industry standard business operations Standardizable business operations formulated as a shared-use system 139 SCSK Report 2020 SCSK Report 2020 140 Corporate Outline (As of March 31, 2020) Basic Information History Established October 25, 1969 Head office Toyosu Front, 3-2-20, Toyosu, Koto-ku, Tokyo Sumisho Computer Systems Corporation CSK Corporation 135-8110, Japan Capital ¥21,152 million Oct. Computer Services Corporation established in Okawacho, TEL : +81-3-5166-2500 1968 Higashi-ku (now Kitahama, Chuo-ku), Osaka-shi, Osaka Total number of employees 13,979 (Consolidated) URL : https://www.scsk.jp/index_en.html 1969 Oct. Sumisho Computer Service Corporation established in Kitahama, Higashi-ku (now Kitahama, Chuo-ku), Osaka-shi, Osaka Group Companies 1982 Jun. Listed in the Second Section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange Japan Overseas • SCSK ServiceWare Corporation • WinTechnology Corporation • SCSK USA Inc. 1985 Mar. Shifted to the First Section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange • VeriServe Corporation • SCSK SYSTEM MANAGEMENT • SCSK Europe Ltd. CORPORATION • JIEC Co., Ltd.*1 • SCSK Shanghai Limited • VA Linux Systems Japan KK Oct. Established Sumisho Computer Service (USA), Inc. • Minori Solutions Co., Ltd. • SCSK Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd. 1987 Jan. Company name changed to CSK Corporation • SDC Corporation (now SCSK USA Inc.) • SCSK KYUSHU CORPORATION • PT SCSK Global Indonesia • Gran Manibus Co., Ltd. • SCSK HOKKAIDO CORPORATION • SCSK Myanmar Ltd. • SCSK Nearshore Systems Corporation Feb. Tokyo Center No. 1 opened • SCSK PRESCENDO CORPORATION 1988 • Tokyo Green Systems Corporation (now netXDC Tokyo Center 1) • Skeed Co., Ltd. • ARGO GRAPHICS Inc.*2 • CSI SOLUTIONS Corporation *1 JIEC Co., Ltd. merged with SCSK on April 1, 2020. 1989 • Allied Engineering Corporation *2 Company accounted for using the equity method Feb. Listed on the Second Section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange May. Established Sumisho Computer Service (Europe) Ltd. 1990 (now SCSK Europe Ltd.) Investor Information Stock / Shareholder Information 1991 Sep. Shifted to the First Section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange Class of stock Common Stock Stock listing First Section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange Jan. Tokyo Center No. 2 opened (now netXDC Tokyo Center 2) Number of shares authorized 200,000,000 Stock code 9719 1992 Oct. Company name changed to Sumisho Computer Systems Corporation Stock trading unit 100 Number of shares issued 104,181,803 (including 128,562 treasury shares) Oct. Data Center opened in Inzai, Chiba Shareholder registrar Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank, Limited 2002 (now netXDC Chiba Center) Number of shareholders 27,544 Independent certified public accountant KPMG AZSA LLC Oct. Shifted to a holding company structure. Company 2005 Aug. Merged with Sumisho Electronics Co., Ltd. name was changed to CSK Holdings Corporation Distribution of Shareholders (Common Stock) Shareholder composition Distribution of shares Dec. Acquired data center facilities in Sanda, Hyogo 2006 (now netXDC Sanda Center) Number of Shareholders Composition Number of Shares Held Composition Individuals and others 26,687 96.89% Individuals and others 7,316,613 7.02% Feb. Established Sumisho Computer Systems (Shanghai) Ltd. (now SCSK Shanghai Limited) Financial institutions 78 0.28% Financial institutions 18,325,366 17.59% 2007 Other companies 319 1.16% Other companies 54,746,426 52.55% Nov. Established Sumisho Computer Systems (Asia Pacific) Foreign companies, etc. 409 1.48% Foreign companies, etc. 22,730,941 21.82% Pte. Ltd. (now SCSK Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd.) Securities companies 50 0.18% Securities companies 933,895 0.90% Oct. Shifted from a pure holding company to an operating Treasury shares 1 0.00% Treasury shares 128,562 0.12% holding company. Several Group companies merged with 2010 CSK Holdings Corporation, the surviving company name Total 27,544 100.00% Total 104,181,803 100.00% was changed to CSK Corporation Major Shareholders Name of Shareholder Number of Shares Held Shareholding Ratio SCSK 1 SUMITOMO CORPORATION 52,697,159 50.64% 2 Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust Account) 6,059,700 5.82% 2011 Oct. Sumisho Computer Systems Corporation merged with CSK Corporation, with SCS as the surviving company and the new company named SCSK Corporation 3 The Master Trust Bank of Japan, Ltd. (Trust Account) 3,914,700 3.76% 4 SCSK Group Employee Stock Ownership Association 2,381,222 2.29% 2012 Jun. Main business headquarters changed to Toyosu, Koto-ku, Tokyo 5 Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust Account 7) 1,181,100 1.14% 2015 Apr. netXDC Chiba Center 2 opened in Inzai, Chiba 6 ARGO GRAPHICS INC. 1,015,500 0.98% 7 STANDARD LIFE ASSURANCE LIMITED-PENSION FUNDS 990,000 0.95% 2018 Dec. netXDC Sanda Center 2 opened in Sanda, Hyogo 8 CHASE NOMINEES RE JASDEC TREAT Y CLIENT A/C (GENERAL) 947,600 0.91% Jun. Established PT SCSK Global Indonesia 9 Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust Account 5) 925,500 0.89% Established SCSK Myanmar Ltd. 2019 10 JP MORGAN CHASE BANK 385632 872,830 0.84% Oct. 50th anniversary of SCSK Corporation's founding Shareholding ratio is calculated exclusive of treasury stock. 141 SCSK Report 2020 SCSK Report 2020 142 Corporate Outline (As of March 31, 2020) Global Network Overseas Network Our worldwide network provides strong support for customers’ global business development. Glossary AI (Artificial Intelligence) IoT (Internet of Things) An artificial system composed mainly of computers for A system where various things are connected through the handling sophisticated intellectual work and decisions that Internet, enabling the communication of information or were only possible by people. data on these things. BPO (Business Process Outsourcing) MaaS (Mobility as a Service) London Outsourcing various business processes to a specialized firm. A system that uses IT to seamlessly connect various forms of transportation, such as trains, buses, and taxis. Silicon Valley New York Shanghai Tokyo BSW (Basic Software) Dallas Operating system, drivers and middleware for ECU. PLM (Product Lifecycle Management) Yangon A method for comprehensively managing products within CAD (Computer-Aided Design) all processes from product development planning to design, Singapore Creating designs and drawings for industrial products, production and user support after shipment. Jakarta buildings, etc. using a computer. RPA (Robotic Process Automation) CAE (Computer Aided Engineering) A system for streamlining and automating white collar work A method of development where product design and using rule engines, machine lear ning and artificial structural analysis are conducted using computer simulation. intelligence. CRM (Customer Relationship Management) SaaS (Software as a Service) An approach utilized for corporate management strategy in A system for providing application software functions to which various forms of data are obtained using IT and customers over a network when needed. Domestic Network creating a database to analyze and use this data for various purposes. SCM (Supply Chain Management) Our domestic network provides high quality services with unwavering reliability and security. A management method that seeks total optimization of DX (Digital Transformation) distribution from raw materials and components to Data Center The spread and penetration of IT transforming various products, by sharing information on orders, inventory, sales, BPO Center aspects of people's lives for the better. and logistics inside the company and with business partners. Customer Service & Logistics Center (CLC) Near-shore Center ECU (Electronic Control Unit) SoR (System of Record) Iwate Hokkaido A computer for controlling automobiles. A system designed with emphasis on recording and Fukui Iwate Center Sapporo Center managing important business data. Fukui Center Iwate Development Center EDI (Electronic Data Interchange) Fukui Development Center Akita Tokyo A mechanism that unifies information for business SoE (System of Engagement) Akita Development Center* netXDC Tokyo Center 1 transactions in a standard form for electronic exchanges A system that flexibly responds to constantly changing Hyogo netXDC Tokyo Center 2 between companies. customer needs and behavior patterns with the purpose of netXDC Sanda Center Ishikawa netXDC Tokyo Center 3 building stronger relationships with customers. netXDC Sanda Center 2 Ishikawa netXDC Tokyo Center 4 ERP (Enterprise Resource Planning) Development Center* Shimane Shinjuku Center Blockchain An approach to appropriately allocate and effectively utilize Shimane Center Tama Center (2 offices) people, things, money and information forming the A technology for creating a network that is difficult to CLC Tokyo Fukuoka foundation of corporate management. disrupt or modify because data is spread across computers Kitakyushu Center Chiba located around the world without a centralized computer. Fukuoka Center netXDC Chiba Center Fintech netXDC Chiba Center 2 A coined term combining “finance” and “technology.” Oita Oita Center Kanagawa Yokohama Center Kumamoto CLC Yokohama Miyazaki Yokohama Development Center Kumamoto Development Center Miyazaki Aichi Development Center Kagoshima Nagoya Center Kagoshima Development Center Osaka Okinawa netXDC Osaka Center 1 Okinawa Center (2 offices) Osaka Center Okinawa Development Center (2 offices) * Opened on April 1, 2020 143 SCSK Report 2020 SCSK Report 2020 144
