A mural masterpiece known as the Tree of Hope was commissioned by MRCB Land to rejuvenate an old building along the Old Klang Road. SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT ABOUT THIS STATEMENT Format As part of our efforts to improve transparency, relevant As one of Malaysia’s leading urban property section/subsections are mapped to corresponding GRI and infrastructure developers, Malaysian Indicators throughout this Sustainability Statement. Resources Corporation Berhad (MRCB or the Group) understands its responsibility to Scope of this Statement uphold strong standards and shape the 102-1, 102-3, 102-4, 102-6, 102-50, 102-52 industry by practising and promoting This statement includes the domestic operations of MRCB sustainable development. MRCB has under its Property Development & Investment (MRCB Land) and Engineering, Construction and Environment (MRCB progressively translated its vision for Builders) divisions, which consist of subsidiaries that MRCB sustainable growth into initiatives that are has direct control of and in which the Group holds a majority embedded in the business’ strategy. stake. During this reporting period, we have had Reporting Period 102-50 the opportunity to assess our performance The reporting period covered in this statement is from 1 January to 31 December 2019. Where possible, information and refocus our efforts on achieving business from previous years has been included to provide comparative growth and success using the lens of data. sustainability. Our Reporting Framework 102-54 We strive to strengthen our position and This statement has been prepared in accordance with the reputation in the industry through these Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities efforts, and continue to adapt to the Berhad (Bursa Securities) and with reference to the Sustainability Reporting Guide issued by Bursa Securities. changing social, environmental, and The framework of the statement, on the other hand, is in economic conditions. line with the reporting standards of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). By incorporating sustainability throughout our value chain and executing our business Feedback 102-53 strategy, we believe we can make a positive We value feedback from our stakeholders and will use them impact on our community and the to improve our reports and initiatives. To raise questions, concerns, or comments, you may contact: environment. Name : Dr Renard Siew Email : renard.siew@mrcb.com 125 MALAYSIAN INTEGRATED RESOURCES ANNUAL CORPORATION REPORT BERHAD 2019 SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY Corporate Sustainability Goals Our approach to sustainability is founded on the five (5) pillars of sustainability: people, planet, partnership, prosperity, and peace. These pillars define our focus areas that align our ambition for sustainable growth with our goals for business success, in the short, medium and long-term. PEOPLE MRCB is determined to effectively engage PLANET with all its stakeholders including its employees MRCB pledges to explore innovative and ensuring a positive impact to society approaches and adopt green practices in order to minimise our impact to PEACE the environment MRCB is committed to upholding the highest 5 Goals ethical standards in all areas of our business, ensuring transparency and honest conduct PARTNERSHIP PROSPERITY MRCB is keen to form valuable MRCB is committed to upholding competitive partnerships that are beneficial and financial performance that is beneficial to aim at tackling global problems the Company, employees, and the national economy and society Our Contribution to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs) As a leading property and construction player in the country and as a responsible business, we recognise the need to contribute to global efforts such as the UN SDGs for sustainable development. The business case for sustainability is strong and will enable businesses to better manage risks, anticipate consumer demand, build position in growth markets and strengthen their supply chain. In 2017, we selected two (2) UN SDGs: Goals 9 (Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure) and 11 (Sustainable Cities and Communities), which are well aligned with our values and business goals. In 2018, we identified six (6) additional SDGs which reflected our strengthened efforts to build a sustainable business. The SDGs selected were based on the economic, environmental, and social impacts of the company, and the initiatives we conduct to contribute to specific goals as defined by the UN. In 2019, we maintained all eight (8) UN SDGs because they continue to represent our aspirations and business direction to build stronger initiatives to achieve the relevant SDG targets. Ensure healthy lives and promote Ensure inclusive and equitable well-being for all ages quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all Minimise environmental impacts to combat climate change Achieve gender Ensure sustainable equality and empower consumption and all women and girls production patterns SDGs Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic Make cities and human growth, full and productive settlements inclusive, safe, employment and decent resilient and sustainable work for all Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialisation and foster innovation 126 KEY MESSAGES 2019 KEY HIGHLIGHTS ENSURING INTEGRITY AND GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDERS’ INFORMATION OVERVIEW OF MRCB MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SDGs • Prioritising health and safety in our business operations by adopting safety standards and systems as well as implementing a Quality, Environmental, Safety and Health (QESH) policy, in addition to various safety measures to protect our employees, subcontractors, clients and the general public • We promote healthy lifestyles by organising programmes that focus on employee well-being and safety • We manage our construction wastes responsibly and ensure proper storage as well as disposal of hazardous and non-hazardous waste • We promote and participate in educational programmes; aimed at inspiring and motivating young Malaysians to excel in their studies • We “adopt” primary schools from communities located within the vicinity of our project sites providing them learning resources • We have been involved in renovating and upgrading schools and libraries for underprivileged children • We acknowledge women’s contribution in the industry and have declared our commitment to promoting the advancement of women, especially in ﬁelds related to property development, engineering and construction • We are able to provide more employment opportunities, especially to locals, and contribute to the development of the national economy • We embarked on the PEKA@MRCB programme which stands for ‘Peluang Kedua Anda’ providing employment opportunities for selected offenders who are at the tail end of their prison sentences • We provide competitive salaries and beneﬁt packages to our employees in addition to training opportunities for career growth and development • We develop and construct green buildings, and where possible make efforts to incorporate sustainable features in our infrastructure projects • We use the latest technologies to construct our buildings and pave the way for innovation • As a leading urban developer of Transit Oriented Developments (TODs), we contribute to connecting communities and businesses, reducing GHG emissions in cities and promoting sustainable lifestyles by encouraging people to walk and travel using public transport • We have been involved in the construction of infrastructure that enhances the sustainable features of cities such as public transport systems, green buildings and affordable housing. • We build award winning, environmentally efﬁcient buildings • We implement our QESH policy at project sites, which includes the practice of the 3Rs (Reduce, Reuse, and Recycle • We have started to track water and energy usage at our project sites besides implementing strategies to improve efﬁciency • We deliver training courses and toolbox talks regularly to educate our site workers and employees on how to carry out site inspections, dispose hazardous waste in a proper manner, and ensure compliance with the Environmental Quality Act 1974 • We keep track of the carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions of our company vehicles • We record our energy, water consumption and waste generation. We are currently planning ways to increase our energy efﬁciency as well as reduce waste across all our business operations 127 MALAYSIAN INTEGRATED RESOURCES ANNUAL CORPORATION REPORT BERHAD 2019 SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT Our Approach to Sustainability Sustainability Governance We are in the midst of developing a governance structure dedicated to sustainability, one that complements our existing organisational structure and underscores the importance of involving Senior Management to reiterate MRCB’s vision for sustainable development. At MRCB, the Senior Management helps promote and recommend activities that strengthen the culture of sustainability throughout the organisation. MRCB’s Board of Directors (Board) oversees the Group’s progress on the economic, environmental and social aspects of sustainability and endorses the direction of the organisation in terms of its approach to sustainability. With Board oversight, sustainability strategies are translated into effective implementation of initiatives throughout the Group. The Group Managing Director (GMD) along with the Chief Corporate Officer prepare the Group to further improve its year on year sustainability performance and this involves sound decision-making for improvements on aspects of governance, policy and procedure when needed. The GMD develops the sustainability agenda encompassing all aspects, including addressing issues identified in previous years to better enhance MRCB’s strategy, and then proposes it to the Board. Stakeholder Engagement 102-40, 102-42, 102-43, 102-44 Stakeholder engagement is critical in determining business success. Engaging in meaningful dialogue with our internal and external stakeholders is an essential step towards understanding their expectations, concerns and interests regarding our business performance. Stakeholder feedback is a valuable input that we take into consideration when designing our approach and strategy to propel the sustainable growth of our business. It helps us address concerns raised and identify areas that need improvement. Employees Shareholders/ Investors, Analysts Local Community MRCB’s Stakeholders Media Clients & Customers Government/ Regulatory Bodies 128 KEY MESSAGES 2019 KEY HIGHLIGHTS ENSURING INTEGRITY AND GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDERS’ INFORMATION OVERVIEW OF MRCB MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT AREAS OF METHODS OF STAKEHOLDERS FREQUENCY ADDRESSING STAKEHOLDERS’ CONCERN CONCERN ENGAGEMENT • Remuneration • Annual • Annually • Provision of benefits for employees such as and benefits Appraisals annual leave, medical benefits and other • Career • Training • Quarterly benefits development Programmes • Organisation of engagement programmes for and training employees opportunities • Provision of opportunities for training and EMPLOYEES • Work-life balance • Employee Events • Throughout career development • Workplace the year health and safety • Regulatory • Inspections by • Throughout • Management of scheduled waste and Compliance local authorities the year non-scheduled waste as per environmental • Waste • Workshops • Throughout laws and regulations Management the year • Provision of Centralised Labour Quarters (CLQ) • Labour Practices • Audits • Throughout for foreign workers which focuses on their • Corporate the year well-being (provision of clean water supply, Governance enhanced fire safety regulations and GOVERNMENT/ recreational areas) REGULATORY • Establishment of Corporate Governance BODIES relevant documents such as Corporate Governance Statements, Anti-Bribery, Code of Business Ethics, Whistleblowing Policy and many more • Quality and • Customer • Throughout • QLASSIC assessment workmanship Surveys the year • Pre-delivery Inspection prior to handing over • Product Safety of products to purchaser • Design and • Adoption of ISO 9001:2015 Quality CLIENTS & features Management System CUSTOMERS • Customer Satisfaction Survey • Financial • Press Releases • Throughout • Organisation of Press Releases and Media Performance the Year Networking Sessions • Transparent • Media • Throughout communications Networking the Year • Corporate Sessions MEDIA Strategy • Social • Donations • Throughout • The Yayasan MRCB conducted various Contributions the year programmes for the community such as: • Community • Bi-annually • Education and financial assistance for Engagement underprivileged students LOCAL Programmes • Empowerment programme for Orang Asli COMMUNITY, youth with physical limitations CIVIL SOCIETY & NGOs • Economic • Annual General • Annually • Provided company updates through: Performance Meeting • Quarterly results briefings • Corporate • Analysts’ • Quarterly • Corporate website Governance Briefings • Investor Relations mobile app • Engagement • 39 sessions • One-on-one and group meetings as well sessions through were as presenting at conferences, both locally meetings, conducted and internationally conferences and throughout • Site visits for investment analyst, eg. site visits the year, Penang Sentral, Kwasa where we • Sentral and the MRCB Building System engaged launch with 126 • Annual update meetings with Minority SHAREHOLDERS/ investment Shareholders Watch Group (MSWG) and INVESTORS, professionals Malaysian Investor Relations Association (MIRA) ANALYSTS • Ensured accessibility to Board Members, Senior Management and/or IR team through: • Media session (AGM) after the Annual General Meetings and Extraordinary General Meetings (EGM) • Shareholder access to Board Members and Senior Management before and after the AGM/EGM • Direct email and phone access as listed on corporate website * An exhaustive list of our Stakeholder Engagement can be found on pages 34 – 37. 129 MALAYSIAN INTEGRATED RESOURCES ANNUAL CORPORATION REPORT BERHAD 2019 SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT Our Approach to Sustainability Our Materiality Assessment Process MRCB understands the need to focus efforts on material matters that are most significant to the business and to its stakeholders. We regularly analyse our performance to identify gaps and further evolve our strategy. As with previous years, we have maintained the same list of material sustainability matters as we feel they best represent our impact on the economy, the environment and society. However, for this reporting period, we have re-evaluated the priority of each of the material matters in terms of their importance to the business and the influence they have on stakeholder decision-making. The last materiality assessment was conducted in 2018 and given the changes in the political and environmental context since then, in the country and internationally, we felt it was timely to re-evaluate. The step-by-step methodology of our materiality assessment which we undertook is described in the illustration below: 1. EVALUATION OF PAST REPORTS We reviewed our past reports to see if our material matters are still relevant and if prioritisation has changed 2. COMPARATIVE ANALYSIS We compared with industry peers and other international standards to ensure our material matters are relevant 3. INPUT FROM STAKEHOLDERS MATERIALITY We gathered feedback from our stakeholders METHODOLOGY to better understand their expectations on our performance for material matters 4. PRIORITISATION We conducted a materiality assessment where we ranked the list of material matters based on importance to our stakeholders and business operations 5. AGGREGATE & ANALYSE RESULTS A materiality matrix was generated based on the ranking method and we reviewed the outcomes of our assessment and validated the results 130 KEY MESSAGES 2019 KEY HIGHLIGHTS ENSURING INTEGRITY AND GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDERS’ INFORMATION OVERVIEW OF MRCB MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Materiality Matrix Significance to Stakeholders 2 3 1 7 12 4 11 10 5 9 8 15 14 13 6 MODERATE HIGH CRITICAL Significance to Business Operations List of Material 1 Ethics & Principles 2 Governance & Compliance 3 Product Quality & Responsibility 4 Economic & Business Performance 5 Indirect Economic Impacts 6 Responsible Procurement & Supplier Assessment 7 Health & Safety 8 Employee Engagement & well-being 9 Customer Engagement 10 Diversity & Equal Opportunity 11 Labour 12 Local Community Engagement 13 Materials 14 Sustainable Construction 15 Waste In 2019, we have maintained all 15 of our material matters that were identified in the previous reporting period, however, based on this year’s assessment, the placements of the material issues have changed slightly. This is because we conducted a more accurate assessment, where we solicited feedback from department heads and Senior Management for a more comprehensive view of our priorities. Our method undertook a weighted ranking that allowed for a detailed perspective. The five (5) material matters located in the critical area of the materiality matrix from the 2019 assessment are Ethics & Principles, Governance & Compliance, Economic & Business Performance, Health & Safety, and Product Quality & Responsibility. 131 MALAYSIAN INTEGRATED RESOURCES ANNUAL CORPORATION REPORT BERHAD 2019 SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT Our Approach to Sustainability Our Material Issues and Definitions 102-47 The illustration below defines each of our material sustainability matters and the key topics covered under them. GOVERNANCE Ethics & Principles Governance and Compliance An organisations’ values, principles, standards and norms Compliance with applicable laws and regulations as that include due diligence carried out in order to uphold well as with other instruments concerned with human rights principles, prevent bribery, anti-competition environmental and socio-economic standards that provide and corruption within its operations or through its us with the licence to operate. relationships with others (e.g. suppliers, customers). ECONOMIC Economic & Business Performance Product Quality and Responsibility The economic value generated and distributed to the Quality of products and services that directly affect stakeholders. Also, describes the contribution of the stakeholders and customers in particular. organisation in significant infrastructure investments and services development that improve community welfare and local economies. Indirect Economic Impacts Sustainable Procurement & Supplier Assessment The contribution of the organisation in significant Meeting an organisation’s needs for materials, goods, infrastructure investments and services development utilities and services in an environmentally friendly, that improve community welfare and local economies. responsible and ethical way. SOCIAL Employee Engagement & Well-being Health & Safety Local Community Engagement Engaging with our employees to Integrating principles of health and Efforts to manage impacts on people ensure talent attraction and retention safety throughout the organisation's in surrounding communities at our for skilled a workforce. This entails business operations and in the lifeproject sites, through understanding providing training, benefits, and a cycle of the product. and to contribute to their needs. healthy work environment. Customer Engagement Diversity & Equal Opportunity Labour Enhancing our products and services Equal provision of opportunity to all Efforts to improve labour related by understanding clients and employees across operations. Diversity processes including the hiring of local customers' preferences, providing an pushes innovation through exchange and fo r e ig n l abou r, i nclu di ng overall positive customer experience of perspectives and strengthens the participating in initiatives that alleviate to maintain reputation. organisation. socio-economic issues. ENVIRONMENT Materials Waste Sustainable Construction Efforts to reduce resource consumption Proper waste management throughout Reducing negative environmental to mitigate environmental impact. How the organisation's business operations impact in building design and delivery. we track and monitor consumption including 3R practices (reduce, reuse Such efforts include adhering to relevant to reduce operational cost. and recycle). green building standards, managing energy and water consumption, integrating sustainable designs, and sustainable practices in the construction and operation of the buildings. 132 KEY MESSAGES 2019 KEY HIGHLIGHTS ENSURING INTEGRITY AND GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDERS’ INFORMATION OVERVIEW OF MRCB MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT To further illustrate our commitment to sustainability, we have aligned our material sustainability matters to the relevant stakeholder groups, the corresponding GRI indicators and the UN SDGs. The mapping of our matters to the SDGs are based on specific targets that have been outlined by the UN, and that match our current practices and initiatives. Material Sustainability Relevant Stakeholders Corresponding GRI Indicators SDGs Matters Governance Ethics & Principles • Shareholders/Investors and 102: General Disclosure Analysts 103: Management Approach • Employees 205: Anti-corruption • Government/Regulatory 206: Anti-competitive Behaviour Authorities • Customers & Clients Governance & • Government/Regulatory 307: Environmental Compliance Compliance Authorities 419: Socioeconomic Compliance • Shareholders/Investors and Analysts Economic Product Quality • Shareholders/Investors and 103: Management Approach and Responsibility Analysts 201: Economic Performance • Customers & Clients Economic • Shareholders/Investors and 201: Economic Performance Business & Analysts Performance • Employees Indirect Economic • Community 203: Indirect Economic Impacts Impacts • Shareholders/Investors and Analysts Sustainable • Customers & Clients 204: Procurement Practices Procurement & 308: Supplier Environmental Supplier Assessment Assessment 414: Supplier Social Assessment Social Health & Safety • Employees 403: Occupational Health & • Government/Regulatory Safety Authorities Employee • Employees 401: Employment Engagement & 404: Training and Education Well-being Customer • Customers & Clients 418: Customer Privacy Engagement Diversity & Equal • Employees 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity Opportunity Labour • Employees G4 Sector Specific – • Shareholders/Investors and Construction and Real Analysts Estate Sector Disclosures • Government/Regulatory Authorities Local Community • Local Community, Civil 413: Local Communities Engagement Society, and NGOs Environment Materials • Government/Regulatory 301: Materials Authorities Sustainable • Shareholders/Investors and 302: Energy Construction Analysts 303: Water and Effluents • Customers & Clients 305: Emissions Waste • Communities 306: Effluents and Waste • Government/Regulatory Authorities 133 MALAYSIAN INTEGRATED RESOURCES ANNUAL CORPORATION REPORT BERHAD 2019 SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT UPHOLDING STRONG GOVERNANCE Governance & Compliance 419-1 Through these efforts, we achieved a score of 95.98% in the 2018 ASEAN Corporate Governance Scorecard, an initiative Transparency and accountability are the twin foundations of by the Minority Shareholders Watchdog Group. Led by the a business and imperative if it is to succeed. Corporations Chief Corporate Officer’s office, we are actively working with are expected today to have exceedingly sound governance internal and external stakeholders to identify and close the practices, at a degree never seen before. remaining gaps on an annual basis. We are cognisant of the expectations of our stakeholders, and by building strong governance and risk management controls, Ethics & Principles 205-2 we gain stakeholder trust. We ranked 1st place in the Malaysian MRCB has policies in place to ensure that its employees Institute in Corporate Governance’s “Transparency in Corporate conduct business ethically and with integrity. The policy Reporting” report in 2019. MRCB also climbed higher in the owners are MRCB’s Integrity and Discipline Department (IDD) Minority Shareholder Watch Group’s (MSWG) MSWG-ASEAN and the Human Resources Department (HR) which ensure Corporate Governance Awards, ranking 33rd in 2019 out of all employees and other stakeholders adhere to the relevant listed companies, up from 67th in 2018. Thereby, demonstrating laws and regulations. our commitment to sound governance practices and the importance we place on operating with accountability. Our Code of Business Ethics (CBE) and the Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy (ABC Policy or the Policy) govern the Group’s Risk intelligence at the most fundamental level covers business conduct. MRCB’s Code and policies are communicated regulatory compliance. Some of the key regulations we to every employee during the induction programme which adhere to are the Companies Act 2016, Main Market Listing includes viewing MRCB’s Anti-Bribery Management System Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad, Malaysian (ABMS) and whistleblowing videos. MRCB’s website and Code on Corporate Governance (MCCG) (see Corporate intranet via the SharePoint platform are also available to Governance Overview Statement on page 86), requirements employees, where they can learn more about our policies of the Environmental Quality Act 1974, Occupational Safety and expectations regarding business conduct. and Health Act 1994, and guided by other best practices and standards such as those outlined in the ASEAN Corporate Anti-Bribery & Corruption Governance Scorecard. The Group has a zero-tolerance approach to all forms However, the cause and effect of the fast-changing political, corruption. In 2019, we are pleased to note that no incidents environmental and economic climate can potentially lead of corruption or bribery were reported. to changes in the regulatory landscape. As a responsible player in the construction industry, we strive to build business Our main safeguard against corruption is our ABMS. This resilience and to have a holistic view of the economic, system recognises the requirements of: environmental and social risks that could impact our business. • ISO 37001:2016 • Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission (MACCA) Act 2009 With regards to section 17A of the Malaysian Anti-Corruption • Companies Act 2016 Commission Act 2009 on corporate liability, which will come into effect on 1st June 2020, we are fully cognizant of the • US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act 1977 (amended 1998) and far-reaching implications of this new provision. In addition • UK Bribery Act 2010 to having acquainted ourselves with the contents and principles of this provision, we have put in place adequate MRCB’s embarked on the journey of establishing the ABMS procedures as a defense against corporate liabilities for in 2017. The preparation undertaken towards implementing corruption offences committed by persons associated with the ABMS consisted of five stages based on the standards the Company through the setting up of a robust ISO 37001 set out in the ISO 37001:2016 Anti-Bribery Management certified Anti-Bribery Management System (ABMS). System (ISO ABMS). Our efforts to go beyond compliance to future proof our In 2019, the ABMS and relevant Policies and Procedure were business is evident in the voluntary practices recommended officially introduced in MRCB: by the Malaysian Code of Corporate Governance (MCCG) 2017 i. Anti-Bribery & Corruption Policy we have undertaken. MRCB fully supports the recommendations ii. Due Diligence Guidelines outlined in the MCCG which contains a multitude of Practices iii. Conflict of Interest Policy and Step-Up Practices to promote good standards of iv. Anti-Bribery Controls for Controlled Organisation and transparency and corporate governance. In 2019 we adopted Business Associates Policy 29 out of the 32 Practices prescribed by the MCCG and all 4 v. Revised Gifts, Hospitality, Donations and Similar Benefit of the Step-Up Practices that aim to raise the bar even higher Policy for governance practices and processes, going well beyond vi. Revised Whistleblowing Policy existing regulatory requirements. (Refer to the Corporate Governance Overview Statement on page 86) 134 KEY MESSAGES 2019 KEY HIGHLIGHTS ENSURING INTEGRITY AND GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDERS’ INFORMATION OVERVIEW OF MRCB MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT As of 31 December 2019, a total of 886 MRCB staff attended ABMS training. Along with MRCB Corporate Integrity Pledge (CIP), MRCB instills five (5) anti-corruption principles as shown below: To eradicate To all forms of promote corruption principles of transparency, integrity and To include good corporate Anti-Corruption governance elements to To support strengthen its Anti-Corruption internal control initiatives by the mechanism Malaysian To adhere to government and Anti-Corruption MRCB's Head of the Integrity and Discipline MACC rules and laws Department briefing staff on Anti-Bribery and Corruption Whistleblowing Data Privacy & Protection MRCB has a Whistleblowing Policy, which is accessible via Technology has become increasingly integral to the workplace the company’s website that allows individuals to report any allowing for effective and efficient collaboration over various misconduct occurring within MRCB and its operations without platforms and across a vast network of people. However, this fear of any reprisals. Internally, we have also established a also increases the threat and risk of cyber-attacks that can Grievance Policy and Procedure, where employees can have threaten the security of information/data collected and used their complaints or grievances recorded and put into by the organisation. MRCB has implemented strong cyber consideration for resolution. A whistleblower can make a security measures to protect the data of the company as disclosure on improper conduct to whistleblowing@mrcb. well as our clients and other stakeholders. (For more com. In 2019, two whistleblowing cases (related to employee information refer to SORMIC on pages 108 – 116) misconduct) were recorded and were fully investigated. In 2019, there were a total of 87 phishing attempts, of which In addition, MRCB also has a Referral Policy that allows any only one (1) employee accidentally clicked on a phishing link. employee to report incidents such as violation of any applicable Action was taken and the matter was immediately reported laws and regulations to the authorities, including Polis Diraja to the IT helpdesk to ensure that they monitored further Malaysia, government bodies or regulatory authorities. suspicious activity. To avoid further security breaches, the IT helpdesk disconnected the employee from the network and Gifts, Hospitality, Donations and Similar Benefits Policy then followed through with steps to recover and enable a secure network connection. MRCB enforces a policy that strictly prohibits employees from directly or indirectly receiving or providing any gifts, Our efforts to increase awareness of such threats include kickbacks or gratuities in any form that may compromise employees being regularly alerted about the latest viruses their judgement or decision making. Gifts that are offered and scams to extract data through email alerts, knowledge to any of our employees must be politely declined and/or sharing though short video clips and monthly bulletins that returned, preferably without causing offence or disruption cover topics like ransomware and password protection. MRCB to business relations. Training sessions and communication strives to ensuring that employees are well informed to programmes have been carried out since 2018 to help protect themselves and the company. employees better understand the implementation of this policy and how to professionally manage various situations involving gifts, such as dinner events or during seasonal festivities. 135 MALAYSIAN INTEGRATED RESOURCES ANNUAL CORPORATION REPORT BERHAD 2019 SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTIONS Economic and Business Performance 201-1 Our developments successfully integrate living and working Economic performance is imperative to the sustainability of spaces, and are designed to increase productivity and the Group as it supports the growth of our business operations. connectivity while ensuring they are sustainable – our role It is a top priority for MRCB as well as for our stakeholders, as a TOD developer naturally incorporate sustainability, as and as such, appropriate risk management plans and processes these developments encourage city dwellers to choose urban have been set in place in order to maximise value returned mass transport infrastructure for commuting, taking motor to our shareholders. Please refer to pages 64 – 69 of this vehicles off roads thus reducing carbon emissions. In enhancing report for full details on our financial highlights. To read the the public’s commuting experience, we also focus on full disclosure of our financial performance, kindly refer to connectivity and convenience, paying particular attention to MRCB’s Financial Report 2019. the proximity and integration of our developments to public transportation. Indirect Economic Impact 203-2 In Malaysia, we are the pioneer of Transit Oriented Developments By developing high density, mixed-use real estate around (TODs) and have led the way in effecting a paradigm shift rail stations, we spur economic development and spearhead in public transport connectivity. TODs support mixed use environmental initiatives. Improving connectivity and increasing developments where communities of residences, offices, accessibility to public transportation reduces car usage and restaurants, shops, hotels, hospitals and schools are all within a concomitant reduction in carbon emissions. The creation walking distance from each other and mass transportation of such hubs attracts investors for commercial and retail hubs. development thus providing economic benefits to both corporates and retailers. Our flagship TOD projects include: KL Sentral Kwasa Sentral PJ Sentral 72 acres 64 acres Garden City Gross Development Value Gross Development Value 12 acres RM18.0 RM10.9 Gross Development Value billion billion RM2.7 billion Cyberjaya City Centre 41 acres Gross Development Value RM5.4 billion Penang Sentral TOD 22 acres Projects Gross Development Value RM2.7 billion For detail on our TODs, please refer to pages 20 – 21 136 KEY MESSAGES 2019 KEY HIGHLIGHTS ENSURING INTEGRITY AND GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDERS’ INFORMATION OVERVIEW OF MRCB MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT impact and transparency of our supply chain are important considerations for the business to be sustainable. Our Enhanced interconnectivity procedures ensure a transparent supplier selection process. For example, we have a very transparent preliminary Will cater for up to 2 million people qualification assessment and performance evaluation process. All of our suppliers must achieve the minimum points of the preliminary qualification assessment and become registered Creates jobs for local economy approved suppliers before they can be invited to submit quotations and be appointed by MRCB. Quotations evaluated BENEFITS by the procurement department have stated justifications OF Provides opportunities for for selection, which is then approved by the project team. small businesses MRCB’s supply chain management is governed by its Group Improving infrastructure Procurement Policy and the Policy on Pre-Qualification of through connectivity, business Contractors, Consultants and Suppliers. These policies and accessibility determine how supplier registration and pre-qualification, purchase requisition, sourcing strategies, as well as purchasing Mobility for 450,000 workers methods should be conducted. and 50,000 tertiary students Local: 404 Suppliers TOTAL OF Our 50%-owned subsidiary MRCB George Kent Sdn Bhd 413 SUPPLIERS Foreign: 9 Suppliers (MRCBGK) was appointed by Prasarana Malaysia Bhd to be the turnkey contractor for the design and construction of Total Procurement Budget the Light Rail Transit Line 3 (LRT3). The completion of the Spent on Local Suppliers: 96% LRT3 will cater to over 2 million people, enhancing interconnectivity and mobility for a population of 450,000 workers and 50,000 tertiary students in the Western Corridor of Klang Valley. The design phase of the LRT3 project was Our commitment to have a sustainable supply chain conferred by the Construction Industry Development Board management includes appointing foreign suppliers only when (CIDB) with a 5-Star Sustainable INFRASTAR, the highest it is absolutely necessary for the business. Engaging local level certification (See Green Infrastructure page 153). suppliers over foreign suppliers helps reduce transportation costs and carbon emissions. Of our 413 suppliers, 404 are Additionally, our bridge linking Old Klang Road and the New local (contracted from the Klang Valley area with several Pantai Expressway is estimated to benefit 20,000 people by based in Johor, Perak, and Penang) with 9 having major reducing the travelling distance by 3.5km from Pantai Dalam foreign shareholders incorporated locally. In 2019, 96% of to Old Klang Road, and by 5km from the Subang area to our procurement budget was spent on local suppliers the Klang area. To ensure the quality of our deliveries, we apply strict standards Our investment in creating sustainable urban ecosystems is where all business partners are vetted using stringent presignificant and we will continue to seize such opportunities selection criteria and evaluated progressively upon selection. to foster economic growth, mitigate negative environmental We conduct performance evaluations of our suppliers every impact and improve social conditions. six (6) months to ensure that they are on track for project completion. Responsible Procurement & Supplier Assessment 204-1 MRCB is in the midst of commencing development of an MRCB recognises the importance of managing procurement E-Procurement system to enable all procurement processes and suppliers properly as they are an important part of our to be electronic, and suppliers can access information in real operations. We are actively seeking initiatives to enhance the time, including the status on progress and delays. In the way we procure goods and services. near future, we plan to progressively identify and adopt more sustainable practices to incorporate into our procurement We ensure that our suppliers are selected from among those process, as well as embedding sustainable criteria in the with a strong track record and are aligned with our evaluation of suppliers. commitment to build a sustainable supply chain. Environmental 137 MALAYSIAN INTEGRATED RESOURCES ANNUAL CORPORATION REPORT BERHAD 2019 SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT DELIVERING EXCELLENCE Product Quality and Responsibility To reduce defects and enhance the quality of our products, Quality Assessment System in Construction MRCB has developed an in-house new building system known as the MRCB Building System (MBS) that utilises a The Construction Industry Development Board (CIDB) Prefabricated Prefinished Volumetric Construction (PPVC) established the Quality Assessment System in Construction System coupled with our patented and unique Candle-Loc (QLASSIC) as a benchmark of workmanship quality of building Connection System. This allows up to 90% of construction construction work based on the Construction Industry Standard to be fabricated offsite, and the modules are then transported, (CIS). The assessment uses sampling and statistical analysis stacked locked into position at the construction site. The to determine the score of the workmanship based on the different modules can be configured with 0.02% precision required standard. MRCB aims to achieve a minimum QLASSIC into functional living and non-living units of varying shapes score of 70-75%, subject to requirements set for each project. and sizes, allowing it to be used for any type of residential According to CIDB, a construction project with a 70% QLASSIC development design. Score is considered to be a credible standing. This system was developed to cater to the ever-changing Below is the QLASSIC Scores for MRCB’s projects: demands of the industry by predominantly reducing our dependency on unskilled foreign man power and material FY2018 wastage, while also enhancing quality standards and a 3050% reduction in project delivery times. Additionally, by 75% Project Sites moving the construction site to a factory setting, we create QLASSIC Scores Menara MRCB a more convenient, safe and efficient workplace that attracts 75% JLand Tower local workers. As a responsible business, we will license MBS to other companies to help overcome the social and Desaru Conference 70% Centre Project environmental issues of construction. (See pages 12 – 15 for more details). FY2019 Other initiatives that MRCB has put into practice include a dedicated team in place to oversee the ongoing management 69% Project Sites and maintenance of the ISO 9001:2015 Quality Management QLASSIC Scores VIVO 9 Seputeh System (QMS). The team identifies, tracks and implements 72% Hard Rock Desaru system changes in a timely and consistent manner for the benefit of project teams that use construction materials in TNB Balai Islam 74% their daily operations. Our projects undergo annual Internal Quality Audit (IQA) to Apart from QLASSIC assessments, MRCB has also adopted ensure QMS compliance, where the findings are clearly the Pre-Delivery Inspection (PDI) which involves inspection communicated to the project teams and tracked for timely of our properties by internal staff prior to handing them over corrective action. All issues are further communicated to the to purchasers, clients and customers. Our in-house team is Management Team for their awareness and use in monitoring required to check and ensure best industry practices are project performance. implemented, including giving at least two (2) months for PDI and necessary rectification works before the handover. We also engage an external certification body; the Standard We learn from the defects of completed projects and pay and Industrial Research Institute of Malaysia (SIRIM) to conduct particular attention to avoid repeating them during the an External Quality Audit annually. In addition to the above, design stage in forthcoming projects. the QA/QC teams conduct ongoing inspections. Penang Sentral received the best Purpose Built Category Award at the FIABCI Malaysia MRCB received four (4) awards at the Star Property Award 2019 Property Awards 2019 138 KEY MESSAGES 2019 KEY HIGHLIGHTS ENSURING INTEGRITY AND GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDERS’ INFORMATION OVERVIEW OF MRCB MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Customer Engagement At MRCB, we conduct customer satisfaction surveys after the completion of residential and commercial projects, allowing us to identify gaps and areas for improvement in upcoming projects. The data that we collect from our customer satisfaction surveys during vacant possession handover involves feedback on our projects and services. In accordance with our policy and guidelines, we respond to every complaint within three (3) working days. We engage with customers and clients by telephone, email, WhatsApp messenger, Residents Mobile Applications, and face-to-face communications for those who walk in. We also held two (2) town hall sessions with home owners at VIVO, 9 Seputeh to understand and address their concerns and complaints. MRCB Land initiated a loyalty programme called MRCB Land VIP Loyalty Programme which rewards MRCB Land customers with rebates on subsequent property purchases, exclusive invites to talks and events, retail promotions and other discounts. At MRCB, we do our best to showcase best practices, increase brand awareness and quality. Our efforts in this direction are demonstrated by the awards we received in 2019: PROJECT AWARDS WON Starproperty.my Awards 2019 Penang Sentral Excellence winner for the Just Walk Award (Best Integrated Development) Straproperty.my Awards 2019 Sentral Suites Excellence winner for the Skyline Award (Best High Rise Residential Development) Strarproperty.my Awards 2019 MRCB The All-Star Award (Top Ranked Developer of the Year) Strarproperty.my Awards 2019 MRCB Reader’s Choice Award PropertyGuru Asia Property Awards (Malaysia) 2019 MRCB Land Best Developer PropertyGuru Asia Property Awards (Malaysia) 2019 MRCB Land Special Recognition in CSR PropertyGuru Asia Property Awards (Malaysia) 2019 MRCB Land Special Recognition for Building Communities PropertyGuru Asia Property Awards (Malaysia) 2019 TRIA Seputeh Winner for the Best High End Condo/Apartments Development (Klang Valley) PropertyGuru Asia Property Awards (Malaysia) 2019 9 SeputehVIVO Winner for the Best Mixed-Use Development PropertyGuru Asia Property Awards (Malaysia) 2019 Sentral Suites Highly Commended for the Best High End Condo/Apartments Development (Klang Valley) Kalista Park PropertyGuru Asia Property Awards (Malaysia) 2019 Homes Highly Commended for the Best Landed Development (Klang Valley) PropertyGuru Asia Property Awards (Malaysia) 2019 TRIA Seputeh Highly Commended for the Best Landscape Architectural Design Property Insight Prestigious Developer Awards 2019 MRCB Land Top 10 Developers Property Insight Prestigious Developer Awards 2019 Sentral Suites Best Luxury High Rise Development FIABCI Malaysia Property Award 2019 Penang Sentral Winner for Purpose Built Category 139 MALAYSIAN INTEGRATED RESOURCES ANNUAL CORPORATION REPORT BERHAD 2019 SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Diversity & Equal Employment 405-1, 405-2, 406-1 At MRCB, we promote an inclusive environment at the workplace. Every employee is made aware of our corporate policy on diversity and inclusion as stated in MRCB’s Employee Handbook. MRCB recognises the advantages in having a diverse workforce, as it strengthens our abilities and capacity as an organisation through the accumulation of different experiences. We protect the well-being of our employees and foster a work environment based on mutual respect. It is through the different perspectives of each individual in our dynamic workforce, that spurs creativity, allowing MRCB to pave the way to innovative solutions. The graphs below illustrate MRCB’s employee distribution by gender and by age group. We also include the percentage of basic salary and remuneration of women to men. MRCB’S WORKFORCE Percentage of employees Percentage of employees Percentage of employees by gender by ethnicity by age group 6% 3% 10% 11% 38% Malay Over 50 years old Men Chinese 48% 30-50 Women Indian years old Under 30 Others 42% years old 62% 80% Gender Pay Gap % Difference in Women's Average Salary Against Men by Employee Grade Differe nce o f 1.1% <G2 0.5% 4.2% 9.0% G3 & G4 Men G5 & G6 Women -0.2% G7 -11.5% -2.2% G8 3,800 3,760 G9 Variance of 1.1% As seen above, 48% of our workforce are in the 30-50 years old age category. We strive to retain experienced talents that can highly benefit the Group. Those below 30 years of age make up 42% of our workforce and we strive to support our young talent through equipping them with the relevant skillsets and expanding their knowledge in the industry. The breakdown of our workforce by ethnicity is as follows: Malay (80%); Chinese (11%); Indian (6%) and others (3%). The variance in overall median remuneration between male and female employees, the gender pay gap, is only 1.1% for the Group. Given the physically demanding nature of the work at the project sites, a majority of our employees are comprised of men (62%). However, to break this mould, we have invested in initiatives such as training to better equip women in the industry. This way, they are not limited to only certain kinds of jobs and are open to work in any of MRCB’s operations. We have managed to increase our percentage of women in senior management positions slowly, which illustrates our efforts in supporting the women in our workforce. The national target by the Ministry of Human Resource is to have 30% of the Board of Directors to be women, and MRCB presently has 29%. MRCB implements a number of initiatives targeted at addressing the challenges faced by women at the workplace, ensuing their success. Our efforts to encourage the participation and help support the professional development of women at the company is shown on page 141. 140 KEY MESSAGES 2019 KEY HIGHLIGHTS ENSURING INTEGRITY AND GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDERS’ INFORMATION OVERVIEW OF MRCB MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT EMPOWERING WOMEN IN THE WORKFORCE Mother’s Room Staggered Work Hours Sexual Harassment 01 02 03 Awareness Session Designated private rooms are Employees are We conducted a provided at our headquarters entitled to opt for session aimed at for nursing mothers returning ﬂexible work hours raising employee to work. The rooms are equipped to better ﬁt their awareness and helping with seating tables and electrical needs them have a better outlets for comfort understanding of the context of Sexual Harassment in the workplace Kid Care 04 Shortened Work Hours 05 Pink October 06 MRCB set up a temporary child Expecting mothers are We conducted a session aimed care centre due to the closing entitled to opt for shortened at supporting and increasing of over 1,400 schools nationwide work hours that allow them to awareness about early detection due to the haze. Interactive attend to their health and and prevention of breast activities were conducted for well-being cancer amongst employees. the children, helping parents The well-being of our staff is of unable to ﬁnd alternative the utmost importance short-term placements for their children MRCB places importance on respecting people from all socio-cultural backgrounds and does not tolerate discrimination through unequal treatment or harassment, especially on the grounds of gender and ethnicity. In 2019, no incidents of discrimination or harassment were reported. Diversity in the workforce brings different perspectives, valuable experience and different skill-sets to the Group. 141 MALAYSIAN INTEGRATED RESOURCES ANNUAL CORPORATION REPORT BERHAD 2019 SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT Social Responsibility The Group strives to hire and retain skilled talents as they are the main drivers of the company. The figures displayed below illustrate new employees hired and the turnover rate for this reporting period. New Employees Hired Percentage of new employees hired by gender Percentage of new employees hired by age group 9% 30% 37% Under 30 years old Men 30-50 Women years old 54% Over 50 years old 70% Employee Turnover Employees turnover rates 2018 25.31% 2017 Despite the higher turnover rates that the construction and engineering 2019 industry generally faces, we have 25.7% managed to decrease our turnover rate for this year compared to previous 4.7% years retaining our valued talents. Employee Engagement and Well-being 401-1 401-2 403-1, 404-1, 404-3 Recognising that MRCB’s success is driven by a committed workforce, we strive to empower employees through a supportive corporate culture and comprehensive human capital management approach. We provide safe working conditions and protect employee rights across our businesses. Programmes To encourage employee well-being, employer-employee communication and team building, we organised several programmes in 2019. Some of the key programmes are listed in the table below. List of Employee Engagement Programmes • HR2U Penang (LHDN & Tabung Haji) • Property Power Up Session 2019 • Employee Focus Group • MRCB Counselling Services • Movie Day • Medical and Insurance Roadshow • MRCB Merdeka Celebration & Merdeka Theme Day • Health Carnival – AIA Vitality Programme • Distribution of N95 Masks • Perdana Fellows Alumni Association (PFAA) Networking Session • Treasure Hunt with Group Managing Director & Chief Corporate Officer • Graduate Talks by Chief Corporate Officer 142 KEY MESSAGES 2019 KEY HIGHLIGHTS ENSURING INTEGRITY AND GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDERS’ INFORMATION OVERVIEW OF MRCB MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Benefits At MRCB we adopt best practices with respect to benefits and wellness including annual leave and benefits which differ depending on the position the employee holds within the organisation. From time-to-time we review our benefit packages to ensure they are well-suited for our employees and competitive. Below lists some of the benefits provided to MRCB’s employees. LEAVE MEDICAL OTHERS Annual Leave Outpatient Treatment Mileage Claims Sick leave Hospitalisation Hotel Accommodation & Air Travel Emergency Leave Maternity Benefit Transfer Allowance Compassionate Leave Executive Health Scrreening Mobile Phone Bill Exam Leave Dental Parking Subsidy Marriage Leave Broadband Subsidy Prolonged Illness Car Allowance and Petrol Card Maternity Leave Professional Membership Fee Paternity Leave Educational Assistance Pilgrimage Leave Replacement Leave Career Development Investing in our workforce is the cornerstone of our business philosophy and growth. MRCB strives to sharpen employees’ knowledge with soft skills and leadership training, functional or technical training and E-Learning. Employees have embraced the concept of life-long learning and undergo relevant training based on findings/gaps derived from performance evaluations. Training and Learning Opportunities Investing in our workforce is the cornerstone of our business philosophy and growth. MRCB strives to sharpen employee knowledge with soft skill development, technical training and leadership training using different platforms including e-Learning. Our employees have embraced the concept of life-long learning and undergo relevant training based on findings derived from the performance evaluations of our programmes. In 2019, we organised dedicated training sessions to enhance technical, analytical and soft skills development among employees. During the year MRCB employees underwent a total of 28,200 training hours which works out to an average of 13.8 training hours per employee. Average training hours by gender and employment category are illustrated in the graphs below. Technical training made up 92.2% of all our training. The variation in training hours between 2018 and 2019 can be explained by the fact that in 2019 , we had focussed our efforts primarily on reassessing our learning methodologies and conducting a skills gap analysis for the MRCB Group. Average training hours by gender Average training hours by grade Men Non-Executive Women Executive Management Senior Management 15.12 11.6 35.15 23.12 21.2 20.8 35.6 9 61.7 15.3 15 6.3 2019 2018 2019 2018 143 MALAYSIAN INTEGRATED RESOURCES ANNUAL CORPORATION REPORT BERHAD 2019 SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT Social Responsibility Performance and Development Reviews Managing Safety and Health Risk at Workplace MRCB employee performance is regularly evaluated to identify MRCB provides a safe and healthy workplace to its employees strong performers and detect performance gaps in individuals. and other relevant parties within its premises. We have Performance reviews are conducted to assess goals achieved established a standard operating procedure (SOP) for Hazard for the year by employees based on Key Performance Identification, Risk and Opportunity Assessment and Indicators (KPIs). We also identify and design plans to Determining Control (HIRADC) for our headquarters, and encourage employees who are not performing as well, to building and infrastructure projects. optimise their potential. This also allows MRCB to identify key factors that influence employee performance. Since 2017, HIRADC applies to all routine and non-routine activities and 100% of our employees underwent performance appraisals. for all personnel having access to the workplace including sub-contractors and visitors. In addition, HIRADC is conducted Health and Safety if there are changes in the condition of activities, introduction 403-1, 403-2, 403-4, 403-5, 403-7, 403-8, 403-9, 403-10, 418-1 of new materials and for new activities and modification works. In order to ensure our workplace is safe at all times, Our main business activities which involve engineering and HIRADC analysis is conducted at least once annually at the construction may expose workers to various types of safety headquarters, half yearly at project sites or as and when risks such as working at heights, falling objects, noise from necessary. construction activities, risk of electrocution from temporary wiring and operation of machinery and equipment. Therefore, We also have an emergency response plan for incidents such in safeguarding the well-being of our workers at project sites, as people falling from heights, fires and explosions, landslides, we have implemented an Occupational Health and Safety chemical spillage, floods. For more serious emergency incidents Management System, ISO 45001; 2018 , to guide practices such as fatalities, structure collapse or accidents involving towards ensuring safety and health at the workplace. We transmission lines, an immediate a stop work order is required have also established an Environment, Safety and Health to prevent other workers from being in a dangerous situation (ESH) Committee at MRCB headquarters which consists of that may lead to injury. Action plans and crisis reporting management and employee representatives. The committee systems are clearly defined in the emergency response plan is responsible for: to guide our workers in managing emergency incidents. • Promoting a positive and safe workplace culture Safety and Health Assessment System in Construction • Assisting in the development of safety and health rules (SHASSIC) and safe systems of work MRCB has taken a step further to improve the safety and • Reviewing the effectiveness of safety and health programmes health culture at construction sites by adopting SHASSIC. • Reviewing safety and health policies and making SHASSIC is an independent method undertaken by CIDB recommendations (regulator of the construction industry in Malaysia) to assess • Carrying out studies on trends involving accidents, nearand evaluate safety and health practices and the performance misses, dangerous occurrences and occupational of contractors at construction sites. SHASSIC aims to establish poisoning or diseases a standard system on safety and health assessment in the • Inspecting the workplace and recommending preventive construction industry to improve and take preventive and and corrective measures corrective actions on occupational safety and health (OSH) issues. Quality, Environmental, Safety and Health (QESH) Policy SHASSIC covers three (3) main components which are document At MRCB, we have adopted the Quality, Environment, Safety checks (40%), site or workplace inspections (40%) and employee and Health Management System and we operate in compliance interviews (20%). SHASSIC marks from 85% to 100% signify with three management systems: ISO 9001:2015, ISO 14001:2015 that potential and significant workplace high risk/hazards are and ISO 45001:2018. Stemming from these management managed and documented. Scores of 70% to 84% mean that systems, we have formulated our QESH Policy to guide the potential and significant workplace and high risk/hazards are Group and its stakeholders to implement best safety practices managed and documented, however a few low risk work which cover the following areas: activities are neglected. Below is the list of MRCB project sites that achieved SHASSIC certification in 2019. Incident Communication Project Sites SHASSIC Star Ranking Prevention Risk Contractor MRT V210 84% Management Management Emergency TNB Balai Islam 93% Continuous Preparedness Improvement Larkin Indoor Stadium 90% 144 KEY MESSAGES 2019 KEY HIGHLIGHTS ENSURING INTEGRITY AND GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDERS’ INFORMATION OVERVIEW OF MRCB MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Safety and Health Training At MRCB, safety and health are of utmost importance. OSH training and development programmes are imperative to keep abreast with current relevant regulatory requirements and to equip employees and sub-contractors with skills necessary to carry out projects. We provide both internal and external training throughout the year to monitor employees and subcontractors. In 2019, a total of 1,391 people consisting employees, site workers and sub-contractors attended 66 training modules. The key training modules are listed below. Slinging and Rigging Communication for Behavioural Impact Event ESH Management, HIRARC and Legal Requirements Erosion and Sedimentation Control Training Basic Occupational First Aid ERT-BOMBA Fire Fighting Training Construction Safety Training Training Modules Expressway Operation Safety Passport for Effective Safety and Health Damansara-Shah Alam Elevated Expressway Committee Member Training Integrated Management System ISO 45001 Awareness Internal Training Audit ISO 45001:2018 Risk and Opportunities Accident, Incident Investigation and Notification of Accident, Dangerous Occurrence, Occupation Poisoning and Occupational Disease Reporting Briefing on Working at Height Safety and Health Incidents Despite our best efforts to reduce injuries and accidents at project sites, we had a first aid case at TNB Balai Islam, two (2) near miss incidents at PJ Sentral Lot 12 and TNB Balai Islam, and two (2) minor injuries at DASH CB2, in 2019. Another health and safety issue that occurred was when we were issued a stop work order at PJ Sentral Lot 12 due to the detection of some mosquito larvae. These issues were quickly rectified, with work resuming quickly afterwards, and we have been closely monitoring our sites to prevent similar incidents from recurring. Total Man hours 22,458,249 15,541,038 5,892,946 Type of Incident 2017 2018 2019 Fatality 0 2 0 Major Injury 2 0 0 Minor Injury 2 1 2 Fire 2 0 0 III Health 0 0 0 First-aid Cases 58 34 1 Near Miss 13 2 2 MRCB achieved 1 million manhours without Property Damage – 8 0 lost-time injury (LTI) for Kwasa C8 Plot 1 145 MALAYSIAN INTEGRATED RESOURCES ANNUAL CORPORATION REPORT BERHAD 2019 SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT Social Responsibility Health Safety Deﬁnitions Major Injuries Injuries causing incapacity for more than 4 days and/or any injury that requires hospitalisation. Minor Injuries Injuries causing incapacity for 4 days or less, with no hospitalisation required. Identiﬁable, adverse physical or mental condition arising from and/or made worse by a work Ill Health activity and/or work-related situation Cases in which ﬁrst aid was delivered at the workplace, with no further medical treatment First-aid cases required by medical practitioners. Any accident at place of work that has the potential to cause injury to any person or Near Miss damage to any property Property Damage Incident involving damage to properties estimated cost of up to RM500,000 We closely monitor construction activities and conduct regular committee meetings to provide updates on the safety and health conditions at our project sites. Labour MRCB ensures the proper management of foreign labour and adheres to relevant regulations. We engage manpower supply companies or sub-contractors when hiring foreign labour to work on our projects. All hiring of foreign labour is done by appointing recruitment agencies via tender or invitation based on their past track records. We strictly adhere to the procedures involved in hiring foreign labour. Hiring of skilled foreign labour is via interviews and selection in the source country arranged by the sub-contractor. Upon arrival, foreign workers undergo a probationary period of six (6) months before we identify them as skilled labour. We manage our foreign labour responsibly and we provide adequate accommodation and healthy living conditions for them. At each of our project sites, we have Centralised Labour Quarters (CLQs) for accommodation and various welfare facilities for the foreign workers. These facilities include the management office building, guard house, water storage tank, central surau, as well as sports facilities for recreation. All our CLQs comply with the requirements for water supply and fire safety regulations as prescribed by the local authorities. MRCB launched the PEKA@MRCB Programme to help provide jobs to selected offenders 146 KEY MESSAGES 2019 KEY HIGHLIGHTS ENSURING INTEGRITY AND GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDERS’ INFORMATION OVERVIEW OF MRCB MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT A large part of sustainability is ensuring the inclusivity of society and all its members, however, this can be challenging for inmates and troubled youth who are often excluded from our communities. The PEKA@ MRCB Programme is part of the Yellow Ribbon initiative spearheaded by the Ministry of Youth and Supports Sports in collaboration with the Malaysian Prison vulnerable Department and Malaysian Resources Corporation groups integrate Berhad (MRCB). It aims at helping those who deserve Provides back into a second chance to be reintegrated into society. training and society Introduced by the Ministry of Youth and Sports (KBS), employment opportunities the project was launched in August 2019 to provide these side-lined groups a chance at employment and education opportunities to enable them to be selfsufficient, while also regaining trust and contributing to society. This allows the targeted group to return and serve society without being held back due to their past offenses and mistakes, preventing them Addresses issues from reoffending. MRCB embarked on this initiative, of foreign labour seeing that it will create a positive impact for the youth, the company, as well as society. In addition to helping youth and past-offenders, the programme also helps address our own need for skilled workers. We are committed to creating positive change where possible and believe that this initiative will have a rippling effect throughout the industry and nation. MRCB was the first to embark on this programme by offering employment opportunities to 84 inmates since the programme was introduced. Candidates are selected through a comprehensive evaluation process before proceeding to receive training. Training is provided so that they become well equipped to work Promotes at the construction project sites doing various tasks equality and including welding, machine maintenance and repair strengthens of mechanical equipment. MRCB recognises the offenders 84 communities potential that such a programme holds and is have been enthusiastic to continue to help youth and past trained offenders to change their life for the better, while addressing certain social and economic challenges faced by the country. It is our hope that through our adoption, other companies are encouraged to do the same, helping the nation move forward. 147 MALAYSIAN INTEGRATED RESOURCES ANNUAL CORPORATION REPORT BERHAD 2019 SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT ENRICHING THE COMMUNITY MRCB is constantly finding ways to contribute and improve the socioeconomic status of the community. We identify areas of disparity where the Group can help alleviate and enrich the community. Community Contributions 413-1 Yayasan MRCB is MRCB’s Foundation established to pursue and provide opportunities in education and financial assistance for the underprivileged. Founded in 2015, Yayasan MRCB has organised programmes for underprivileged children by providing them with study material, tuition classes and a year-long free meal scheme. Other CSR programmes include assisting the Orang Asli community, hosting empowerment programmes for youth with physical limitations and sponsoring a halfway home for patients with prolonged illnesses and their care givers. Below lists Yayasan MRCB’s contributions to various beneficiaries such as schools, hospitals, and other organisations, to support programmes and initiatives that improve their well-being. Donations/Programmes Beneficiaries Donated Amount Donation of reading materials and calculators SMK Bangsar Integrase 60,000 to 6 schools (600 students) SMK Petaling SMK Bukit Bandaraya SMK (P) Methodist SMK Seri Pantai SMK La Salle Brickfields Donation of tables and chairs (60 sets) SMK Bandar Tasik Kesuma 34,140 Renovation of school library SK Lubok Kelubi Donation of 40 sets of tables and chairs and SK Dusun Tua renovation of Orang Kurang Upaya (disabled) toilet facility Renovation of Orang Kurang Upaya (disabled) SK Bandar Rinching toilet facility MRCB Staff Children – 19 pax MRCB STAFF 7,800 High Achievers Awards Donation to SK Ewa, Langkawi SK Ewa, Langkawi 20,000 Donation to SK Penghulu Ahmad SK Penghulu Ahmad 20,000 Donation to SMK Ayer Hangat SMK Ayer Hangat 30,000 Donation to 100 Asnaf from Langkawi 100 Asnaf 20,000 6-months tuition class for 7 adopted schools SK Pengkalan Jaya, Butterworth 60,000 from the month of March to September SK Kuala Perai, Butterworth 611 students SK Iskandar Perdana, Bandar Seri Iskandar, Perak SK La Salle, Brickfields, KL SJK (T) Vivekananda, Brickfields KL SK Seri Bonus, Semarak KL SK Seksyen 7 Kota Damansara KL 2 DAYS UPSR Clinics for 7 adopted schools SK Pengkalan Jaya, Butterworth 30,136 Subjects: BM, English, Mathematics and Science SK Kuala Perai, Butterworth SK Iskandar Perdana, Bandar Seri Iskandar, Perak SJK (T) Vivekananda, Brickfields KL SK La Salle, Brickfields, KL SK Seri Bonus, Semarak KL SK Seksyen 7 Kota Damansara KL 148 KEY MESSAGES 2019 KEY HIGHLIGHTS ENSURING INTEGRITY AND GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDERS’ INFORMATION OVERVIEW OF MRCB MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Donations/Programmes Beneficiaries Donated Amount Sponsorship for one-year lunch for B40 SK Pengkalan Jaya, Butterworth 230,400 category students from the month of June SK Kuala Perai, Butterworth 2019 to June 2020 SK Iskandar Perdana, Bandar Seri Iskandar, Perak SK La Salle, Brickfields, KL SJK (T) Vivekananda, Brickfields, KL SK Seri Bonus, Semarak KL SK Seksyen 7 Kota Damansara, KL SK Setia Budi, Batu Pahat, Johor SMK La Salle, Brickfields, KL SK Padang Tembak 1, Semarak KL SMK Jalan Bukit Kajang, KL SMK Bandar Baru Sungai Buloh, KL Donation of 7 braille units and facility repair SK Pendidikan Khas Jalan Batu 40,000 Build and upgrade football field and donation SK Temonyong 50,000 for facility repair Science workshop for 24 pax Orang Asli children 15,000 Community Engagement programme for Kampung Pos Kemar, Perak 13,000 Orang Asli community Funding of halfway homes for poor patients Hospital Kuala Lumpur 9,000 from Hospital Kuala Lumpurone house for a year Empowerment programme for Youth with Youth with disabilities 60,000 disabilities from Cheshire Home Selangor TOTAL 699,476 Yayasan MRCB donated Yayasan MRCB sponsors lunch RM20,000 to 100 asnaf. for one year to B40 students. 149 MALAYSIAN INTEGRATED RESOURCES ANNUAL CORPORATION REPORT BERHAD 2019 SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP Sustainable Construction 302-1, 302-3, 303-5, 305-1 Rapid urbanisation has spurred a rise in commercial and residential development that can result in an adverse impact on the environment, especially if it is carried out irresponsibly. The environmental footprint of our projects as well as the longterm environmental performance of buildings and infrastructure developed by us are our main concerns regarding environmental impact. The impacts of climate change have presented new sets of challenges for the property and construction sector. There is now an increasing need to consider designing buildings that are both low carbon and resilient to the future climate. Therefore, at MRCB, we strive to integrate green practices from the design to delivery stages of our projects. Green Buildings Our built environment is responsible for a large amount of energy and water use and emission of greenhouse gases. However, the use of green buildings has led to increased resource efficiency with a multitude of benefits to owners and occupants as well as the environment. In constructing sustainably, MRCB adopts Green Building Certification criteria for projects that require the construction of green buildings. The four (4) green building rating systems adopted are: Malaysia’s Green Building Index (GBI); Malaysia’s Green Real Estate (GreenRE); Malaysian Carbon Reduction and Environmental Sustainability Tool (MyCrest); US Green Building Council’s Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED); Listed below are the main criteria assessed in order to achieve green building certification: Indoor Sustainable Innovation Environmental Operations Quality Green practices Ensuring air such as ensuring quality, lighting, waste is recycled, Innovating design thermal conditions, endorsing and initiatives that help and all other ergonomics environmental policies, meet the objectives of are optimised for green procurement green buildings comfort of practices, and occupants many more Materials Water Energy & Resource Efficiency Efficiency Efficiency Minimise Reduce unnecessary energy water wastage consumption by through methods optimising building Decrease the amount such as rainwater features, such as of input materials to harvesting systems, building orientation, minimise waste output water recycling, and natural lighting, and water-saving use or renewable fittings energy 150 KEY MESSAGES 2019 KEY HIGHLIGHTS ENSURING INTEGRITY AND GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDERS’ INFORMATION OVERVIEW OF MRCB MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT A Green Building Coordinator is assigned within thirty (30) days after a contract is awarded and he or she is then responsible for actively monitoring the project. The coordinator conducts periodic site visits, facilitates fortnightly Green Building coordination meetings and prepares Green Building monthly progress reports. Sentral Suites is a residential building that is aimed to be eligible for MyCrest One Star and GreenRE Silver for green building accreditation. MRCB takes its role in responsible construction seriously and therefore, strives towards ensuring building designs and construction are done through green practices. Our project Sentral Suites, managed to achieve this through meeting the following criteria for green building design. Glazing used was high performance to ensure residential Inverter type airLED Lightings used for envelope transmittance conditioner used in parking and common value (RETV) is below each unit 25W/m2 areas Green Building 98% of water fittings Design: Compost from used have “High Sentral Suites horticulture waste used Efficient” rating for landscaping Low volatile organic compounds (VOC) Harvested rainwater The Industrialised paints and adhesives used for landscape Building System score used for building’s irrigation – 50% internal application 151 MALAYSIAN INTEGRATED RESOURCES ANNUAL CORPORATION REPORT BERHAD 2019 SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT Environmental Stewardship List of completed Projects with LEED, GBI and other Green Building Rating Tools: Building Sustainability MDL Installation Development/Building Management Accreditation programme of Solar PV* System (BMS) GBI NRNC CVA MENARA CIMB √ X X CERTIFIED SENTRAL RESIDENCES GBI RNC CVA GOLD X X X GBI NRNC DA SILVER AND MENARA SHELL (348 SENTRAL) LEED ID+C Commercial √ √ X Interior GOLD 348 SENTRAL (MENARA SHELL & LEED BD+C CS √ √ X ASCOTT SENTRAL) PLATINUM √ Solar PV GBI NRNC DA Q SENTRAL √ √ panel (total GOLD 120kWp) Building Sustainability MDL Installation Development/Building Management Accreditation Programme of Solar PV* System (BMS) GBI NRNC DA CERTIFIED √ √ √ Solar PV AND panel (23 x PLATINUM SENTRAL (LOT E) BCA Green Mark 2.304 kWp) PLATINUM GBI NRNC DA CERTIFIED √ √ X PJ SENTRAL – CELCOM TOWER (LOT 8) AND LEED BD+C CS GOLD GBI NRNC DA CERTIFIED √ X X PJ SENTRAL – MBSB CORPORATE HQ AND LEED BD+C CS GOLD MENARA JLAND GBI NRNC DA GOLD √ √ X ST REGIS KUALA LUMPUR GBI NRNC DA CERTIFIED √ X X GBI NRNC RESORT √ √ X THE DESA DESARU (HARDROCK DA CERTIFIED HOTEL) AND LEED BD+C NC SILVER GBI NRNC RESORT √ √ X DA CERTIFIED DESARU CONFERENCE CENTRE AND LEED BD+C NC SILVER GBI NRNC RESORT √ √ X DA CERTIFIED WESTIN DESARU RESORT (WESTIN AND HOTEL) LEED BD+C NC SILVER 9 SEPUTEH SOHO GBI RNC DA CERTIFIED X X X VIVO RESIDENCES (9 SEPUTEH) GBI RNC DA CERTIFIED X X X MENARA MRCB GBI NRNC DA GOLD √ √ X * Specifications and features are determined by the client 152 KEY MESSAGES 2019 KEY HIGHLIGHTS ENSURING INTEGRITY AND GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDERS’ INFORMATION OVERVIEW OF MRCB MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT List of Ongoing Projects with LEED, GBI AND other Green Building Rating Tools: Building Sustainability MDL Installation Projects Management Accreditation Programme of PV* System (BMS) PJ SENTRAL – MYIPO CORPORATE HQ GBI NRNC DA CERTIFIED √ √ X MyCREST ONE STAR SENTRAL SUITES (LOT 349) AND X X X GreenRE BRONZE Notes: BD+C Building Design & Construction DA Design Assessment NRNC Non-Residential New Construction RNC Residential New Construction CVA Certification and Verification Assessment GBI Green Building Index (Malaysia) For details on assessment criteria and rating scale: https://new.greenbuildingindex.org/how/assessment GreenRE A green rating tool set up to promote sustainability in the property industry (Malaysia) For details on assessment criteria and rating scale: https://greenre.org/index.html LEED Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (United States) For details on assessment criteria and rating scale: https://www.usgbc.org/leed MyCrest Malaysian Carbon Reduction and Environmental Sustainability Tool (Malaysia) For details on assessment criteria and rating scale: http://www.cidb.gov.my/index.php/en/bidang-utama/pembinaan-mampan/mycrest MDL – M aximum Demand Limiting is a strategy for reducing a building's demand for utilities, e.g., electricity in BMS system. It is a control strategy designed to prevent the demand kW of a facility from going over a predetermined threshold by altering the operation of equipment in a facility * Specifications and features are determined by the client Green Infrastructure We also strive to embed sustainability considerations into our infrastructure design. The Construction Industry Development Board (CIDB) of Malaysia has conferred the design phase of the LRT3 project with a 5-Star Sustainable INFRASTAR certification (the first project in Malaysia to achieve this highest level of certification). Sustainable INFRASTAR is an objective and evidence-based evaluation system which assesses infrastructure projects on key sustainability factors such as land use, impact of equipment use, resource and waste management at construction sites. 153 MALAYSIAN INTEGRATED RESOURCES ANNUAL CORPORATION REPORT BERHAD 2019 SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT Environmental Stewardship Materials 301-2 Other initiatives to minimise the use of materials is the reduction in the use of timber formwork in favour of system Sustainable construction materials require minimal use of formwork which reduces construction time, the need for natural resources and have greater reusability, which in turn materials on site and cost. is cost-effective and improves overall operational efficiency. We monitor the amount of building materials used in every Energy & Water Consumption project to maintain sustainable sourcing and building costs. With each project, we ensure a balance of innovative In line with constructing sustainably, proper resource construction practices without affecting the quality and management is essential to MRCB’s operations. We have durability of building materials. conducted a thorough review of the information that our Business Units are able to provide, in order to obtain a better picture of how we are managing and performing in certain areas relating to the environment. We learned that the % of Material with Project Sites Material complex nature of our business presents some challenges Recycled Content in compiling and normalising certain environmental data SENTRAL SUITES AAC Blocks 30 sets, For example, energy and water consumption tend to – LOT 349 Concrete vary depending on the nature, number and scale of projects Ceiling Panels Steel Bar during the year. Projects at the beginning and end stages of work tend to be less energy intensive compared to other WESTIN DESARU Steel Bar phases of construction where more energy is required. Ceiling System 13 RESORT (WESTIN HOTEL) Floor Tiles Moving forward, we intend to implement a more comprehensive Cement system of collecting data in our operations. We plan to DESARU Floor Tiles 11 engage more closely with all teams to foster active participation CONFERENCE Steel Bar at all levels, and train our workforce on the importance of CENTER Cement recording and submitting environmental data in a timely manner. MENARA JLAND Concrete 10 Steel Bar Furthermore, where applicable, we try to use energy intensity BRC instead of total energy consumption when tracking and Cement representing consumption data, for a more realistic analysis of our year on year performance. In addition, with the implementation of Building Information Modelling (BIM) software for clash detection, we are able to Since 2016, MRCB’s HQ office has managed to maintain its resolve constructability issues and coordinate across all energy use relatively steady and will continue to identify disciplines before construction begins, thereby reducing areas in which it can decrease its consumption. The energy overall construction costs in a project. use intensity for MRCB’S HQ office since 2016 is presented in the graph below. The implementation of IBS at project sites uses criteria from CIDB IBS in order to meet the CIDB IBS assessment score Electricity Consumption kWh of related projects. The objective of the CIDB IBS assessment 504,783 is to provide a systematic and structured assessment system 502,739 506,871 to measure the use of IBS in a consistent manner. CIDB is driving the adoption of IBS via private sector projects and are targeting for new developmental projects within Klang Valley worth RM50 million and above to achieve a minimum 496,534 IBS Score of 50. In 2019, our Sentral Suites and PRIMA Brickfields Projects were assessed and the scores are as Electricity Intensity kWh/m2 shown below: SENTRAL SUITES PROJECT (CIDB IBS SCORE: 50) PRIMA BRICKFIELDS (CIDB IBS SCORE: 70) 42.3 41.6 42.1 42.4 For details of CIDB IBS assessment criteria and rating refer to: 2016 2017 2018 2019 http://www.cidb.gov.my/images/content/pdf/cis/CIS18.pdf 154 KEY MESSAGES 2019 KEY HIGHLIGHTS ENSURING INTEGRITY AND GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDERS’ INFORMATION OVERVIEW OF MRCB MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT The tables below show the energy and water consumption of all our operating Divisions and key MRCB departments. MRCB’s Energy Consumption (kWh) Area of operation 2017 2018 2019 MRCB Headquarters 496,534 502,739 506,871 Property Development 20,998,573 18,320,486 231,563 Engineering, Construction & Environment 1,184,048 1,180,693 2,314,099 Facilities Management & Parking 11,338,442 14,286,552 12,906,952 Infrastructure & Concessions 1,764,682 – – TOTAL 35,782,279 34,290,470 15,959,485 MRCB has been able to progressively decrease its electricity consumption throughout the years, despite the number of projects that it undertakes. We aspire to maintain this trend. Water consumption and billing at MRCB's Headquarters is part of the monthly rental and therefore, difficult to track as it is a fixed payment. We will continue to identify areas in which we can improve our performance on water consumption to avoid unnecessary wastage. In 2019, the sharp decline in energy and water consumption for Property Development was due to a majority of projects being completed in prior years, while new projects in 2019 were at the early stages where energy and water usage were less intensive. MRCB’s Water Consumption (m3) Area of operation 2017 2018 2019 Property Development 80,110 227,604 18,379 Engineering, Construction & Environment 216,655 55,289 72,208 Facilities Management – 342,202 295,206 TOTAL 296,765 625,095 385,793 Climate Change Extreme and unpredictable weather conditions, floods, droughts, and rising sea levels are among the major climate change challenges that businesses today will have to face. We recognise the impacts that Climate Change has on our business operations as well as stakeholders and our preliminary analysis of both positive and negative impacts on MRCB’s operations: • Increase in ‘green’ consumers and changing market expectations. There is increasingly more demand for low carbon solutions. This will have implications for the design, construction, maintenance and facilities management of both existing and new business premises. Designing buildings that are both low carbon and resilient to the future climate presents a significant challenge for MRCB. At the same time, this will create new business opportunities, for example where the private sector is able to provide the knowledge, skills and technologies required to help society adapt to such changes. Examples include MRCB’s proposed expansion into waste-to-energy solutions. • Business logistics (supply chains, utilities and transport arrangements) can be disrupted by extreme weather events. This is likely to affect businesses across all sectors to some extent, threatening business continuity. MRCB’s businesses that rely heavily on utilities, the transport network or those with inflexible supply networks will be particularly vulnerable. • People are affected by the weather. Heat has physiological effects; inclement weather can affect concentration and weather patterns influence behaviour and lifestyles. MRCB’s workers are exposed to the impacts of heat stress in warmer conditions. • MRCB’s finances could be affected by climate change through the cost of damage, disruption and loss of sales driven by all of the above. Apart from exposure of our current assets to extreme weather events such as floods, there will also be other financial impacts on our business, for example, as investors increasingly take future climate risks into account, access to finance may become a problem if banks start to refuse credit to companies that are not managing climate risk properly. Bank Negara, the Central Bank of Malaysia has formed a Joint Committee on Climate Change (JC3) and are urging local banks to combat climate change with the adoption of responsible lending policies. 155 MALAYSIAN INTEGRATED RESOURCES ANNUAL CORPORATION REPORT BERHAD 2019 SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT Environmental Stewardship We have embarked on the following initiatives to address the risks and opportunities of climate change: 1. Reviewing a suitable methodology to measure carbon footprint and establish a baseline target for carbon reduction. 2. Embedding low carbon and sustainability considerations in the design and construction of buildings and infrastructure. MRCB adopts green building criteria across a number of tools such as GBI, GreenRe, MyCrest and LEED (See MRCB's Green Buildings and Infrastructure on pages 150 and 153 respectively). 3. Identified the renewable energy segment, and waste-to-energy in particular, as a future market. Malaysia produced 47,218 tonnes of waste in 2019 going to 165 landfills, of which only 8 being sanitary landfills, to store the waste produced nationwide. Malaysia’s carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions was also recorded at 250.3 million tonnes in 2018, the bulk of which came from electricity production, vehicles and waste. With space for landfills growing increasingly scarce, particularly in urban areas, and waste per capita forecasted to increase in line with the nation’s population growth, there is an urgent need to move towards more sustainable waste management solutions and clean energy production in Malaysia to reduce the impact on the environment and general well-being of the population. 4. One of MRCB's key innovation is MBS, which allows for projects utilising this technology to be constructed mainly offsite. This reduces construction costs by 10% – 30% through less material wastage and improves resource efficiency (lower fuel usage) at construction sites, which in turn leads to reduced carbon emissions. (Read more on MBS on pages 12 – 15). 5. MBS, which is sustainable and environmentally friendly, also reduces the impact of harsh weather conditions on workers as up to 90% of works can be done offsite in a controlled environment, resulting in higher productivity, lower defects and lower wastage. Carbon Dioxide (CO2) Emissions For 2017 and 2018, MRCB did not keep track of all its Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions at offices and project sites. The figures reflected in these two (2) years display the amount of fuel (combination of petrol and diesel) consumed and carbon dioxide emitted by MRCB’s registered company vehicles. For 2019, we have expanded the scope of our GHG emissions and included fuel consumption at all our project sites and this is reflected in the significant increase in the amount of carbon emissions reported. Fuel Consumption & CO2 Emissions 2017 2018 2019 Volume (L) 418,682 422,955 898,763 CO2 Produced (kG/L) 976,159 986,910 2,097,083 We are still the midst of identifying the most appropriate method for quantifying and monitoring our GHG emissions intensity. Waste 306-1, 306-2 MRCB’s business operations generate solid waste mainly from construction activities. Construction waste is inert in that it is not reactive and will not decompose. Therefore, its generation requires large areas for land disposal. To address this issue, MRCB minimises the generation of construction waste wherever possible. At our project sites, we practice the 3R (Reduce, Reuse and Recycle) approach in which we segregate recyclables including reusable waste. With this, we managed to reduce substantial amount of waste sent to the inert waste landfill. To facilitate waste segregation at project sites, we provide several bin types for different wastes such as scrap metal, timber, concrete and recyclable waste comprising paper, plastics and glass. Scrap metal, timber and recyclable waste are sent for recycling to help in reducing the use of virgin resources in the future. On the other hand, concrete waste is being reused as crusher run for access roads and to cover potholes within project sites, in order to minimise potential hazards and accidents. In cases where concrete waste is not suitable for reuse, it is sent to a licensed landfill for disposal. We also ensure wooden pallets that come with the bricks are properly stored at sites before returning them to suppliers for reuse. The total amount of construction waste generated for this year is 40,805.06 MT, compared to last year with 10,555 MT of waste generated. The increase is due to the progress made at our active projects. 156 KEY MESSAGES 2019 KEY HIGHLIGHTS ENSURING INTEGRITY AND GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDERS’ INFORMATION OVERVIEW OF MRCB MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Construction Waste Generated Landfilled and Recycled JLand Tower Desa Desaru MBSB HQ MYIPO HQ 23% 45% 24% 17% Total Total Total Total Construction Construction Construction Construction Waste: Waste: Waste: Waste: 5,684.46 MT 1,645.95 MT 9,992.53 MT 8,833.41 MT 77% 55% 76% 83% Westin Conference 9S VIVO & SOHO Sentral Suites Centre 14% 25% 56% Total 44% Total Total Construction Construction Construction Waste: Waste: Waste: 722.54 MT 13,523.95 MT 535.97 MT 75% 86% Recycled/Reused Landﬁlled Other than construction waste, our projects generate scheduled waste which is managed in accordance with the Environmental Quality (Scheduled Wastes) Regulations 2005. Scheduled waste generated is properly stored and labelled at our project sites and disposed when it reaches a certain quantity or duration. We only appoint contractors who are licensed by the Department of Environment (DOE) to collect and transport the scheduled waste for treatment prior to disposal. Moving forward, we plan to strengthen our waste tracking and monitoring for all project sites, for more comprehensive reporting in the next few years. We also believe a proper tracking system will ease our journey towards waste minimisation. Conclusion MRCB is dedicated to incorporating sustainability throughout its value chain. As we progress through our sustainability journey, we continuously seek to identify areas for improvement in our operations to address the gaps in our performance. This year we have achieved several feats including the development of our MBS that will spearhead sustainable construction by reducing defects and the waste of materials, time, and error. We aspire to set the standard in the industry though this innovation, while mitigating negative impacts to the environment in the construction sector. In addition to this, MRCB has embarked on the PEKA@MRCB Programme, that helped vulnerable groups at a second chance to earn a living and contribute positively to society, while addressing the nation’s socio-economic problems regarding unskilled foreign labour. It is evident that MRCB has taken strides in incorporating more elements of sustainability into its operations where possible. We recognise that the benefits and need for sustainability out-weighs short-term profit and, therefore, will continue to evaluate our environmental and social impacts alongside our economic performance. Throughout this process, MRCB will continue to strengthen its relationship with stakeholders through active engagement to gauge their expectations of the business. Through these efforts we hope to promote the sustainable growth of our business and ensure its long-term success. 157
