OUR MEMBERS OUR OUTSIDE WORLD OUR EMPLOYEES CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 PensionDanmark A/S — CVR no. 16163279 CONTENTS Climate change marked 2019...................... 5 OUR We all own the Sustainable Development Goals.................................... 10 Stronger together....................................... 13 MEMBERS Cold facts give way to warm hands........... 14 Retiring with savings of DKK 1.5m............ 17 OUR OUTSIDE Prevention makes a difference.................. 18 Søren was helped through physiotherapy.21 WORLD Easier access to skills upgrading.............. 22 Our national footprint................................. 32 Arriva avoided layoffs................................. 25 Responsibility every day............................. 35 Our approach to active ownership............. 36 OUR Active ownership brings change................ 39 EMPLOYEES THEME: Sustainable real estate is a sound investment................................ 40 It begins with us......................................... 46 OUR CLIMATE More jobs for marginalised people............ 43 Sustainability programme for Sustainability within our own company walls............................................ 48 A year with climate change More than a workplace............................... 51 new urban areas......................................... 44 on the agenda............................................. 26 Green investments produce APPENDIX solid returns............................................... 28 Our contribution......................................... 30 Our approach.............................................. 31 Appendix..................................................... 52 Accounting policies.................................... 54 Independent auditor’s report..................... 56 2 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 3 “Our mission is to enable our members to have a long and productive working life and to give them a financially secure retirement – in a sustainable way.” Torben Möger Pedersen Climate change marked 2019 Climate change rose to the very top of the international and Our deep commitment to corporate social responsibility national agenda in 2019. The UN climate action summit passed new milestones in 2019. Our record-breaking in­ held in New York in September underscored the scale of vestment returns of close to DKK 30bn will give our mem­ the global challenge: Meeting the objective of the Paris bers even better pensions. Our ambitious digitalisation Agreement to limit global warming to 1.5°C by 2050 will programme is shortening processing times and keeping require massive investments. At national level, a broad ma­ costs down, allowing us to retain our position as the most jority of the Danish parliament adopted the world’s most cost-efficient pension provider in Denmark. ambitious Climate Act, committing to cut carbon emissions by 70% relative to 1990 emissions by 2030. Our healthcare programme is focused on identifying health issues early on so that minor ailments do not become Pension funds across the world have embraced the chal­ serious. Having provided more than 350,000 preventive lenge. To name just a few examples, the Danish pension treatments in 2019, the programme has been instrumental industry made a joint commitment at the UN Climate Ac­ in helping our members look after their health. Another tion Summit to boost investments in the green transition by way in which we help our members is through our supple­ DKK 350bn going forward to 2030. In November, the Danish mentary training activities. Our new trail-blazing supple­ government established 13 climate partnerships, including mentary training site is a major step forward in helping one for the financial sector chaired by Pension­Danmark. our members maintain and improve their skills throughout In 2020, these partnerships will present proposals for how their working lives. each industry can contribute to achieving the 2030 target of the Climate Act. 2019 marked the end of a decade that brought significant change. From financial crisis to renewed growth, although PensionDanmark has already come a long way. Our equity at a reduced level. Breakthroughs for new digital tech­ investments give rise to a total of 731,000 tonnes of CO2 nologies such as robotics, artificial intelligence and the emissions annually. On the other hand, our investments internet of things. Political upheaval, with protests against in renewable energy reduce emissions by between 2.3m the negative consequences of globalisation for the wealth tonnes and just below 3.5m tonnes, depending on the and well-being of large ethnic groups. New geopolitical calculation method applied. In other words, Pension­ tensions and risks. Danmark is close to being – or maybe we already are – the world’s first pension funds to generate larger reductions Hopefully, the ‘20s will be a decade of optimism and than emissions through our investment portfolio. But we prosperity with the global community once again working can and must do more – both for the climate and for the 17 together to achieve the UN’s ambitious global goals by Sustainable Development Goals. means of agreements and rules, smart use of techno­ logical innovations and a fairer distribution of our growing wealth. PREFACE The 17 Sustainable Development Goals at display in front of PensionDanmark’s domicile at Langelinie Allé. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Torben Möger Pedersen CEO, PensionDanmark tmp@pension.dk 5 2019 IN NUMBERS 391,600 1.15 Member savings PensionDanmark have grown owns production of m active members employed in 23,400 member logins at pension.dk 3,665 GWh of green companies DKK energy per year 249bn DKK 21bn 2000 2019 Denmark’s island no. PensionDanmark is owned by 11 trade unions and 50,500 retired members More than 13,200 logins at our new supplementary training site 432 29 employer organisations is being constructed in received DKK Nordhavn, Copenhagen, 3.0 bn in retirement by PensionDanmark and partners PensionDanmark benefits co-founded a global PensionDanmark Our members received investor alliance with 8 370,000 received awards, USD 4,000bn The Danish pension industry commits to invest including the IPE Award for best Danish 350 under management working towards carbon-neutral DKK bn interdisciplinary pension provider investment portfolios in green transition by 2030 healthcare treatments 6 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 7 BUSINESS MODEL PensionDanmark pursues a 360-degree approach to engaging with our members. We want to give our members a financially secure retirement by generating ­sol­id­re­ turns on their savings and to enable them to have a long and productive working life by offering them active, preventive healthcare schemes. We want our members to maintain and upgrade their skills through lifelong learning, and we want to protect them by means of insurances that provide financial security in case of accident. PRODUCTS VALUES RESULTS PENSION Pension savings consist of three savings pro­ ducts: Retirement accounts, lifelong pension and annuity pension. Members are given a financially secure retire­ ment. Investment risks are aligned with mem­ bers’ age. Savings are invested in a sustainable and responsible manner. In terms of investment returns, 2019 was a good year. Younger members received a return of 16.1%, while older members received 9.5%. 50,500 retired members received DKK 3.0bn in 391,600 active members employed 23,400 retirement benefits. in companies INSURANCE The insurances provide security for our mem­ 1,000 members were awarded ­supplementary Our members are covered by insurances in case bers during their working lives. Members can early retirement pension. 3,000 members of death, critical illness, early retirement and raise or reduce insurance amount to align them received a lump sum of typically DKK 100,000 subsidised jobs. with their current needs. Through integration on critical illness. 3,000 beneficiaries received a of public registers, we make sure our members lump sum on the death of a member. Our mem­ always receive what they are entitled to. bers received insurance benefits of DKK 1.2bn. HEALTHCARE PROGRAMME The healthcare programme helps prevent 43,200 members received 370,000 treatments at The healthcare programme gives our members repetitive strain injuries and potential disabil­ our health clinics. 17,300 contacted our health­ access to interdisciplinary preventive treat­ ity and assists members in combating health care team. More than 60% of members with longments, healthcare counselling and Prompt pro­blems and returning to the labour market term illnesses returned to work on completion Diagnosis. faster. This provides security for each individual of treatment by the healthcare system. 2,880 re­ member. ceived paid memberships of patient associations. LIFELONG LEARNING Lifelong learning helps our members maintain 20,000 employees in 2,000 companies were able PensionDanmark manages a number of educa­ and upgrade their skills and thus remain active to upgrade their skills through supplemen­ tional funds which provide financial support for members of the workforce. tary training funded by the educational funds various types of supplementary training pro­ ­managed by PensionDanmark. grammes. @ COUNSELLING Members can access our member services by Members receive proactive, personalised ser­ vice aligned with their current life situation. Our members received 1.1m personalised messages. phone Mondays-Fridays from 8:00 a.m. to 9:00 Members can choose their preferred platform Our members logged in to pension.dk 1.15m p.m. − and at pension.dk 24/7. of communication. This ensures a high degree times − an increase of 29%. of accessibility and readiness to meet our mem­ 250,000 members have signed up to receive The average call wait time was 8.2 seconds. bers' needs. messages with personalised information. We interacted with 45% of our members across Members receive personalised information by our various channels. e-mail, text messages, e-Boks (secure digital postbox), website or telephone. 8 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 9 OUR MEMBERS OUR OUR EMPLOYEES OUTSIDE WORLD We all own the Sustainable Development Goals In 2015, world leaders defined the world’s key challenges going forward to 2030 in the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The 17 Sustainable Development Goals and 169 targets have been endorsed by all UN member states. Responsibility and sustainability are part of PensionDanmark’s DNA. The Sustainable Development Goals have provided us with a framework for our sustainability efforts, and with new opportunities. We contribute to the achievement of SDGs through the benefits we pay to our 752,500 members, our DKK 271bn in investments and through initiatives implemented for the benefit of our own 261 employees and our own business. For more information on the SDGs, see: www.un.org/sustainabledevelopment/sustainable-development-goals. 10 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 11 Stronger together Our Corporate Social Responsibility In 2019, PensionDanmark joined the Alliance against Ine­ Report communicates our progress on quality in Health founded by the Danish Cancer Society, the National Association of Local Authorities in Denmark and meeting our corporate social responsi­ Danish Regions. We believe that health inequalities arising bility and helping to build a sustainable from differences in social status are unfair. Through our society today and in the future – for our healthcare programme, we are already helping to reduce members, the Danish society, our out­ health inequalities. By joining forces with the Alliance against Inequality in Health, we hope we can accomplish side world and our employees. even more. We also joined Smoke-Free Future, a partner­ ship committed to keeping tobacco out of children’s and Corporate social responsibility is a key priority for Pension­ young people’s lives. Danmark, and our CSR efforts are guided by high and specific ambitions. We believe that we should not let the Other partnerships work to develop new standards for sus­ perfect stand in the way of the possible. We are committed tainable investment. Collaborating with the Green Building to transparency and openness about the dilemmas and Council, we aim to have all of our new buildings sustaina­ challenges that come with sustainability and responsibility. bility certified. Our sustainability programme version 3.0, All aspects – achievements as well as challenges – should also launched in 2019, sets even stricter requirements and be discussed as openly and clearly as possible. And we now also extends to urban areas. want to continue the dialogue where there is still room for development and improvement. Several partnerships are international, such as through the UN, the OECD or the EU. PensionDanmark is a signatory to Partnerships are the backbone of our business because we the UN Global Compact and a member of the World Eco­ can do more – at both national and international level – if we nomic Forum and a number of strategic partnerships such work together. PensionDanmark and occupational pensions as the Net-Zero Asset Owner Alliance, a group of pension were born out of the 1987 Joint Statement by the social part­ funds from around the world committed to transitioning to ners and the Danish government. More than 30 years later, carbon-neutral investment portfolios. this agreement and social contract remains the cornerstone of our work and our structure shaped by our Board of Direc­ By default, all partnerships must add value for our tors with strong social partner representation. members. Throughout the year, we visit local trade union branches and companies across the country. We host an annual event for union representatives (TR-Forum) PensionDanmark and bi-annual events for our industry board members (Brancheforum). This gives us a chance to talk to mem­ is owned by 11 trade unions and 29 bers and trade organisations and enables us to continually improve our pension, healthcare and lifelong learning services based on the needs of our members. employer organisations Target 17.17 Our partnerships cover a wide field, exemplified by our Promote and encourage partnerships collaboration with the National Agency for IT and Learning. across the public sector, the private Supplying data for our supplementary training site, the sector and civil society, building on our Agency helps us provide our members with an overview experience with partnerships and their OUR of the supplementary training programmes available to resource strategies. them – which benefits all parties. Members are provid­ ed with an overview that enables them to plan their next PensionDanmark engages in partnerships, including supplementary training programme – also if they need public-private partnerships, in all its business areas to retrain. As a result, more members complete supple­ to secure the best and most effective solutions. This PARTNERSHIPS mentary training programmes. This ensures they have the includes partnerships with the National Agency for IT skills demanded by the business community and that they and Learning and with Smoke-Free Future, which conremain a sought-after resource right up to retirement. This tribute to promoting, respectively, the supplementary creates value for individual members, for companies and training and the health of our members. for society at large. 12 Meeting Corporate of the industry board Social for Trade, Transport Responsibility & Industry. Report 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 13 Cold facts give way to warm hands Through our pension scheme, we give them to use the healthcare programme or advise them our members a financially secure re­ to combine their pensions in order to save administrative expenses. tirement, while our insurances protect them if an accident or illness strikes. A combination of digital solutions and per­ sonal assistance allows us to service our Dilemma: members at low cost. Does the use of robots not lead to an inferior and more distanced interaction with PensionDanmark? Very few people give much thought to their pension By handling as much as possible of the manual case schemes. That is why we make sure our members get processing and data entry, PensionDanmark’s robots what they need. It is important to us that our members free up time and allow more time to personal assis­ know their pensions are safe with us. And we want to be tance and even better services, as the additional time as efficient as possible, which is why digitalisation is so is spent on contacting and counselling our members. important. Through the pooling of our data with public registers, we have for several years made sure our members are contacted in the event of a change to their life situation. As What does the robot do? an example, through pooling of data with the Civil Register, we make sure beneficiaries receive insurance benefits on a >> The robot retrieves data from the Civil Register on member’s death. newly deceased members on a daily basis. >> The robot checks in the Civil Register whether the Utilising the opportunities offered by digital innovation, we deceased member had a spouse and notifies the have gone several steps further. We now use robots for spouse via e-Boks of future payments into his or case processing purposes – for example in connection with her NemKonto. The spouse does not have to do the payment of supplementary early retirement pensions, anything. bene­fits for critical illness and benefits on death. This ensures a faster payout of benefits, which benefits our >> If no spouse is registered in the Civil Register, the members and their families. At the same time, we are able robot checks instead whether the deceased has to keep administrative expenses down, and we currently designated beneficiaries. charge the lowest administration fees in the Danish pen­ >> The robot contacts the beneficiaries via e-Boks or, if sion industry. they are resident outside Denmark, by ordinary mail and, having obtained documentation of the rela­ Better member services and improved tionship with the deceased, pays the benefits to the member satisfaction beneficiaries and informs the probate court. By means of individual messages, we make sure our mem­ >> In the event that the deceased has neither spouse bers are kept informed of their options so they can make nor beneficiaries, the robot makes inquiries from the most of their pension schemes. Based on the informa­ the probate court as to who is to inherit. The robot tion we hold about our members, we keep them informed sends the probate court reminders as required. of their situation and their options. Upon receiving information about the inheritance entitlements from the probate court, the robot pays Our goal is for our members to perceive our messages as OUR out the benefits. relevant and valuable, for example when we encourage 1.15 Results achieved in 2019 MEMBERS >> 1.1m individual messages. m >> 58% of all logins at pension.dk took place through PensionDanmark’s app. member logins >> Average call waiting time was 8.2 seconds against 10.1 seconds in 2018. at pension.dk 14 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Boatswain Peter and his wife Charlotte checking Peter’s pension savings at pension.dk. 50,500 retired members received DKK 3.0 bn in retirement Retiring with savings of DKK 1.5m Knud Erik first joined the labour market as a factory boy in 1965 and later got a apprenticeship as a plumber. PensionDanmark’s assets under management are growing. This has to do with the fact that contributions Last year, after having worked for 53 years, he retired at have grown from 0.9% of members’ wages in the early benefits the age of 68. 1990s to a current minimum of 12%, combined with many years of strong returns and longer average sav­ “When I joined the labour market, there was no pension ings periods as a result of later retirement. This means scheme for us plumbers. When we got occupational that our members are guaranteed a financially secure pensions in the early 1990s, I wasn’t very keen. But retirement with a decent standard of living. today, I see that it was a darn good thing. It’s a fantastic scheme, to put it mildly. In 2019, PensionDanmark paid DKK 3.0bn in benefits to retired members. I’ve saved up a little more than DKK 1.5m, which gives me a nice monthly supplement to my state pension. This means I can keep a decent standard of living dur­ ing my retirement. Target 1.3 Implement nationally appropriate We have an apartment in Turkey that we go to three social protection systems and measor four times a year. Living expenses, including food ures for all, including social safety prices, are low, so it’s not overly expensive for us. So I’m nets, and by 2030 achieve substanvery happy that we got a pension scheme.” tial coverage of the poor and the vulnerable. OUR MEMBER Knud Erik is not the only pension millionaire among Through their savings with PensionDanmark, our our members. At the end of 2019, 59,600 of our mem­ members are guaranteed attractive and stable bers had more than DKK 1m in their pension account retirement benefits and an important supplement with PensionDanmark. Taking into account that many to state pension benefits. They also have effective of our members also have savings with other pension KNUD ERIK insurances in the event of incapacity for work or providers, the total number of pension millionaires in critical illness. In 2019, we paid total benefits of PensionDanmark is estimated at 240,600. By 2030, we DKK 4.4bn to our members. expect to have 330,000 pension millionaires amongst our members. 16 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 17 Prevention makes a difference Many of PensionDanmark’s members perform hard physical work and there­ Dilemma: fore need to take good care of their body Why place responsibility for prevention on members? to avoid potential problems. Pension­ Prevention in the form of timely treatment and phys­ Danmark’s healthcare programme is ical therapy exercises is the most effective means of avoiding injuries and strains. Prevention is both in the focused on prevention and prompt inter­ clear interest of our members and their responsibility. vention. Preventive measures can alleviate pain, prevent inju­ ries from getting worse or becoming permanent and Musculoskeletal disorders are the most frequent cause help our members remain in the labour market – thus of physical disabilities and the granting of early retire­ benefiting their finances during their working lives and ment pension. Preventive action can stop minor ailments during retirement. from developing into serious injuries which could prevent members from returning to work. And the various options under the healthcare programme are put to good use by that companies have access to valuable manpower, that we our members. In 2019, our physiotherapists, chiropractors as a society have a larger labour force and that large sav­ and massage therapists performed 370,000 preventive ings can be achieved in the healthcare system and in rela­ treatments. We actively encourage our members via e.g. tion to sickness and early retirement pension. Prevention is e-mails to make use of the many options available under also sound business for the PensionDanmark community. the healthcare programme so that ailments may be nipped If a typical 50-year-old member is granted early retirement in the bud. pension, this will cost the community almost DKK 1.3m in supplementary early retirement pension. In other words, We have listened to our members Our members received prevention makes good business sense. 370,000 PensionDanmark maintains an ongoing dialogue with our members about how we can improve our services, including our healthcare programme. Our members have expressed a keen desire for more therapists and more treatment slots so they can receive treatment even closer interdisciplinary health treatments to work or their home and have more slots to choose from with individual therapists. In light of this, PensionDanmark has launched a project to develop a digital booking application comprising all physio­ therapists and chiropractors in Denmark that will give our members access to more therapists and more clinics. The solution, scheduled to be launched in mid-2020, will enable our members to book an appointment with their preferred therapist when it fits into their often busy daily lives. Prevention creates value for everyone Our preventive measures make a difference to the daily lives of our members both financially and in relation to their wellbeing. At the same time it also helps ensuring OUR Thomas taking PensionDanmark’s health test via our app. Results achieved in 2019 MEMBERS >> 43,200 members received 370,000 preventive treatments, a year-on-year increase of 9%. >> 6,500 Prompt Diagnosis cases, a year-on-year increase of 30%. >> More than 17,300 health consultations conducted via e-mail or phone. 18 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Physiotherapist Julie instructing Kasper how to do exercises. Søren was helped through physiotherapy Søren Marloth, a plumber with Andersen & Heegaard In addition to targeted exercises, the physiotherapist A/S, is one of the 137,500 members who have used can also provide guidance about better workplace er­ PensionDanmark’s healthcare programme during the gonomics. Prevention is key, and members are encour­ past ten years. Søren received physiotherapy when he aged to start treatment and start doing exercises before suffered back problems, but the treatment was not all their health issues escalate. passive. Søren was told to do exercises on his own as well – to make the pain go away and to prevent it from “Pain should be seen as an amber warning light. If you returning. leave your pain untreated, it will take more treatments to get you fit for fight again. Worst case, you risk devel­ “My shoulder blade snapped while I was at work. I was oping serious joint injury or a herniated disc.” ­Christian in a lot of pain but continued to work for a couple of Madsen, physiotherapist with PensionDanmark’s days until the pain was so bad that I had to stop. Luckily, healthcare programme. I remembered the healthcare programme, so I called and booked an appointment with a physiotherapist. Target 3.8 He examined my back and found out what the problem Achieve universal health coverage, was. Then he showed me three simple exercises that including financial risk protection, I do every night when I’ve tucked my son in. They are access to quality essential healthsimple exercises that you can do at home or at work. care services and access to safe, They’ve improved movement in my back and reduced effective, quality and affordable essential medicines and vaccines for all. OUR MEMBER the pain. If I forget to do my exercises, I feel it at once. Having to do something myself is fine with me. And hav­ All PensionDanmark members are covered by ing the opportunity to get assistance from the health­ an insurance of typically DKK 100,000 in case of care programme at any time without having to pay is critical illness. In addition, most of our members a great help. If I hadn’t had my healthcare scheme, have a healthcare scheme that includes a range of SØREN I’d probably still be in pain and frequently absent from healthcare services, including measures to prevent work. It’s very important for me that I can get help so I permanent injury. In 2019, 43,200 members made can keep doing my job.” use of PensionDanmark’s preventive services. 20 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 21 Easier access to skills upgrading In the absence of a substantial skills up­ reduce sickness absence, enhance job security and job grade, Denmark will be short of 70,000 mobility and lift wages. skilled workers by 2025. Our new sup­ When members log in, they are directed to the educational plementary training site is intended to fund covering them and their employer and from which help solve that challenge – to the benefit they are entitled to receive supplementary training support. of members, companies and the Danish This ensures funding is channelled towards the skills de­ manded by companies. This is in the interest of companies economy. and society at large given that by 2025 Denmark will be short of 70,000 skilled workers and at the same time have Some 4,000 courses are currently available to members an excess of unskilled workers in the absence of a sub­ looking to undergo supplementary training. Until recently, stantial skills upgrade. however, getting an overview of relevant courses and the number of training days to which a member was entitled was difficult. Dilemma: Our members now have that overview. In 2019, we Supplementary training is also about enabling memlaunched our new supplementary training website. The bers to change jobs. But why should a company prosite provides members with a personalised 360-degree vide funding for supplementary training that equips overview of their supplementary training options – includ­ the employee to go looking for a new job? 13,200 ing specific proposals for courses matching their work experience and level of training. It also allows members to With companies’ skills requirements constantly share the information with their employer so they can draw up a development plan. changing, continuous supplementary training is in everyone's interest. Ambitious corporate training More than By supporting members in upgrading their general and policies are important for attracting and retaining competent employees. logins to our new specialist skills, the supplementary training site helps to supplementary training site Check how many training days Professional profile ­– you are entitled to set up a CV Become a skilled worker – Check which courses you check which courses you need to have already completed complete Check which courses are relevant Draw up your own development for you and where they are offered plan – and send it to your manager Results achieved in 2019 OUR MEMBERS >> 13,200 logins to our new supplementary training website. >> In 2019, the 99 educational funds managed by PensionDanmark paid out DKK 59m in supplementary training grants. >> 2,000 companies received grants for 20,000 employees to undertake 45,100 training programmes. 22 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Thomas and his wife Sanne checking out the supplementary training site. Thomas is a carpenter and a member of PensionDanmark. Lars and Hashmatullah at Arriva’s Østerbro garage. Arriva avoided layoffs In 2019, transport company Arriva Danmark held three for overcoming this challenge. For example, the site special feature days centered on supplementary training allows people to see how many training days they have and PensionDanmark’s new supplementary training accumulated, which courses are eligible for subsidies website. Camilla Brochstedt, PensionDanmark training and the duration of courses. In our experience, the consultant, helped more than 150 Arriva drivers log onto supplementary training site makes all this easier, and the site and select courses for their “development plan”. everybody has responded favourably to the personal­ ised overview provided by the site. Last but not least, The event was prompted by the opening of the new M4 the drivers starting on supplementary training to avoid metro line and the resulting discontinuation of several layoffs have been met with great solidarity and support Copenhagen bus lines and imminent dismissal of 101 from their colleagues.” drivers. To avoid layoffs, Arriva and trade union 3F Co­ penhagen Drivers (Københavns Chauffører) formed an Hashmatullah Azizi, Arriva driver and PensionDanmark supplementary training partnership. member, attended a course in 2019. “The training site gave me a clear overview of my options, and it was easy The objective of the partnership is to encourage as to find a 6-week security guard course, which Arriva many as possible of Arriva’s 1,000 drivers in Copen­ paid for. Attending a course was really great, and I hagen to complete a supplementary training course. learned so much.” Instead of losing their jobs, the 101 drivers will “fill the gaps” while their colleagues attend supplementary Target 4.4 training. With a number of drivers scheduled to retire By 2030, substantially increase the shortly after the opening of the new metro line, Arriva number of youth and adults who have can avoid layoffs. relevant skills, including the technical and craft skills required to set up OUR Lars Svendsen, employee representative with Arriva, a business and create decent jobs. has used the new site to help his colleagues get started on supplementary training. PensionDanmark manages 99 educational funds provided for by collective agreements which provide “Getting to grips with the whole supplementary training financial support for various types of supplementary concept can be overwhelming for many people, and training programmes. In 2019, the funds subsidised MEMBERS the supplementary training site is an excellent tool 45,100 training programmes. AT ARRIVA John instructing future bus drivers Zehra og Zaferadult during supplementary training at UC+ in Skovlunde. Log in to pension.dk using your NemID Find relevant courses Draw up your own development plan Employer approves and receives financial support Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Attend course with pay 25 THEME: OUR CLIMATE DKK 350 bn from the Danish pension industry A year with climate change on the agenda Solving the challenges of climate change is the moon landing of this generation. Attaining this goal will require massive contributions from public and private players. The global green transition hinges on private investor capital. In 2019, the Danish pension industry and PensionDanmark showed the way by announcing plans to invest an addi­ tional DKK 350bn in the green transition going forward to 2030. PensionDanmark has been investing in green infrastruc­ ture for the past ten years, and we plan to step up our investments in the coming years. At the same time, we continually seek to form new partnerships and alliances with a view to promoting the green transition in Denmark and internationally. We also work actively to reduce the carbon footprint of our investments. Read more in our special climate theme on the following pages. 26 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 27 Wind farm Biomass power plant Transmission grid PensionDanmark Dilemma: Solar power plant owns production of Cement fosters the development of poor countries… and harms the environment Hydro power plant 3,665 Ending poverty is the first Sustainable Development Goal. Achieving this goal requires better infrastructure and education for people living in developing countries. Geothermal power plant GWh of green Better infrastructure requires huge amounts of cement for the construction of roads etc., but high-tempera­ energy per year ture burning of limestone and clay, a key element of the cement production process, entails substantial CO2 emissions. Cement production is responsible for about 8% of global CO2 emissions. Ending poverty and building Target 7.2 infrastructure by means of existing technologies is Substantially increase the share of Green investments produce solid returns therefore bound to exacerbate climate threats. PensionDanmark has decided to continue investing sustainable energy in global energy consumption by 2030. in cement while putting a lot of effort into seeking out PensionDanmark’s green investments in wind farms, solar power plants, transmission grids and biomass power plants and motivating the most visionary manufacturers. At PensionDanmark’s renewable energy investments, across Denmark and the rest of the world amounted to DKK 22bn in 2019. To this should be added investments in sustain­ national level, Aalborg Portland has developed new including wind farms, solar power plants, transmission ability certified Danish real estate. types of cement with a reduced carbon footprint and is grids and biomass power plants, amounted to DKK in the process of developing a new cement type that will 22bn in 2019. PensionDanmark’s wind turbines, solar Working towards the goal of the Danish government and parliament to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 70% by 2030, ultimately be able to absorb CO2 volumes close to the power plants and biomass power plants produce 3,665 the Danish pension industry announced plans to invest an additional DKK 350bn in the green transition going forward to emissions produced during the manufacturing process. GWh of green energy on an annual basis. 2030 at the UN Climate Action Summit held in New York in September 2019. 28 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 29 Our approach Our contribution OUR OUR CONTRIBUTION APPROACH The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) the value of our equity portfolio increased, emissions from “Without the active particiIn 2019, PensionDanmark also endorsed the UN Global estimates that we must limit global warming to 1.5°C if the portfolio have declined since 2017, driven by declining Compact’s Business Ambition for 1.5°C to limit the global pation of Danish businesses we are to avoid the most severe natural disasters such as carbon intensity among the companies in which Pension­ rise in temperature to 1.5°C. In joining this initiative, we flooding, forest erosion and expanding deserts. Danmark is invested. and Danish pension funds, have committed to reporting on our progress and to work­ achieving our goals will be ing towards net-zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050, in PensionDanmark has been invested in green infrastructure extremely difficult. To comline with the ambitions of the NZ AOA. for the past ten years and currently has investments in Equity portfolio carbon footprint plete the transformation, wind, biomass and solar plants worth DKK 22bn. Pension­ 2019 2018 2017 we need powerful locomotives in addition PensionDanmark co-founded Danmark’s overriding priority is to ensure robust and stable long-term pension savings for our members, and PD Equities USDm¹ 9,598 6,575 8,099 to political decisions.” a global investor alliance Total emissions, tonnes of CO2e 731,356 736,309 813,186 4,000 our renewable energy investments are instrumental in CO2 footprint, tonnes/USDm 76 112 100 enabling us to achieve this. They also contribute to tackling Mette Frederiksen, the climate challenge. CO2 intensity, tonnes/USDm sales 150 155 161 Prime Minister of Denmark with USD bn under Weighted avg. CO2 intensity, tonnes/USDm sales 123 148 140 management working towards “If you can make Weighted avg. MSCI AC, Our initiatives to combat climate change have the greatest carbon-neutral investment portfolios money on Danish tonnes/USDm sales 188 214 211 impact when carried out in partnerships. In 2019, Pension­ Danmark joined a number of climate partnerships working decency, it’s fine ¹ Excluding ETFs, Futures, etc. Source: MSCI and own calculations to promote ambitious climate goals and bring more inves­ by me.” tors on board to support the green transition. Government climate partnerships Simon Kollerup, Danish Minister for Throughout the 2017-19 period, the weighted average car­ Global investor alliance for In November 2019, the Danish government teamed bon intensity of our portfolio remained considerably below up with the Danish business community to establish Industry, Business and Financial Affairs the MSCI AC world market index. In 2019, carbon intensity carbon neutrality 13 climate partnerships. These partnerships will was about 35% below the world market index. In September 2019, PensionDanmark and a group of work towards identifying ways for businesses and the Based on a cautious projection of assets under mana­ leading international investors announced the formation of government to solve the challenges of climate change gement, we expect to double our investments in green PensionDanmark’s green infrastructure investments have the Net-Zero Asset Owner Alliance (NZ AOA), an alliance in a manner that also supports Denmark’s competitive energy infrastructure and sustainable real estate over the resulted in power production based on coal and other fos­ of investors working towards climate neutrality by 2050. strength, exports, jobs, welfare and prosperity without next ten years. While we expect most of our green energy sile sources being replaced by power based on renewable Consisting of pension and insurance companies, the increasing inequality. infrastructure projects to be located outside Denmark, energy. The resulting carbon reductions are estimated at Alliance had assets under management of USD 4,000bn including in developing countries, most of our sustainable between 2.3m tonnes and just below 3.5m tonnes, depen­ at end-2019 and is expected to have USD 10,000bn under The partnership for the finance sector is chaired by building projects and energy upgrades of existing proper­ ding on the calculation method applied. management by end-2020. Torben Möger Pedersen, PensionDanmark’s CEO. ties are expected to be located in Denmark. While direct CO2 emissions from the finance sector Sustainable Development Goal 13 Alliance members commit to transitioning their investment are limited, the sector will play a key role in procuring We are committed to supporting and co-funding new Take urgent action to combat climate portfolios to net-zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050 funding for the other partnerships’ green transition renewable energy initiatives, Green Tech start-ups and change and its impacts. and to establishing scenarios for how their investment proposals going forward to 2030. The climate partner­ energy optimisation of existing companies. portfolios should develop in order to achieve this goal. ships will be focused on the business community’s own Focusing on impacting the real economy, the Alliance will reduction commitments and initiatives as well as the PensionDanmark’s carbon footprint PensionDanmark supports and works actively towards work to strengthen mandatory reporting methods, exercise government’s commitments in respect of the initiatives the goals of the Paris Agreement. In September 2019, active ownership and inspire each other to invest in the to be set down in the government’s climate action plan We began measuring our carbon footprint in 2017 and PensionDanmark co-founded the Net-Zero Asset green transition. during 2020. The partnerships are based on a ­mutual in 2019, we committed to carbon neutrality by 2050. We measure the carbon footprint of our equity portfolio in Owner Alliance, committing, along with 11 other pencommitment to work towards a 70% reduction of sion companies from around the world, to making our As a founding member, PensionDanmark is represented on greenhouse gas emissions by 2030, as targeted by the accordance with the recommendations of the Task Force investment portfolios carbon neutral by 2050. the Alliance Steering Group. The Alliance was convened by Danish Climate Act. on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). Although ­UNEP’s Finance Initiative and UN PRI. 30 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 31 Our national footprint Investments create growth and jobs. PensionDanmark invests in a broad range of assets in order to diversify risk and secure robust returns for our members. When buying mortgage bonds issued by Danish mortgage credit institutions, we effectively provide loans to Danish busi­ nesses, home owners and housing associations. By investing in equity and direct loans, we help procure capital for small Co-owner of wind farms, and large businesses to enable them to evolve and create growth and jobs. biomass power plants and solar parks worldwide, By investing in real estate, we help create jobs for construction workers during the construction period and provide healthy which produce green workplaces for the many employees who work in PensionDanmark’s office buildings, hotels and department stores. By energy and green jobs in investing in wind farms and biomass power plants, we help produce green energy and create jobs in the businesses and Denmark. their many sub-contractors. We have invested Holding mortgage bonds DKK 7.2bn in 50 small worth DKK 40bn, we have and large listed Danish effectively financed 30,000 companies employing a Danish homes. total of 975,000 people. Infrastructure Member DKK 23bn savings have grown DKK Government and mortgage bonds Listed equities 249bn DKK 46bn DKK DKK 100bn 21bn Real estate 2000 2019 DKK 24bn Private Credit Equity DKK 43bn DKK 12bn 1m sqm of real estate We have provided 170 small with 55,000 attractive and unlisted Danish businesses healthy workplaces in with long-term risk capital 35 cities across Denmark. of DKK 670m. Target 8.5 By 2030, achieve productive and decent jobs for all men and women, ­including We have provided Danish for young people and persons with businesses with long-term ­disabilities, and equal pay for work of growth capital of DKK 1.7bn. equal value. PensionDanmark’s real estate projects create 1,000 construction jobs for each billion DKK invested. 32 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 33 Responsibility every day Investors must act responsibly and push ticular emphasis on data concerning preceding dialogues, companies in a direction benefiting industry conditions and company-specific circumstances. PensionDanmark rates all portfolio companies based on 30 people and the environment. Accordingly, ESG parameters. A company’s score may reflect quantita­ data on companies’ business conduct tive (numbers) and qualitative (assessments) information. and impacts on the environment and Quantitative information includes the quotas of female society form an integral part of invest­ board members, CO2 emissions and remuneration of man­ agement, while assessments of management’s approach ment decisions. to risks and disputes is qualitative information. While the total ESG score is a weighted composite, it also takes into PensionDanmark’s responsible investment goals are rela­ account the company’s production and industry. Environ­ ted to Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) issues. mental and climate performances are crucial factors in Our efforts are governed by the principles of the OECD’s assessing oil and transport companies, while data protec­ Responsible Business Conduct for Institutional Investors, tion weighs heavily in the assessment of IT companies. international conventions and norms, the recommenda­ tions of the UN Global Compact, of which PensionDanmark Responsible tax is a member, and the Sustainable Development Goals. Our PensionDanmark’s primary goal is to generate the highest principles are consistent with the Stewardship Code of the possible investment return for our members. This involves Committee on Corporate Governance. tax optimising our investments. At the same time, we aim to act as a responsible investor, also in relation to tax. In In our experience, responsible ownership and high returns 2019, PensionDanmark and three other pension funds go hand in hand, and we have therefore developed and adopted a joint tax code of conduct that aims to promote sharpened our approach to social responsibility. We initially responsible tax behaviour in Denmark and internationally. focused on assessing the behaviour of companies in ad­ A number of other Danish pension providers have also vance of investments and then sorting out the companies joined the tax code of conduct. who did not comply with ESG criteria. As pension assets grew, we were able, in collaboration with other investors, to induce companies to change their behaviour. The scope Read more at pensiondanmark.com/en/investment/tax. of these stewardship practices has grown significantly and today includes professional experts screening companies and bringing together investors to discuss significant issues with the management teams of the companies in which we are invested. Most recently, our approach has evolved to targeting investments to achieve a specific impact on communities and their surroundings. This includes investments aimed at improving the climate, promoting growth in developing countries or achieving documented progress in relation to the Sustainable Development Goals. ESG-driven investment decisions PensionDanmark’s portfolio managers take ESG data into account when making investment decisions, placing a par­ OUR OUTSIDE Active ownership then and now VERSION 1.0 VERSION 2.0 VERSION 3.0 Blacklisting of Active ownership Impact investing WORLD companies with and dialogue Do good ESG issues and do well PensionDanmark is invested in Africa’s largest wind farm, Lake Turkana in Kenya. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 35 Our approach to active ownership Active ownership generates the highest returns. By joining forces with other ac­ Dilemma: tive owners you become more influential. Active ownership against tobacco production without perspective With investments come owner responsibilities. Pension­ PensionDanmark divested all assets in tobacco pro­ Danmark fulfils this responsibility by means of active duction in 2019. Smoking is one of the main reasons ownership. We believe that attempting to steer a company why a substantial number of our members have in a sustainable direction rather than divesting if the com­ shorter life expectancies, and in an effort to promote pany makes a mistake or fails to live up to international smoking cessation we have joined Smoke-Free Future standards is the responsible approach in the vast majority and the Alliance against Inequality in Health. By ban­ of cases. ning tobacco investments, we forfeit the opportunity to influence manufacturers through active ownership. We exercise active ownership by engaging in dialogue with On the other hand, we do not see the tobacco industry management on specific issues that call for special atten­ coming up with less harmful product alternatives, con­ tion and by voting at general meetings. We vote based on sidering that e-cigarettes, for example, are suspected our own voting policy, which stipulates that the companies of disrupting the lung function. must be run in the best interests of all shareholders. General meetings in 2019 When dealing with world-leading companies, we have con­ In favour of the board’s recommendation tinious dialogue that may vary in intensity and theme. PensionDanmark was 488 dialogues Against the board’s recommendation In order to measure our work, we set specific milestones 180 153 Shareholder proposals for the dialogue conducted with companies. In 2019, the engaged in with 279 companies in 2019 companies in which we are invested reported progress 459 42 Articles of association on 253 milestones. The subjects to be addressed are 783 Capital structure often complex, and the process of prompting a company 179 to take action and thus reaching a milestone is therefore 916 328 Remuneration time-consuming. 2.052 57 Audit & financial statements 4.422 645 Board composition Milestones in 2019 194 42 Other Progress No progress 0% 50% 100% Environment and climate Our active ownership efforts are handled in collaboration Labour and human rights etc. with London-based Hermes EOS. Through Hermes EOS, we work with other investors pursuing the same goals. Corporate governance This gives us a greater say in the companies. Strategy, risk and Through dialogue, we aim to obtain greater knowledge of communication the company’s business model and insights as to how the 0 50 100 150 200 250 OUR OUTSIDE business may make a positive impact on its surroundings. Progress Our approach to engaging with companies 36 Initial dialogue with the company The company  acknowledges issue Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Action plan addressing issue is developed Action plan is carried out and dialogue is ended WORLD Erik, Head of Credits in PensionDanmark’s investment team. Active ownership brings change... ...but gets your hands dirty. Active ownership leads to improved company behaviour, but processes are often long and progress slow. That’s why active ownership is a continuous effort. The complexity of active ownership dialogues varies, and some companies are easier to influence than others. Nestlé, Shell and Ørsted are three global companies in which PensionDanmark has been an active shareholder for many years. Nestlé takes on responsibility Ørsted leads the way Nestlé, the world's largest food manufacturer, is an Ørsted is recognised as a world leader in the transition example of a global business acknowledging its respon­ to a green economy. Ørsted has been instrumental sibility for social developments in all regions across the in making wind power and sustainable biomass the globe. The company engages in ongoing dialogue with key sources of Denmark’s power and heat production, a large number of stakeholders. Nestlé is a large-scale whereas coal will be fully phased out by 2023. Ørsted’s buyer of crops from developing countries and works substantial know-how coupled with increasing demand systematically to improve its footprint in several areas. for green solutions have won the company access to The company aims to comply with the ILO conventions markets in North America and Asia. These markets on labour rights and maintains a zero tolerance policy pose different challenges than Ørsted’s traditional mar­ towards forced labour in all supply chains. Nestlé has kets. PensionDanmark and a number of other investors defined a goal to abolish child labour in all plantations have engaged in dialogue with Ørsted to ensure that with which it does business by 2025. This requires ex­ allowance is made for these special circumstances so tensive monitoring and efforts are being stepped up year that local communities derive the greatest possible ben­ by year. The company works with, among others, the efits from – and suffer the least possible adverse effects Fair Labor Association and is counselled by the Danish of – the development of green energy infrastructure. Institute for Human Rights. Nestlé aims for all plastic Ørsted has drawn up manuals for local management packaging used for its products to be recyclable by 2025. teams that equip them to engage in preliminary dia­ logue with local communities, NGOs and relevant trade PensionDanmark’s equity investments in Nestlé amount unions. This is to ensure that they have a clear under­ to DKK 171m. standing of local expectations and challenges in order to promote local value generation in the form of good jobs, economic growth, consideration for the environment and prevention of negative incidents. Sub-contractors Shell – from oil to energy are assisted in obtaining ISO environmental and occupa­ Shell is one of the world’s largest oil and gas compa­ tional health and safety certification. Against this back­ nies. In 20 years, Shell aims to be one of the world’s ground, Ørsted gets top ESG marks and was named the largest renewable energy producers. Following years of world’s most sustainable business in January 2020. shareholder dialogue, the vast majority of shareholders decided at the 2019 annual meeting that Shell must PensionDanmark’s equity investments in Ørsted amount work to meet the goals of the Paris Agreement. The to DKK 973m. company has resolved to cut CO2 emissions by 20% by 2035 and 50% by 2050. Remuneration of management will reflect the achievement of these reduction targets. Shell has been awarded a concession to build one of Target 8.8 the largest US offshore wind farms. Shell also develops Protect labour rights and promote safe OUR OUTSIDE biofuels for the transport sector as an alternative to and secure working environments for heavy diesel. Measuring emissions according to TCFD all workers, including migrant workers, standards, going forward, Shell will take into account in particular women migrants, and emthe environmental impact of cars running on the com­ ployees with loose ties to the labour market. pany’s petrol and diesel. Shell is making progress but WORLD can and needs to do even more, and active shareholders As a labour market pension fund, PensionDanmark is are needed to achieve that. committed to compliance with the basic ILO conventions on the freedom of association and the right to collective PensionDanmark's equity investments in Shell amount bargaining. We engaged in dialogue with 7 companies in to DKK 342m. Asia and Latin America on these issues in 2019. PensionDanmark employees headed for a meeting. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 39 Sustainable real estate is a sound investment PensionDannmark owns or co-owns 165 properties com­ DGNB-certified in 2019 Denmark’s island no. 432 prising 977,900 sqm in Denmark, of which 21 properties, or 292,600 sqm, have been sustainability certified according to BREEAM, LEED or DGNB standards. Buildings comprising an additional 270,000 sqm are in the process of being cer­ tified. PensionDanmark primarily uses the Danish DGNB is being constructed in certification system as this applies the most holistic sus­ tainability model. We require all new real estate to obtain Nordhavn, Copenhagen, DGNB Gold certification as a minimum. by PensionDanmark As a developer and a responsible investor, we emphasise and partners. Frederiks Plads Company House, Aarhus C environmental, social and financial sustainability. Sus­ tainable real estate is attractive to owners and tenants by virtue of its low heat consumption and low maintenance costs, which makes it a sound investment that contributes to generating solid returns for our members. Our 292,600 sqm sustainable real estate investments are environmen­ tally friendly as well as profitable by virtue of the materials used, low maintenance costs and low energy consumption. Domicile for the Danish National Police, Glostrup Dilemma: Certifying real estate costs money – why does Pension­Danmark not just choose the cheaper way? PensionDanmark is committed to building certified sustainable quality real estate because they are in high demand and because they do not cost more than real estate merely meeting the requirements of the Building Regulation. By using local building materials with a long life and strong insulating effectiveness, transport costs, maintenance costs and energy con­ sumption can be reduced. Hummeltofteparken, Sorgenfri, Virum Target 11.3 By 2030, make city growth more inclusive and sustainable with better opportunities for all countries in the world to plan cities and settlements in a more integrated, sustainable and inclusive way. PensionDanmark’s sustainability programme sets Pollux, Islands Brygge, Copenhagen S requirements for the certification of entire urban areas in an effort to secure sustainable buildings and urban Type of real estate areas focused on quality and end-user value. The environmental footprint of urban areas is evaluated and Retail Industrial Residential Urban areas Hotel PPP reduced, and attractive urban areas are created for all age groups and different cultures. We work to optimise the overall economy of buildings by focusing on the life Certification of materials and low operating and maintenance costs. PensionDanmark built 43,000 sqm of certified sustainDGNB Platin DGNB Gold DGNB Silver LEED BREEAM able real estate in 2019. Kunstnerkarréen, Ørestad, Copenhagen S 40 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 41 Osman carrying out safety and security renovation at Bispehaven, Aarhus, for Enemærke & Petersen under a social clause. More jobs for marginalised people As a major Danish developer, we also have social >> Framework conditions integrating social respon­ responsibilities. In an effort to meet this responsibility, sibility into tender documents and contracts in the we have launched a new development project to lift building industry. marginalised people into the labour market. In a partnership with contracting firm Enemærke & Pe­ Project partners tersen and a number of other partners, we are currently The partners behind the project are: PensionDanmark, developing a manual to provide guidance for contractors Enemærke & Petersen, the Danish Construction As­ and developers in creating more jobs for marginalised sociation, Cabi, Center for Boligsocial Udvikling, Green people. This will also contribute to overcoming the Building Council Denmark, the Danish Association for shortage of labour in the building industry, which is a Responsible Construction, Boligselskabet Sjælland, major threat to the Danish economy. KAB, Ringsted Municipality, BAT-kartellet, BL The Danish Social Housing Sector and Local Government “The purpose of the project is to encourage developers Denmark. and contractors to create jobs for marginalised people. The building industry has great potential, both for securing more manpower and for helping marginalised people.” Anders Sørensen, business developer and Target 10.3 project manager at Enemærke & Petersen Ensure equal opportunities for all and reduce social inequalities by, Tools for construction sites OUR among other measures, eliminating Funded by Realdania and entitled “Social employment discriminatory laws, policies and – the building industry’s guide to lifting marginalised practices and instead promote appropriate policies, people into the labour market”, the project intends to legislation and action. develop three specific tools: RESPONSIBILITY Focused both on developing a manual and on pro>> A method of calculation to assist companies in quan­ moting sound practices, the project sets out to ease tifying the social responsibility assumed. the way for marginalised people into the labour >> A new DGNB criterion acknowledging social employ­ market. ment in construction projects. “Skibet”, PensionDanmark’s residential project at Køge Kyst. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 43 Sustainability programme for new urban areas Reusing Sustainability is the strategic cornerstone of Pension­ >> support the property’s value and rent level rainwater in the property Danmark’s real estate investments. We strive to com­ >> ensure long-term documented quality and greater ro­ bine strong profitability with responsible development, bustness of the investment construction and management of our property projects. Through the past three years, PensionDanmark has The latest version of the sustainability programme includes worked to develop a sustainability programme that now stricter wood certification requirements. 90% of all wood covers the certification of residential buildings, offices, or wood-based products used in a construction project urban open spaces and recreational areas. The programme Solar cells Locally sourced must now be 100% FSC/PEFC-certified. Impregnated wood is intended to: building materials has been phased out. Due to transport impacts, tropical >> increase the general quality of the property wood has also been phased out and replaced by larch or >> enhance user health, well-being and productivity heat-treated European softwood. Lastly, building materials already found at construction sites must be extensively Regeneration >> lower operating expenses and optimise maintenance Green roofs recycled in connection with new construction projects and modules in >> minimise energy consumption and environmental im­ the development of sustainable districts. elevators pacts Healthy indoor climate with as much daylight Rainwater as possible collection Insect hotel for local use Water-saving Balconies installations designed and domestic to serve as appliances private spaces barber florist optician cafÉ bike shop LED lighting FSCor PEFCcertified wood inside and out Urban environment Recycled tiles Recreational areas for multiple age groups Waste separation Cloudburst-proof underground car park prepared for electric vehicle charging points Planting featuring Attractive outdoor spaces local flowers and biodiversity offering sun and shelter Shared kayaks Clearing rainwater from the roof into the harbour basin Healthy working environment and waste management at the construction site Clearing rainwater without affecting the municipal sewage system 44 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 45 It begins with us PensionDanmark makes distinct de­ Our policies and demands are causing a ripple effect. With mands on suppliers and the companies a staff of 261, the ripples we cause may be small, but we are intent on setting an example. in which we invest member savings. These requirements are backed by PensionDanmark is committed to promoting equal oppor­ ­in-house guidelines ensuring that we tunities for men and women and has adopted a policy on walk the talk internally as well. the gender composition of the company's upper manage­ ment tiers, which lays down a target for the proportion of the under-represented gender on the Board of Directors. Many of our suppliers’ employees are members of The target for 2019 was 20%. In 2019, 23.5% of our board Pension­Danmark. This lends an added dimension to the members were women. meaning of our in-house policies and the demands we make on our suppliers. We take the lead in protecting labour and human rights and in requiring all suppliers to Target 5.5 comply with the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. Ensure women’s equal opportunities and full and effective participation in leader­ Any suppliers failing to respect applicable collective ship at all levels of decisionmaking in agreements and related regulations regarding wages and political, economic and public life. salaries, the right to unionise and compliance with national legislation prohibiting discrimination on the grounds of At end-2019, 45.2% of PensionDanmark’s managers gender, ethnicity, sexual preference and age are excluded. were women. In 2015, the corresponding share was We also exclude any suppliers failing to comply with envi­ 30.3%. The proportion of female managers (45.2%) is ronmental and climate impact requirements. higher than the proportion of women in the organisation as such (44.0%). When recruiting new managers, PensionDanmark makes a point of interviewing qua­ We take the lead lified candidates of both genders, and our staff policy and terms of employment offer equal career opportuIn order to promote the health of our employees, we have nities in the company regardless of gender. implemented a health policy under which employees are given access to healthy and often locally produced food. By means of our senior employee policy, we strive to retain talented and experienced employees. Dilemma: PensionDanmarks ESG ratios show a gender pay gap A strong IT security culture involving annual IT awareness of 30%. and GDPR courses and programmes supports our employ­ PensionDanmark supports equal pay for work of equal ees in protecting sensitive member data. value, regardless of gender, age and ethnicity. How­ ever, several of our top-bracket job areas are domi­ We also work to promote sustainability and protect the nated by male employees. Should we accept that more climate and the environment. Starting in 2020, when men than women pursue jobs where demand is driving renewing agreements on company-paid cars, employees up salaries? While we cannot change the gender will only have electric cars to choose from. The new policy balance of job contenders, we do aim for both genders is expected to have a significant impact on our direct CO2 to be represented among the candidates invited for emissions. As from January 2020, we are compensating final interviews. Other than that, skills are the main all CO2 emissions caused by our employees travelling by criterion. OUR plane. Results achieved in 2019 EMPLOYEES >> 270 employees completed IT awareness courses on how to protect member data. >> Of 52 new hires, 56% were women. >> 8.04 MWh energy consumption per employee. 46 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Mia, Project Director in PensionDanmark’s real estate team, often use our e-bikes to external meetings. Sustainability within our own company walls Sustainability and the Sustainable Development Goals are important across the PensionDanmark received 8 awards, Pension­Danmark organisation – also when it comes to our own employees and our including the IPE Award for best Danish pension provider own footprint. Climate and environment at our own premises Everyday health PensionDanmark’s domicile obtained sustainability certification in 2016. We reduce the building’s climate footprint by PensionDanmark works to promote the health of our employees through a number of initiatives, including daily resistance using sea water in the cooling system and installing plant walls for improved acoustics and indoor climate. In 2019, we band and plank exercises, fitness teams in our gym, annual health checks and health week. From 2019, healthy snacks consumed 7,551 GJ of power, which was offset by the 98 MWh solar cells on our roof and by purchases of green power are being served in the canteen every afternoon. Looking after the health of our employees also means looking after them from our wind turbines. In addition, we provide chargers for electric cars, electric bicycles to use for meetings and waste when they become ill. To that end, we installed defibrillators on all floors in 2019 and offered first aid courses to equip our separation bins on all floors to make it easier for our employees to be environmentally responsible. employees to deal with accidents. Organic food and lower food waste Social sustainability Our kitchen works actively to reduce food waste and CO2 emissions. The food prepared is about 80% fruit and vegetables, Sustainability is also about attracting and retaining talented employees. We do this through a range of initiatives, including 60-90% of all ingredients are organic, and all waste products, such as coffee grounds, are recycled elsewhere. We have the staff association Friday bar, teambuilding events and the annual family Christmas party, which in 2019 was attended by discontinued the use of cardboard cups and paper plates and have introduced biowaste separation in our canteen to the 188 children. In addition to these social events, we provide access to continuing professional development for all employ­ effect that we now, instead of residual waste, ship an annual 15.9 tonnes of biowaste for incineration. ees. In 2019, PensionDanmark was joined by our first two finance trainees. 48 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 49 More than a workplace To both Line and Hans, PensionDanmark is more than just a workplace. Staff poli­ cies are an asset to a workplace only if they work in practice. “I was nowhere ready to say goodbye” Hans, adviser PensionDanmark’s advisory bus was upgraded to a new version in 2019. Driving around the country every week to meet our members, the bus is packed with exper­ tise. Besides nurses offering health checks, Hans is frequently on the bus as well, ready to provide members with useful information about their pension savings and the options provided by them. This was not really on the cards. Having worked as an account manager at PensionDanmark for 12 years, Hans was about to retire in May 2018 and had already shown his successor the use of PensionDanmark’s senior employee scheme and ropes. accepted an offer of a new role on the touring advisory bus, where his skills and long-standing experience are “I was stunned that my work life was coming to an end. still in great demand. The senior employee scheme has I realised that I was far from ready to say goodbye,” affected Hans’ job satisfaction as well as his private life: Hans recalls. “I feel incredibly lucky. It shows that the work you’ve With his wife still working, Hans suddenly found him­ done is acknowledged and that the flexibility, knowledge self, as he puts it, “all alone with no one around me” and culture you’ve demonstrated over the years are after having worked since he was 15 and started his still needed. It also gives my wife a happy spouse with first after-school job. Hans therefore decided to make stories to share around the dinner table.” “My development benefits members” Line, Vice President When new employees step inside our premises at Langelinie Allé for the first time, they already know they have joined a workplace where continuing ­education and development is not just an option but a require­ ment. Line, Vice President in PensionDanmark’s ­actuary team, completed a 1-year executive develop­ ment programme in 2019, which provided her with key tools to succeed in her transition from manager to lead­ er. To Line, the benefits of PensionDanmark’s strong focus on skills upgrading are indisputable. Line predicts that her own and her colleagues’ moti­ OUR vation for developing will benefit PensionDanmark for “My colleagues are extremely competent, and this pro­ years to come. vides a strong incentive to keep developing. When our employment contracts state that both PensionDanmark “It means I want to give back and develop for the benefit and the new employee commit to continuing educa­ of PensionDanmark – and ultimately for the benefit EMPLOYEES tion, I see this as a clear signal that this is important. of the solutions we offer to our members. Without the As a company, we want to stay innovative, creative and chance to develop I would stagnate – and my employer professional. And that takes continuing education and would do the same and ultimately become unable to skills upgrading.” accommodate our members’ needs.” Ditte, Loba and Brian of PensionDanmark’s digital media team. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 51 Appendix Member distribution Industry distribution Contributing Non-contributing Apprentices Retired Partial-retired Organisations and other industries Key figures and financial ratios Agriculture, forestry and dairy 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Contributions, DKKbn 13.5 13.0 13.6 12.8 12.1 Benefits paid, DKKbn 7.5 8.2 7.8 6.9 5.9 Return on investment assets before tax, DKKbn 28.8 -3.2 16.6 13.0 7.1 Public Total assets, DKKbn 271.1 235.9 233.2 221.5 199.8 sector Equity, DKKbn 4.6 4.3 4.2 3.7 3.8 Construction Administration fee per member 297 297 297 297 336 Number of members, year-end 752,500 732,000 713,000 695,000 684,000 Private services Commerce and ESG key figures and ratios 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 transport Environmental data Unit CO2 emissions from the company: CO2, scope 1 Tonnes 13 9 9 6 5 CO2, scope 2 Tonnes 82 448 489 563 452 Age pool scaling down profile Total assets Balance CO2 emissions from the portfolio of equities in listed companies1: % Total emissions Tonnes of CO2e 731,000 736,000 813,000 100 DKKbn Nominelle obligationer European Government and Mortgage Bonds Carbon footprint Tonnes/USDm 76 112 100 Carbon intensity Tonnes/USDm 150 156 161 80 300 Aktier Weighted average carbon intensity Tonnes/USDm 123 148 140 250 Kredit 60 Global Equities and Private Equity 200 Offsetting reductions through Stabile alternativer renewable energy investments2 Tonnes of CO2 2,297,000 40 150 Corporate and Emerging Market Bonds and Credit Funds 100 Other company-related environmental data: 20 Real Estate and Infrastructure 50 Energy consumption Gigajoules 7,551 7,634 7,659 7,762 6,097 Renewable energy share % 81.1 42.7 40.1 35.8 30.4 0 0 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 65 70 75 80 85 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Water consumption m³ 3,150 3,040 2,952 3,586 2,017 Age Social data Full-time staff FTE 261 246 224 188 155 Gender diversity % 44.0 43.3 46.5 47.8 53.1 Gender diversity, other management tiers % 45.2 41.6 41.4 33.0 30.3 AccumulatedAkkumuleret in %, returnafkast, 2015-19 50-årig Administration fee Medlemsadministrationsbidrag Gender pay gap Times 1.3 1.4 1.4 1.4 1.4 Staff turnover % 15.7 17.9 18.8 20.8 19.3 For a 50-year-old member DKK per member per year Sickness absence Days/FTE 6.6 7.0 9.7 9.1 9.0 Taxes paid DKKm 298 2,826 1,741 1,631 2,365 60 400 Governance data 45 300 Gender diversity, Board of Directors % 23.5 18.8 23.5 25.0 25.0 Board meeting attendance % 82 88 85 91 91 30 200 Salary gap between CEO and employees Times 8.6 8.5 8.5 8.6 8.6 15 100 1 Data was not available for the computation for 2015-2016. 2 Data was not available for the computation for 2015-2018. Calculations based on displacement of fossil fuels in the year of installation of individual projects, resulted in CO2 savings at 3,473,000 tonnes for 2019. 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 52 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 53 Accounting policies Metric 2: Carbon footprint:  he measurement builds on metric 1, normalising the carbon footprint based on the size of PensionDanmark’s portfolio of T listed shares. The ratio is computed according to the following formula: Accounting policies Carbon footprint = Metric 1 PensionDanmark has decided to let all our activities be guided by the Sustainable Development Goals adopted by all UN Market value of PensionDanmark’s portfolio member states in 2015. Using the Sustainable Development Goals as a point of departure, this report therefore covers the social, ethical and environmental issues that were most relevant and most significant for PensionDanmark during the year from 1 January to 31 December 2019 and outlines PensionDanmark’s achievements in these areas. Metric 3: Carbon intensity: The measurement builds on metric 1, normalising the carbon footprint based on each company’s revenue. The report includes ESG (Environment, Social and Governance) ratios, calculated in accordance with the guidelines pub­ The carbon intensity method illustrates the portfolio’s efficiency in generating revenue relative to the emission of CO2. lished by FSR – Danish Auditors, Nasdaq and the Danish Finance Society in June 2019. The calculation methods applied The ratio is computed according to the following formula: are described in more detail at the website of FSR – Danish Auditors, www.fsr.dk. Metric 1 Carbon intensity = ∑ i Unless otherwise stated, the ratios have been calculated at operational level and therefore do not reflect measurements n PensionDanmark’s investmentsi * issuer's salesi at subsidiary level, such as property subsidiaries letting properties to external parties. A few ratios have not been comput­ ed in accordance with the guidelines. As the guideline ratios do not in all cases capture the special characteristics of life insurance companies, a few adjustments have been made relative to the guidelines. Metric 4: Weighted average carbon intensity: T  he ratio shows the portfolio’s exposure to carbon-intense companies, including to climate-related financial risks. The These adjustments are explained below: ratio is computed according to the following formula: CO2 emissions Weighted avg. i Value of ownership share in investment Scopes 1 and 2 CO2e emissions from the invested companyi =∑ ( i )*( ) When measuring the climate footprint of a financial business, a distinction must be made between the footprint resulting carbon intensity n Market value of PensionDanmark’s portfolio Issuer's salesi from the company’s internal activities and the footprint caused by its investment activities. Separate figures are therefore shown for the company’s CO2 emissions and emissions from the investment portfolio. In addition, CO2 emissions may be Please note that only listed public equity are included. divided into sub-groups (scopes) according to their source: Calculations of CO2 emissions from the investment portfolio are based on MSCI data. Scope 1 reflects direct emissions from own factory and office buildings and vehicles. Scope 2 reflects emissions (at the energy producer) from purchased electricity, steam, district heating and cooling. Scope 3 reflects all other indirect emissions from sub-contractors and purchasers of a company’s products. Offsetting through renewable energy investments The guidelines for the computation do not include offsetting emissions through renewable energy investments. The Due to the unavailability of complete company data, scope 3 data are not included. ­volume of CO2 offset through renewable energy investments is computed based on PensionDanmark’s investments in renewable energy infrastructure assets. Power generated by means of energy infrastructure assets is converted into the CO2 emissions from the company volume of CO2 that would have been emitted if the same volume of power had been produced by means of fossil sources. T  he conversion of power and district heating into CO2 emissions for purposes of the calculation of scope 2 emissions from the company is based on the general declaration of Energi Danmark and HOFOR. For the conversion of emissions: The CO2 offsets are computed according to two methods. The first calculation of CO2 offsets is based on statistics on the scope 2 market-based method has been applied. current mix of fossil fuels in the local power grid for purposes of calculating replaced fossil-based power generation, see the GHG Protocol. In the second calculation of carbon offsets, an assessment is made for each project of which fossil fuels  he renewable energy share is the sum of renewable energy, as defined by the general declaration of EnergiDanmark and T have been displaced at the time of installment. The result of the first method is shown in the list of ESG key figures and HOFOR, and energy produced by means of own solar cells. Power supplied by EnergiDanmark is 100% renewable as the ratios, while the result of the second methodology is set out in a footnote to the list. company has purchased green energy. Other ratios CO2 emissions from the investment portfolio For purposes of measuring gender diversity for other management tiers, a manager is defined as a person with personnel In measuring CO2 emissions from the investment portfolios of financial businesses, four metrics may be used, as per the responsibilities. The CEO is not included in the calculation of the ratio. recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD): C  ustomer retention ratios are not computed as they would not appropriately represent customer satisfaction due to the  ommon to the four metrics, CO2 emissions are stated in so-called CO2 equivalents – CO2e – and measured in tonnes. C high rate of job mobility among PensionDanmark’s members. Market values are stated in USDm. T  axes paid, which are not included in the guidelines, are stated as pension yield tax, payroll duty, withholding tax, and corporate tax. Metric 1: Total CO2 emissions  he metric shows total portfolio CO2 emissions. Under this method, the carbon footprint is measured on the basis of the T Accounting estimates value of the amount invested in listed companies, the market capitalisation of the listed companies and the companies’ A number of assumptions are used in calculating CO2 reductions for purposes of calculating the ratio for offsetting CO2 emissions. It is computed according to the following formula: through renewable energy investments. Total CO2 emissions = ∑ i PensionDanmark’s equity sharei * scopes 1 and 2 CO2e issuers' emissionsi n 54 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 55 Independent auditor’s report To the stakeholders of PensionDanmark Our procedures included: As per agreement, we have examined PensionDanmark’s >> Conducting interviews with relevant key persons with re­ Corporate Social Responsibility Report (the report) for the sponsibility for CSR strategy, management and reporting year ended 31 December 2019. at PensionDanmark, Copenhagen; >> Assessing whether data had been collected, evaluated Our responsibility is to express an opinion as to ­whether and checked in accordance with PensionDanmark’s the report has been prepared in accordance with the manual for the collection of ESG data; reporting methodology and the criteria set out on pages 54-55. The degree of assurance expressed in the conclu­ >> Performing analytical reviews, including trend analysis, sion is limited. of data supplied by PensionDanmark; >> Assessing the appropriateness of accounting policies Management’s responsibility applied and the reasonableness of accounting estimates PensionDanmark's management is responsible for the made by management; and preparation of the report in accordance with the reporting methodology and the criteria set out on pages 54-55 and >> Performing sample testing of underlying documentation for such internal control as management determines is to check that the information provided in the report is necessary to enable the preparation of a report that is free supported by sufficient evidence. from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. We believe that the procedures performed are sufficient to Auditor's responsibility provide a basis for our conclusion. Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on Pension­ Danmark’s report based on our procedures. We conducted The procedures performed in a limited assurance engage­ our procedures in accordance with ISAE 3000, Assurance ment are less in scope than for a reasonable assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical engagement, and the level of assurance obtained is sub­ Financial Information, and additional requirements under stantially lower than the assurance that would have been Danish audit regulation with a view to obtaining limited obtained had a reasonable assurance engagement been assurance as to our conclusion. performed. Ernst & Young Godkendt Revisionspartnerselskab is sub­ Conclusion ject to the international standard on quality control, ISQC Based on the procedures performed and the evidence 1, and, accordingly, applies a comprehensive quality control obtained, nothing has come to our attention that causes us system, including documented policies and procedures for to believe that PensionDanmark’s report for the year ended compliance with ethical requirements, professional stand­ 31 December 2019 has not in all material respects been ards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. prepared in accordance with the accounting policies set out on pages 54-55. We complied with the independence and other ethical requirements set out in FSR – Danish Auditors’ Handbook This report constitutes PensionDanmark’s statutory report on corporate social responsibility in pursu­ of the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants, which ance of sections 132 and 132a of the Executive Order on financial reports for insurance companies and incorporates the basic principles of integrity, objectivity, multi-employer occupational pension funds. professional competence and due care, confidentiality and professional behaviour. Printed: In Denmark in 2020 by GSB Grafisk, an ecolabelled printing house Paper: MultiDesign Original White Frederiksberg, 24 February 2020 Photos: Ursula Bach, Claus Bonnerup (pp. 16-17), Jakob Carlsen (pp. 20-21), iStock (pp. 26-31), Jesper Heldgaard (p. 34), Thomas Illemann (p. 40, top), Kirsten Adler (p. 43), Ole Mortensen (p. 51, top). ERNST & YOUNG Godkendt Revisionspartnerselskab Front page: Anders and Karsten of Byens Tag & Facade are members of PensionDanmark Company reg. (CVR) no. 30 70 02 28 Africa’s largest wind farm, Lake Turkana in Kenya Mia and Marius of PensionDanmark’s real estate team Lars Rhod Søndergaard Carina Ohm Back page: Per is one of PensionDanmark’s 50,500 retired members State Authorised Public Accountant Associate Partner Africa’s largest wind farm, Lake Turkana in Kenya mne28632 Ditte, Loba and Brian of PensionDanmark’s digital media team 56 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 57 OUR MEMBERS VORES WORLD OUR EMPLOYEES CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIPensionDanmark A/S Langelinie Allé 43 BILITY REPORT 2019 DK-2100 Copenhagen Ø +45 3374 8000 info@pension.dk pensiondanmark.com Social icon Square Only use blue and/or white. For more details check out our Brand Guidelines. PensionDanmark A/S — CVR no. 16163279 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 59
