06 August 2020 H.E. António Guterres Secretary-General United Nations New York, NY 10017 USA Dear Mr. Secretary-General We proudly announce that Polimak always stand with human rights, labour, environment and anticorruption in respect with the loyalty we have not only for Ten Principles of Global Compact but to the world as well. We preserve our commitment, and everyday we work to advance these principles since May 2016. Hereby, we would like to express our sincere gratitude and intentions to keep on promoting these principles. Our commitment is to regulate and broaden Polimak's vision, strategy and footprint under the lead of Global Compact. As we support liability and transparency, we are committed to report annual Communication on Progress to describe our company's attempts on implementing Ten Principles of Global Compact. We support human rights by maintaining the promise of nondiscrimination on the basis of race, gender or religion in every aspects and we embrace the responsibility to help ensure fair business practices in our overall value chain and direct and indirect supply chain. Polimak is absolute in its adherence to labour laws, particularly those that represent health and safety concerns while standing firmly against forced labor and strives to offer a safe and supportive environment. According to International System Standard, OHSAS 18001:2007 we have improved Occupational Health and Safety Management System. Employees at all Polimak locations are trained regarding workplace safety and there are regular checks and audits to ensure these procedures are respected. We are strongly against child employment and discrimination (by gender, age, religion, ethnic origin, or nationality) in respect of employment and occupation. Our employees are always paid according to local laws with the commitment to offer a real living wage. Polimak has been working with environmental management consultants for long years to reduce our environmental impact. We examine energy and water consumption at our offices and production facilities on a monthly basis. By designing and producing sustainable products with longer operational life and less spare part comsumption, we have assessed improvement on life cycle stages of products and services. Digitalization became a key strategy in our activities to increase business efficiency and decrease paper consumption. As always, the policy of zero tolerance with corruption, extortion and bribery in all its forms is assumed and confidence in the integrity of our workforce is absolute. We neither accept nor tolerate any instance of bribery, corruption or fraud. We hope to continue contributing significantly to sustainable development by integrating more and more of the values of the Global Compact in our activities. Kindest Regards Düriye Toto Business Development Specialist
