2 019 S U S TAI N AB I L I TY R E P O RT TABLE OF CONTENTS GENERAL DISCLOSURE 01 19 ECONOMIC 20 MANAGEMENT APPROACH 22 ENVIRONMENTAL ENERGY WATER EMISSIONS EFFLUENTS AND WASTE COMPLIANCE 27 SOCIAL LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY TRAINING AND EDUCATION DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 33 HUMAN RIGHTS CHILD LABOUR FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOUR SUPPLIER SOCIAL ASSESSMENT LOCAL COMMUNITIES 38 PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY CUSTOMER PRIVACY MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS LAWS & STANDARDS SOCIO ECONOMIC COMPLIANCE PRESIDENT’S STATEMENT 102-14 Greetings, I am pleased to present Quadra’s eighth annual sustainability report and our first communication of progress as a signatory member of the United Nations Global Compact. The time was right to formally engage with the United Nations Global Compact, having already adopted the 10 principles for our Supplier Code of Conduct, and nearing the milestones of our 2020 Sustainability Objectives. Responsible business practices have always been at the core of Quadra values, starting first and foremost with our employee’s health and safety. From Quadra’s contribution 30 years ago to the development of Responsible Distribution® Canada and its Code of Practice, to today where Corporate Responsibility is a fully integrated notion in our culture across our business functions, and a key strategic priority. We believe we are well positioned to make a difference not only by making progress on our sustainability objectives and commitments, but also in supporting our partners in achieving theirs. Our team has made significant strides since our initial report in 2012, and I am excited to continue our journey, aligned with the UN Sustainable Development Goals. Anne Marie Infilise PRESIDENT 1 2019 Sustainability Report CEO’S STATEMENT 102-14 To Our Valued Stakeholders, As a family business, Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability have always been inherent to how and why we do things. Our Core Values of caring, safety, integrity, innovation, being quick on our feet, being connected to our supplier, customers and employees, being entrepreneurial and, of course, having fun, are the foundations upon which we built Quadra. These values fostered a culture of diversity and inclusion, for our biggest strength lies in our people with their culture, their skills and experiences. They are the source of innovation and creativity that fuels our competitive advantage and we continue to be committed to have a space where all are safe and treated with respect and integrity. Coherent to these values, we engaged in 2019 with the United Nations Global Compact to publicly formalize our commitment to its 10 principles on Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this eight GRI Sustainability report, I am delighted to share our first Communication of Progress (COP) advancing these principles in our business. Furthermore, we are revising our entire Sustainability policies and objectives to align with the 2030 Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) and reflect our ever evolving social, environmental and economic realities. The coming year will see me work alongside the incoming CEO, Philip Infilise, to establish our 2025 Sustainability objectives and continue the work we have started for a more sustainable, resilient and diverse organization. We hope you enjoy this report and share our enthusiasm for all the progress we are making on our sustainability journey. Tony Infilise CEO 2019 Sustainability Report 2 ABOUT QUADRA 102-1 to 102-10 & 102-45 Quadra distributes to manufacturers, industrial operators, and institutions from multiple market segments across Canada, including the following: Established in 1976, Quadra Chemicals Ltd. is a privatelyAdhesives Pulp & Paper owned company incorporated in Animal Nutrition Rubber – Industrial Canada and is a leading provider of & Automotive specialty and commodity chemicals, Case & Carton Sealing / Labelling Sealants ingredients, and services across Canada. Quadra offers coast-toCoatings Soil Remediation coast Canadian market coverage Construction Soluble Fertilizer with 7 distribution facilities and over Elastomers Steam Assisted Gravity 40 additional stocking locations. Drainage Flexible Packaging Quadra services the industries of Structural Adhesives Oil & Gas, Mining, Industrial Process Chemical Manufacturing Gas Processing Water Treatment Industries, Chemical Manufacturers, Pharmaceutical, Food and Cosmetics. Household, Industrial & Baking We are proud to be ranked 10th on Institutional Cleaning Beverages the Top 100 Chemicals Distributors Major Chemicals Confectionary & Chocolate in North America. We are also very Metal Treatment & Dairy pleased to retain our Platinum Status Galvanizing Meat & Seafood as one of Canada’s Best Managed Mining & Smelting Nutraceutical Companies since 2003, as well as again being recognized as one of Oil Refining Organic Products Canada’s Great Place To Work™. Packaging Adhesives Personal Care Petroleum Services Pharmaceutical Quadra is a distributor and marketer of chemicals, nutritional Pool & Spa Processed Foods and functional ingredients, health Protective Coating Solutions Sports Nutrition and personal care ingredients. We offer over 5000 products to various industries and markets across Canada. Quadra Chemicals Ltd. Head Office 3901 F.X. Tessier Vaudreuil-Dorion, Québec Canada J7V 5V5 Quadra facilities are in Canada, with an office located in Shanghai, China. ABOUT THIS REPORT 102-50 to 102-56 As of September 30th, 2019, Quadra employed 395 in its Canadian operations This is the eighth consecutive year that we have issued the Global and a regional office in Shanghai, China Reporting Initiative (GRI) Report. We are reporting to a self-declared with 2 employees. ‘Core’ accordance level for the reporting period October 1st, 2018 to September 30th, 2019. It includes a GRI Content index, referencing the UNGC principles as well as alignment with the 2030 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Throughout the report, GRI Standards Disclosure Numbers are identified directly above the relevant text, with applicable UNGC and SDG references. In some cases, responses are incorporated by reference and linked directly from the content index. External assurance In Canada, Quadra employs was not obtained for this report. 187 women and 208 men This year’s Sustainability Report integrates our first Communication on Progress (COP) as part of Quadra’s participation in the UN Global Compact. Should you have any questions regarding our Sustainability Report or its contents, please do not hesitate to contact our Sustainability Manager, Ian Turpin at sustainability@quadra.ca There is no collective bargaining agreement for our employees. Quadra sources the products it distributes from Global Chemicals and Ingredients manufacturers. It provides products and solutions through 7 facilities and 40 stocking locations for Canadian coast-to-coast market coverage. 5 2019 Sustainability Report KEY IMPACTS, RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES 102-15 Quadra’s sustainability policy encapsulates our overall vision and strategy as it relates to the material aspects that affect us and our society in terms of economic, social and environmental impacts. It is as follows: Quadra aims to achieve the highest possible standards of sustainability through our operational activities and outreach to the broader community. To reach this objective, Quadra will continue to assess and improve the environmental impact of our operations, supply chain, our social responsibilities, and our employment practices. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Quadra strives to reduce the environmental footprint of Quadra will continue to be involved with community, operations using the following measures: industry organizations and charitable projects. This • Continuous compliance with all applicable involvement may include, but is not limited to: environmental regulations • Ongoing support for charitable organizations • Reducing energy consumption by increasing efficiency • Maintaining an active and participatory role in of energy use Responsible Distribution Canada (previously known • Lowering waste generation through recycling and waste as Canadian Association of Chemical Distributors) ; reduction initiatives following the Principles of Responsible Distribution® Code of Practice • Decreasing greenhouse gas footprint through carbon reduction initiatives • Building strong relationships with other individuals, organizations and communities that share our values • Continuing to improve on green purchasing practices SUPPLY CHAIN EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES Quadra will continue to develop a more sustainable Fully engaged employees are very important to supply chain through the following actions: implementation of sustainability initiatives. Quadra will • Updating and expanding Green Products and Better continue to create an atmosphere conducive to an open Choice product offerings and to promote sustainable dialogue about environment, health and safety as follows: chemistry • Regular publication of company sustainability newsletter • Assessment and ranking of carriers based on • Recognition of use of sustainable means of established sustainability criteria; choosing greener transportation, such as cycling, public transit, carpooling carriers whenever possible • Reimbursing employees enrolled in fitness and weight • Making sustainability programs an important part of our management programs through the Wellness Plan supplier assessment COMMITMENTS TO EXTERNAL INITIATIVES 102-12 Quadra subscribes and endorses the following Charters: Responsible Distribution® Canada We are a major contributor to the articulation of Responsible Distribution® Code of Practice, which is the Canadian chemical distribution industry’s voluntary initiative through which companies, through their national associations, work together to continuously improve their health, safety and environmental performance and to communicate with stakeholders about their products and processes. The Responsible Distribution® ethic helps industries to operate safely, profitably and with due care for future generations. In 2019, Quadra became a member of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) to further its commitment to sustainable practices. We already adopted the 10 principles of the UNGC to develop our Supplier Code of Conduct. Our sustainability initiatives are driven by the material areas affecting our organization and its stakeholders. We are now articulating the progress of our initiatives along the lines of their contribution to the 17 Sustainable Development Goals. UN Global Compact Sustainable Development Goals HUMAN RIGHTS ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 1 Principles 7, 9 Principle 10 6 ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE 10 Principles of the United Nations Global Compact for Our Supplier Code of Conduct HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses LABOUR Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery WE SUPPORT 7 2019 Sustainability Report ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE GOAL 1: No Poverty GOAL 10: Reduced Inequality GOAL 2: Zero Hunger GOAL 11: Sustainable Cities and Communities GOAL 3: Good Health and Well-being GOAL 12: Responsible Consumption and Production GOAL 4: Quality Education GOAL 13: Climate Action GOAL 5: Gender Equality GOAL 14: Life Below Water GOAL 6: Clean Water and Sanitation GOAL 15: Life on Land GOAL 7: Affordable and Clean Energy GOAL 16: Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions GOAL 8: Decent Work and Economic Growth GOAL 17: Partnerships for the Goals GOAL 9: Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure 2019 Sustainability Report 8 12 Principles of Green Chemistry for Our Sustainable ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE Solutions and Product Assessment 1 2 3 WASTE ATOM LESS HAZARDOUS PREVENTION ECONOMY CHEMICAL SYNTHESIS Prioritize the prevention of Reduce waste at the molecular Design chemical reactions and waste, rather than cleaning up level by maximizing the number synthetic routes to be as safe as and treating waste after it has of atoms from all reagents that possible. Consider the hazards been created. Plan ahead to are incorporated into the final of all substances handled minimize waste at every step. product. Use atom economy to during the reaction, including evaluate reaction efficiency. waste. 4 5 6 DESIGNING SAFER SAFER SOLVENTS DESIGN FOR ENERGY CHEMICALS & AUXILIARIES EFFICIENCY Minimize toxicity directly by Choose the safest solvent Choose the least energymolecular design. Predict available for any given step. intensive chemical route. and evaluate aspects such as Minimize the total amount Avoid heating and cooling, physical properties, toxicity, of solvents and auxiliary as well as pressurized and and environmental fate substances used, as these vacuum conditions (i.e. ambient throughout the design process. make up a large percentage of temperature & pressure the total waste created. are optimal). 7 8 9 USE OF RENEWABLE REDUCE CATALYSIS FEEDSTOCKS DERIVATIVES Use catalytic instead of Use chemicals which are made Minimize the use of temporary stoichiometric reagents in from renewable (i.e. plantderivatives such as protecting reactions. Choose catalysts based) sources, rather than groups. Avoid derivatives to help increase selectivity, other, equivalent chemicals to reduce reaction steps, minimize waste, and reduce originating from petrochemical resources required, and waste reaction times and energy sources. created. demands. 10 11 12 DESIGN FOR REAL-TIME POLLUTION SAFER CHEMISTRY FOR DEGRADATION PREVENTION ACCIDENT PREVENTION Design chemicals that degrade Monitor chemical reactions Choose and develop chemical and can be discarded easily. in real-time as they occur to procedures that are safer GREEN CHEMISTRY: THEORY AND PRACTICE Ensure that both chemicals and prevent the formation and and inherently minimize the by Anastas and Warner (1998) “Fig.4.1” Twelve their degradation products are release of any potentially risk of accidents. Know the Principles of Green not toxic, bioaccumulative, or hazardous and polluting possible risks and assess them Chemistry p.30 © Paul T. Anastas and John environmentally persistent. substances. beforehand. C. Warner, 1998. By permission of Oxford University Press MEMBERSHIP ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE OF ASSOCIATIONS 102-13 We are active members of various industry associations including: RDC Responsible Distribution® Canada (exCanadian Association of Chemical Distributors) CCTFA Canadian Cosmetic, Toiletry and Fragrance Association CIFST Canadian Institute of Food Science and Technology CIM Canadian Institute of Mining ACS American Chemical Society RSPO Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil MAC Mining Association of Canada NACD National Association of Chemical Distributors (USA) DCAT Drug Chemical & Associated Technologies UN Global Compact Sustainable Development Goals ENVIRONMENT Principle 9 2019 Sustainability Report 10 DEFINING REPORT CONTENT AND TOPIC BOUNDARIES 102-46 Our sustainability program is guided by the materiality analysis we carried out. The areas covered were not sorted as per the GRI materiality drivers but rather as per stakeholders’ input on subjects to address. They are as follows: Biodiversity Local Community Outreach Customer Health & Safety Nanotechnology Diversity & Gender Parity Occupational Health Employee Engagement & Safety Energy & GHG Emissions Product Stewardship Ethics & Values Regulatory Compliance Greener Chemistry Responsible Supply Chain Human Rights, Child Training & Education & Forced Labour Waste & Effluents Indigenous Rights Water RESTATEMENT OF INFORMATION; CHANGES IN REPORTING 102-48 and 102-49 No restatement or changes since 2019 2019 Sustainability Report LIST OF MATERIAL PROCESS FOR DETERMINING REPORT CONTENT TOPICS 102-47 Our material areas are as follows: MATERIALITY ANALYSIS Occupational Health & Safety Ethics & Values Regulatory Compliance Water Human Rights Training & Education & Child Labour Employee Engagement Responsible Supply Chain Customer Health & Safety IMPORTANCE TO STAKEHOLDERS Energy & Greenhouse Gases Diversity & Parity Green Chemistry Waste & Effluents Community Outreach Product Stewardship IMPORTANCE TO QUADRA EXPLANATION OF MATERIAL TOPICS PROCESS FOR DETERMINING REPORT CONTENT AND ITS BOUNDARY 103-1 to 103-3 The scope of this report covers all fully managed operations for the duration of the reporting period. The boundary assessment concluded that most material Aspects are only material within the organization. The material aspects Quadra addresses are now linked to the UNGC principle they support, as described on this table. ASPECTS MATERIAL AREA UNGC PRINCIPLES Economic Responsible Supply Chain 1 to 10 Environment Green Chemistry 9 Water 8 Energy & Greenhouse Gases 8 Waste & Effluents 7 Human Rights Child & Forced Labour 1, 4, 5 Diversity & Parity 1 Labour Practices & Decent Work Occupational Health & Safety 1 Ethics & Values 1-2 Employee Engagement 6 Training & Education 1 Product Stewardship Regulatory Compliance 7, 8 Customer Health & Safety 8 Society Community Outreach 1, 2 UN Global Compact HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION Principles 1,2 Principles 3-6 Principles 7-9 Principle 10 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT STAKEHOLDER GROUPS; IDENTIFYING AND SELECTING STAKEHOLDERS, AND APPROACHES TO STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 102-40 and 102-42 to 102-43 PARTIAL REPORTING We have consulted our entire stakeholder chain: customers, suppliers, employees, industry associations, and communities in which we operate. Key stakeholder engagement areas are: • We work closely with our customers to address their current and future needs • We have ongoing long term and close relations with suppliers, so we can deliver high performance products • We have regular engagement with our employees on performance, policies and issues relating to meeting personal and business needs • We engage with neighbours close to all our operations about safety as required by the Responsible Distribution® Code of Practice • We continuously engage with external organizations and interest groups to improve our understanding of the issues and opportunities stemming from sustainability • In 2018 we conducted a stakeholder survey with our employees, customers, suppliers and local communities, which focused on the issues addressed in our sustainability program. The outcome of the survey was used to determine the relevance and priorities of our Material Areas and update our Materiality Matrix Additional stakeholder engagement activities in 2019 included: • Customers: On an ongoing basis, we communicate Quadra’s information and opportunities as it relates to sustainable chemistry • Suppliers: Each year, assessments are carried out for all new suppliers and on an ad hoc basis for existing suppliers as per guidelines • Continued deployment of new Supplier Code of Conduct • Local communities: ongoing engagement with community outreach and charities • Employees: ongoing and planned communications • Employee Health & Wellness program • Governments and regulatory bodies: ad hoc and planned regulatory assessment and reporting • Industry associations: contributing to the advancement of sustainable business practices • Academia: supporting the development and marketing of green chemistry Sustainable Development Goals 14 KEY TOPICS AND CONCERNS STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT THAT HAVE BEEN RAISED THROUGH STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 102-44 Key highlights of our latest stakeholder assessment are: • Occupational Health and Safety remains the number one concern to all stakeholders • Regulatory Compliance as our Industry is highly regulated • Ethics and Values, as well as Human Rights are given more importance • Product Stewardship to ensure proper handling, usage and disposition as dictated by the Responsible Distribution® Code of Practice • Sustainable Supply Chain to manage the triple bottom line • Waste and Recycling to minimize our environmental impact • Employee Engagement is our most important resource UN Global Compact HUMAN RIGHTS ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 2 Principle 7 Principle 10 Sustainable Development Goals CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE GOVERNANCE 102-18 Quadra is governed by an Executive Committee, which is responsible for setting company strategy. This team consists of 40% women and 60% men. The majority of the Executive Committee sits on the Board of Infilise Holdings Inc., which is the parent company. The company also has a Leadership Team, consisting of senior management representatives from across the various departments and business units. There are also several committees assigned for specific tasks, such as: • Risk Management • Health & Safety • Wellness • Sustainability UN Global Compact HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 2 VALUES, PRINCIPLES AND STANDARDS 102-16 Quadra’s Mission, Values, and supporting policies are QUADRA’S MISSION STATEMENT: We are acknowledged as the Best Distributor in our selected markets in Canada and the USA, leading the market in innovative business solutions which improve the profitability of our customers and key suppliers. Through partnership, teamwork, and innovative business practices we provide: • Superior value for our target customers by understanding their needs, applying our unique expertise, and our dedication to outstanding service • Distinctive representation for our suppliers by aligning our capabilities to meet their objectives through our superior market knowledge, strong customer relationships, and national distribution infrastructure • Growth opportunities for our employees and shareholders through sustained profitability UN Global Compact HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 1-2 Principle 3-6 Principles 7-9 Principle 10 Sustainable Development Goals 16 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OUR CORE Connected to our Health & Safety Customers, Suppliers, Integrity VALUES and Employees We also abide to the Responsible Distribution® Code of Practice where the guiding principles are: • Distribute chemicals, chemical products and provide services in a safe and secure manner which protects people and the environment • Provide information about the hazards and associated risks of chemicals, chemical products and services distributed to customers, enabling them to use and dispose of these chemicals and chemical products in a responsible manner • Provide information about the hazards and associated risk of distribution activities to employees, contractors, transporters, visitors, sub-distributors and resellers, interested members of the community and emergency first responders • Make Responsible Distribution an early and integral part of the planning process leading to the introduction of new products • Apply this code to existing, modified and new chemicals, chemical products, services and facilities • Comply with all legal requirements, which affect its operations and products • Be responsive and sensitive to community concerns • Require, with due diligence, that sub-distributors meet the standards of this Code of Practice QUADRA HAS A DIVERSITY POLICY, COMMITTING TO: Equal Opportunity Worldwide Employment Purchasing Canadian Languages Pay Equity (English & French) Compliance are Respected Diversity & Code of Inclusion Policy Business Ethics All employees are expected to act in accordance with the Code. 17 2019 Sustainability Report Caring Innovative Entrepreneurial Quick on our Feet Having Fun EXPLANATION OF WHETHER AND HOW THE PRECAUTIONARY APPROACH OR PRINCIPLE IS ADDRESSED BY THE ORGANIZATION 102-11 At Quadra, the risk management (RM) process provides a broad approach to risk. It encompasses a program to continuously address all the organization’s risk, including but not limited to: safety, hazards, operations, systems, and environment. COMMUNICATION AND TRAINING ON ANTI-CORRUPTION POLICIES AND PROCEDURES 205-2 Quadra continues to ensure all employees adhere to the Code of Business Ethics. This Code reflects company values and outlines practices which employees are expected to follow. The Code focuses on: • Zero tolerance policy concerning bribery and corruption • Commitment to regulatory compliance • Quadra’s status of an equal opportunity employer and the discrimination policy Respect for human rights: • Conduct activities in a manner that considers the environment and the community • Non-disclosure of confidential business information • Refraining from dealing with or supporting anyone who engages in forced or child labour • Maintaining a secure working environment • Substance abuse policy • Anti-corruption UN Global Compact Sustainable Development Goals ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10 2019 Sustainability Report 18 ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT APPROACH SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAIN Our approach to supply chain management is designed to support our company values, meet our customers’ expectations and to be consistent with our precautionary approach to managing business risk. We perform risk assessments of our supply chain, investigate potential high risks, engage those suppliers identified as high risk to reduce the risk or potentially remove the supplier. Since 2017 we have had a Supplier Code of Conduct, aligned with the best practices of the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact. DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED AND DISTRIBUTED INCLUDING: • Revenues • Operating Costs • Employee Compensation • Donations & Other Community Investments • Retained Earnings • Payments to Capital Providers & Governments 201-1 We are a private company and choose not to disclose our financial information. FINANCIAL IMPLICATIONS AND OTHER RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES FOR THE ORGANIZATION’S ACTIVITIES DUE TO CLIMATE CHANGE 201-2 The opportunities for Quadra due to climate change are of commercial nature, where some of the products in our Green & Better portfolio enable carbon footprint reduction. 20 ECONOMIC FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE RECEIVED FROM GOVERNMENT 201-4 None. PROPORTION OF SENIOR MANAGEMENT HIRED FROM THE LOCAL COMMUNITY 202-2 100%. UN Global Compact Sustainable Development Goals LABOUR Principle 6 PORTION OF SPENDING ON LOCAL SUPPLIERS AT SIGNIFICANT LOCATIONS OF OPERATION 204-1 Local procurement is always encouraged and constitutes a significant portion of our business. Sustainable Development Goals 21 ENVIRONMENT MANAGEMENT APPROACH WASTE AND RECYCLING Waste and recycling were identified by Quadra’s stakeholders as being one of the most important aspects of the organization’s sustainability program. Expired or damaged food products were previously disposed of as chemical waste. In 2012 partnerships were formed with pork producers which allowed Quadra to divert a portion of food waste for animal feed manufacturing. Quadra will continue to use these and other best practices to reduce environmental impact on landfills. Overall, the amount of waste as a percentage of total products handled continues to remain a very low at 0.067% in 2019, because of efficient inventory management initiatives and thus fewer expired products. Quadra’s recycling practices have been maintained at the same high level, with some recyclable materials being reused (such as stretch wrap, wood pallets, office paper, and electronics). Quadra also continues to maintain a drum and tote reconditioning program. GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS The reduction of corporate greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions is one of Quadra’s top priorities. Total direct and indirect carbon emissions from operations increased by 4.6% this year, driven by a cold winter and strong business growth impacting operations. The only source of direct energy at Quadra is natural gas used to heat the facilities; electricity is the only source of indirect energy consumption. The following sites, owned and operated by Quadra, are included in the table below: Clairmont ALBERTA Edmonton ALBERTA (4 locations) Vaudreuil-Dorion Delta Burlington QUEBEC BRITISH & Oakville COLUMBIA ONTARIO ENVIRONMENT LOGISTICS INITIATIVES Quadra’s Logistics team continues to work at reducing the carbon footprint from transportation. Whenever possible, we move product by the most efficient means possible, look to maximize our payloads to reduce the number of shipments, and are continuously re-evaluating our dedicated truck delivery zones to make them more efficient. We encourage our carrier partners to reduce the environmental footprint of operations by supporting the use of fuel-efficient vehicles, sustainable fuels and other fuel reducing measures such as: • Auxiliary power units • Aerodynamic devices • Engine upgrades/engine shutdown devices • Long Combination Vehicle (LCV) • Single wide based tires • Alternate fuels Quadra continues to encourage its carriers to participate in the SmartWay® Transport Partnership, an innovative collaboration between public and private stakeholders with the shared goal of conserving fuel and reducing GHG emissions from the freight transportation supply chain. ENERGY 302-1 to 302-4 ENERGY CONSUMPTION 2016 2017 2018 2019 NATURAL GAS 29,793 30,499 30,426 31,122 CONSUMPTION, GJ ELECTRICITY 9,927 9,302 9,467 9,959 CONSUMPTION, GJ We do not share our Energy Intensity because as a private company, we do not disclose our financial data. Sustainable Development Goals 2019 Sustainability Report 24 WATER ENVIRONMENT 303-3 WATER CONSUMPTION 2017 2018 2019 WATER WITHDRAWAL 4,120 4,253 4,231 (M3) We use water in our operations for regular office usage, warehouse cleaning and product blending. We do not track our discharge vs. usage. UN Global Compact Sustainable Development Goals ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 EMISSIONS 305-1 to 305-5 OPERATIONAL FOOTPRINT SCOPE 1 2016 2017 2018 2019 TOTAL DIRECT GREENHOUSE GAS 1,552 1,587 1,687 1,764 EMISSIONS*, METRIC TONS CO2e OPERATIONAL FOOTPRINT SCOPE 2 2016 2017 2018 2019 TOTAL INDIRECT GREENHOUSE GAS 539 561 566 594 EMISSIONS*, METRIC TONS CO2e *GHG emissions from energy use were calculated using the 2016 conversion values for each province provided by Environment Canada’s Electricity Intensity Tables & Includes energy data from Oakville addition TRAVEL EMISSIONS SCOPE 3 TRAVEL TYPE 2017 2018 2019 EMPLOYEE VEHICLE 693 metric tons CO2e 776 metric tons CO2e 811 metric tons CO2e TRAVEL AIR TRAVEL 769 metric tons CO2e 798 metric tons CO2e 802 metric tons CO2e 25 ENVIRONMENT UN Global Compact Sustainable Development Goals ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 EFFLUENTS & WASTE 306-2 to 306-4 Partial reporting Throughout our Canadian operations, we disposed of in 2019: • 358 tons of product waste disposed in full accordance to legal requirements • 141 tons of food waste of which 5.5 tons were diverted from landfills for other applications We had 1 reportable spill in 2019. UN Global Compact Sustainable Development Goals ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 COMPLIANCE 307-1 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations For 2019, 0$ SOCIAL Management approach OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY 403-1 to 403-8 In 2019, we are reporting five lost time incidents. Despite a strong increase vs. last year, it remains a testament to Quadra’s commitment to Health and Safety first. These numbers stem from the integration of our CIC Ingredients division into Quadra’s safety culture, bringing about better practices, but also better tracking of incidents and near misses. Quadra aims to have a proactive Safety Culture. There is a strong focus on near miss reporting at each of Quadra’s facilities. Quadra employees are encouraged to report near misses under Quadra’s ‘No Blame Culture’. This enables Quadra to take preventive action before the issues escalate to incidents or accidents. Quadra also measures other proactive leading indicators of Health & Safety performance. Occupational Health and Safety is consistently identified by all of Quadra’s stakeholders as the single most important priority for the organization. Quadra has active Joint Health and Safety Committees at every facility, as well as a National Safety Steering Committee. Local committees meet each month to review Health and Safety activities at their local branch. The National Safety Steering Committee meets quarterly to share best practices and provide a forum for information to be shared across the organization. At Quadra approximately Approximately 20% of Quadra employees touch 1 in 5 employees currently some aspect of the formulation of our strategy of participate in either the safety. We take a collaborative and participatory local Joint Health and Safety approach to achieve the maximum ‘buy-in’ from our Committees or the National employees. Representation from hourly operations, supervisory, office and on-the-road staff as well as Safety Steering Committee. senior and middle management work within our team-based committees, including the Joint Health and Safety Committee. All employees have aspects of the EHS system in their personal goals which are formally reviewed at regular intervals throughout the year. Employees are incented to complete their personal safety goals as well as those of the overall company performance A series of activities have been organized to inform employees of health and safety topics specific to the Quadra workplace. Examples include presentations on ergonomics, stress management, safe driving, transport of dangerous goods, identifying near misses in the workplace and safe use of fire extinguishers. Quadra also celebrates an Annual National Safety Day to recognize and celebrate safety excellence. At Quadra approximately 1 in 5 employees currently participate in either the local Joint Health and Safety Committees or the National Safety Steering Committee. These employees are directly involved in determining the safety procedures and policies in the company. The Joint Health and Safety Committee at each branch regularly organize Safety ‘Lunch and Learns’ for staff. They are also involved in the incident/ accident investigation process. Employees receive external safety training and are encouraged to attend safety conferences and tradeshows. 28 Employees have access to online safety webinars and training to work safely. Employees are trained in their SOCIAL online training. This training is readily accessible to all staff core competencies and receive mentoring and support to based on interest and their role in the safety management ensure they can carry out their role. The competency of within the company. Quadra’s safety culture encourages each employee is regularly monitored through Quadra’s all employees to actively participate in the company’s job competency procedure, in addition to numerous thirdsafety effort. party audits. Safety messages and reminders are regularly A detailed job description created by the Human communicated with employees. The Regional Operations Resources, Operations, and Risk Management Teams Managers at each Quadra facility sends emails concerning ensures the activities and responsibilities of each specific safety topics to all employees on a regular basis. candidate is properly outlined. This serves as a guideline In addition, the operations staff participate in a “Toolbox for the training required for each employee and their Talks’ series that aims to discuss and resolve operational role. An initial orientation plan introduces each employee safety issues affecting each branch. Safety performance to the overall safety policies of the company. During is directly linked to the employee’s annual goals. this orientation process, employees are made aware of Furthermore, employees are sent a summary of Quadra Quadra’s in-depth safety policies and procedures. This Environmental Health and Safety stats for each facility helps communicate to new candidates the importance on a quarterly basis by the Health & Safety Advisor. Each and the role of Health and Safety within the organization. Leadership Team Update, Regional Update, and National In addition, all employees receive Workplace Hazardous Sales Meeting presentation opens Materials Information System (WHMIS) with communicating Quadra’s safety and Transportation of Dangerous statistics and emphasizes Safety as one Goods (TDG) awareness training Safety is the first topic of Quadra’s core values. Safety is the or full WHMIS and TDG training first topic discussed in presentations discussed in presentations program depending on their role and with Quadra customers and suppliers. with Quadra customers and compliance requirements. suppliers. Quadra’s Leadership Team (LT) Initially, an employee is provided gives very high priority to ensuring training based on their specific safety standards are measured, met, job requirements. For instance, an reported on, and maintained. LT Members sponsor the operational team member would receive training on National Safety Steering Committee and play a key role in TDG, WHMIS, and forklift operation and safety. As the designing the overall safety strategy. Quadra has developed responsibilities in a particular position change, training is a Safety Vision 2020 with input of various stakeholders provided accordingly. All training is initially determined within the organization and the endorsement of the LT by the Risk Management Team along with the employee’s members. Safety Vision 2020 is a roadmap of all Health supervisor. The training received by an employee is & Safety functions that need to be conducted to further documented and updated according to Quadra and elevate and develop Quadra’s Health & Safety Program. government regulations. The training of each employee is The Leadership Team is made aware of all incidents and reviewed regularly as part of their performance planning accidents which occur at each Quadra branch immediately by managers within each department. Due to the serious via our Service Level Improvement Program (SLIP). Senior nature of some products handled, employees are required management ensures each incident is effectively resolved to annually review all the procedures related to their and measures are taken to prevent similar incidents in the specific role as well as review the corporate governance future. We have achieved significant progress in learning suite of procedures and policies. When the procedure has by sharing best practices and incident details nationally. been reviewed an electronic signature is provided by the employee and a training record entered in the database. The Leadership Team at Quadra directly participates There are approximately 300 Procedures at Quadra, with a in various Health and Safety inspections and procedures. significant portion related to effective training and safety in Quadra’s safety culture adopts the principle “Safety is the workplace. Everyone’s Responsibility”. Upper management is directly involved in championing the National Safety Steering Committee programs. The President conducts annual visits UN Global Compact Sustainable Development Goals to each of the Quadra sites. The Leadership Team regularly reviews the company safety incident reports. This includes a quarterly review of the total incident/accidents and for each facility which is shared nationally via Leadership Team HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR Updates. Principles 1-2 Principles 3,4 Quadra has established a detailed training matrix in order to ensure each employee receives adequate 29 2019 Sustainability Report LABOUR PRACTICES SOCIAL Employee Engagement Employees are given an opportunity to provide their feedback to Quadra on a regular basis through surveys conducted as part of the Great Place To Work™ program as well as through Leadership Team presentations and other engagement exercises. Wellness Training and Education Quadra has established a comprehensive wellness plan. Quadra carries out internal training through its The plan encourages all Quadra employees to pursue an Quadra University classes, developed in collaboration active and healthy lifestyle. with Quadra senior management. The total number of hours of training in 2019 is 6,539, up from 3,931 Quadra’s wellness program is a leadership driven from the previous year. This is mainly due to the initiative. The Wellness Committee is comprised of implementation of a new company wide CRM. members from each of the local branches and is chaired by a member of the Leadership Team. The members For the Business Services unit, predominantly male are chosen annually and new enrollment each year is warehouse employees receive more training than strongly encouraged. The committee chooses a specific office staff due to the potential hazards of their jobs health topic to be discussed and highlighted for each which requires extensive safety awareness training. month of the year. Monthly meetings are held between Customer Service employees are trained mainly “onthe members to decide the activities and themes. the-job” and this category of training is not formally Different initiatives are organized in the workplace tracked. based on these themes. Some examples of the initiatives organized by the committee include: seminars on In the Commercial unit, Technical Service Engineers nutrition labels and healthy eating, a wellness photo and Technical Account Managers, a predominantly contest showing employees engaged in various physical male group, attend various training courses and activities, as well as an inter-branch activity challenge. seminars throughout the year. Product Coordinators are mainly trained “on-the-job”, and this group is The committee also aims to educate employees of the predominantly female. various health assessment tools and services available through Quadra’s benefits plan. This includes how to Professional Development use our EAP/Wellness tools such as the Health Risk Assessment Tool. In addition, the committee has All Quadra employees are engaged in regular organized various initiatives that allow employees to career discussions, goal reviews, and performance remain active while at work. This includes on-site fitness evaluations. Managers encourage an “open door” classes during lunch hour, as well as running, cycling and approach to discussions about professional goals walking groups. to support employees’ career progression and promote career development. Quadra also has an These initiatives ensure all employees have access to educational reimbursement policy that includes 100% key information in order to promote the importance of reimbursement for all approved training, including leading a healthy lifestyle. Quadra has been certified as books, software, and other materials. a “Best Workplace” by Great Place To Work™ Canada. A component of receiving this award includes assessing how employees perceive their company’s wellness plan. The Wellness committee, with the aid of the Leadership Team strives to continually improve the quality of the policy. 2019 Sustainability Report 30 SOCIAL EMPLOYMENT 401-1 to 401-3 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region For Canada, rate of turnover under management control is 8.6%, consisting of 41% women and 59% men. The age group for our turnover is split as followed: GENDER AGE 67% Men 25-35 27% 33% Women 36-45 21% 46+ 52% Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees Employees working less than 22 hours per week are not eligible for medical insurance or pension plan benefits. Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender 100% for all genders UN Global Compact Sustainable Development Goals OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY LABOUR Principle 6 403-9 to 403-10 Overview of Incidents and Accidents 2016 2017 2018 2019 LOST TIME INJURIES 0 1 3 5 LOST TIME FREQUENCY 0 0 0 1.48 LOST DAYS 0 0 0 16.5 Beyond the date of the incident FIRST AID INCIDENTS 2 6 15 13 VEHICLE INCIDENT RATE .73 1.2 1.875 .96 Frequency per million km driven UN Global Compact Sustainable Development Goals HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR Principle 1-2 Principle 3-6 31 2019 Sustainability Report TRAINING SOCIAL AND EDUCATION 404-01 and 404-3 UN Global Average Training Hours, by Department Compact GENDER COMMERCIAL TEAM BUSINESS SERVICES UNIT (Average training hours*) (Average training hours*) LABOUR Principle 3-6 MALE 12.74 9.33 Sustainable Development Goals FEMALE 8.49 4.19 *The average hours have been estimated in accordance with the GRI Indicator Protocols 100% of our employees participate in the performance review exercise twice per year. DIVERSITY UN Global Compact AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 405-2 Quadra was founded on and is committed to Core Values and a Philosophy that embrace and nurture an inclusive culture and mindset. Our employees LABOUR Principle 3-6 come from diverse communities and we are committed to offer all our team a safe place to grow, be valued and treated with respect and integrity. We Sustainable Development Goals hire the best candidate irrespective of gender, culture, ethnicity, religion, age or sexual orientation because we believe diversity is the source of innovation and creativity that fuels our competitive advantage . In 2020 we’re reviewing our practices and seeking new ideas that would support and enhance our Diversity.” The ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant locations of operation, is in accordance with the Pay Equity Act (Section 76). Quadra Chemicals Ltd. supports and abides by the Act. 2019 Sustainability Report 32 HUMAN RIGHTS PROCUREMENT PRACTICES Quadra has a formal assessment process to evaluate all new product and service suppliers. Part of the audit includes completing a form which includes a sustainability section for the environmental practices and human rights protocols in place. Furthermore, Quadra developed and enacted a Supplier Code of Conduct that we launched at the beginning of 2018. Our supplier code of conduct is aligned with the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact and is mandatory to our entire supply chain. Our goal is to have the suppliers which account for 80% of our procurement to participate in the code, an objective in which we currently have reached 45%. CHILD LABOUR 408-1 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labour and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labour. Quadra carries supplier risk assessment and does not conduct business with suppliers who do employ or are at a significant risk of employing child labour. UN Global Compact Sustainable Development Goals HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR Principle 2 Principle 5 FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOUR 409-1 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labour and measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labour. Quadra carries out supplier risk assessment and does not conduct business with suppliers who do employ or are at a significant risk of employing forced or compulsory labour. UN Global Compact Sustainable Development Goals HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR Principle 2 Principle 4 2019 Sustainability Report SOCIAL SUPPLIER SOCIAL ASSESSMENT 414-1 Quadra carries out supplier risk assessment with all its new suppliers and has them sign our Supplier Code of Conduct, aligned with the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact. The table below demonstrates the percentage of Quadra’s suppliers who have established sustainability procedures: ENVIRONMENTAL HUMAN RIGHTS PROCEDURES ² IMPLEMENTED PROCEDURES ¹ SUSTAINABILITY PROGRAM ³ YES 93.4% 94.3% 71.4% NO 6.6% 5.7% 28.6% ¹ Referring to corporate policies and procedures in place to identify and control chemical releases to the environment. ² Referring to a process in place to ensure that the company is meeting or exceeding the requirements of local laws and “best practice” standards concerning labour rights, health, safety and basic human rights of all employees. ³ Referring to a formal corporate sustainability program implemented within the company. In addition, all suppliers are evaluated annually based on their performance in the given calendar year. This evaluation is incident-driven and depends on the frequency and the severity of non-conformances, if any. UN Global Compact Sustainable Development Goals HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 1-2 Principle 3-6 Principles 7-9 Principle 10 2019 Sustainability Report 34 SOCIAL LOCAL COMMUNITIES 413-1 Community Involvement At Quadra, we are proud of our community investment initiatives. In line with our Core Values, Quadra actively sponsors various initiatives to support many worthwhile causes within our local communities. Quadra employees are encouraged to make a difference and their initiatives are supported. In addition to corporate donations, each Quadra facility has a committee that is empowered to make donations locally which will benefit the charitable organizations in their region. In 2019, our employee Volunteer Program yielded the following: • Number of employee volunteer events: 12 • Number of employees involved: 79 (or 25% of all our staff) • Total hours of work: 388 hours of work • Donations: $ 82,000 We support numerous charitable organizations with monetary donations, and recently enacted an Employee Volunteer Program. The EVP engages our employees through volunteer participation in community centres on paid days. The mission of our community outreach is “Advancing health and wellbeing for our communities in need” and our theme for 2019 focuses on food and nutrition. Responsible Distribution Quadra holds environmental, health and safety management to be among our highest priorities. Through our participation in the Responsible Distribution® Canada initiative, we are committed to the safe, secure and efficient operation of our facilities, the health and safety of our employees and minimizing the environmental impact of our activities. Quadra aims to promote awareness of the chemical industry to the community, reduce the risk of emergency situations and promote safety by the sharing of best practices. You Be the Chemist® Quadra is dedicated to promoting education and aims to engage the youth in sciences. Quadra proudly sponsors the ‘You Be The Chemist®’ program, a complimentary curriculum-mapped program. This program was developed by the U.S. based Chemical Education Foundation and is administered in Canada by Responsible Distribution® Canada (RDC) (previously Canadian Association of Chemical Distributors (CACD). You Be The Chemist® aims to promote science education by providing educators with a bilingual, free online resource. The intention is to stimulate the minds of young generations and encourage them to consider a career path in the chemical industry. Furthering Post-Secondary Education Quadra supports an endowment scholarship in chemistry at Simon Fraser University, as well as the MBA medal scholarship at Concordia University, which focuses on science driven MBA students. 35 2019 Sustainability Report FOR 2019, OUR EMPLOYEE VOLUNTEER PROGRAM YIELDED THE FOLLOWING 12 25% 388 $82,000 EMPLOYEE OF OUR HOURS OF IN VOLUNTEER STAFF WAS WORK DONATIONS EVENTS INVOLVED SOCIAL Regional Initiatives In addition to corporate donations, each Quadra facility has a committee that is empowered to make donations locally which will benefit the charitable organizations in their region. Regional initiatives are conscious decisions carried out by each location’s Donations Committee to bring significant changes to targeted causes in communities across the country, engage employees and promote good citizenship. Quadra’s corporate donations mainly concentrate on causes which aid in health, education, well-being and economic empowerment. Overall Quadra supported a total of approximately 40 charitable donations across Canada in 2019. QUADRA ONTARIO QUADRA QUEBEC The Burlington facility has been sponsoring Halton Since 1927, Tyndale St-Georges Community Centre has Women’s Place for several years and is proud to be a offered empowering, supportive programs and services “Safe Shelter Sponsor”. Many Burlington employees to the community of Little Burgundy in South-West also dedicate their own time to volunteer at the shelter Montreal. Quadra has supported Tyndale for many and participate in events and fundraisers benefiting the years and is actively involved with this organization shelter. Halton Women’s Place is a safe house which that is making a difference in the community. aids women and children who are victims of abuse. Another major initiative that Quadra supports locally Our Burlington and Oakville employees also join twice in Quebec is the Foundation de l’Hôpital du Suroît. a year to carry out volunteer days at the Food for Life The foundation received a commitment from Quadra and Food 4 KIDS foundations. to donate over a five-year period, with all the funds going towards projects that are aimed at improving the quality and accessibility of care at the hospital. QUADRA ALBERTA QUADRA BRITISH COLUMBIA For the last nine years, our Edmonton facility staff Our Delta facility community involvement focuses on has been volunteering with the Salvation Army. Along supporting education, youth mentoring with the ‘Yo with the annual donation allocated by the Edmonton Bro’ program and programs designed to improve the Donation Committee, personal donations are also lives of disabled children such as the Autism Society given by the staff through gifts purchased and time and the Richmond Therapeutic Riding Association. committed to the Salvation Army Christmas Gift event. The Alberta team also supports the Multiple Sclerosis walk and the Uncles and Aunts at Large, a mentor program for children. There is also Employee volunteer days at the Children’s Cottage. The Calgary Mavericks Chuckwagon Race Team is also supported by Quadra Alberta members. The Mavericks actively fund raise throughout the year to support Calagry area not-for-profit children’s charities and individual needs. 37 2019 Sustainability Report 413-1 OPERATIONS WITH IMPLEMENTED LOCAL SOCIAL COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT, IMPACT ASSESSMENTS, AND DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMMES 100% UN Global Compact Sustainable Development Goals HUMAN RIGHTS PRODUCT Principle 1 STEWARDSHIP Sustainable Products and Services Quadra’s green chemistry portfolio consists of two product categories: Green Products and Better Choice Products. Both Green and Better Choice product assessments are based on globally recognized standards of Sustainability and the 12 principles of Green Chemistry. Regulatory Compliance and Quality Management Quadra assures regulatory compliance through a dedicated chemicals. WHMIS is changing to adopt new international in-house Regulatory Affairs department. All new products go standards for classifying hazardous chemicals and providing through a rigorous regulatory approval process, with appropriate information on labels and safety data sheets. These standards are documentation and labels created as necessary. This ensures part of the Globally Harmonized System for the Classification and that products are in compliance with relevant environmental, Labelling of Chemicals (GHS). product safety, transportation safety regulations and more specific Canadian product application regulations such as food, personal Quadra completed its British Retail Consortium (BRC) Global care and pharmaceutical requirements. Compliance for existing Certification for our Vaudreuil, Burlington and Oakville facilities. products is assured by on-going monitoring of relevant Canadian BRC is an internationally recognized Standard which provides legislation. a report/certification that covers a comprehensive scope in the areas of quality, hygiene and food safety. Quadra also closely follows various government initiatives and ongoing regulatory compliance. In 2018 Quadra was not Several key customers had requested Quadra undergo thirdissued any fines or other non-monetary sanctions relating to party sustainability assessments. As a result, Quadra is currently non-compliance concerning the acquiring or use of its products. registered with two companies that monitor supplier sustainability Furthermore, Quadra had no sanctions of either monetary value performance: Sedex and EcoVadis. or otherwise brought against them for environmental, social or Sedex (Supplier Ethical Data Exchange) is focused on the any other impacts with regards to laws and regulations concerning organization’s responsible and ethical business practices, whereas Quadra’s business practices. EcoVadis emphasizes the company’s quality programs and Adherence to the Responsible Distribution® Code of Practice is environmental record. EcoVadis also ranks all suppliers; Quadra extremely important to Quadra. All Quadra facilities continue to has maintained the Gold status it reached in 2014. be certified to this standard that covers Operations, Environment, Health and Safety practices. All Quadra distribution locations, Customer Satisfaction except Clairmont (Alberta), are ISO 9001 certified. Additionally, the Burlington and Vaudreuil facilities are Good Distribution Practices Quadra’s superior customer service is key to our business. (GDP) certified with a Gold Standard rating. Quadra employs a Service Level Improvement Program (SLIP) to formally track, document, analyze and resolve any customer In 2017, Quadra completed the upgrade of its Safety Data Sheet issues. All SLIPs are monitored by the National Customer Service (SDS) system to meet the new Workplace Hazardous Materials Manager and the Director of Quality. A SLIP is only closed once Information System (WHMIS) 2015 regulations. Since 1988, WHMIS the corrective or preventive actions have been identified and has been Canada’s hazard communication system for workplace completed. UN Global Compact Sustainable Development Goals ENVIRONMENT Principle 9 2019 Sustainability Report 38 SOCIAL CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY CUSTOMER PRIVACY Product Service and Labelling, Marketing Total number of substantiated complaints Communications, Customer Privacy and regarding breaches of customer privacy Compliance and losses of customer data 418-1 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and For 2019, none. voluntary codes concerning health and UN Global Sustainable safety impacts of products and services Development Goals Compact during their life cycle, by type of outcomes 416-2 For 2019, none. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10 UN Global Sustainable Compact Development Goals SOCIO ECONOMIC COMPLIANCE Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10 concerning the provision and use of products and services 419-1 MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS For 2019, none. LAWS AND STANDARDS UN Global Sustainable Total number of incidents of Compact Development Goals non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of ANTI-CORRUPTION outcomes Principle 10 417-3 For 2019, none. UN Global Compact ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10 39 2019 Sustainability Report APPENDIX A CONTENT INDEX General Disclosures UNGC SDG 102-14 President’s & CEO’s Statement 102-1 Name of Organization 102-2 Primary brands, products and services 102-3 Location of organization’s headquarters 102-4 Countries of operation 102-5 Nature of ownership and legal form 102-6 Markets served 102-7 Scale of the organization Workforce by employment type, contract, region 102-8 and gender 102-9 Describe the organization’s supply chain 102-10 Significant changes in operations Entities included in consolidated financial 102-45 statements 102-50 102-50 Reporting Period 102-51 102-51 Date of most recent previous report 102-52 102-52 Reporting Cycle 102-53 Contact point 102-55 Content Index Policy regarding external assurance for the 102-56 report 102-15 Key Impacts, Risks and Opportunities 1,7,9,10 3,8,12 102-11 Explanation of risk management Subscription to or endorsement of external 102-12 charters/principles 1 to 10 16-17 102-13 Membership of associations 9 17 102-46 Process for defining report scope 102-48 Effect of any re-statements Significant changes to reporting scope and 102-49 boundary Management Approach 102-47 Material Aspects included in report 103-1 Material topics and boundaries 1 to 10 Management approach and its components 103-2 see management approach in relevant sections Evaluation of management approachsee man103-3 agement approach in relevant sections 102-40 List of stakeholder groups engaged by business 17 Basis for identification and selection of stake102-42 holder groups 17 40 APPENDIX A CONTENT INDEX UNGC SDG 102-43 Approaches to stakeholder engagement 17 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 2,7,10 8,10,12,16 102-18 Governance structure of the organization 6 102-16 Existence of values, principles and standards 1 to 10 3,5,8,10 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 205-2 Employees trained in anti-corruption policies and procedures 10 16 ECONOMIC 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 201-2 Financial implications, risks, opportunites from climate change 201-4 Financial assistance received from government 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community 6 8 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of operation 12 ENVIRONMENT ENERGY 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 7 12,13 302-2 Energy consumption outside the organization 7 12,13 302-3 Energy Intensity 7 12,13 302-4 Reduction of Energy Consumption 7 12,13 WATER 303-3 Water withdrawal 7 6,12,14 EMISSIONS 305-1 Direct greenhouse gas emissions (scope 1) 7 12,13 305-2 Energy indirect greenhouse gas emissions (scope 2) 7 12,13 305-3 Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions (scope 3) 7 12,13 305-4 Emissions Intensity 7 12,13 305-5 Reduction of GHG Emissions 7 12,13 EFFLUENTS AND WASTE 306-2 Total weight of waste 7 6,14,15 306-3 Significant spills 7 6,14,15 306-4 Transport of Hazardous Waste 7 6,14,15 COMPLIANCE 307-1 Monetary value of significant fines SOCIAL OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY 1,4 3,8,12 403-1 Occupational health and safety management system 1,4 3,8,12 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation 1,4 3,8,12 41 2019 Sustainability Report APPENDIX A CONTENT INDEX UNGC SDG 403-3 Occupational health services 1,4 3,8,12 Worker participation, consultation, and communication on occupational health and 403-4 safety 1,4 3,8,12 403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety 1,4 3,8,12 403-6 Promotion of worker health 1,4 3,8,12 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety impacts directly linked 403-7 by business relationships 1,4 3,8,12 403-8 Workers covered by an occupational health and safety management system 1,4 3,8,12 Labour Practices 401-1 Employee hires and turnover 6 5,8 401-3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender 6 5,8 403-9 Work-related injuries 1,4 3,8,12 403-10 Work-related ill health 1,4 3,8,12 404-1 Training per year per employee 6 8 404-3 Employees receiving regular reviews by gender and employee category 6 8 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by 405-2 significant location of operations 6 8,5,10 HUMAN RIGHTS 408-1 Operations at risk of incidents of child labour 2,5 8,16 409-1 Operations at risk of forced or compulsory labour 2,4 8,16 414-1 Supplier Social Assessment 1 to 10 8,12,16 LOCAL COMMUNITIES Percentage of operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, 413-1 and development programs 1 2,3,4,5,17 PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP 9 6,12,14,15 CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY 416-2 Non-compliance with regulations and codes for health and safety of products 10 12 MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS LAWS & STANDARDS 417-3 Non-compliance to marketing communications laws and standards 58 10 CUSTOMER PRIVACY 418-1 Substantiated complaints for breaches of customer privacy or data loss 10 16,17 SOCIO ECONOMIC COMPLIANCE 419-1 Monetary value of fines for regulatory non-compliance 10 16 COP 2019 1 to 10 2019 Sustainability Report 42 APPENDIX A CONTENT INDEX UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COP 2019 As a new member of the UN Global Compact, Quadra commits to annually disclose information on activities and results related to the ten principles for human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. In 2015 Quadra established its 2020 sustainability objectives. They are organized around four pillars, stemming from our materiality assessment: Responsible Operations, Responsible Supply Chain, Green chemistry and ingredients portfolio and Community Outreach. The actions to meet these objectives support the 10 Global Compact principles, as illustrated in the activities covered in our 2019 GRI Sustainability Report. HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. LABOUR Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 1-2 Principle 3-6 Principles 7-9 Principle 10 RESPONSIBLE OPERATIONS Principle 1Our objective for 2020 is to have no one injured year over year. Occupational Health and Safety is our primary Sustainability objective, and rightly designated as a fundamental human right. Our robust Health and Safety management system as described in this report resulted in many years with zero lost time incidents across our operations, however the last few years, including 2019, have seen an increase in incidents. This is due to our merger with CIC in 2016, a manufacturing operation, and the journey to onboard its team into Quadra Health and Safety culture. RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN PARTNERS Principles 1 to 10 – To further our Supplier Assessment process in 2018 we enacted a Supplier Code of Conduct aligned with the 10 principles of UNGC. Along with our Business Code of Ethics, the Supplier Code of Conduct serve are the ethical foundation of Quadra’s business. Our 2020 objective is to have all our strategic suppliers sign our code or demonstrate equivalent policies. In 2019 we have met 62% of that objective. 43 2019 Sustainability Report APPENDIX A CONTENT INDEX GREEN CHEMISTRY AND INGREDIENTS PORTFOLIO Principle 9 – Since 2011 Quadra is offering sustainable chemical and ingredient solutions to all seven sectors it services. Our early adoption of the 12 principles of Green Chemistry allowed us to bring rigor into the assessment of products sustainability attributes. Our 2020 objective is to have 15% of our total sales from Green Chemistry, and we are well on track to meet it. COMMUNITY OUTREACH Principle 1Our objective is to have a significant impact in the local communities where we operate. This objective has no time limit. Each office has a community outreach donation budget, and each employee has paid day every year to engage in charitable activities. Our action center mostly along article 25.1 of the declaration of Human Right, and our theme is “Everyone has the right to a standard of living adequate for the health and well-being of himself and of his family, including food, clothing, housing and medical care and necessary social services, and the right to security in the event of unemployment, sickness, disability, widowhood, old age or other lack of livelihood in circumstances beyond his control.” UNGC AND SDG Our actions along these 4 pillars have impact of varying degrees on the 2030 Sustainable Development Goals (SDG). We mapped them out as follows for we are currently developing our 2025 objectives along the lines of SDG metrics. Material Global Sustainable Development Goals Area Compact Green Principle 9 3.9 6.3 12.4, 12.6 14.1 15.1 Chemistry 12.4, Responsible Principles 3.4, 3.6, 5.1, 5.5, 4.7 6.3 8.5, 8.7 10.2 12.6, 13.2 Operations 1,2,4,5,6,7,10 3.8, 3.9 5.6c 12.8 Responsible Principles 12.4, Supply 7, 8 , 9 3.9 4.7 5.1 6.3 8.5, 8.7 10.3 12.5, Chain 12.6 Community Principles 17.16, 2.1 3.5 4.7 5.1 6.6b 12.8 14.2 15.2 Outreach 3, 8, 9 17.17 2019 Sustainability Report 44 1-800-665-6553 VAUDREUIL-DORION BURLINGTON CALGARY DELTA EDMONTON GRANDE PRAIRIE OAKVILLE QUADRA HEADQUARTERS 1100 Blair Road 700-4th Avenue 7930 Vantage Way 12925 146 St. NW 780298 St. 1170 Invicta Dr. 3901 F.X Tessier Burlington SW, Suite 780 Delta, British Edmonton, Alberta Clairmont, Alberta Oakville, Ontario Vaudreuil-Dorion Ontario L7M 1K9 Calgary, Alberta Columbia V4G 1A8 T5L 2H6 T0H 0W0 L6H 6G1 Quebec J7V 5V5 T2P 3J4 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
