Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Managing and Measuring Value 1 Creating together Lendlease Annual Report 2020 2 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 3 All financial amounts in this report are in Australian dollars unless otherwise specified. Lendlease Corporation Limited Contents ABN 32 000 226 228 Incorporated in NSW Australia Lendlease Responsible Entity Limited ABN 72 122 883 185 | AFS Licence 308983 as responsible entity for Lendlease Trust ABN 39 944 184 773 | ARSN 128 052 595 Directors’ Report 1. Overview 6 Chairman’s Report Group CEO and Managing Director’s Report FY20 snapshot 2. Our Business 14 Our vision: To create the best places Our strategy Global presence, local knowledge Development Construction Investments 3. Creating Together 28 By shaping cities Through creating the best places Through partnering By engaging with the community By looking into the future 4. Managing and Measuring Value 42 Our five focus areas of value creation Health and Safety Financial Our Customers Our People Sustainability 5. Risk 60 Risk governance and management Key risks and mitigation 6. Climate Related Risks and Opportunities 68 7. Performance and Outlook 76 8. Governance 90 Board of Directors’ information and profiles Remuneration Report Directors’ Report Lead Auditor’s Independence Declaration 9. Financial Statements 142 Front cover: Singapore: Paya Lebar Quarter 10. Other Information 214 c.$4 billion lifestyle precinct. Securityholder information This page: Glossary Sydney: Daramu House, Corporate directory Barangaroo South 4 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 5 About this About us report The Lendlease Annual Report 2020 has been prepared with reference to the International Integrated Reporting (IR) Lendlease is an international property and investments Framework that encourages businesses to consider what group with core expertise in creates value for them and how this value contributes to long shaping cities and creating term sustainable returns for securityholders. strong and connected communities. Founded in Sydney in 1958, Lendlease was Materiality The outcomes of these processes are the Reporting suite born out of a vision to create a company A matter is considered material if senior material issues noted on page 44 and 45, Our reporting suite provides information that could successfully combine the management and those charged with and in the section Our Business on pages about the organisation and its key financial disciplines of Development, Construction governance believe it could significantly 14 to 27. and operational achievements including: and Investments. impact the value created and delivered Directors’ Report and Operating and • The Annual Report Headquartered in Sydney, our people in the short, medium and long term. Financial Review (OFR) are located in four operating regions: Features information about Lendlease, We identify and capture material matters The required elements of the Directors’ Australia, Asia, Europe and the Americas. our strategy, integrated financial and through the following processes: Report, including the OFR, are featured operational performance, corporate We create award winning urban precincts, • Project Control Group (PCG) sessions, on pages 4 to 141 of this report and include governance, Directors’ Report, living options for any stage of life, retail which include key internal stakeholders the sections: Our Business, Creating Remuneration Report and Financial precincts and workplaces to the highest and represent the governance structure Together, Managing and Measuring Statements sustainability standards. for overseeing the completion of the Value, Risk, Climate Related Risks and • Biannual Results Presentation Our people and our partners are the Annual Report Opportunities, Performance and Outlook, The current reporting period’s financial greatest contributors to our success and and Governance. • Capturing feedback through results and detailed segment information underpin our ability to deliver our vision: engagement and research during The OFR is covered specifically on pages for projects including major urbanisation the financial year from key external 4 to 89. All non financial metrics included projects, investments and pipeline To create the best places stakeholders including investors, in the Directors’ Report on pages 4 to 75 Places that we have created together with • www.lendlease.com analysts, and other relevant groups have been verified through our internal our customers, partners, securityholders, Includes additional information on verification process. The Remuneration the community and our people. • Engagement with the Board sustainability reporting, corporate Report on pages 106 to 137 and the • Confirming that the strategy is governance, tax compliance and Financial Statements on pages 142 to 205 historical financial information. consistent and relevant with the have been audited by KPMG. information collected above. Our focus areas Health and Safety Everyone has the right to go home safely. We remain committed to the We have five focus areas that create health and safety of our people, and all of those who interact with a long term value. They underpin our Lendlease place. ability to create safe, economic and sustainable outcomes. Our success Financial is measured by the value we create in these five focus areas and can be A strong balance sheet and access to third party capital enables us to found throughout this report. fund the execution of our pipeline and deliver quality earnings for our securityholders. Our Customers Our customers love the places we create when we partner effectively, collaborate and innovate. Only through these actions can we respond to a changing world. Our People Our people are the greatest contributors to our success and enable us to fulfil our vision to create the best places. Sustainability Sustainability is core to our planning and clear in our outcomes. We have a proud history of giving emphasis to environmental, social and economic impacts. Sydney: One Sydney Harbour, Barangaroo South Artist’s impression 6 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Overview 7 Overview Chicago: The Cooper, Southbank Lendlease is undertaking a major revitalisation on the banks of the Chicago River, on a site that has been mostly dormant for half a century. 8 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Overview 9 Chairman’s Report The Board moved decisively to tackle COVID-19 related risks – including the health and safety of our people, our customers and the communities in which we operate. It is impossible to present our year in review to securityholders without first acknowledging COVID-19 and its impacts on the regions in which we operate and A range of measures were implemented in his tenure, Colin made an outstanding Sustainability our stakeholders including our people, the second half of the year to strengthen contribution, including oversight of the At Lendlease, we have a long and proud securityholders and customers. our financial position. This included raising Board’s long term renewal and succession history of achieving numerous sustainability $1.2 billion of new equity, arranging strategy and Board performance firsts. This continues to be the case. The pandemic has reshaped most aspects additional debt facilities, reducing assessment. His depth of experience in of society. Governments around the world Following deep engagement across our operating costs and reviewing project strategy, sustainability and governance quickly responded to help shield their entire business, including with the Board expenditure. The equity raising provides has helped shape Lendlease’s position on citizens and economies from the worst of and Global Leadership Team, Lendlease additional flexibility and capacity to these critical issues. On behalf of the Board, the virus’s effects. This was, and continues has committed to two bold new continue the delivery of our development I thank Colin for his unwavering support. to be, an entirely appropriate course of sustainability targets. First, market leading pipeline while pursuing further investment More broadly, I am confident the Board action. In a similar vein, the Board moved carbon targets to meet our vision to opportunities. The equity was allocated has the right mix of skills, experience and decisively to tackle COVID-19 related live in a world warmed by no more than 48.4 per cent to Lendlease Corporation diversity to govern Lendlease in the best risks – including the health and safety 1.5ºC. Second, we are aiming to create and 51.6 per cent to Lendlease Trust. interests of all our stakeholders. of our people, our customers and the $250 million of social value by 2025. This allocation will enable the Group to communities in which we operate, as well Executive Reward Strategy continue to implement its strategy of While recognising these new targets will as our operations and our balance sheet. In this challenging year, the Board has conducting its active business in Lendlease be difficult to achieve, we believe they are A Board subcommittee, which was formed Corporation, while holding its passive considered a number of factors when worthwhile striving for, as our leadership in March 2020, had primary oversight of assets in Lendlease in an efficient manner, determining remuneration outcomes position on sustainability continues to be the Group’s response to COVID-19. and will provide the Trust with additional for our CEO and senior executives. a key competitive advantage. Health and Safety capacity for investments to grow recurring While the business performed well during Commitment to First Nations Peoples earnings within the Group’s overall the first nine months of the year, the dual This past year has reinforced that the The Board is also proud of the way we portfolio management framework. impacts of COVID-19 and accounting health and safety of our people, and support and implement the principles those who interact with our operations, The Group entered FY21 in a strong for the costs associated with exiting of the UN Global Compact. Our Elevate is Lendlease’s number one priority. This financial position with cash and cash Engineering, resulted in a statutory loss. Reconciliation Action Plan (RAP) is one year the Group recorded our lowest equivalents of $1.6 billion, undrawn On this basis, no short term award in way we demonstrate our operational incident frequency rates for both Critical debt facilities of $4.2 billion and gearing relation to financial performance was made performance on human rights, and Incidents and Lost Time Injuries since we of 5.7 per cent. to the Group CEO or senior executives. specifically Indigenous peoples’ rights. began reporting these metrics. Board Renewal Based on the achievement of non financial It outlines our commitment to First Notwithstanding this strong performance, a metrics that support long term value Nations Peoples, acknowledging their During the year, we continued to focus construction worker tragically passed away creation, the Board recognised the efforts unbroken connection to country and on our program of Board renewal and in hospital from an infection contracted of the CEO and senior executives via a creating respectful relationships that appointed two new Non Executive following surgery after a critical incident Deferred Equity Award vesting over two provide opportunities for equal social Directors, Margaret Ford OBE and on one of our sites in Kuala Lumpur. This tranches in FY21 and FY22. The Board and economic outcomes – this aligns to Robert Welanetz. provides a strong reminder of why we considered that the recognition of the our purpose, and is vital to meeting the However, given the disruption caused by performance in this area, albeit at a expectations of our people and those of have such an unrelenting focus on health COVID-19, including continuing global reduced quantum from prior years, to be key relationship customers. and safety. Our sincerest condolences are travel bans and ongoing time zone fair and appropriate as these contributions extended to the deceased worker’s family Looking to the Future challenges, Margaret has elected to position the Group for success in FY21 and colleagues. Finally, I would like to thank my Board step down from the Board. Margaret will and beyond. Further detail on the Board’s Financial Result continue to assist the Lendlease Board in colleagues and the entire Lendlease team deliberations in this regard is provided in for the extraordinary effort they have Lendlease reported a Statutory Loss after respect of the Group’s Europe operations the Remuneration Report. Tax of $310 million, as $368 million of costs in an advisory capacity. Margaret has made in steering Lendlease through one of previously flagged in February 2019 relating expressed a willingness to re-join the Risk Culture the most turbulent times in living memory. to the exit of Engineering were brought to Board once the COVID-19 restrictions After extensive internal consultation Importantly, while we have responded account. While disappointing, the Board have significantly subsided. and testing, Lendlease’s Risk Appetite comprehensively to the challenges that remain confident that exiting Engineering Tolerances were approved by the Board COVID-19 has thrown at us, the team Robert, who brings significant have continued to lay down the strategic and focusing on our Core business is in the Risk Committee. These provide guardrails international experience in our core foundations that position us to create long best interests of securityholders. to assist management in aligning sectors of Development and Investments, term value for securityholders. Lendlease’s appetite for risk with our Our first half Core profit of $308 million continues to serve as a Non Executive decision making and review processes. was followed by a $212 million loss in the Director and will be standing for election They also provide a mechanism to identify, second half of the year. Distributions to at the Annual General Meeting. manage and report on risks through the securityholders reflect the distribution of After more than eight years of service, lifecycle of projects and investments. 54 per cent of first half earnings, 30 cents Colin Carter will retire at the conclusion of The strength and maturity of our risk per security, and the distribution of Trust our 2020 Annual General Meeting. During framework was evident in recent months earnings in the second half of 3.3 cents M J Ullmer, AO as we navigated through the initial phases per security. of COVID-19. Chairman 10 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Overview 11 Group CEO and Managing Director’s Lendlease’s ability to deliver transformational urban precincts with a focus on financial, environmental Report 2020 will be a watershed year in history with the impacts of COVID-19 likely to reshape society for years to come. I start and social outcomes is being recognised globally. This has resulted in significant growth in the development pipeline to more than $100 billion. this report by recognising the unwavering support and commitment of the people of Lendlease; to each other, our customers and to the strength of our organisation. To support our people, Lendlease While our financial performance was Creating value for future generations Our people have drawn on the resilience, launched a Hardship and Wellbeing Fund curtailed, we achieved substantial growth We aim to tackle the climate crisis head on. adaptability, focus and care that have long with grants to help cover expenses for in our development pipeline, established been hallmarks of our business to steer We launched two new ambitious targets: employees experiencing hardship during new investment partnerships and us through an extraordinary operating to be a 1.5ºC aligned company and the pandemic. extended existing partnerships. environment. to create $250 million of social value Financial performance Wherever we operate, Lendlease has by 2025. These were developed after While Lendlease delivered a disappointing The Group’s Core business generated continued its partnership approach with extensive analysis and consultation with financial result for the year, we made Profit after Tax of $96 million, Earnings governments by responding to the public clients, partners and employees. They are substantial progress on our strategic per Security of 15.9 cents and a Return on health and economic crisis presented our call to action and will be a measure agenda including growing and converting Equity of 1.5 per cent. The Core business by COVID-19. We provided practical of our success. the development pipeline, achieving was adversely impacted by COVID-19. support, including surge capacity plans important planning milestones and We have set market leading carbon to extend hospital infrastructure as well creating new investment partnerships to Our performance in the second half of the targets to meet our 1.5ºC aligned as accommodation to frontline workers support projects moving into delivery. year was down significantly across the commitment. Net zero carbon scope 1 and food and other supplies to the most Core operations. A solid Core operating and 2 by 2025 and absolute zero carbon We made significant inroads into vulnerable members of our community. EBITDA in the first half of $628 million by 2040 will be challenging but will positioning the organisation at the was followed by a $65 million loss in the We also shared our safety standards inspire our next generation of leaders forefront of sustainable development. second half as the Group experienced to help make construction sites across and we believe can be achieved while This included investment in people, a substantial deterioration in operating our operations globally, COVID-safe. delivering client and shareholder value. process and technology which has laid conditions. We acknowledge that our government the foundation to better enable and fast Outlook partners have adopted the same approach track the delivery of our pipeline to meet The Group reported a Statutory Loss after While the duration of the impacts of and recognised the crucial role of the the needs of changing urban landscapes. Tax of $310 million for the year ended the pandemic is uncertain, the Group property and infrastructure sectors in 30 June 2020. Engineering exit costs of entered FY21 in a strong financial position. Health and Safety the economy. The Group accessed wage $368 million after tax, along with Business resilience and adaptability are subsidy support in markets where it was Tragically, a construction worker was $19 million of goodwill impairment critical to navigate the uncertainty the offered. Further details are set out on seriously injured in a critical incident relating to the anticipated completion of world still faces. We have a tremendous page 160 of the Financial Statements. on a project in Kuala Lumpur where the sale of Engineering, were expensed. team and an outstanding pipeline of Lendlease is the construction manager. Strategy projects and are well placed to drive high Progress on converting opportunities He subsequently passed away from The cornerstone of the Group’s strategy quality earnings growth and pursue new across our urbanisation pipeline was complications following surgery. is to create value through the best urban opportunities as we emerge from the hindered. The impact across our On behalf of Lendlease, I extend my precincts in key global gateway cities. current economic challenges. construction projects was greater in heartfelt condolences to his family, We have demonstrated over more than our international regions, particularly in On behalf of the Group I again thank our friends and colleagues. two decades our ability to deliver major cities where mandated shutdowns were employees, along with our investment It is difficult to call out positive urbanisation projects, and together implemented. The Group’s investments partners, securityholders and financiers for achievements given this tragedy, but I with our integrated business model and portfolio was impacted by declining supporting Lendlease throughout the year. do want to thank the commitment of our placemaking skills, have created a point real estate values. teams which has enabled us to reduce of difference few can match. We implemented a range of measures critical incident and lost time injury A demonstrated track record of superior to strengthen the financial position frequency rates to their lowest levels outcomes for placemaking, sustainability of the Group. Costs were reduced along since we began reporting these metrics. and connectivity has helped us in our aim with the reassessment of capital and Stephen McCann As COVID-19 set in, an extraordinary to be the global urbanisation partner of project expenditure. The issuance of new effort was made by our teams to keep our choice and has underpinned the strong Group Chief Executive Officer equity and the arranging of additional people, and those who interact with us, growth of our Investments platform. and Managing Director debt provides the Group with the capacity safe and to support the continuance of to manage through a potential sustained Two new major urbanisation projects operations. This level of focus was applied downturn and positions the Group for a with a combined estimated end value of across all businesses and locations, market recovery. $37 billion were added to the pipeline through adjusting office and site-based during the year. The unlocking of these working arrangements and quickly and other opportunities across our introducing new policies, education and targeted gateway cities has resulted in support for employees and customers the development pipeline more than as restrictions and social distancing doubling over the last five years to above protocols became first lines of defence $100 billion. This includes a portfolio of 21 against the virus. major projects across nine gateway cities. 12 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Overview 13 FY20 $37 billion Safety 48%1 snapshot Two major urbanisation Record low Critical and projects secured Increase in Lost Time injury rates, in London and development pipeline sadly one fatality San Francisco Bay Area to $113b Listed Two #1 Investment partnerships Lendlease Global Ranked fund in GRESB3, established to deliver Commercial REIT in with four funds ranked in One Sydney Harbour2 Singapore the global top 10 and the Victoria Cross over station development Milano c.$4 billion Australian Santa Giulia Paya Lebar Quarter first New investment completed Barangaroo South named partner to deliver the Australia’s first carbon $4 billion4 project neutral precinct #1 TCFD5 70%6 ($310 million) $96 million 33.3 cents 1.5% Ranked infrastructure Four climate scenarios developed and published Increase in contractor for Australian Group Statutory Core Profit Distributions per Core Return in line with TCFD residential funds under Department of Defence Loss after Tax after Tax stapled security on Equity recommendations management Milan: 1. Comparative period 30 June 2019. 2. Formed post balance date. 3. Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark. 4. Total estimated development end value. 5. Task Force on Milano Santa Giulia Artist’s impression Climate Related Financial Disclosures. 6. Comparative period 30 June 2019. 14 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Our Business 15 Our Business Kuala Lumpur: The Exchange, TRX Lendlease’s largest integrated development in Asia. It will comprise six residential towers, a large scale retail mall Artist’s impression and a luxury hotel. 16 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Our Business 17 Our vision: To create the best places Our values Respect Be dedicated to relationships. Guiding what we do Our vision and values guide everything Integrity we do. We strive to create some of the Be true to our word. world’s best places, places that people love and want to experience. Our integrated business model, Innovation encompassing Development, Construction and Investments, enables our Be challenging in our vision. We develop inner city mixed use approach. developments, apartments, communities, retirement, retail, commercial assets and social and economic infrastructure. Our Construction segment delivers Collaboration project management, design and Be one team. construction services for the Group’s pipeline and for external clients across a range of sectors. With our investment management platform and co‑investment Excellence strategies, we can orchestrate the funding to make the vision a reality. Be exceptional This powerful combination of capability, in everything we do. tightly aligned to our vision and values, allows us to shape cities and connect communities. We believe it delivers Trust great outcomes for our customers and the communities we serve, inspires our Be open and transparent. people and provides sustainable growth for our securityholders. Sydney: Barangaroo South 18 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Our Business 19 Our strategy rated Business M eg od t el In elopme Dev nt To Create the Best Places ments Cons st truc ve t n In io London: International Artist’s impression Quarter London The cornerstone of the Group’s strategy Opportunities have been unlocked The outcome is an urbanisation led Our strategy is supported by a strong risk While the development pipeline is A global platform combined is to create the best urban precincts in across our targeted gateway cities, with strategy focused on global gateway management and governance framework expected to be the main source of growth key global gateway cities. the urbanisation platform comprising a cities. These cities have attributes that which requires robust safety and for the Investments platform, we will with local expertise across The ability to deliver major urbanisation portfolio of 21 major projects across nine are typically more resilient through sustainability standards and a structured look for other growth opportunities that targeted gateway cities gateway cities. property cycles and attract more global approach to capital allocation. leverage our ability to add value. projects through our integrated business investment capital. They often contain enables us to deliver the model, together with our financial strength An important component of the strategy Our strategy must evolve to remain A once in a century pandemic is having is the capital efficient land management sites well suited to regeneration and successful. a profound impact globally and it is most value and create the and strong track record, provides a point of difference we believe few can match. model where land is typically drawn infrastructure upgrades and play to The foundations of a global platform for too early to gauge its lasting effects. best places. our strengths. down in phases and payments linked to growth are being assembled to accelerate It may result in the acceleration of More than two decades of experience development activity. It is designed to the delivery of our development pipeline. existing trends such as online retail and creating large scale mixed use urban withstand market cycles. This involves enhancing our operating a deterioration of housing affordability, precincts has enabled the Group to structure by employing an enterprise wide but potentially a reversal in some others deepen its expertise and sophistication approach to facilitate production at a such as densification in the workplace to become, in our view, the preeminent urbanisation specialist. It has also End to end capabilities across all aspects of real estate – greater scale. and demand for inner city living. underpinned the strong growth of our from concept and planning, to design and delivery through A key component of the pipeline Business resilience will be critical to Investments platform. to funding and investment management – generate acceleration is our aim to lead digital navigate the uncertainty that may persist disruption in the construction industry. for some time. Our urbanisation led The success and vibrancy of our superior economic, social and environmental outcomes. strategy with its mixed use capabilities completed precincts is testament to our is uniquely placed to adapt to prevailing capability. This demonstrated track record market conditions as opportunities arise of superior outcomes for placemaking, across a range of property sectors. sustainability and connectivity has helped us achieve our aim to be the global urbanisation partner of choice. 20 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Our Business 21 Global presence, Development Construction Funds under Assets under local knowledge pipeline backlog revenue management management $113 billion1 $14 billion $36 billion $29 billion Our urbanisation led strategy focuses on gateway cities around the world. London These cities often contain sites well suited to regeneration, • Thamesmead Waterfront playing to the breadth of our skills. • Euston Station Broadening the platform has driven rapid growth in our pipeline • Silvertown Quays with 21 major2 urbanisation projects across nine gateway cities. • International Quarter London Our teams of locally based professionals combine their property • Elephant Park expertise and capability with the scale of our global platform. Chicago • High Road West • Southbank • Deptford Landings1 • Lakeshore East Milan Boston • Milano Santa Giulia San Francisco New York • Milan Innovation District Rome Beijing • San Francisco Bay Area Project Los Angeles Tokyo • 30 Van Ness Shanghai Kuala Lumpur • The Exchange TRX Singapore Brisbane • Brisbane Showgrounds Perth Sydney • Waterbank • Barangaroo South • Sydney Place Melbourne • Victoria Cross over station development Lakeshore East, Milano Santa Giulia, The Exchange TRX, Victoria Cross • Melbourne Quarter Chicago Milan Kuala Lumpur over station development, Sydney • Victoria Harbour 1. Formerly The Timberyard. 1. Remaining estimated development end value. 2. Projects with an estimated development end value greater than $1 billion. 22 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Our Business 23 Development tegrate d Business M od el These, combined with patience, thoughtfulness, experience and humility, Development opportunities across our Australian retirement portfolio have In evelopmen lead to achieving great outcomes. been boosted with approvals for unique D t developments at three villages, including Urbanisation a new concept, multi generational village Lendlease’s core strategy is focused on adjacent to the University of Wollongong. Disciplined urbanisation in targeted gateway cities Our development expertise in retirement Portfolio and we aim to be the urbanisation partner was recently extended to Shanghai where Management to of choice. Securing major urbanisation we are delivering an initial c.850 senior Maximise projects where the breadth of our skills living homes. ents Co can be applied is where our competitive Securityholder ns stm Value tru advantage excels. In the US, our Military Housing portfolio is ve ct expected to offer periodic redevelopment Our integrated model is fundamental in n opportunities. In io delivering these projects. Working with Development, our Construction segment Infrastructure development provides design and delivery excellence, We provide infrastructure development while Investments attracts investment services for Public Private Partnership partners for financing. projects in Australia. Financial arrangements, and transactional and Our first major1 urbanisation project other advisory services, are delivered in The Development segment was secured in Melbourne almost two the capacity of sponsor for projects in a decades ago and still offers a substantial comprises activities across residential pipeline. This is typical of the range of sectors, predominantly in social urbanisation, residential and infrastructure. The Sydney International type of project we look to secure: long Convention, Exhibition and Entertainment retirement communities, and dated; capital efficient; whole of precinct; Precinct was one such project. and spanning multiple property cycles. infrastructure development. In recent years we have broadened our urbanisation platform via targeted Financial returns for the segment are generated via: international gateway cities. They include FY20 Development segment projects in London, Milan, Chicago • Development margins and the San Francisco Bay Area. These highlights • Development management fees projects form part of a portfolio that comprises 21 major projects across nine Development pipeline of $113 billion:2 • Origination fees gateway cities. $99 billion urbanisation Being awarded these projects from both Our capability public and private sector clients is a $14 billion communities Placemaking is the capability that sets strong endorsement of our expertise. Our us apart to realise our vision to create sustainability credentials have been critical Secured two major the best places. We create environments in the selection process, with consistent urbanisation projects: where people consciously choose to feedback that the integration of all aspects dwell by being sensitive to a community’s of sustainability within our placemaking Thamesmead Waterfront, London: needs and the elements that attract its capabilities resonates strongly. c.11,500 homes members to an urban location. Our urbanisation pipeline is set to San Francisco Bay Area project: c.15,000 Effective place design requires active produce more than 56,000 residential homes engagement with partners who provide units and more than 50 commercial input as co-creators and is informed buildings over a c.25 year horizon. Completed Paya Lebar Quarter – by an understanding of their vision and We expect our development activity to Singapore’s newest lifestyle precinct: aspirations for the urban space they accelerate over the medium term as our will inhabit. secured pipeline progresses through Retail mall planning and into delivery. Managing the entire development process Three Grade A office towers is essential for success; from securing Residential and retirement communities For more than 50 years we have created 429 residential apartments land, creating masterplans, consulting with authorities and communities, through and delivered new suburban communities. to project management, sales and leasing. They range from inner urban villages to large scale, masterplanned communities A willingness to undertake ambitious with integrated town centres. We have projects, to challenge the status quo, 17 active projects in key population and collaborate with a range of partners growth corridors that are anticipated to to generate the right solutions are key deliver approximately 47,000 individual elements in our approach. land parcels. Shanghai: Ardor Gardens, Qingpu District Artist’s impression 1. Projects with an estimated development end value greater than $1 billion. 2. Remaining estimated development end value. 24 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Our Business 25 Construction tegrate d Business M od el and product knowledge with strong customer relationships to create places We expect future built form environments to be increasingly tied to precincts and In evelopmen that are innovative, sustainable and hubs. The experience and knowledge D t commercially viable. gained from the delivery of the extensive A successful project is more than just the urbanisation pipeline strengthens our delivery of buildings. An integral element ability to be a partner of choice. Disciplined Portfolio is our flexible approach where our team Innovation Management to of industry experts work collaboratively We use our scale and capacity to with the client to identify, plan and deliver innovate and lead disruption in the Maximise ents Co what is important for them. construction sector. Securityholder ns stm Value tru A significant proportion of repeat business Our investment in smart design and ve ct is a testament to being a trusted and advanced manufacturing has improved n strategic partner. In io safety, sustainability and efficiency, and Our risk management processes have has created exciting architectural and evolved from decades of experience. sustainable solutions. Disciplined origination and diversity We have innovated in the manufacture by client, contract type and sector are and use of engineered timber in Australia, hallmarks of our approach. and now use the product across our The Construction segment Substantial derisking takes place prior global business. We have also developed other product solutions across supply provides project management, to commencement of construction. chain, prefabrication and modularisation. Production and programming controls design and construction monitor and manage delivery, while a We are developing stronger digital services across a wide range rigorous commissioning process is applied capability to enhance our construction for a smooth transition to the client. of sectors. business. This is enabling us to simulate Areas of expertise all aspects of construction from design to We are one of Australia’s largest structural integrity to system performance Financial returns for the segment and user preferences. We expect this to are generated via: construction companies and in 2020 we were named the top infrastructure lead to a faster pace of innovation and • Project management and productivity across the business. construction management fees contractor for the Australian Department of Defence. • Construction margins1 In the US, we have been ranked the top multi‑family residential contractor2 FY20 Construction segment Our capability for 20 consecutive years. Our construction capability is showcased highlights Across Europe, we are exceptionally in the places and structures we create – well placed to participate in the integrated workplaces for some of the world’s Construction backlog delivery of the region’s c.$50 billion3 largest organisations, vibrant retail revenue of $14 billion urbanisation pipeline. centres, residential apartments, including Our Asian business has specialist Well diversified by sector and client affordable housing options, state of the art hospitals, and other buildings of civic expertise in the life sciences, education and social importance. and telecommunications sectors. In Japan, $7.5 billion of new work we have delivered more than 75,000 secured including: We have delivered construction projects telecommunications towers and rooftop around the world for more than six decades, antenna sites. Curtin University School of Design and creating thousands of buildings. And Built Environment, Perth projects delivered by businesses acquired Construction’s role in Lendlease’s integrated model HMAS Watson Redevelopment Delivery by Lendlease span more than a century. Our Construction segment typically Phase, Sydney We are recognised for creating innovative designs and delivers the built form for places that stand the test of time and we our urbanisation pipeline. 4 Hudson Square, New York have been entrusted to create and restore iconic buildings that shape city skylines. A shared vision generates superior Completed projects outcomes for all stakeholders. For It’s a legacy of which we are proud. example, design iterations running Wesley Place, Melbourne4 The Lendlease approach in parallel with planning lead to more creative, cost effective and timely 60 Martin Place, Sydney The Construction segment combines the benefits of global scale and the rich solutions to meet occupier and Paya Lebar Quarter, Singapore heritage of corporate knowledge with a investment partner demand. localised capability, capacity and network Paya Lebar Quarter is an example of to deliver high quality projects. where our delivery expertise and the Specialist design and project certainty we provide to partners management teams combine deep sector on long dated projects is an important component of our offer. Perth: Curtin University School of Design and Built Environment 1. From external clients only. 2. As ranked by ENR Sourcebook for Top 25 Multi‑Unit Residential. 3. Remaining estimated development end value. 4. Formerly 130 Lonsdale Street. 26 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Our Business 27 Investments tegrate d Business M od el Our world class asset creation capabilities focus on placemaking to create vibrant The portfolio comprises c.40,000 residential and more than 12,000 In evelopmen and diverse precincts. Buildings that lodging units across 50 Military Housing D t respond to the needs of occupants communities. typically outperform over the long term. We have long term agreements with the Disciplined Since FY14, our funds under management US Department of Defense to manage Portfolio has more than doubled. The majority these estates for military personnel and Management to of that growth has been generated their families. The Group added residential from the completion of assets across for rent to the asset management platform Maximise ents Co our urbanisation projects. The recently for the first time. Securityholder ns stm Value tru completed Paya Lebar Quarter in Retirement Living ve ct Singapore has contributed $3.3 billion One of the global trends that drives our n of funds under management. In io strategy is the ageing population. Further growth is expected to continue We are one of the largest owners, over the medium term as the urbanisation operators and developers of retirement pipeline converts into investment grade living communities in Australia. Our product. We expect our residential for footprint extends nationally across rent product to be a strong contributor to 72 villages and offers a range of this growth. The Investments segment accommodation options including Demonstrating our highly regarded funds premium resort style living and a variety owns and manages property and asset management capability, we of standalone units and apartments. and infrastructure assets. launched the $1.5 billion Lendlease Global We draw on our significant placemaking Commercial REIT in Singapore. The REIT and asset management skills to provide Financial returns for the segment was seeded with the Lendlease developed a strong sense of community for our are generated via: 313@somerset retail centre and three c.17,000 residents. • Fund and asset management fees office properties adjacent to our Milano Santa Giulia project. Other investments • Income and capital growth from Lendlease’s other investments include ownership interests Maintaining strong alignment with our investment partners, we have $2 billion telecommunications assets and an of co-investments in our funds platform. equity interest in the US Military This also provides a steady source of Housing portfolio. Our capability income for Lendlease. For decades we have been managing funds and assets for some of the world’s Asset management largest money managers including We have been managing retail centres sovereign wealth funds and large public across the world for more than 50 years FY20 Investment and private pension funds. and currently manage retail and office segment highlights Our expertise spans many property assets valued at more than $15 billion. sectors across both unlisted and listed Our asset management capability Funds under management property trusts and mandates. We have enables us to create places that thrive of $36 billion – 2% growth deep relationships with c.150 institutional for the long term. investment partners. Launched Lendlease Global We continually revitalise our assets to Commercial REIT, Singapore We offer a research led investment stay ahead of industry trends and deliver capability supported by active asset optimal customer experiences. The Completed Paya Lebar Quarter, management with leadership in introduction of digital tools throughout Singapore – $3.3 billion funds sustainability a critical element to our global retail portfolio, such as the under management our approach. Lendlease Plus App in Singapore, has provided our malls’ customers with Introduced a new investment partner The key point of difference for our the latest access to many benefits and to the platform – investment in Investments segment is the high quality provided new opportunities for our Milano Santa Giulia and sustainable product we create through our integrated model, which members during COVID-19. Digital offers investment partners diverse, long technology has also been key in Awarded c.$2 billion multi sector term investment choices on a global scale. communicating with more than 3,1001 mandate in Australia2 retailers within our Australian retail Funds management portfolio, providing a seamless customer Our global funds management platform experience. manages $36 billion of investments, predominantly across the office and Residential retail sectors. We also have a burgeoning In the US, we manage a $13.6 billion residential platform. Military Housing portfolio, which provides a steady and high quality source of earnings. Singapore: 313@somerset 1. Figure as at 31 December 2019. 2. Secured post balance date. 28 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Creating Together 29 Creating Together Creating the best places is not something we do alone; it comes from the creativity and commitment of our customers, our investment partners, governments, landowners, suppliers and the community. Creating Together – powerful partnerships to deliver the best places, now and into the future. Sydney: The Exchange, Darling Square The centrepiece of the new Darling Square community. 30 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Creating Together 31 By shaping cities Singapore: Singapore: For more than six decades Paya Lebar Quarter Paya Lebar Quarter Tower 2 we have been at the Strong forefront of projects track record that have become the cornerstones of cities and communities. Our objective is to leave a positive legacy for future generations and build a respected brand. Our ethos demands continual re‑evaluation of past achievements to find innovative solutions that redefine the benchmark of best practice. Our integrated business model has evolved to focus on urbanisation in key gateway cities. The first long dated and large scale mixed use project we secured was Victoria Harbour in 2001. The 30 hectare precinct, bounded by the Yarra River and Victoria Harbour, Singapore: Singapore: Paya Lebar Quarter Mall Park Place Residences includes kilometres of public waterfront promenade incorporating retail, commercial, residential, leisure and community facilities that cater for thousands of people. Being chosen as the development partner for The PLQ precinct The ongoing management of precincts transformational projects by both public and and assets is just as critical as their delivery. Our ability to positively impact private sector clients is a strong endorsement A bustling pedestrian friendly precinct with a rich cultural heritage: all parts of the property and construction lifecycle creates health and safety benefits of our urbanisation capabilities. 83,000 sqm of Grade A office space for all those who construct, maintain, across three towers and interact with our precincts. Through Singapore’s newest lifestyle precinct Going forward, we have a critical – Home to key Singaporean our Investments platform, we value our The completion of Paya Lebar Quarter role to play in the ongoing success and multi national corporations fiduciary role for institutional investors and (PLQ) this year marks the culmination of of the precinct, providing extensive including Lendlease’s Asian investment partners, and our experience a four year journey which has delivered a asset management services. We have headquarters is deep. We launched Australia’s first c.$4 billion business and lifestyle precinct attracted a number of Singaporean real estate investment trust in 1971 and for Singapore. and multi national corporations to the Retail mall featuring more than since that time we have fostered trusted precinct, as well as more than 200 200 stores relationships with key global investment Bid in joint venture with the Abu Dhabi leading retailers. – Leading retailers and alfresco dining partners – offering them tailored real Investment Authority (ADIA) in 2015, the estate investment solutions. four hectare site was originally a vacant plot, We are the fund manager for the earmarked by the Singapore Government as commercial component which is valued 429 residential apartments For more than two decades we have been a new commercial hub. at $3.3 billion and have a 30 per cent across three towers refining and developing our placemaking interest. – Direct access to shopping and expertise. Our credentials are highlighted Delivered through the integrated business Paya Lebar Quarter showcases our lifestyle amenities and transport by the numerous development and model, Paya Lebar Quarter showcases sustainability awards attained and the our ability to create a progressive, international experience in large scale Community spaces including overwhelmingly positive feedback we safe and sustainable mixed use city urban regeneration projects, while Melbourne: public plaza, playgrounds and receive from those who live, work or visit precinct. It features some of the highest tapping into our local expertise of Victoria Harbour roof gardens our precincts. sustainability ratings achievable and operating in Singapore for more than has been recognised for showcasing 45 years. exemplary safety standards and innovation. 32 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Creating Together 33 We create place by responding to the common interests of all stakeholders, enlisting bold thinking and applying a visionary approach. London: International Quarter London The Wellbeing Capital – International Quarter London Adjacent to the 2012 London Olympic site, International Quarter London (IQL) We create places anchors the transformation of the district into London’s newest cultural quarter and that meet the needs a desirable place to live and work. London: of people today and Inspired by Stratford’s rich cultural heritage and nurtured by its Olympic Brisbane: Yarrabilba Sydney: Barangaroo South Elephant Park well into the future. legacy, IQL has been designed to encourage movement, interaction, Connected Community – The Streets of Barangaroo – Through creating engagement and creativity. It features state of the art workspaces that promote Yarrabilba Barangaroo South, Sydney wellbeing and encourage interaction, In Queensland’s South East, we are Barangaroo South introduced six new as well as a variety of outdoor meeting building a complete community from streets, lanes and walkways to the city, spaces in the precinct’s three acres the ground up. Drawing on a rich and each taking its name from an historical the best places of parklands. diverse heritage, Yarrabilba, or ‘place aspect of the site and showcasing a very of song’ in Wangerriburra/Bundjalung distinct purpose and personality. In the public realm, plant life and foliage language, is set to become home to are being chosen to eliminate the need These streets became the heart of more than 45,000 residents. for chemical pesticides, and pollination placemaking for the precinct. Home to a by insects is being encouraged to reduce More than a quarter of the 647 hectares highly curated mix of cafés, restaurants, airborne allergens. A variety of bird will become parkland, sporting fields bars and retail stores, they also act as species are being targeted for inclusion in and nature sanctuaries, all linking to the public thoroughfares, places to eat and Our core capability is placemaking. By doing this, we create value for all Bringing together design and living a biodiversity strategy that recognises the surrounding bushland rich in history. meet, and a civic canvas for a diverse stakeholders. metrics provides a framework to assess psychological benefits of birdsong. Residents will benefit from a lively, healthy program of events and activations. We aim to design places that are vibrant Placemaking is our competitive advantage placemaking. This also provides a method lifestyle provided by easy access to and authentic. They are crafted and IQL’s lasting contribution will be the Innovative collaborations with the City of and a commercial imperative for us to to identify priorities and inform investment green open spaces and innovative leisure thoughtfully curated to help people feel richness of the social, economic and Sydney, local community groups, artists remain the partner of choice. Not only is decisions. facilities that offer a balance of community safe, belong and thrive. individual wellbeing it helps create and commercial partners enhance the it key to securing projects and attracting Understanding the history of the land and and nature. We view placemaking as a collaborative amongst all who visit. place by continually introducing diverse capital, we see it as our responsibility precincts we reinvigorate is fundamental Yarrabilba offers an inspiring new address, and inspiring experiences within the process that enables physical spaces and the legacy we will leave for future to curation of place. Acknowledgement where people are given the opportunity to precinct that are accessible to all. to meet people’s needs and resonate with generations. and genuine respect for heritage provides grow and prosper. It is a fresh new place their aspirations. The places we create are Great places are accessible and context and enhances place creation. that residents feel proud to call home. meaningful, appealing and enduring. convenient; activated and sociable; responsible; and genuine and memorable. 34 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Creating Together 35 Sunnyvale • Moffett Park Mountain View • North Bayshore • East Whisman San Jose • Diridon Station Area Artist’s impression Artist’s impression From client to partner To successfully deliver a project of Understanding before the shovel hits the this scale, we have assembled a cross ground how a project will look, feel, work Lendlease prides itself on building long functional team of experts to explore and impact the environment will simplify Artist’s impression term partnerships with institutions, solutions to some of the industry’s most interdependencies in the decision making landowners and investors across the globe. pressing matters, such as lack of affordable process and allow us to achieve a more This has been no different with Google. Through housing, issues with transportation, and productive, safer and efficient approach Whether it’s urban redevelopment What began as a traditional client service relationship to help build Google’s London creating opportunity pathways. to the life of the projects. Moreover, the built environment we create projects, nation building HQ has evolved and, in 2017, we expanded Development grounded as a result of these insights will create our relationship to work with Google on in digitisation solutions more tailored and adaptable to its infrastructure such as hospitals c.15 acres within their property holdings partnering While the projects may be grounded in users. In exploring these new approaches in the San Francisco Bay Area. A resulting and universities, or fostering long two year consultancy helped us in being the physical world, it is undeniable that digitisation will power a transformation of we succeed in our mission to improve the human experience with a more affordable, selected as the preferred development term investment relationships, we partner for up to 15 million square feet the built environment. As part of our work inclusive and resilient future. across all our projects we will harness This is an extraordinary opportunity for create lasting legacies through of residential, retail, hospitality, and associated community uses across three this potential and seek to recognise Lendlease, and just the beginning of collaborative partnering. major cities in the Bay Area. the significant advantages it may offer in building more livable, efficient and this important partnership as we help Google realise their vision for mixed use sustainable communities. communities. 36 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Creating Together 37 Through Investment partner relationships Our investment partners have unique partnering access to Lendlease’s leading development capability and pipeline, with investments focused on generating sustainable, long term returns. Throughout the year we progressed several Unlocking an initiatives with investment partners. underutilised In Milan, we introduced PSP Investments riverside location to the platform through a 50/50 in London partnership to develop Milano Santa Giulia. The $4 billion urban regeneration project Leading UK housing is expected to deliver more than 2,500 association, Peabody, residential units, 124,000 sqm of office selected us to jointly space and 108,000 sqm of retail, leisure deliver 11,500 homes and entertainment areas. The first phase of at Thamesmead the partnership will develop c.50,000 sqm Waterfront in London. of office space across two buildings, which The 250 acre site is are already c.85% pre leased. currently undeveloped and benefits from In the residential for rent sector, a further 2.5km of river frontage. two buildings at Elephant Park were The project will put into delivery under our existing rejuvenate the existing UK Residential Investment Partnership town centre and create with CPP Investments. In the US, our new cultural, community partnership with First State Super and commercial spaces. committed to developing a further residential building at our Southbank urban regeneration project in Chicago. London: Thamesmead Waterfront We launched the Lendlease Global Commercial REIT in Singapore and listed on the Singapore Exchange. The REIT was seeded with the Lendlease developed Artist’s 313@somerset retail centre and three impression office properties adjacent to our Milano Santa Giulia project. We were selected by TCorp, the investment and financial management partner of the New South Wales public sector, to manage a c.$1.5 billion diversified property portfolio. The mandate has subsequently grown to include an additional asset and is now valued at c.$2.1 billion. Sydney: HMAS Watson Image courtesy of Department of Defence Queensland: Sunshine Coast University Hospital Birmingham: Birmingham Smithfield Chicago: Lakeshore East Artist’s impression Trusted partner for the Providing critical health Transport enabled A step closer to Milan’s Artist’s impression Australian Department infrastructure development opportunities new innovation ecosystem of Defence In the past decade, we have proudly in London Working collaboratively with the Arexpo We were named the top infrastructure delivered more than 50 public and private We have been selected as the preferred SpA Group, planning consent was contractor for the Australian Department hospitals and health related projects development partner by Birmingham City received for Phase One of the Milan of Defence in FY20. across Australia. Council to deliver a $2.8 billion urban Innovation District, a 100 hectare mixed quarter incorporating more than 2,000 use redevelopment set to regenerate During the year we were selected to Our expertise was recognised by the homes and a new site for the city’s historic the site of the 2015 World Expo. Dubbed complete several large new contracts Queensland and NSW Governments with Bullring retail markets. a ‘real city in the city’, the precinct is including the delivery of training facilities the awarding of two significant projects: set to become a world leading science, at HMAS Watson, the Navy’s principal the Caboolture Hospital redevelopment, Birmingham Smithfield will be a short knowledge and technology hub. navigation training facility in Sydney which includes design and construction walk from the new High Speed 2 (HS2) Harbour; and new facilities to support of a five storey clinical services building to terminus station. Phase One of HS2 will link Separately, transformation of the broader the operation and maintenance of increase hospital capacity; and the main Birmingham to London, and the line will precinct has begun with work underway offshore patrol vessels at HMAS Stirling works contract to build the Prince of Wales terminate at Euston Station, adjacent to the on the Galeazzi Hospital. Following an in Western Australia. Hospital’s new Acute Services Building, site of our $10.9 billion urbanisation project. international competition, a design has part of the NSW Government’s $720 been chosen for the Human Technopole million Randwick Campus Redevelopment. – a new building for scientific research. Milan: Milan Innovation District 38 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Creating Together 39 By engaging Promoting diversity in construction industry employment with the Increasing participation of under represented communities in construction is a Lendlease social sustainability focus area. This year, the Lendlease Foundation expanded its construction industry employment barrier reduction program in Chicago with the launch of a new funding partnership with HIRE360, a workforce development organisation made Lendlease support for community up of construction industry wide partners. HIRE360 acts as a hub for job candidates seeking to start careers through apprenticeship Australian bushfire recovery training programs in the building trades, offering a one stop shop for job seekers to receive In response to the devastating bushfires mentoring, enrol in training, connect with trades employers and other support services. in Australia, the Lendlease Foundation worked with partners to directly support As of April 2020, the funding has benefited 54 job seekers including high numbers of communities in need immediately and for women, minorities and veterans. All 54 were either accepted into or in the process of the long term. applying to and pursuing an apprenticeship program at the time of service provision. Lendlease and our employees from around the world helped raise more than $1 million to assist the Australian Red Cross in supporting communities most affected by bushfires. Working with our partner, Landcare, plans are underway to identify appropriate employee volunteering projects tied to the support and recovery of communities affected by bushfires as part of the Lendlease 2020 Community Day later this year. In addition, ten Lendlease Community Grants have been allocated to help bushfire affected community/non profit organisations. Two For Tea And A Chat COVID-19 has had significant impact on our Retirement Living residents’ opportunities for social interaction and connection. In response, we developed a national program designed to better connect residents isolated by social distancing requirements. The program included ‘Two For Tea And A Chat’ weekly calls to participating residents from Lendlease employees and volunteers. Our employees’ children have also been encouraged to send letters or drawings to residents as a thoughtful surprise. London: Silvertown Quays Artist’s impression Community consultation – The partnership is committed to A place to call home – Silvertown Quays engaging residents, the community and FutureSteps other key stakeholders throughout the and Elephant Park development process. FutureSteps is a Lendlease shared value initiative grounded in the belief that Engaging with the community is an As well as providing high quality homes, everyone needs a place to call home. important part of Lendlease’s approach jobs and business opportunities, Elephant The aim of FutureSteps is to empower to urban regeneration and the creation Park is centred around a park, providing a vulnerable people by partnering with of thriving, sustainable communities that new green public space for the Elephant established not for profit organisations are rich in culture and context. London’s and Castle community. To ensure the park to boost the availability of quality Silvertown Quays and Elephant Park reflected local aspirations, we provided accommodation and support services, exemplify this approach. the opportunity for those who live in, work and by investing in targeted skilling, in or visit Elephant Park to input to the training and jobs programs. Silvertown Quays will provide thousands park’s design. of new homes and non residential FutureSteps has awarded close to spaces for commercial, retail, hotel Both projects have initiated a range of $200,000 in grants and provided more and community use. The Silvertown activities to ensure consultation and than $170,000 in kind to program partners Partnership, a joint venture between engagement including workshops, public via skilled volunteering and procurement Lendlease and Starwood Capital, aims exhibitions and site tours, open days, savings. We will continue to expand to create a place that is innovative walking tours and digital communications. London: Elephant Park FutureSteps with revenue from our and environmentally sustainable and Australian residential business. will provide tangible benefits for the local community for the long term. 40 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Creating Together 41 New digital mentor By looking technology supports into the future project management excellence globally Key to thriving in our OLi integrates all traditional project management steps into the process and industry is the ability digitises the full project lifecycle, from business development and origination to anticipate and even to delivery, asset management and potentially divestment. Once fully initiate technological rolled out, this global tool will connect our people with our best practice disruption. Knowledge Gateway, pre populate digital templates, systematise the investment An important digital technology initiative committee process, and automate team that has begun roll out at Lendlease is task management. Additional future the One Lendlease Interactive digital capabilities will include project team mentor platform, or ‘OLi’ as it is more collaboration space, project mobilisation commonly known. Its purpose is to help and resourcing tools and a dynamic us more consistently deliver projects approval system that adjusts to changing via an endorsed Lendlease Way so that project characteristics. customers experience the same high quality products and services delivered at scale anywhere in the world. Carbon neutral – building a better world We are committed to creating Accelerating strategic resilience across our business digital twin adoption and addressing the climate impacts of our business with greater focus and in the property direct action. In line with our Carbon Target and and construction building on our Australian construction Sydney: Digital Twin, 60 Martin Place industry business’ achievement of net zero carbon in FY19, we have commitments in place Image courtesy of for assets representing more than $12 Willow Inc. billion in Gross Asset Value to operate at a net zero carbon basis by 2025. In December 2019, our business signed up as the first property and infrastructure company to become a member of the Digital twin technology combines and time savings, risk management and We have also partnered with the NSW ResponsibleSteel initiative, which aims to geometry, physics and process to create sustainability. We have taken a leading Department of Customer Service drive low to zero carbon steel solutions a digital rehearsal of the built world. role in championing this technology to establish the NSW branch of the for our supply chain. Also at the end of While this technology has been around through partnering with government, Digital Twin Consortium. Through the last year, Barangaroo South was certified since the early 2000s, its application in industry and academia. This has included NSW Government spatial twin, we are by the Commonwealth Government as the construction and property industry is becoming a founding member of the collaborating to share anonymised data Australia’s first carbon neutral precinct. relatively new and facilitated by advances Digital Twin Consortium, a global group of across public and privately owned spaces in the Internet of Things and increased users working together to accelerate the and building assets. Our carbon neutral innovation cost effectiveness. digital twin market and demonstrate the achievements were also recognised this This will provide NSW with insights that year with selection as a finalist in Fast value of technology. Chaired by Bill Ruh, In the past year, we have accelerated the help improve planning and decision Company’s Best World Changing Ideas CEO Digital, Lendlease, the consortium development of our digital twin capability making in the development of new places APAC category for our holistic efforts includes companies such as Ansys, Dell and expertise. Our goal is to drive disruption within the state. It will also enable access to change what we create and how we Technologies and Microsoft. in the property and construction industry to critical data for our first responders in create it to be carbon neutral. to deliver better outcomes in safety, cost the event of an emergency. Townsville: The Science Place, James Cook University 42 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Managing and Measuring Value 43 Managing and Measuring Value London: Euston Station One of London’s largest urban renewal projects. 44 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Managing and Measuring Value 45 Our five focus areas of value We measure our They underpin our ability to create economic, safe and sustainable success by the outcomes for our customers, partners, securityholders and the community. positive outcomes creation While we approach our focus areas with we generate through an innovative mindset, our decisions are supported by disciplined governance and five focus areas. risk management. Area of focus Material issue How we deliver value Value created How we measure value Operating safely across our We are committed to the safety of our people and those who Operating safely helps people feel valued Percentage of projects with no critical incidents: A critical incident is an operations and projects. interact with our assets and sites. Through our Global Minimum and cared for, and fundamentally makes event that has the potential to cause death or permanent disability. This is an Maintaining the health and Requirements (GMRs) we operate to a consistent standard across us more consistent, reliable and efficient indicator unique to Lendlease. wellbeing of our employees all operations. These GMRs extend to physical safety and people’s in everything we do. Critical Incident Frequency Rate: A Lendlease indicator measuring the rate and those who engage with mental health and wellbeing. of critical incidents. Health our assets and sites. Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate: An indicator and industry standard and Safety measuring a workplace injury which prevents a worker from returning to duties the next day. Delivering securityholder returns. We deliver returns to our securityholders and adopt a prudent Margins, fees and ownership returns across Return on Equity: The annual Profit after Tax attributable to average Maintaining strong capital approach to capital management with a view to maintaining a Development, Construction and Investments. securityholders’ equity throughout the year. management to support ongoing strong balance sheet throughout market cycles. Our Portfolio Management Framework sets target Earnings per Security: Profit after Tax attributable to securityholders divided investment in our future pipeline. guidelines for how we manage our portfolio. by the average number of securities on issue during the year. Financial Understanding our customers Embedding a process of continuous improvement based on Evolves our ability to improve the customer Customer satisfaction and advocacy tracked: Measured at the regional and and responding to changes in the customer insights and actions identified through market research. experience, building our brand and reputation, business unit level and reported regularly to our Global Leadership Team. market. Designing and delivering This approach also consistently measures customer satisfaction enabling us to win more work and grow our Action plans are developed to drive continuous improvement in the customer innovative, customer driven and advocacy. business. Customer feedback also provides greater experience, supporting the delivery and growth of our development pipeline, solutions to win the projects we insight into product development and innovation construction backlog and funds under management. Our want to win and ultimately deliver opportunities. the best places. Customers Attracting, developing and We attract, develop and retain diverse talent by building a culture Capable and motivated people committed to Retention of key talent: The organisation benefits from its investment in retaining diverse talent. Ensuring of collaboration and continuous learning, where successes are the long term success of our business. Effective leaders and key workforce capabilities. we have the right capability recognised and people are rewarded. We invest in developing succession planning and leadership transitions Succession strength: Demonstrates depth of capable talent ready to across the organisation to deliver leaders and capabilities to drive our success. support business continuity and can reduce risks. progress into leadership roles. results for all stakeholders. Diversity of thought and experience can support Our People innovation, knowledge sharing and better decision Leadership positions held by women: Demonstrates our broader making. commitment to diversity and inclusion, and our objective of increasing female representation across our business. Managing and optimising our As a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, we are Recognised leadership in sustainability enhances Measurement of, and reporting on our progress towards our sustainability performance in the context committed to the continuous improvement of our operations. our brand and is a competitive differentiator. It targets and the tangible examples of the ways in which we are addressing of challenges facing the built We integrate strategies to mitigate the impact of climate also provides more opportunities to partner with our sustainability imperatives: environment, including climate change. For example, as a developer Lendlease is committed governments, investors and the private sector Carbon Target: We are a 1.5ºC aligned company: change and social pressures to the creation of independently rated green certified buildings who are placing increasing importance around Sustainability such as population growth and and precincts and climate resilient communities. We aim to Environmental Social Governance (ESG) matters. – Net zero carbon scope 1 and 2 by 2025 housing affordability. deliver inclusive, healthy and adaptable places that can thrive – Absolute zero carbon by 2040 through change. Social Target: Create $250m of social value by 2025. 46 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Managing and Measuring Value 47 Health and Safety FY20 has reinforced that the health and safety of our people, and those who interact with our operations, is Lendlease’s number one priority. In a year of unprecedented events, we recorded improvements across a number of key indicators. Performance metrics Across our organisation we have seen critical incident and lost time injury South Australia: Osborne South Development Project frequency rates at the lowest rates recorded since we commenced reporting on these metrics, with the percentage Eliminating work at height of operations without a critical incident at 90 per cent or above for the fourth The Osborne South Development Project (OSDP) in South Australia involved the consecutive year. These results are These key metrics were trending towards In addition, an online learning module assembly of a collection of large scale industrial facilities – the largest of which spans testament to the dedicated focus of new record low levels prior to COVID-19, was developed as part of our mandatory 187m long, 87.4m wide and standing 50m high. our teams. which impacted the end of the financial learning requirements. This module In bringing together innovation and safety, the project team was able to develop year. Maintaining these low frequency rates addressed the revised ways of working techniques to assemble the walls and roofing structures at ground level – with the during the COVID-19 period demonstrates and directed our people to support vertical elements then raised into position mechanically, and the roof structure then the diligence of our operational teams services available to those whose mental Operations without in retaining a focus on workplace safety health has been affected. undergoing strand jacking to be lifted into position. a Critical Incident1 in the midst of applying a range of new Meticulous planning resulted in thousands of hours of work at height being eliminated “I have not felt safer Objectives and targets and the results were widely acknowledged by the client, the Australian Department workplace practices and protocols. In support of Lendlease’s ongoing on a job than I have on of Defence. FY19 90 Fatality commitment to health and safety, we this one. If all jobs took Despite a significant improvement in developed a range of objectives and performance across a wide range of targets to be applied from FY21 to help into account what has FY20 91 safety metrics, it is with much sadness re-affirm our purpose when it comes to been done here, I’d be that we report a fatality on one of our health and safety, as well as establishing Revised construction methods fine with that.” operations during FY20. a broader range of key performance The 17 storey towers and town homes that 20 Year Concrete Foreman Critical Incident Tragically, in September 2019, a indicators. comprise 845 West Madison in Chicago Frequency Rate2 construction worker was seriously To coincide with this revised approach, includes 586 residences. injured in a critical incident on a project updated Global Minimum Requirements During the planning and construction in Kuala Lumpur where Lendlease is the (GMRs) will be released in FY21. The phases of the project, a number of FY19 0.8 construction manager. While recovering GMRs are the global standards we apply substantial changes to locally accepted from surgery in hospital, the man to environment, health and safety across construction methodologies were applied FY20 0.7 contracted an infection and subsequently all our operations and the updated that provided significant benefits to the passed away. standards will be the fourth edition of the project and the workers involved. GMRs since first released in 2008. We extend our deepest sympathies to The project has adopted revised methods the family, friends and colleagues of the The Lendlease view is that a place for erecting interior core platforms and Lost Time Injury deceased worker. that cares is a safe place to work. elevator shafts, revised structural formwork Frequency Rate3 COVID-19 To demonstrate how this approach is systems, and altered the approach to the applied through the lens of our operations, façade of the building – all with the intent The onset of COVID-19 resulted in Chicago: 845 West Madison we have developed a set of objectives in of delivering safe yet productive outcomes. FY19 1.8 significant disruptions across Lendlease’s line with our core values. operations and a significant broadening Traditionally high rise projects have their in the scope of our health and safety In future reports we will supplement the amenities on the ground floor. We have FY20 1.5 objectives. In response to the pandemic, incident frequency rate metrics already designed an innovative solution to “Never thought there would be “If I could work on a project we developed a range of global standards provided in this report with a wider range provide fully functioning facilities that are a full restroom totally plumbed, like this throughout the rest of addressing project shutdown protocols, of health and safety metrics that have a transferred floor to floor as the structure personal screening for people entering our greater focus on leading indicators. takes shape to support our workers. heated, and with proper my career, I would take it in a 1. A Critical Incident is an event that caused, or had operations, social distancing applications, The broader range of leading and lagging sanitation on a working deck.” heartbeat.” the potential to cause death or permanent disability. COVID-19 specific personal protective The workers on the project have provided This is an indicator unique to Lendlease. 2. The indicators will provide a more rounded the ultimate compliments: Tradesmen 15 Year Pipefitter Critical Incident Frequency Rate (CIFR) is calculated equipment requirements, and protocols in approach to health and safety as well as to provide a rate of instances per 1,000,000 hours worked. 3. The Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate the event of confirmed cases. the resulting performance. (LTIFR) is calculated to provide a rate of instances per 1,000,000 hours worked. 48 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Managing and Measuring Value 49 Financial Our approach to financial performance How we measure financial performance The Portfolio Management Framework When measuring financial performance, provides structure and financial we focus on Return on Equity and Portfolio Management discipline across the operating segments Earnings per Security to measure the Framework of Development, Construction and returns we achieve for our securityholders. Investments. It is designed to maximise The Portfolio Management Framework Maximising long term risk adjusted returns for securityholders outlines target returns at a segment level. securityholder value and deliver value for our customers. These returns are used to derive a Return on Equity target within the 10 to 14 per Combining the three operating segments 1. Capital allocation cent range, and Earnings per Security leverages the competitive advantage of used to make distributions within the our integrated model, enhancing value Focused on gateway cities 40 to 60 per cent payout ratio target. for our securityholders, partners and the community. This has included award FY20 – equity raising Australia 50-70% winning and innovative design excellence, On 28 April 2020, the Group International regions 5-20%1 the creation of better public places and announced the launch of an equity superior sustainability solutions. raising via an institutional placement 2. Business model Financial strategy and Security Purchase Plan (SPP) to eligible securityholders. The Group Integrated model synergies The Portfolio Management Framework is raised $950 million via the institutional Target EBITDA mix: the core of our financial strategy. placement and $260 million via the This framework sets target guidelines and SPP at the offer price of $9.80 per new Development 40-50% is designed to: security, resulting in the issue of a total Construction 10-20% • Maximise long term securityholder of 123.4 million new fully paid ordinary stapled securities. Investments 35-45% value through a diversified, risk adjusted portfolio Detailed financial performance 3. Target returns • Leverage the competitive advantage of and outlook our integrated model For detailed information on our FY20 Group ROE 10-14% financial performance as measured under • Optimise our business performance the Portfolio Management Framework, Development ROIC 10-13%2 relative to the outlook for our markets refer to the Performance and Outlook on a long term basis Construction EBITDA margin 2-3% section on pages 76 to 89 and the • Provide financial strength to execute Financial Statements on pages 142 to 205. Investments ROIC 8-11%2 our strategy, maintain an investment grade credit rating, and capacity to both 4. Capital structure absorb and respond to market volatility. Investment grade credit rating The Group is currently reviewing the framework in conjunction with the Optimised Weighted strategy review. The revised framework Average Cost of Capital will be provided in FY21. Target gearing3 10-20% 5. Distribution policy Payout of earnings 40-60% Capital management discipline New York: National September 11 1. Per region. 2. Through cycle target based on Memorial rolling three to five year timeline. 3. Gearing San Francisco: definition: Net debt to total tangible assets less cash. Artist’s impression 30 Van Ness 50 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Managing and Measuring Value 51 Our Military Housing Privatisation Initiative (MHPI) Customer Care Program Customers Our US Communities business launched a customer care program with the vision to provide outstanding customer service to communities where military families live, work and thrive. The program is based on a commitment to six pillars: to provide Safe and Healthy Homes, Quality Our customers range from small upward NPS result for B2C and small and Consistent Service Experience, downward movement for B2B, with C-SAT Communication and Education, individuals to the largest remaining steady. Overall Construction Customer snapshot1 Organisational Culture of Caring, Sense government, investment and results saw a small downward movement of Community, and Sense of Value. As a corporate organisations. in NPS. Investment Management had a solid increase in NPS and small positive 200 million result, we have successfully identified and are implementing new ways of listening increase in C-SAT. to and engaging with more than 110,000 Successful customer relationships depend Retail visitors annually2 Customer experience feedback clustered residents in over 40,000 homes. on our ability to understand what is (approximate) truly important to customers and then around relationship performance, service At the centre of our resident engagement delivery and product quality. Strength of delivering what they want. Customer experience research relationships drives trust and provides 110,000 strategy is our intent to establish a Resident Advisory Board (RAB) in each a buffer in difficult times. Highly skilled of our Army and Marine Corps/Navy Over the past three years, our global employees embed confidence in the Residents in US Military Housing communities. These RABs are designed customer experience research program relationship, whilst having a compatible (approximate) to give residents the opportunity has been embedded across all regions. cultural fit can provide a strong input into to directly work with local property The program helps us understand how customers perceive their experiences driving elements of trust, a key driver of customer experience (particularly for 471,000 management teams to help shape their community, express their concerns, with us and identify where we can B2B customers). share their ideas and suggestions, and to improve. It also guides decision making Residents across apartments Customers also highlighted the work directly with them to develop and on customer experience improvement and communities3 (approximate) importance of having customer centric implement effective solutions. planning and new product and service development. service delivery and communication processes to keep them informed, resolve 17,000 In FY20, approximately 25,000 customers problems and respond effectively in participated in our customer satisfaction a timely manner. Product quality, and Retirement living residents (C-SAT rating) and loyalty (NPS rating) a positive experience with Lendlease (approximate) research, an increase of approximately products, gives customers confidence ten percent on FY19. Notwithstanding and is a key factor in future engagement 1. As at 30 June 2020. Internal data capture, the impact of events such as the and advocacy. The ability to “go the extra not audited. 2. Number excludes urban COVID-19 pandemic, Brexit and the mile” and add value (beyond price) results regeneration retail. 3. An estimate of current and future residents based on our projects to Australian bushfires, our performance in customers justifying their purchase/ date and existing pipeline. this year remained steady and positive. investment decision. The Development portfolio results saw a Customer experience improvement initiatives Each year across Lendlease a range Retirement Living COVID-19 drives customer of customer experience improvement connecting residents rewards program innovation initiatives are implemented to improve customers’ and residents’ experiences. The Australian Retirement Living business Our Singapore shoppers’ rewards program launched a new free app called Lendlease and app, Lendlease Plus, launched several Customer facing digital portal Together, designed to help residents feel new COVID-19 stimulated offers in FY20 more connected to their community, keep to the program’s approximately 128,000 In the UK, in collaboration with the Global informed and easily access their friends, members. This included new food delivery Residential Practice, a customer facing family and the village management team. special offers with partners GrabFood, digital portal is being developed and Using the app, residents and their family foodpanda and deliveroo, designed to progressively implemented to improve the and friends can access the latest village support customers who did not want to customer experience by enabling tailored news, wellbeing ideas and resident stories leave home and provide indirect support communication with the customer. This as well as video chat with loved ones. to participating food and beverage will empower customers to do what they retailers. Members could also donate want, when they want and interact more reward dollars to Willing Hearts, a local easily with Lendlease all the way through meal delivery charity supporting people in their journey. need during the COVID-19 period. 52 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Managing and Measuring Value 53 Health and wellbeing response Wellbeing to COVID-19 In response to COVID-19, Lendlease Our People put in place a range of measures across our global operations to support our people’s health and wellbeing. Hardship and Wellbeing Fund The Lendlease Hardship and Wellbeing Fund was established to support team members impacted by COVID-19 who Our people are the greatest Our target retention rate for key talent In our most recent People Survey, we need short term help to cover the essentials is 90 per cent or higher across all talent achieved a significant increase in the and expenses of everyday life. This includes contributors to our success programs. This year we achieved a effectiveness of leaders as measured things like a mortgage or rental payment, and enable us to fulfil our vision retention rate of 91 per cent. by their direct employees. Improving groceries, utilities and medical expenses. the effectiveness of our leaders remains to create the best places. In FY20, our pipeline of successors for key a key focus for us as we deliver our Online programs leadership roles, along with the number of With most of our office based employees females in our succession pool, increased. global pipeline. As we continue to grow our influence working remotely due to COVID-19, we For senior executive positions, we have a Workforce management were able to adapt our suite of health and internationally, the way we work is target of three unique successors and in With a focus on preserving jobs and Mental Health First Aid evolving. Together with our partners, wellbeing programs to be delivered online. we aim to deliver large scale projects our FY20 talent and succession review, reducing costs, a number of workforce Lendlease has long had a focus on the health and wellbeing of its people and developed The Roadmap to Wellbeing Program covers faster by drawing on innovation, 75 per cent of senior executive positions management actions were implemented a holistic framework and initiatives to promote and support this focus. Since 2014, nine topics themed around Productive knowledge sharing, leadership excellence met this target. While the number of unique in response to COVID-19. Lendlease has partnered with Mental Health First Aid (MHFA) to help our people identify People, Performance Stamina and Positive and our diverse and capable workforce. successors has decreased, the readiness of and support mental health in the workplace. In FY20, we trained 186 employees and now Connections. They are offered as one hour Working with a set of globally consistent have more than 1,850 trained MHFA Officers globally. Our ambition is to create a work those successors has improved. bite sized workshops, short toolbox talks and principles, leaders tailored their plans and environment that: actions based on the situation in each To expand our support of mental health in the workplace, we launched the MHFA ten minute digital learning modules that can • Values and cares for its people, with Succession strength1 location – in some cases accommodating Leaders Program with more than 400 leaders completing the training. The program aims be accessed at any time from any device. safety and wellbeing our priority site specific requirements and accessing to provide our people leaders with the tools and skills to support employees with mental Leader webinars focused on equipping government support where it was health issues. our leaders to support their teams as well • Has inspirational leaders who others FY19 78% available. This enabled us to implement Mental health support is part of the wider Lendlease health and wellbeing framework and as a range of additional services such as aspire to emulate workforce management actions that our for the second year we have been certified as a ‘Healthy Workplace’ by the Global Centre an online doctor service, meditation and • Is team oriented, inclusive and diverse FY20 75% people understood and were relevant to for Healthy Workplaces. movement programs. their local experience. • Fosters a unique culture that balances Knowledge innovation, knowledge sharing and risk The range of actions include reduced management. Leadership positions pay for a temporary period without To support these ambitions, our people held by women2 a corresponding reduction in hours, sharing reduced hours of work, furloughs and strategy has focused on developing stand downs and, in a limited number of leadership excellence, codifying and FY19 26.1% cases, redundancies. sharing knowledge globally, creating a consistently positive employee FY20 26.9% experience, and developing and deploying To better codify and share our global our talent globally. intellectual property (IP), in 2019 we launched two ‘Practices’; Urbanisation and Developing and deploying key talent The employee experience Residential Development. As the scale of placemaking increases, Listening to our people helps us to we continue to invest in developing create an environment and experiences These practices bring together a the capability of our people to deliver. that support our employees. It provides community of senior sector leaders This investment is across all career stages, an environment where our people are and subject matter experts to develop from our global graduate program to recognised and rewarded for living our specialist sector IP that is available to our Construction Director Program and values and building the culture we need anyone in Lendlease. Urbanisation Project Director Program. to create the best places. Direct guidance from practice affiliate We currently have 404 of the brightest We continuously communicate and members, as well as access to expert new graduates across our four operating engage with our people in designing and validated knowledge, boosts our peoples’ regions in our Global Graduate Program. evolving the way we work to foster greater professional development. It also protects Now in its fourth year, this program enterprise wide collaboration, continuous our IP if an individual leaves the business. immerses the graduates in Lendlease learning and open and transparent Joining a practice as an affiliate member Attracting future talent practices to accelerate their careers and dialogue. is an aspiration of our most accomplished Since the launch of our Global Graduate Program four years ago, we have welcomed build lasting knowledge and relationships. subject matter experts. It is recognition As part of this open dialogue, we measure 924 of the best and brightest students to our organisation. Our two year program offers To deliver the best places we need the effectiveness of our leaders through of a person’s abilities, commitment to a breadth of experiences designed to accelerate learning and readiness of graduates. the best leaders on our projects. We Our People Survey, conducted every six continuous improvement and contribution It is an opportunity not only for the graduates to learn but also for the organisation to continue to grow our expertise in project months. During the year, we embarked to our knowledge sharing culture. learn. Along with their formal learning pathway, we engage them in projects to create and construction delivery. In FY20, we on a targeted Leadership Excellence Our practices clearly articulate the innovative solutions and enhance operations across the organisation. had 39 senior leaders participate in our Program to build leadership capability. expectations of our affiliate members Our entry level talent program is also an opportunity for us to focus on bringing a Construction Director Program and This focused on direction setting, leading and foster the behaviours that are key to diverse range of candidates into the organisation. In the past three years, we have Urbanisation Project Director Program. effective teams and regular and open Lendlease maintaining our position as an achieved a 50/50 gender balance globally, which builds a pipeline of talented women communication. industry leader. for future leadership roles. We will continue to focus on providing opportunities to under represented groups in our industry. 1. For all senior executive positions, we have a target of three unique successors. We define this as succession strength. This year we have moved from an average measure across the cohort to a percentage of positions that met the three or more target. 2. Leadership roles include a number of levels in the Lendlease Career Job Framework, including executive level roles. 54 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Managing and Measuring Value 55 We are a Net zero carbon scope 1 and 2 by 2025 Sustainability 1.5ºC aligned company Absolute zero carbon by 2040 Introducing our new We are a sustainability targets 1.5ºC aligned company Our vision is to live in a world warmed by no more than 1.5ºC and to be responsible for creating measured social value on the journey. We are excited to launch these targets. They are our call to action and will be our measure of success as we begin the next chapter of our sustainability story. We are acutely aware Create $250m that these targets will be difficult to achieve – and believe it is this challenge that makes them worthwhile striving for. We look forward to working with and learning from our of social value clients, partners, tenants and supply chain as we create the pathways towards achieving by 2025 these targets and supporting industry transformation. Committing to transformation Sustainability has always been a priority for Lendlease. We have a long and proud To Create the Best Places Sydney: Barangaroo South history of leading the evolution of the built form to be more sustainable, with numerous sustainability firsts achieved. As a 1.5ºC aligned company, we aim Taking action together In June 2019, we announced our new Imperatives to tackle the climate crisis head on With a target as ambitious as ours, we What 1.5ºC aligned means Sustainability Framework, focusing our while delivering client and shareholder efforts on three global imperatives to value, maintaining our employee need to collaborate with others. We are To combat climate change we need deliver on our sustainability objectives and value proposition and honouring already working with our suppliers and to minimise global warming. 1.5ºC help in achieving our vision to create the our sustainability legacy. Achieving advocacy groups to develop multilateral is a reference to the level of global best places. zero emissions will be approached responses to emissions in the built warming we hope to help limit the by setting short, medium and long environment. world to, based on pre industrial levels. As the business has implemented this new term goals, addressing our immediate This year we announced our partnership Due to the amount of greenhouse strategy, we realised we need to act faster Focus Area: emissions activity, and fostering industry with ResponsibleSteel, becoming the gases (such as carbon) already in as an industry to transform how we design, construct and manage the built form. Environmental participation and partnerships to help first property and investment company the system, even with our best Industry collaboration is key to achieving respond to wider, indirect emissions. to join the initiative. ResponsibleSteel efforts, the planet is set to warm the type of radical change needed in our The following five steps are required to brings together many innovative steel by 1.5ºC (it has already warmed to sector. This includes changes such as achieve our target: suppliers and manufacturers, partnering 1ºC). With no change to current electrification of buildings and equipment, 1. Create a decarbonisation investment to reduce emissions across the supply practices, the planet will warm by decarbonisation of materials manufacture strategy in 2021 chain. We also intend to play a similar role over 3ºC, which will catastrophically in advocating for low carbon cement. impact the ecosystem and lives. and the eradication of waste to landfill – Focus Area: 2. Phase out diesel and gas in our all while maintaining our commitment to We are also working in our gateway cities using our work as a platform for creating Social operations to respond to the evolving demands of The Paris Agreement is striving for less than 2ºC warming. The term social value for those who live, work or 3. Use 100% renewable electricity a zero carbon economy. After almost ‘1.5ºC aligned’ is a commitment to visit the places we create. before 2030 a decade of work in partnership with take actions to reduce our emissions We have committed to two new Governance 4. Collaborate with supply chain partners the NSW Government, Barangaroo to the levels required to limit global sustainability targets, aligned to our to set pathways to zero carbon by 2040 South became Australia’s first carbon warming to 1.5ºC. framework and sustainability imperatives. neutral precinct. 5. Collaborate with our tenants and The targets have been set after residents to transition to renewable consultation and deliberation with clients, electricity by 2040 partners and our employees. 56 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Managing and Measuring Value 57 Create $250m Assessing shared value partnerships beyond Hindsight of social value by 2025 project and asset obligations Using industry accepted methodology 2020 Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark (GRESB) leadership FY20 was the fifth year in the past six years that APPF Commercial has attained the prestigious number one global GRESB ranking. Remarkably, the Fund has grown its net lettable area by 23 per cent over the past six years, while simultaneously reducing its carbon footprint by 39 per cent. Three other Lendlease funds achieved top 10 global rankings in the 2019 GRESB: • Lendlease International Towers Sydney Trust (Towers Two and Three and International House at Barangaroo) – third globally overall and third in the office sector (across listed and unlisted funds) • APPF Retail – global first in the retail sector (across listed and unlisted funds) and fifth overall • Lendlease Sub Regional Retail Fund – global third in the retail sector (across listed and unlisted funds) and tenth overall. Lendlease Community Day volunteering Locally across Australia and New Zealand, APPF Industrial was ranked first in industrial (unlisted) and Lendlease’s Asian Sydney: Barangaroo retail funds came first, second and third Our Corporate Social Value Target is Partnering to increase the value who delivered the meals to charities in place for unlisted Asia retail funds. intended to demonstrate our corporate need. We have also been able to offer commitment to creating social value in the Key to the success of our new social value employees the opportunity to help pack target is the shared value partnerships, communities in which we operate, above and beyond what we are required to do at we will continue to establish and foster OzHarvest hampers for deployment to charities around Australia. A look back at the FY20 Performance (as at Q3) the project or asset level. via investment from our Lendlease Foundation. Through our partnerships 20% by 2020 targets Energy2 – 20% reduction This target will account for our investment in our corporate led, shared value we have been able to both deliver and receive social value outcomes for What is ‘social value (FY14 to FY20) Investment in new, more efficient assets, retrofitting of older assets and the development partnerships. It is based on achieving of faster construction methods over the past five years has helped the business achieve our communities, as well as our own an average 1:5 social value return on employees, who get to interact with measurement’ The Group’s performance against the its 20% energy (intensity) reduction. investment, primarily via our Lendlease our partners in various ways, including While there is no universally 2020 targets has fluctuated over the Foundation, but also through other key past five years. Endorsed in July 2014, Water2 – 5% reduction through volunteering. accepted definition of ‘social value business initiatives such as FutureSteps. measurement,’ it is essentially our flagship 20 by 20 sustainability goals Investment in efficient water fixtures and use of non potable water for construction It is incredibly rewarding to work with included a 20 per cent reduction in Work is underway to deploy new metrics a process to understand how purposes has helped the business reduce its water (intensity) use. Water intensive partners on important social agendas energy, water and waste sent to landfill for and data collection at the asset and much positive social change has tunnelling projects and challenges retrofitting older assets limited our ability to reach our aligned to our Sustainability Framework our operations1 by the end of FY20. project level to allow us to expand this occurred and can be attributed 20% goal. and even more exciting when we can target to include the social value we to the activities undertaken by an The targets were ambitious for the time bring partners together to amplify create at that level. organisation. An assessment of and aimed at driving meaningful change Waste2 – 22% reduction impacts. An example of this approach was ‘social value’ should account for the across the organisation, as evidenced by We have also commenced work with a the use of Lendlease Foundation funding many facets of life that may affect numerous initiatives that have made a big With most waste generated from our construction activities, innovative reuse pathways number of social value evaluation experts at the start of the COVID‑19 lockdown an individual’s wellbeing, including impact to our energy, water and waste (e.g.: recycled glass for road base) and partnerships with our suppliers to reduce to help develop industry accepted, to support The Pure Group, a social but not limited to: economic performance over the years. There have packaging, has helped the business reach its 20% reduction (waste to landfill) goal. simplified, yet robust, social value enterprise that runs our Barangaroo café. circumstances, environmental been a number of key lessons learned, assessment methodologies to evolve They were able to stay operational for a issues, education, physical and which we have applied to the drafting of the social sustainability narrative beyond period, employing staff to use our facilities mental health, and employment. our new targets and metrics. philanthropic spend, to one of social value to prepare 4,000 meals that were then created and the multiplier of shared value shared with another partner, OzHarvest, In July we retired our 2020 energy, water partnerships. and waste targets. 1. Energy and water are measured as reductions in intensity. Waste is measured as a reduction in the rate of waste sent to landfill. 2. The above performance is at March 2020 and is a cumulative measure. Full FY20 performance is subject to Limited Assurance by KPMG and will be available on www.lendlease.com in October 2020. 58 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Managing and Measuring Value 59 Elevate Reconciliation Reconciliation Australia has extended our current Elevate Reconciliation Action Plan to September 2020 and we have again been invited to submit an ‘Elevate’ Action Plan (RAP) level RAP in recognition of our continued leadership and proactivity in delivery in this area. We will release the new Lendlease Reconciliation Action Plan 2020–2023, titled ‘Country, Truth and our Shared Story’, in late 2020. Providing cultural engagement and 6,030 Promoted reconciliation through our sphere of influence by activating our learning opportunities for Lendlease projects, offices and assets in celebration Lendlease employees in Australia have employees of National Reconciliation Week 2020 and completed face to face or online cultural NAIDOC Week 2019. awareness learning since FY12. Pivoted RAP actions in FY20 due to COVID-19 by developing a COVID-19 RAP Response Plan including a greater Modern Increasing the number of Aboriginal and 1% focus on support and retention of existing Lendlease Indigenous employees. Torres Strait Islander people directly employed at Lendlease Of Lendlease Australian employees Updated our Indigenous Talent Strategy identify as Indigenous Australians. and Resourcing Strategy under the leadership of newly appointed identified slavery Indigenous managers. 128 $55.3m Increasing procurement activity with Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Supply Nation businesses engaged Spent in FY20 with registered and businesses (registered and certified Indigenous certified Indigenous businesses. We acknowledge the increasing • Convening regional Modern Slavery businesses). expectations on businesses to address Communities of Practice, focusing on modern slavery risks in global supply chains. implementation of modern slavery risk Eliminating modern slavery from our supply mitigation initiatives and capacity building Respect for human chains is a goal we take very seriously. • Conducting modern slavery Lendlease Building – local and indigenous engagement rights is consistent We intend to submit a Modern Slavery awareness training sessions and In February 2020, our team commenced the staged hand over of the $495 million Statement in 2020, covering our global developing a Modern Slavery Guide with our values, New Air Combat Capability facility at RAAF Base Tindal in the Northern Territory. The operations. for our employees, providing practical our commitment to completion of this facility will support the arrival of Australia’s cutting edge F-35A Joint guidance for mitigating modern Strike Fighter aircraft. Through this project, Lendlease awarded 64 per cent of the total Our supply chain risk initiatives have slavery risks safety and sustainability, work packages to Northern Territory businesses, representing some $242 million injected taken a risk based approach, promoting consistency and standardisation across • Active engagement in business forums and drives the way into the Territory’s economy. our business, and have included: on industry level responses to modern we work. Through a bespoke Indigenous work training program developed by Lendlease, the • Implementing a new global Supplier slavery risks, including UN Global project also contributed to local Indigenous employment, with an eight per cent Compact Network Australia’s Modern Indigenous workforce participation rate and three subcontracts, valued at $27 million, Code of Conduct (available on Slavery Community of Practice, Achilles awarded to Indigenous companies. Lendlease.com) setting out our Building Confidence Community of expectations of suppliers, contractors Practice in the UK, and Sustainability and their supply chains across a range Supply Chain Schools (UK and Australia) of areas including health and safety, sustainability, human rights and modern • Working with key Global Supply Lendlease recognises tackling modern First Nations design in The Pier St underpass art installation represents the three constants that have slavery. Embedment into business Chain partners and critical equipment slavery successfully relies on strong, placemaking – Darling Square always been here: the land the artwork is processes, including within major manufacturers to understand their open collaboration with our suppliers, Commissioned by the landowner, Place on, the Wangal and Gadigal clans of the standard contracts globally, is underway supply chains and their suppliers in our people, and other key stakeholders. Management NSW (State Government), Eora Nation in Sydney that care for this • Adoption of Ethics Point, a global more detail. Given the breadth and complexity of and Lendlease, ‘The Canopy’, by country, and the night sky above us. platform for employees and suppliers We acknowledge the economic impact our global supply chains, our efforts will Aboriginal artist and Head of Design for The night sky depicted evokes to raise concerns around improper of COVID-19 will have a disproportionately require a phased, multi year approach. Bangarra Dance Theatre Jacob Nash, primal ideas of creation, dreaming, conduct. This platform is accessible in adverse impact on vulnerable worker arose from a vision to reinvigorate a piece wonder and home, and it holds stories local languages populations. Awareness of this risk of urban infrastructure and share stories about our place in the universe. • Developing a modern slavery risk heat and internal knowledge sharing on risk of Aboriginal culture with the public. It showcases how First Nations’ culture mitigation measures e.g. for migrant The installation has beautified the area mapping tool to identify global supplier and design knowledge can unite us and workers and responsible disengagement and attracts people to gather and use the categories and associated products connect people and place. principles (where we needed to pause) previously dark Pier St Underpass that against countries with elevated risks of has been a specific focus for our regional divided sections of Darling Harbour. modern slavery Modern Slavery Communities of Practice during this period. 60 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Risk 61 Risk Honolulu: Hickam Communities A vibrant masterplanned community providing homes and amenities for the US Airforce. 62 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Risk 63 Risk Our approach recognises the nature and level of risk we are willing to accept to achieve our strategic goals and key performance targets to create securityholder value. We continue to focus on aligning Board Internal audit and management to drive informed and Formal processes provide supplementary consistent decisions, achieving effective assurance to operational businesses. and efficient allocation of capital and External audit resources, providing an understanding of risk limits, context to identify, report and Formal, independent regular reviews. manage risks, and creating a culture of risk awareness and accountability. Policy and procedure Our risk framework remains unchanged Board approval process from a governance perspective, and The Board has matters that are reserved continues to mature, underpinned by for its determination under the risk a robust three lines of defence model. appetite of Lendlease, and further, The ‘Voice of Risk’ roles we added in FY19 under the Limits of Authority. The Board continue to mature, providing further approval process is set up so decisions independent assurance within each and commitments of a predetermined region with alignment as a group being magnitude require Board approval, coordinated through the Group Chief thereby supporting sound governance Commercial and Risk Officer and Group and continued alignment with strategy. Head of Risk and Insurance. Investment committees The strength and maturity in the structure Investment committees are in place at has been well evidenced in recent months regional and Group levels in order to as we navigate through COVID-19. assess and approve potential projects/ A mature crisis management framework commitments. and appropriate business continuity Limits of Authority plans are in place through all regions and Limits of Authority are in place to outline functions, providing a stable platform on matters that are specifically reserved which we can continue to operate safely for determination by the Board and and plan strategically. those matters that are delegated to management. Structure Board Risk and Audit Committees Risk tools Review the effectiveness of the Group’s Risk management platform enterprise risk management system Lendlease uses a risk management and seek assurances that material risks platform throughout all regions are identified and appropriate risk to allow consistent risk identification management processes in place. and assessment. Group risk function Liaises with regional CEOs and risk specialists on business specific and enterprise wide risks in order to assist the Group’s businesses to further develop their risk management processes are in place. Sydney: Victoria Cross over station development Artist’s impression 64 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Risk 65 Risk governance In November 2019, Risk Appetite Framework and management the Board Risk Committee approved the Risk Appetite Statements Specific examples of how risk Three lines of defence against each of the In May 2020, after extensive internal Implementation governance and management have consultation and testing, the Board Risk The Risk Appetite Framework is evolved in the reporting period include the implementation of some 12 Enterprise Risks. Committee approved the Risk Appetite Tolerances. These provide guardrails that being integrated into the existing risk management and corporate governance granular risk appetite principles Board and Committees will assist in aligning Lendlease’s appetite processes within Lendlease, as shown and tolerances in key areas of risk. These Risk Appetite Statements define for risk with our decision making and in Diagram 1. This ensures a seamless These focus on areas such as latent at a high level, the expectations of review processes, namely: deployment of the Framework and an conditions, contamination and existing management and the Board regarding • Providing a clear understanding of improvement in the management of risk structural risk. Further development Global Leadership Team the nature and extent of risks the Group within the organisation. Board approved risk limits, where there of risk appetite will continue to is willing to take in pursuit of its strategy. is zero tolerance and where specialist Continuous improvement evolve in other granular areas of our They assist in: approvals and endorsements are In the first 12 months of implementation, enterprise risks. • Maintaining alignment amongst the required to mitigate risks the framework will be reviewed on a Regional Risk Based Business Each region continues to have a Leadership Governance Integrity Internal External Board and management about the • Providing a mechanism for identifying, quarterly basis. After this period, it will directly appointed ‘Voice of Risk’ Audit Audit be reviewed annually by the Group Teams Functions Group Board’s appetite for risk in order to drive managing, and reporting on risks executive who is part of each Regional more informed and consistent decision Chief Commercial and Risk Officer and through the lifecycle of projects and Leadership Team. making approved by the Board Risk Committee. First line of defence Second line of defence Third line of defence investments Importantly, these individuals do not Any changes outside of the annual review • Effectively allocating capital and • Providing an appropriate avenue for have P&L accountability, nor are they cycle that encompass the addition of resources to projects that are more the ‘Voice of Risk’ to be heard, and a new statements and tolerances will be part of the risk function. They are Business Operations likely to be approved by management culture of proactive risk management reviewed and approved by the Board independent and are mandated to and the Board. to be embedded within all levels of the Risk Committee. challenge both the business and the organisation. risk function on genuine matters of strategic, tactical and operational risk. Risk Appetite Framework deployment First line of defence – Identify Assess Control Monitor Report Board defines its responsibilities and Manage appetite and applies governance Board Defines its appetite for the 12 Enterprise Risks through the Risk Appetite Framework Individual business units are the first line of defence responsible for identifying, managing and owning their risks. These business units have the appropriate tools and interaction with the various Group functions to execute business responsibilities effectively. Stage gates Across our property and construction operations, the conversion and delivery of projects Disruption . Cyber / Data . Regulatory . Culture . Business Continuity is governed by a number of ‘gates’ utilising proprietary and in house developed systems, as follows: Business development pipeline. 1. Project go/no go. Protect conversion Corporate Appetite deployment mechanisms process. 2. Commit to pursuit costs. 3. Authority to submit to customers. Submit risks managed Group Group Strategy; Investment in Digital; IT Policies; Management of Compliance proposal. 4. Changes to initial proposal. Execute contract. 5. Authorisation to proceed. by Group Obligations; Business Continuity Policy; Limits Of Authority (LOAs); Code of Conduct; Delivery. 6. Regular project reviews. Review lessons learnt. 7. Implement for new projects. Formalised Investment Approval Processes Stage gates are underpinned by business unit milestone views/health checks and portfolio reviews during delivery. Customer . Geopolitical . Environmental . Commercial Performance Second line of defence – Inform Plan Oversee Guide Report Scalable Growth . Health, Safety and Wellbeing . Project Execution Business risks assurance measures Regions / managed at Appetite deployment mechanisms regional level Businesses Group functions involved in the second line of defence include corporate risk and Strategy Approval; Policies; Regional Investment Committees; LOAs; insurance, operational assurance and performance, safety, legal, information technology, Formalised Investment Approval Processes sustainability, people and culture, and finance. Function specific policies outline the assurance measures to enable each business to identify and manage risks appropriately Third line of defence – Assess Plan Execute Report Follow up Operational issues / risks managed Projects / Appetite deployment mechanisms independent processes at project / Investments Project Reviews; LOAs; Localised Policies; Project Approval Gates Internal and external audit make up the third line of defence, acting independently from investment level the first and second lines of defence and reporting directly to the Board and Risk and Audit Committees. 66 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Risk 67 Key risks and mitigation Description Mitigation The value we create Health, Safety Failure to provide an environment that promotes health, safety and wellbeing impacts our We are committed to the health, safety and wellbeing of our people. Through our Global Minimum ability to achieve our corporate and social responsibilities Requirements (GMRs), which include both physical safety and health and wellbeing, we empower and Wellbeing our people to operate in a consistent standard across all our operations. Disruption Responsiveness to disruption, including digital disruption as well as other new methods With the increasing dependence on technology, our strategic intent aims to turn disruption into and materials emerging in the Development, Construction and Investments sectors an opportunity by creating a culture that fosters innovation and focuses on adopting leading edge technologies to deliver innovative solutions and generate a competitive point of difference. Commercial Commercial performance fails to meet our corporate objectives Our capital deployment guidelines mitigate risk and improve performance. Quarterly business reviews assess business operations against approved strategy to drive consistent, focused and risk assessed investment decisions. Execution Failure to execute strategy or projects affects our ability to meet our corporate objectives Our risk management approach, including the use of stage gates across our property and construction operations, which is articulated earlier in this section, contributes to the mitigation of execution risk. To inform our investment decisions, we use internal research to develop a ‘house view’ of property cycles in every region and the strength of our gateway cities. Geopolitical Global and local events or shifts in government policy occur in the regions in which We are committed to growing our business in sectors that are supported by positive global trends. we operate, adversely impacting our ability to achieve strategic objectives. Failure to We are sensitive to geopolitical shifts and concentration risk and coordinate our approach to adequately understand governments’ mandates, expectations and performance standards government in all regions to mitigate against sovereign risk. Regulatory and • Non compliance with regulatory and policy requirements by Lendlease or our To further improve our culture of compliance, we focus on aligning business priorities with the clients/suppliers necessary compliance and assurance measures. We are focused on maintaining an ethical supply Counterparty chain to ameliorate the risk of material substitution and modern slavery. We have an appetite for • Client, investor or supply chain ethics fail to meet Lendlease standards relationships with parties who are aligned with our values. • Failure to adequately select, govern and drive value from counterparties • Failure to comply with government regulations impacts our ability to access government opportunities Corporate Failure to create and maintain culture which supports Lendlease’s core behaviours, Our values drive our approach to business and delivery of long term value. We empower our people principles and values to drive disciplined strategy execution to make business decisions that are aligned to our core values and behaviours, principles, and five Culture areas of value creation. To provide a ‘Voice of Risk’, we have separate reporting routes outside of those who can influence risk issues through optimism bias. Cyber/Data Governance/ Failure of cyber resilience and defence systems. Leakage, misappropriation or Physical and data security continue to be key focus areas globally. We invest in preventative unauthorised storage of data. Unauthorised control of systems and physical asset technology and education of employees to achieve a sustainable security culture. Asset Protection infrastructure (i.e. lifts, security, air conditioning) Customer Loss of existing customer (including government) relationships, or inability to tailor Bid leadership training of key employees reinforces understanding of customers’ requirements. services to future customers’ needs, impacting Lendlease’s financial objectives Recurrent customer survey feedback informs our business strategy. A single platform assists in customer data security and aligns customer service across all regions. Non scalable People: inability to attract, retain and upskill key talent necessary to deliver strategic objectives To deliver the desired level of performance, we continue to invest in growing our core capabilities through active talent management and targeted professional employee development to attract, retain Growth Process: lack of scalable processes to support predictable growth and grow the best people. Our processes are designed to be consistent, scalable and effective. Corporate and Failure to comply with regulatory, societal and investor expectations of corporate and We are committed to creating the best places and optimising our corporate and environmental environmental sustainability such as climate change and social responsibility sustainability performance (including climate change and social responsibility) through our Environmental Sustainability Framework and integrating sustainability considerations into our business strategies. Sustainability We continually increase engagement through training programs to promote sustainable behaviours in the organisation globally. We have endorsed the TCFD recommendations on climate change and have begun reporting Lendlease’s resilience to the changes in both policies and the physical environment (as noted in the sustainability section). Business Failure to properly plan for and/or appropriately respond to events which may disrupt To achieve organisational resilience, we are committed to operating in a way that supports our ability Lendlease’s business to respond to threats and disasters without affecting our core business operations. We continue to Continuity invest in our peoples’ learning and development to better prepare them in the event of disruption through training programs and various threat scenario simulations to stress test the plan. 68 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Climate Related Risks and Opportunities 69 Climate Related Risks and Opportunities London: Google UK HQ Dubbed a ‘landscraper’ for being as long as a skyscraper is tall. 70 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Climate Related Risks and Opportunities 71 Our Climate Related Our Climate The business leaders identified and ranked climate related risks and opportunities, which have Risks and Opportunities Related Impacts been grouped into ten climate related impacts for our strategic 2050 Future Climate Scenarios. The TCFD framework could be seen as just Our Board engaged with management another layer of disclosure. However, for us, and attended a number of workshops it has helped transform the way Lendlease on the four climate scenarios to test Our Polarisation Scenario imagines the world falters on serious is positioning itself to respond to the business strategy and how best to Polarisation climate action, with a resultant national self interest taking climate crisis and the way in which we will respond to key trends in line with TCFD be communicating and executing on our recommendations. A world warmed precedence over multilateral cooperation. This scenario sees ambition to be a 1.5ºC aligned company. Engagement commenced with the by 3ºC higher levels of economic protectionism with significant impacts In sharing our experiences and Global Leadership Team (GLT). The GLT outcomes from scenario planning for was instrumental in deciding that our on global supply chains. climate impacts, we hope others will be Resignation scenario (RCP8.5) should only encouraged to commit to this important be used to assess the inherent climate evaluation and disclosure. change physical risks and not for strategic business resilience. Our process for identifying climate related impacts The top 200 senior leaders from across our business were engaged in risk Risk Opportunity When we committed to TCFD we Climate Related Impacts wanted to make climate change easier and opportunity workshops. In these Development Construction Investment Development Construction Investment to understand and actionable by senior workshops, participants identified risks leaders. Most business leaders are not and opportunities that might arise, ranking Impact of climate change on assets and communities climate scientists; they are generally time them in line with the Lendlease risk matrix. Increase market share from public sector poor, with their own day to day priorities. Participants also identified actions their Access and cost of capital Getting them to focus on and understand business unit should take within the next Task Force on Climate Related climate related impacts is probably the 3–5 years to prepare for climate related Availability of international products Financial Disclosure (TCFD) biggest challenge to any organisation on impacts. These actions will be integrated Availability and cost of labour Climate change and society’s response this journey. To address this challenge, we into the FY21 business planning process. Reduced availability of materials and resources to it are now recognised as foundational created climate scenarios and a scenario The risks and opportunities identified have planning process tailored to our business. Impact of climate change on the way we work drivers of risk and opportunity within been consolidated into 10 climate related the global economy. In 2018, Lendlease Our tailored approach has generated a impacts per strategic scenario. This Shift in consumer preference toward secure and resilient communities committed to incorporating the TCFD high level of senior leader engagement, output will continue to play an important Industry leadership in decarbonisation valued framework into our disclosure regime. with the outputs integrated into short role in our response to the TCFD Impact of climate change on cities As a result, we are much better equipped term business planning and long term recommendations, first in our qualitative to provide our investors and stakeholders strategic thinking. This has helped us analysis this financial year and informing Not often Lower Higher with insights into how we are building set up new and ambitious sustainability our financial disclosure in FY21. identified as frequency of frequency of resilience to climate related risks and targets, aligned with our TCFD work. an impact identified impact identified impact opportunities. Climate related impacts Strategic resilience The most frequently identified risks across Our business has many attributes for the business, for this scenario, came from strategic resilience in a Polarisation Envision the the impact of climate change on the way Process and world in 2050 FY20 we work and on our assets, particularly for Scenario. Existing public sector partnerships position us well for likely timeline for our Investments business. Conversely, the increased climate adaptation work for the implementing Risks and opportunities impact of climate change on cities has a public sector. Our sustainability leadership Polarisation What metrics and workshops high frequency of opportunities related to positions us well, where decarbonisation TCFD into Scenario targets are needed to manage risks adaptation. and climate resilience and adaptation are the business Our What are the risks and Which of the high and opportunities? The risk of nationalism on global supply valued, such as at Barangaroo. Paris industry in 2050 opportunities likelihood and chains was identified as a key impact, with Alignment in the next high impact most risks identified for our Construction Scenario 20-30 years? risks and 10 business. Conversely, the impact on global opportunities could arise Climate What actions supply chains was seen as an opportunity related do we take now for the Construction business due to Transformation in the next 10 impacts (2-3 years)? Scenario years? per disaggregation of supply chains. scenario Although this scenario sees a more severely impacted climate and less What risk What strategic global cooperation, the business What are the material financial management imperatives should leaders recognised an inherent need for processes are we embed in the decarbonisation, seeing continued value impacts of the risks needed for the risks Lendlease 10 Year and opportunities? and opportunities? Strategy? in our leadership in sustainability. Artist’s impression FY21 72 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Climate Related Risks and Opportunities 73 Our Paris Alignment Scenario sees a market led transition to a Our Transformation Scenario sees a societally driven, controlled Paris Alignment lower carbon future through global government commitment Transformation and rapid decarbonisation pathway, where global emissions to the Paris Agreement. This scenario differs from our peak in 2020 and are close to zero in 2040. Instead of relying A world warmed Transformation Scenario in that it relies heavily on negative A world warmed on technological fixes, the Transformation Scenario sees a by 2ºC emissions technologies, such as carbon capture and storage, as by 1.5ºC substantial reduction in emissions through lifestyle changes and a stress test of a situation in which the economy is decarbonised a reprioritisation of capital to community level investment. without any significant structural change occurring. Risk Opportunity Risk Opportunity Climate Related Impacts Climate Related Impacts Development Construction Investment Development Construction Investment Development Construction Investment Development Construction Investment Increase speed of change in climate related impacts Impact of climate change on assets and communities Misalignment between legislation/regulation and Lendlease strategy Increase market share from public sector Increase cost of carbon Access & cost of capital Demand for decarbonisation of supply chain Availability of international products Increased scrutiny over actions versus branding Availability & cost of labour Demand for negative emissions and geoengineering solutions Reduced availability of materials and resources Changing preferences away from new build development Impact of climate change on the way we work Demand for zero carbon infrastructure Shift in consumer preference toward secure and resilient communities Increase market share from public sector Industry leadership in decarbonisation valued Industry leadership in decarbonisation valued Impact of climate change on cities Not often Lower Higher Not often Lower Higher identified as frequency of frequency of identified as frequency of frequency of an impact identified impact identified impact an impact identified impact identified impact Climate related impacts Climate related impacts The most frequently identified risks came It was anticipated that a shift in social from the increased demand and need for licence to operate would occur in a decarbonisation of construction supply societally driven decarbonisation scenario chains, creating a potential increase in the and that this shift would present risks cost of materials, as well as likely scarcity across all aspects of business. “ideal image would be a solar panels on top of a lendlease of products and materials. A rapid decarbonisation would likely building barangaroo resi is the best one” Risks were also identified if we did not see a preference away from new build align our leadership in sustainability with developments, due to the emissions from the legislative direction of a government building products and materials (embodied led decarbonised world. Conversely, emissions). This shift in preference opportunities were identified if we aligned would likely generate both risks and early or even exceeded regulation. opportunities across our business. An increase in carbon cost was identified The speed of decarbonisation in our as both a risk and opportunity, particularly Transformation Scenarios was highlighted for Development. Opportunities were also as presenting both transitional opportunities identified related to new build no longer and risks. The expectation for private being as valued and zero carbon solutions sector investment in decarbonisation was attracting greater value. highlighted as an opportunity. Strategic resilience Strategic resilience Our sustainability leadership creates Our track record in social sustainability strategic resilience in a Paris Aligned leadership, combined with our leadership Scenario. We are well positioned to build in green real estate, would help position us on our global track record of delivering well for societally driven decarbonisation. commercially successful green and Our integrated business model, with a carbon neutral solutions needed for a focus on digital, will allow us to respond decarbonised world. quickly to the speed of change in this future scenario. Sydney: Barangaroo London: Elephant Park Artist’s impression 74 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Climate Related Risks and Opportunities 75 Integration into Our In FY18, we made the commitment to disclosing under the TCFD recommendations and in FY19, we disclosed our 2050 Future Climate Scenarios. risk management disclosure This year we integrated scenario planning into our business through risk and opportunity workshops to identify emerging risks and processes progress and opportunities. We integrated the outcomes of the workshops into business planning, a strategy refresh and setting new sustainability related metrics and targets. In FY21, we will integrate the In addition to further In FY20, we introduced a transitional risk assessment for a regulatory price next steps outcomes of the risk and opportunity workshops into our financial disclosure. integrating climate related on carbon, using a shadow carbon price risks and opportunities into the within investment assessments. Risk Appetite Framework, we Our leadership in TCFD Actions FY19 FY20 FY21 have also further developed Our place based approach to scenario physical and transitional risk planning and integration of the TCFD Governance Disclose the organisation’s Strengthen Board and management oversight governance around of climate related risks through the Board assessments. recommendations into our business climate related risks and Sustainability Committee processes has led to invitations to take part in key TCFD forums and advisory opportunities We have refined and piloted our physical Establish a cross functional TCFD steering groups. This year we have been proud to risk impact assessment process on committee chaired by Chief Commercial be members of, and active contributors, to: several assets and development projects Risk Officer across the world. Using Representative • The TCFD Construction Preparers Concentration Pathway RCP8.5, our Forum, which seeks to provide guidance greater than 4ºC Resignation Scenario, to construction industry companies Strategy Disclose the actual and Undertake risk and opportunity workshops undertaking TCFD disclosure potential impacts of across the business to identify short, medium we have focused on eight key physical climate related risks and and long term risks and opportunities for each impact areas. This process will continue • The TCFD Secretariat Scenario opportunities on the scenario to be refined in FY21 and will form the Advisory Group, which seeks to provide organisation’s businesses, starting point for physical risk assessment practical guidance for climate related strategy and financial Assess the climate related impacts on the for financial disclosure. scenario analysis. planning where such business, strategy and financial planning material is financial Integrate climate related impacts into strategy refresh to build strategic resilience Risk Disclose how the Climate related risk integrated into Risk Physical Risk Assessment Management organisation identifies, Committee assesses and manages climate related risks Climate related risk assessments integrated into investment committee decision making process Integrate climate related risks into Risk Appetite Framework (see page 65) Establish global TCFD working groups to coordinate the assessment of physical and transitional risks and opportunities Heatwave Sea level rise Wind storm Wildfire Metrics Disclose the metrics and Establish metrics and targets for managing targets used to assess climate related risks and opportunities (see page Increased temperatures Sea level rise and storm Cyclones, tornadoes and Wildfire risk with resulting and Targets and manage relevant 54 for sustainability related metrics and targets) and heatwave surge extreme wind events poor air quality climate related risks and opportunities where such Continued disclosure of scope 1 and 2 emissions information is material Establish scope 3 emission reporting boundaries and methodologies Disclose scope 3 emissions Water scarcity Urban flooding River flooding Cold spell Drought impacts and severe Extreme rainfall events Extreme rainfall events Increased duration cold water restrictions leading to urban flooding leading to river flooding weather events Completed Commenced Target completion year Ongoing action 76 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Performance and Outlook 77 Performance and Outlook Suzhou: Roche Diagnostics 48,000 sqm greenfield manufacturing facility. 78 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Performance and Outlook 79 Group highlights The Group experienced a challenging year with a Statutory In the Development segment, despite the below target profit Group outlook COVID-19 impacts on H2FY20 Loss after Tax of $310 million for the year ended 30 June 2020. outcome, significant progress was made on growing and While the duration of the impacts of the pandemic is uncertain, near Engineering exit costs of $368 million after tax, along with converting the development pipeline. This included securing term effects from COVID-19 are continuing and we expect current H1 H2 H2 performance impacted $19 million of goodwill impairment relating to the anticipated additional major urbanisation projects, achieving planning conditions to suppress first half earnings. The Group entered FY21 in FY20 FY20 by COVID-19 completion of the sale of Engineering, were brought to account milestones and creating new investment partnerships to support a strong financial position with the capacity to execute the delivery Delays in transactions across and the Core business was adversely impacted by COVID-19 in projects moving into delivery. of the global development pipeline and take advantage of other Development 272 50 urbanisation projects the second half. The distribution per security was 33.3 cents. In Construction, the impact of COVID-19 was greater in our investment opportunities as market conditions improve. The Group’s Core business generated Earnings per Security Site shutdowns, lower international regions, particularly in cities where mandated Progress has been made on planning consents for projects across Construction 101 productivity, project delays of 15.9 cents and a Return on Equity of 1.5 per cent. shutdowns were implemented. This included lower productivity, the urbanisation pipeline, which supports the conversion of these Total investment devaluations Performance in the second half of the year was significantly projects being put on hold, and delays in the commencement projects to delivery. Post year end, the Group established an Investments 255 (115) of $211 million in H2 down across the Core operations with the onset of the COVID-19 or securing of new projects. This led to losses in H2FY20 for the investment partnership to deliver Tower 1, One Sydney Harbour, pandemic impacting performance from March 2020 onwards. segment across the Americas, Europe and Asia. which is expected to make a significant contribution to profit in FY21. Operating EBITDA 628 (65) A solid Core operating EBITDA in H1FY20 of $628 million was In the Investments segment, COVID-19 had a significant impact on The development pipeline grew significantly during the year followed by a $65 million EBITDA loss in H2FY20 with each of the real estate valuations across the Group’s investments. Operating from $76 billion to $113 billion. We remain focused on delivering The H2FY20 after tax loss of $212 million recorded for the core three segments impacted. In the Development segment, a number earnings within Investments was resilient, rising in the year on the urbanisation portfolio safely, sustainably and profitably. The business reflected the significant deterioration in operating of large transactions were deferred, mandated site shutdowns, higher funds management fees, including performance fees, and portfolio of 21 major urbanisation projects across nine gateway conditions in the second half as a result of the pandemic. lower productivity and lower new work secured impacted our a solid performance from the military housing operations. cities provides long term earnings visibility and a strong platform We prioritised health and safety with a range of measures Construction segment and valuation reductions impacted our to deliver enhanced risk adjusted returns to securityholders. The Non core segment recorded an EBITDA loss of $495 million, implemented to protect our people, customers and the Investments segment due to deteriorating market conditions. which included accounting for $525 million pre tax in Engineering We expect to create more than $50 billion of institutional communities in which we operate including the early introduction A range of mitigating actions were implemented in response to exit costs. investment grade product from our urbanisation pipeline. This of travel bans and workplace changes to prevent the spread of the onset of the pandemic. Overhead and employee costs were provides the opportunity for the Group to double current funds the virus and initiatives across the commercial assets, retirement reduced, along with a review of project expenditure. In addition, Corporate costs, depreciation and amortisation and net finance under management of $36 billion as the pipeline is delivered. villages and the residential communities we manage. a range of measures were undertaken to strengthen the financial costs were all impacted in the year following the adoption of AASB Along with the $4 billion of investments and $29 billion of assets 16 Leases . It resulted in the reclassification of $88 million in Core Delays were experienced in converting opportunities across our position of the Group. $1.2 billion of equity was raised through an under management, the Investments segment is expected to operating lease expenses to finance costs and depreciation. The net urbanisation pipeline and the Communities business experienced Institutional Placement and Share Purchase Plan and additional provide a solid base of recurring earnings. impact to the Income Statement on adoption of AASB 16 Leases is weak trading conditions, there were mandatory site shutdowns, debt facilities of approximately $1.3 billion were arranged to an $11 million pre tax increase in expense in FY20. Portfolio Management Framework lower productivity and delays in new work in our Construction enable the Group to manage through a sustained downturn. The Portfolio Management Framework is designed to maximise longsegment, and H2FY20 valuation declines of $211 million in the The strengthening of the balance sheet positions the Group to Net finance costs were $153 million. Net debt ended the period at term securityholder value. The distributions for the year include the Group’s c.$4 billion investment portfolio. accelerate the delivery of the development pipeline and take $0.8 billion, down from $1.4 billion in the prior year. The average cost 54 per cent payout of first half earnings and the second half distribution A range of actions were implemented to mitigate the financial advantage of new investment opportunities. of debt was 3.4 per cent with an average debt maturity of 4.2 years. from the Trust. No dividend was declared for the Corporation in the impact including overhead and employee cost reductions and second half. The Group is currently reviewing the framework. a review of project expenditure. Employee cost reductions included; temporary pay reductions for senior leaders, reduced Key Financials Core Business EBITDA Mix Portfolio Management Framework hours of work, furlough/stand downs and some redundancies. FY19 FY20 Var. Development Target FY19 FY20 We have been eligible for and accessed wage subsidy support Construction in markets where it was offered. Government support totalled Core Business Total Group Metrics $15 million globally, with $9.7 million1 received under the Investments 25% Development $m 793 322 (59%) JobKeeper program in Australia. Return on Equity 10-14% 7.4% (4.7%) Construction $m 211 101 (52%) $563m Dividend payout ratio 40-60% 51% n/a2 The Balance sheet was strengthened by a $1.2 billion equity raising Investments $m 489 140 (71%) Core Business Operating and $1.3 billion in additional debt facilities which has positioned us Operating EBITDA $m 1,493 563 (62%) 57% Gearing 10-20% 9.9% 5.7% 18% EBITDA 6 well to execute on the delivery of the global development pipeline Corporate Costs $m (165) (158) 4% and take advantage of new investment opportunities. Core Business EBITDA Mix Group EBITDA $m 1,328 405 (70%) Development 40-50% 53% 57% Depreciation & Amortisation $m (94) (160) (70%) Construction 10-20% 14% 18% Net Finance Costs Profit before Tax $m $m (125) 1,109 (153) 92 (22%) (92%) Investments 35-45% 33% 25% $113b FY19 76.1 Profit after Tax $m 804 96 (88%) Core Business Profit after Tax Core Business Segment Returns Development FY20 113.0 $96m Non Core EBITDA $m (461) (495) (7%) FY19 $804m FY20 Development ROIC3 Construction EBITDA margin 10-13%4 2-3% 11.6% 2.2% 4.7% 1.3% Pipeline5 Profit/(Loss) after Tax $m (337) (406) (20%) 4 $14b Total Group Investments ROIC3 8-11% 10.8% 2.8% Revenue1 $m 16,555 13,289 (20%) FY19 15.6 2 Core Business Return on Equity Segment Invested Capital Mix EBITDA $m 867 (90) n/a Development 40-60% 57% 56% Core Business FY20 13.9 12.8% 1.5% Profit/(Loss) after Tax $m 467 (310) n/a2 FY19 FY20 Investments 40-60% 43% 44% Construction Underlying Operating Cash Flow3 $m 316 762 141% Backlog Net Assets $m 6,357 6,932 9% Regional Invested Capital Mix Net Debt $m 1,425 833 (42%) Australia 50-70% 45% 42% Effective Tax Rate4 Earnings per Security cents % 24.7 79.4⁵ n/a² (51.4) n/a2 Core Business Earnings per Security Asia 5-20% 15% 17% $36b FY19 35.2 Europe 5-20% 22% 22% Distribution per Security Weighted avg Securities cents no.(m) 42.0 588⁵ 33.3 603 (21%) 3% FY19 136.7¢5 FY20 15.9¢ Americas 5-20% 18% 19% Funds Under Management FY20 36.0 1. Includes finance revenue and revenue from the Non core segment. 2. Figures are nonmeaningful due to the FY20 Group statutory loss. 3. Underlying Operating Cash Flow 1. $6.8 million in JobKeeper subsidies were received by Lendlease companies, $2.9 million was received by our Retirement Living Joint Venture. The Group exited the program is derived by adjusting statutory cash flows to better reflect the operating cash generated by the Group from its operating model. 4. Lendlease’s approach to tax is outlined in on 22 June 2020. 2. Dividend payout ratio is nonmeaningful in FY20 due to the Group statutory loss. 3. Return on Invested Capital (ROIC) is calculated using the annual Profit after the 2020 Tax Report (https://www.lendlease.com/au/investor-centre/distribution-and-tax/). Details on tax balances are included within the Consolidated Financial Statements. Tax divided by the arithmetic average of beginning, half and year end invested capital. 4. Through-cycle target based on rolling three to five year timeline. 5. Remaining estimated 5. FY19 Total and Core Earnings per Security and Weighted avg Securities have been updated to reflect the share issue in FY20 (previously reported as 82.4 cents (total), development end value. 141.8 cents (core) and 567 #(m) respectively). 6. Excludes Corporate. 80 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Performance and Outlook 81 Development performance Development outlook The Development segment delivered EBITDA of $322 million, down An investment partnership with the Australian Prime Property The estimated end value of the development pipeline grew There are more than 1,600 apartments for rent in delivery, with 59 per cent on the prior year. EBITDA in H2FY20 declined to $50 million Fund Commercial was formed to deliver the 58,000 sqm Victoria 48 per cent on the prior period to $113 billion. We have a globally Cascade at Lakeshore East, and an additional building at Southbank, due to the various impacts of COVID-19. Progress on converting Cross over station development in Sydney, which has an estimated diversified portfolio of 21 major urbanisation projects across nine both in Chicago, and a further two buildings at Elephant Park in opportunities across our urbanisation pipeline was impacted and end value of $1.2 billion. A partnership was formed with PSP gateway cities. London all entering delivery during the year. the Communities business experienced weak trading conditions. Investments, one of Canada’s largest pension funds, to develop the The pipeline includes an approximate $99 billion of urbanisation There are seven major commercial buildings in delivery across The difficult operating environment resulted in a return on invested c.$4 billion Milano Santa Giulia project. The forward sale of the first projects. These projects are typically held in capital efficient 376,000 sqm, with a total estimated end value of $5.8 billion. These capital of 4.7 per cent. This was well below the bottom end of the two buildings at the precinct contributed to the result. The retail structures, providing the Group with flexibility around delivery and buildings are being developed in conjunction with our investment target range of 10 per cent. and residential components of Paya Lebar Quarter in Singapore timing, in line with market cycles. While there is expected to be a partners. In addition, there is a further 591,000 sqm which the business completed. substantial increase in the annual production rate over the medium is targeting to convert and commence delivery over the next five years. While the profit outcome for the year was below target, significant progress was made on growing and converting the development There were 2,236 apartment settlements and completions in the to longer term, the economic impacts of COVID-19 are likely to make A significant number of the 21 major urbanisation projects are pipeline. This included securing additional major urbanisation period. They comprise 1,366 apartments for sale settlements mainly acceleration of delivery more challenging over the short term. recent additions to the pipeline and are therefore in early stage projects, achieving planning milestones and creating new from urbanisation projects in Boston, London, Melbourne and Post year end, the Group established an investment partnership planning. Good progress has been made on planning consents investment partnerships to support projects moving into delivery. Singapore, and 870 apartments for rent completions at projects in with Mitsubishi Estate to deliver the first residential tower at for several projects, including approvals being obtained for Milan Boston and Chicago. One Sydney Harbour, Barangaroo, which will contribute to profit Innovation District and 30 Van Ness in San Francisco. Two new major urbanisation projects with a combined estimated end value of $37 billion were added to the pipeline. In London, the There were 1,898 land lot settlements across the Communities in FY21. Construction on the 317 apartments has commenced, The Communities pipeline consists of 47,372 lots, providing Thamesmead Waterfront development is expected to create more portfolio, down 25 per cent on the prior year. Performance was with approximately 75 per cent in presales. more than a decade of supply. In our Australian Communities than 11,500 homes. In the San Francisco Bay Area, we secured a significantly impacted by the onset of COVID-19 in the second Strong presales on apartments at TRX residences in Kuala Lumpur business, enquiries have recently returned to pre COVID-19 levels, project that will deliver more than 15,000 new homes. half of the year. and One Sydney Harbour have taken presales of apartments in with government stimulus measures boosting demand. Despite delivery to $2.3 billion. an improvement in the near term outlook, the annual target for settlements of 3,000 to 4,000 is unlikely to be met in FY21. Key Financials ($m) EBITDA ($m) Pipeline¹ by Product Pipeline¹ by Region EBITDA FY19 FY20 57% 1H 2H 793 Urbanisation Communities 12% Australia Asia 673 Europe 26% 26% Australia 556 174 of Core 552 Americas 500 230 Asia Europe 121 37 34 116 Operating EBITDA 264 292 532 322 $113b² $113b² 4% 443 50 Americas 79 (2) 236 260 261 272 Total EBITDA 793 322 88% 44% Total PAT 554 233 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY20 Invested Capital¹ ($b) Return on Invested Capital Urbanisation – Apartments Pipeline (Units) 10.4% Units for rent in delivery³ 4.8 4.8 5 year average Units presold in delivery³ 11.6% TARGET 10-13% Units for rent secured Units for sale secured 1-2k 7.5% 1,624 1,418 17,335 35,848 56,225 Target for 4.7% settlements per annum4 FY19 FY20 FY19 FY20 Urbanisation Completions/Settlements² Communities Settlements (Lots) Urbanisation – Commercial Pipeline (sqm) FY19 FY20 In delivery5 Indicative launch FY21 FY25 2,0753 2,2363 6 Buildings 2,0753 2,2363 2,523 1,898 Remaining secured 2-3 376,000 591,000 1,448,000 2,415,000 dings 3 Buildings Target for building 164 commencements 66 7 Buildings 32 Buildings per annum4 000) Apartments (units) Commercial (sqm ’000) Apartments (units) FY19 FY20 1. Securityholder equity plus gross debt less cash on balance sheet. 2. Commercial and apartment for rent completions are aligned with practical completion, apartment for 1. Remaining estimated development end value. 2. Includes $0.3 billion of Infrastructure pipeline. 3. Major apartment buildings in delivery only. 4. Targets under review. sale settlements are recorded on cash receipt. 3. FY19 and FY20 include 452 and 870 apartment for rent completions respectively. 5. Major commercial buildings in delivery only. 82 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Performance and Outlook 83 Construction performance Construction outlook The Construction segment delivered EBITDA of $101 million, down of integrated projects was also completed, including 845 West The outlook for the Construction segment is subdued given The backlog revenue of $4.4 billion in the Americas is down 52 per cent on the prior year. The entire profit was generated in Madison, Chicago, Cedarwood Square, Deptford Landings in the current operating environment. In the absence of further approximately 30 per cent as a result of the difficult operating H1FY20, with the impact of COVID-19 resulting in a break even London and Paya Lebar Quarter in Singapore. deterioration as a result of COVID-19, the operating performance environment. The high rise residential construction market in the result in H2FY20. For the full year, revenue declined by 21 per cent of the segment is expected to improve in FY21. The workbook North East of the US, a sector in which the business has historically New work secured of $7.5 billion was down from $9.9 billion in to $7.6 billion and the EBITDA margin of 1.3 per cent was below the remains substantial with backlog revenue of $14 billion. had a high market share, is currently subdued. Recent success the prior year. Origination was impacted by lower activity in the target range of 2-3 per cent. Approximately 75 per cent of major project backlog will generate in the health care sector, including life sciences, has partly offset Americas, most notably the key New York market and some delays future revenue and margin for the Construction segment, with weakness elsewhere. The strong growth in the urbanisation The COVID-19 impact was greater in our international regions, in projects being brought to market, along with limited new work margin on the remainder that is derived from integrated projects, pipeline to approximately $30 billion in the region is expected to particularly in cities where mandated shutdowns were implemented. in Europe. The Australian business proved resilient with new work being reported through the Development segment. provide opportunities for future construction backlog. This included lower productivity, projects being put on hold, and secured only marginally lower at $4.3 billion. delays in the commencement or securing of new projects. This led Australia has a strong workbook with $7.5 billion in backlog Europe and Asia combined account for approximately 15 per cent The new work secured is well diversified by sector and client, with to losses in H2FY20 for the Americas, Europe and Asia, offsetting a revenue. This accounts for more than half of the backlog for the of backlog revenue. Europe’s $50 billion urbanisation pipeline is more than half derived from Australia during the period. Key new profit in Australia which delivered a solid EBITDA margin outcome Construction segment and is expected to result in the region expected to provide a significant amount of construction work over projects from external clients during the year included HMAS of three per cent for the full year despite the challenging environment. contributing the majority of earnings in FY21. Key projects include the medium term. In Asia, the business is focused on the delivery Watson Redevelopment, Australian Federal Police Melbourne Sydney Place, the Crown Sydney Hotel Resort, several Defence of The Exchange TRX in Kuala Lumpur and specialist sectors for The business completed a number of significant projects during State Office3, the Curtin University School of Design and Built contracts and the Sydney Metro Martin Place and Sydney Metro external clients. the period. These included several Defence projects, commercial Environment, all in Australia, and 4 Hudson Square, New York. Victoria Cross Integrated Station Developments. In addition, the buildings at Wesley Place1, Melbourne, and 60 Martin Place, Integrated projects secured during the year included One Sydney Beyond the current backlog, there is approximately $8 billion of business is well placed to secure government sponsored projects Sydney, redevelopments at Kambri Precinct at ANU2, Canberra Harbour Tower 1, Victoria Cross over station development, Cirrus work for which the Group is in a preferred position, across both as part of potential stimulus measures across a range of sectors. external and integrated projects. The business is well placed to and Rod Laver Arena, Melbourne and a residential tower at at Lakeshore East and residential for rent at Elephant Park. 220 Central Park South, New York. Construction on a number convert a significant proportion of this preferred work into backlog revenue over coming periods. Key Financials ($m) EBITDA ($m) Backlog by Region Backlog Realisation EBITDA FY19 FY20 18% 1H 2H Australia Asia FY21 FY22 288 296 Europe 32% Post FY22 28% Australia 126 97 of Core 271 Americas Asia Europe (1) 40 (11) (9) Operating EBITDA 171 144 149 211 $14b 54% $14b 48% 100 101 Americas 46 24 147 9% Total EBITDA 211 101 117 127 111 101 24% 5% Total PAT 141 42 FY164 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY20 Revenue by Region EBITDA Margin Backlog by Sector Backlog by Client 1% Australia 2.4% Commercial Lendlease 5 year average 6% Asia Defence Corporate 8% 24% Europe Residential 26% Government Americas TARGET 2-3% Social 11% Major Major 44% 42% Project¹ Project¹ 44% $7.6b 1.3% Infrastructure Transport Backlog Revenue Backlog Revenue 2.2% Hotel/ Entertainment 23% 25% 32% Other 10% 4% FY19 FY20 New Work Secured by Region New Work Secured by Sector Backlog roll forward ($b) Backlog ($b) 3% 1% Australia Residential 5% 15.2 15.7 15.2 15.6 Asia Commercial 7.5 (7.6) 13.9 Europe Defence 29% Americas 32% 15% Social 15.6 (1.6) 13.9 $7.5b Infrastructure Other $7.5b 57% Transport 7% Hotel/ 23% Entertainment 24% 4% FY19 New work Revenue FX and FY20 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY20 secured realised Other2 1. Formerly 130 Lonsdale Street. 2. Formerly Australian National University Union Court Redevelopment. 3. Formerly 140 Lonsdale Street. 4. Includes Engineering and 1. Includes all Construction projects with backlog greater than $100 million, which represents 81 per cent ($11.2 billion) of secured backlog. 2. Includes ($0.9b) of internal revenue. Services businesses. 84 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Performance and Outlook 85 Investments performance Investments outlook The Investments segment delivered EBITDA of $140 million, To further support the growing development pipeline and diversify Future investment earnings will be supported by the two per cent on both occupier and investment partner demand will limit the down significantly on the $489 million in the prior year. our capital strategy, the Group listed the Lendlease Global growth in funds under management (FUM) to $36 billion. generation of new product in the short term. However, the change COVID-19 had a significant impact on real estate valuations Commercial REIT in Singapore. The REIT was seeded with the Additional FUM of $4 billion was largely offset by $2 billion in in market conditions is expected to provide opportunities for the across the Group’s investments with devaluations of $211 million Lendlease developed 313@somerset retail centre and three office divestments, which included the partial satisfaction of redemptions Group to grow the Investments platform outside of the internal in the second half, resulting in an EBITDA loss for the segment properties adjacent to the Group’s Milano Santa Giulia project. The in APPF Retail and $1.4 billion of devaluations. The launch of product creation capabilities. A mandate to manage a c.$2 billion of $115 million in H2FY20. Group has an ownership position of 25.3 per cent in the REIT. the Lendlease Global Commercial REIT, progress on several diversified property portfolio for TCorp was secured effective commercial buildings that are currently under development, and from 1 July 2020. Ownership EBITDA was a loss of $58 million compared to a profit EBITDA from Operating Earnings was $198 million, up substantially on the $144 million in the prior year. A small increase in base strong growth in residential for rent, underpinned the additional The Group’s investments closed the period at $4 billion. This of $345 million in the prior year. Performance was adversely management fees was in line with higher average funds under funds under management. includes $2 billion of co-investments across our funds; a $1.4 billion impacted by reductions in valuations across the Group’s c.$4 billion investment portfolio, including co-investment positions within management. The successful completion of Paya Lebar Quarter Continued growth in FUM will support operating earnings in future ownership interest in the Retirement Living business; and $0.6 billion the funds platform, Retirement Living business and other asset in Singapore, which generated a significant performance fee, was periods. In addition to the current funds under management, there in other investments including the Group’s interests in US Military positions. The net reduction in valuations on a pre tax basis for the the key driver of the strong growth in earnings. is approximately $3.3 billion of future secured FUM based on Housing, US telecommunications assets and retail at Barangaroo. full year was $188 million compared to total revaluation gain of The performance of the US Military Housing operations was solid, development projects currently in delivery. This includes assets Diversification of investments across the Group supports $160 million in the prior year. with a recurring contribution of asset and property management being developed with investment partners including six office improved risk adjusted returns. Lendlease has relationships with fees. Our retail asset management business has been working buildings and approximately 1,600 residential for rent units. approximately 150 institutional investors and a strong track record The trading performance of the Retirement Living business was solid with 874 resales across the established village portfolio, up with retail partners as they navigate through a difficult period, with A substantial uplift in the amount of institutional grade investment of performance. Continuing to deliver attractive outcomes for our 3.8 per cent on the prior year. However, a modest decline in average retail malls and centres experiencing restricted trading following product will be created for investment partners and the Group’s investment partners will be critical for the ongoing success of the prices and delays in development activity which was affected the onset of COVID-19. The impact on asset management fees Investments platform as the development pipeline is delivered Investments segment. by COVID-19, impacted the carrying value of the entire portfolio, experienced late in the year is expected to extend into FY21. over the medium to long term. The COVID-19 related impacts offsetting the underlying trading performance. Key Financials ($m) EBITDA ($m) Funds Under Management1 by Asset Class Funds Under Management¹ by Region 3% 2% 4% 3% EBITDA FY19 FY20 25% 1H 2H Office Retail 5% Australia Asia 669 Residential Europe Australia 330 35 of Core Industrial Americas 458 495 286 489 24% Asia Europe 50 9 67 (10) Operating EBITDA 215 207 216 Other 36% $36b 54% $36b 140 Americas 100 48 383 243 288 273 255 69% Total EBITDA 489 140 Total PAT 368 104 (115) FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY20 Invested Capital¹ ($b) Return on Invested Capital Investments1,2 by Product Investments1,2 by Region 10.2% 5 year average Co-investments Australia 3.7 10.8% 12% 3.6 Retirement Asia 17% TARGET 8-11% US Military 5% Europe 2% Housing Americas Other $4.0b 49% $4.0b 58% 2.8% 23% 34% FY19 FY20 FY19 FY20 Investments EBITDA by Activity ($m) Investments⁴ ($b) Funds Under Management¹ ($b) Funds Under Management¹ roll forward ($b) FY19 FY20 4.0 36.0 3.7 35.2 3.9 (1.9) 3.3 3.4 30.1 (1.4) 3.0 26.1 0.2 36.0 345 23.6 35.2 198 144 120 (58) FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY20 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY20 FY19 Additions DivestRevaluaFX and FY20 Ownership interests² Operating earnings³ ments tions Other 1. Securityholder equity plus gross debt less cash on balance sheet. 2. Returns derived from co-investments, the Group’s Retirement investment, US Military Housing 1. The Group’s assessment of market value. 2. The Group’s ownership interest. Total invested capital in the segment of $3.7 billion in FY20. equity investment and other investments. 3. Earnings primarily derived from the investment management platform and the management of US Military Housing operations. 4. The Group’s assessment of market value of ownership interests. 86 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Performance and Outlook 87 Non core business Progress on separation performance of non core business The Non core segment comprises the Engineering and Services The Services business delivered a robust underlying operating Further progress has been made on the exit of Engineering. businesses in Australia. result. However, costs of approximately $10 million associated with Having announced the sale of the Engineering business to Acciona the wind up of the Energy & Technology business detracted from Infrastructure Asia Pacific (Acciona) in H1 FY20, the Group The EBITDA loss for the year was $495 million, including the otherwise solid result. New work secured of $1.4 billion was up subsequently received approval from the Foreign Investment $525 million of exit related costs that are discussed in more detail on the $1.0 billion secured in the prior year. Telecommunications, Review Board. The sale to Acciona is anticipated to complete below. The prior year result was impacted by the provision taken Utilities and Infrastructure and Transport, the three categories shortly, subject to outstanding conditions, which include third against three underperforming projects of $500 million pre tax. that account for most of the $2.0 billion in backlog revenue, are party consents being satisfied. Excluding exit related costs, the Non core segment generated performing well and present an attractive pipeline of future The Melbourne Metro Tunnel Project, NorthConnex and Kingsford EBITDA of $30 million, including the impairment of $19 million in opportunities. Smith Drive projects are being retained by Lendlease. As previously goodwill relating to the Engineering business. advised, the Cross Yarra Partnership consortium for the Melbourne New work secured in Engineering of $1.0 billion was down from Metro Tunnel Project is continuing to work with the Victorian $2.0 billion in the prior year, reflecting the Group’s lower risk Government on a confidential basis to resolve issues in relation to appetite ahead of the sale of the business. New work included the scope and costs on the project. NorthConnex is expected to the bulk earthworks contract at Western Sydney International be operational in the coming months and the Kingsford Smith Drive Airport and additional works on the Southern Program Alliance. project in Brisbane is scheduled to complete by the end of CY20. The Engineering business closed the period with a backlog of Lendlease previously disclosed a cost estimate to exit the $3.1 billion. Non core segment of $450-$550 million pre tax. These costs are now estimated to be approximately $550 million pre tax, with Key Financials $525 million pre tax ($368 million after tax) accounted for in the year ended 30 June 2020. $15 million pre tax was expensed in the prior year. Exit related costs include: implementation and selling FY19 FY20 Var. costs and estimated costs to cover concluding projects retained EBITDA $m (461) (495) (7%) by the Group. Profit/(Loss) after Tax1 $m (337) (406) (20%) The sale process for the Services business has been paused as a New Work Secured $b 3.0 2.4 (20%) result of current market conditions. While the business has been Backlog $b 5.4 5.1 (6%) performing well, it is non core and is expected to be divested in future periods. Revenue by Product New Work Secured by Product Engineering Engineering Services Services2 31% 42% $2.9b $2.4b 58% 69% Backlog by Sector Backlog Realisation 2% Rail FY21 Other Services 8% FY22 Transport Services 29% Post FY22 28% Road 16% Telecommunications $5.1b $5.1b 46% Other Engineering 22% 23% 26% 1. FY20 includes $32m profit from discontinued operations. 2. Only the next five years of revenue secured on new contracts has been included. 88 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Performance and Outlook 89 Financial position Group funding and cash flow movements and debt facilities Financial Position FY19 FY20 Var. FY19 FY20 Net debt1 $m 1,425 833 (42%) $m $m Var. Borrowings to total equity plus borrowings % 29.9 25.7 (14%) Cash and cash equivalents1 1,290 1,111 (14%) Net debt to total tangible assets, less cash1 % 9.9 5.7 (42%) Inventories 5,583 5,369 (4%) Equity accounted investments 3,452 3,671 6% Interest cover2 times 8.8 2.8 (68%) Investment properties 501 658 31% Average cost of debt % 4.0 3.4 (15%) Disposal Group assets held for sale1 841 100% Average debt maturity years 4.8 4.2 (13%) Other assets (including financial) 6,352 6,098 (4%) Average debt mix fixed: floating ratio 52:48 56:44 Total assets 17,178 17,748 3% Undrawn facilities $m 2,631 4,226 61% Borrowing and financing arrangements 2,715 2,395 (12%) Disposal Group liabilities held for sale 670 100% Net debt and gearing declined with gearing below the bottom end of the target range. Interest cover of 2.8 times was lower due to lower Other liabilities (including financial) 8,106 7,751 (4%) core earnings. Cash and cash equivalents of $1.1 billion excludes the c.$450 million of cash which is reported in the balance sheet as assets Total liabilities 10,821 10,816 held for sale. The Group’s liquidity position is $5.8 billion1. Net assets 6,357 6,932 9% Inventories Other asset movements Debt Facilities3 ($m) Inventories decreased by four per cent. A modest rise in The four per cent decline in other assets reflects the reclassification development inventories was more than offset by a decline in of assets to held for sale along with the reduction in the Group’s Drawn Facility 1,800 construction inventories and the reclassification of Non core investment in Lendlease International Towers Sydney Trust. The construction inventories to assets held for sale. Capital expenditure rise in Investment Properties in the year reflects ongoing capital across a range of urbanisation projects, including Barangaroo expenditure on telecommunications towers in the US and the 960 South and Milan Innovation District more than offset residential transfer of stabilised assets from development. 800 725 714 apartment completions. Total assets, total liabilities and net assets 536 535 535 575 575 311 311 Equity accounted investments Total assets rose by three per cent reflecting the growth in 134 179 79 79 – – – 29 Equity accounted investments increased by six per cent. The Investment Properties and Equity Accounted Investments. The rise listing of the Lendlease Global Commercial REIT was the largest in net assets reflects the modest growth in assets along with the Euro CP UK Bond Syndicated Syndicated Club Asia Loan CNY871 US$ Reg. S$ Reg. A$ medium contributor to the increase. The creation of the development decline in borrowings following the equity raising. programme Issue cash loan facility Revolving Facility million S notes S notes term notes joint venture for the Victoria Cross over station development and advance Credit bank facility Facility facility additional capital contributions in both the UK and US residential investment partnerships also contributed. Cash movements ($m) Debt Maturity Profile4 ($m) Euro CP programme Operating and investing cash flow 762 (184) UK Bond Issue (810) The Group measures underlying cash flows to better reflect the 504 1,562 Syndicated cash advance facility 1,290 cash flows generated by its business model. This approach enables Syndicated loan facility an assessment of cash conversion, measured as underlying Club Revolving Credit Facility operating cash flow relative to EBITDA. The measures are derived Asia Loan Facility by adjusting statutory cash flows, with the largest adjustment CNY871 million bank facility relating to cash flow invested in Development. FY19 Underlying Interest Underlying Net FY20 US$ Reg. S notes closing operating and tax investing financing closing Underlying operating cash flow was $762 million. The major S$ Reg. S notes cash cash paid cash flow and other cash¹ operating cash inflows during the period included apartment A$ medium term notes flow adjustments settlements across our development projects. There was a cash Undrawn inflow of $588 million from presold apartment revenue through Financing cash flow the PLLACes2 program. There was also a maturing PLLACes 2000 Net cash inflow from financing activities and other adjustments was transaction which would have otherwise resulted in settlement 800 $504 million. The $1.2 billion of equity raised more than offset the receipts in the period. Adjusting for the $525 million of Engineering decline in borrowings and distributions paid in the year, representing exit costs, cash conversion in FY20 was 175 per cent. 714 the final distribution for FY19 and the HY20 distribution payment. Underlying investing cash outflow was $810 million. The 1000 900 While the Group was active in securing additional debt facilities, major contributors included capital invested in establishing the more debt was repaid. The Group entered the new financial year in new $1.5 billion Lendlease Global Commercial REIT with a 536 900 960 179 536 580 80 a strong financial position with $5.8 billion1 of liquidity. 25.3 per cent interest, and additional equity commitments and 313 0 rising development inventories to convert the development FY21 FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY27 FY28 FY29 pipeline into production. 1. $451m million of cash and cash equivalents has been classified as Disposal Group assets held for sale at FY20. 2. Presold Lendlease Apartment Cash Flows. 1. $451m million of cash and cash equivalents has been classified as Disposal Group assets held for sale at FY20. 2. EBITDA has been adjusted to exclude one off items related to the Engineering business (FY19: $500m; FY20: $525m). 3. Values are shown at amortised cost. 4. Values are shown at gross facility value. 90 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Governance 91 Governance Sydney: Barangaroo South Home to a mix of cafes, restaurants, bars and retail stores. 92 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Governance 93 Board of Directors’ information and profiles The Lendlease Board is Michael J Ullmer, AO Stephen B McCann Colin B Carter, AM committed to exceptional Chairman Group Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director (Independent Non Executive Director) corporate governance (Independent Non Executive Director) (Executive Director) Term of Office policies and practices which Term of Office Term of Office are fundamental to the long Mr Carter joined the Board in April 2012. Mr Ullmer joined the Board in December 2011 and was appointed Mr McCann was appointed Group Chief Executive Officer in term success and prosperity Chairman in November 2018. December 2008 and joined the Board as Managing Director in Skills, Experience and Qualifications of the Group. March 2009. Mr Carter is one of the founding partners of The Boston Skills, Experience and Qualifications Consulting Group in Australia, retiring as a Senior Partner in In FY20, the Board continued its Skills, Experience and Qualifications Mr Ullmer brings to the Board extensive strategic, financial 2001, and continues as an advisor with that company. He has longstanding practice of reviewing its and management experience accumulated over his career in Mr McCann joined Lendlease in 2005. Prior to his appointment over 30 years of experience in management consulting advising corporate governance and reporting international banking, finance and professional services. He as Group Chief Executive Officer, Mr McCann was Group on organisational, strategy and governance issues. His career practices. The Corporate Governance was the Deputy Group Chief Executive Officer of the National Finance Director, appointed in March 2007 and Chief Executive has included major projects in Australia and overseas. Mr Carter Statement is available on the Lendlease Australia Bank (NAB) from 2007 until he retired from the Bank in Officer for Lendlease’s Investment Management business from has wide industry knowledge on corporate governance issues website at: www.lendlease.com/au/ August 2011. He joined NAB in 2004 as Finance Director and held September 2005 to December 2007. and has carried out Board performance reviews for a number of company/governance. For detailed a number of key positions including Chairman of the subsidiaries companies. He has co-authored a book on Boards, ‘Back to the information on the skills, experience and Mr McCann is a highly regarded and experienced business Great Western Bank (US) and JB Were. Prior to NAB, Mr Ullmer Drawing Board’, published by Harvard Business School Press. qualifications of each of the Directors, refer leader with over 25 years of executive experience. Prior to joining was at Commonwealth Bank of Australia, initially as Group Chief to pages 92 to 97 of the Annual Report. Lendlease, Mr McCann had 15 years’ experience in property, In January 2020, Westpac Group appointed Mr Carter as one Financial Officer and then Group Executive with responsibility for funds management, investment banking and capital markets of three members to an Advisory Panel assessing Board risk The Corporate Governance Framework Institutional and Business Banking. Before that, he was a Partner transactions gained through senior leadership roles at ABN governance and accountability, and making recommendations is regularly assessed and amended at accounting firms KPMG (1982 to 1992) and Coopers & Lybrand AMRO and as Head of Property at Bankers Trust. Previous roles on how Westpac can improve its risk governance, financial crime to remain current. The Board’s five (1992 to 1997). included four years as a mergers and acquisitions lawyer at and anti money laundry processes. permanent committees continue to assist, Mr Ullmer has a degree in mathematics from the University of Freehills and four years in taxation accounting. advise and make recommendations Mr Carter was a Non Executive Director of Wesfarmers Limited, Sussex. He is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants, to the Board on matters falling within Mr McCann is a member of the Business Council of Australia and serving on that board for 12 years. Mr Carter holds a Bachelor a Senior Fellow of the Financial Services Institute of Australia, and their areas of responsibility, as set out the Property Council of Australia’s Property Male Champions of of Commerce from Melbourne University and a Master of a Fellow of the Australian Institute of Company Directors. in the committee charters. The Board Change. In 2013, Mr McCann was announced as the Property Business Administration from Harvard Business School, where he delegates authority for all other functions Person of the Year by the Urban Taskforce Australia. graduated with Distinction and as a Baker Scholar. He is a Fellow and matters necessary for the day to day Listed Company Directorships of the Australian Institute of Company Directors. (held within the last three years) Mr McCann holds a Bachelor of Economics (Finance major) and a management of the Group to the Group Bachelor of Laws from Monash University in Melbourne, Australia. Chief Executive Officer, who delegates Non Executive Director of Woolworths Limited Listed Company Directorships to senior management as required. (appointed January 2012) (held within the last three years) Other Directorships and Positions Limits of Authority which are reviewed at least annually, are in place these outline Non Executive Director of SEEK Limited Other Current Appointments Nil the matters specifically reserved for (appointed March 2005, retired March 2018) determination by the Board and those Chairman of the Melbourne Symphony Orchestra Board Committee Memberships matters delegated to Board Committees Other Current Appointments or Group Executive Management. Board Committee Memberships Member of the Risk Committee President of Geelong Football Club Member of the Audit Committee Director of The National Golf Club Member of the Nomination Committee Director of the Australian Ballet Foundation Member of the People & Culture Committee Board Committee Memberships Member of the Risk Committee Chairman of the Nomination Committee Member of the Sustainability Committee Member of the People and Culture Committee Member of the Risk Committee Member of the Sustainability Committee 94 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Governance 95 Board of Directors’ profiles Philip M Coffey David P Craig Baroness Margaret A Ford OBE Jane S Hemstritch (Independent Non Executive Director) (Independent Non Executive Director) (Independent Non Executive Director) (Independent Non Executive Director) Term of Office Term of Office Term of Office Term of Office Mr Coffey joined the Board in January 2017. Mr Craig joined the Board in March 2016. Baroness Ford joined the Board in March 2020. Ms Hemstritch joined the Board in September 2011. Skills, Experience and Qualifications Skills, Experience and Qualifications Skills, Experience and Qualifications Skills, Experience and Qualifications Mr Coffey served as the Deputy Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Mr Craig is a business leader with a successful international Based in London, Baroness Ford is a highly experienced Ms Hemstritch has extensive senior executive experience in Westpac Banking Corporation from April 2014 until his retirement career spanning over 37 years in finance, accounting, audit, Non Executive Director with extensive sector experience in information technology, communications, change management in May 2017. As the Deputy CEO, Mr Coffey had the responsibility risk management, strategy and mergers and acquisitions in the development and construction, and infrastructure financing. and accounting. She also has broad experience across the of overseeing and supporting relationships with key stakeholders banking, property and professional services industries. He was She has a background in urban development and has experience financial services, telecommunications, government, energy and of Westpac including industry groups, regulators, customers and the Chief Financial Officer (CFO) of Commonwealth Bank of in regeneration, planning and public sector reform. manufacturing sectors and in business expansion in Asia. During government. He was also responsible for the Group’s Mergers & Australia from 2006 through the GFC, until he retired in June She currently serves as Chairman of New River REIT Plc, a a 25 year career with Accenture and Andersen Consulting, Ms Acquisitions function. Prior to this role, Mr Coffey held a number 2017. At Commonwealth Bank, he was responsible for leading specialist real estate investment trust focused primarily on retail Hemstritch worked with clients across Australia, Asia and the US. of executive positions at Westpac including Chief Financial the finance, treasury, property, security, audit and investor and leisure property and also as the Chairman of STV Group Plc, Ms Hemstritch was Managing Director Asia Pacific for Accenture Officer and Group Executive, Westpac Institutional Bank. He has relations teams. a Scottish media company. from 2004 until her retirement in 2007. She was a member of successfully led operations based in Australia, New Zealand, the Mr Craig’s previous leadership roles have included CFO for Between 2006 and 2012, Baroness Ford led the Olympic Park Accenture’s global Executive Leadership Team and oversaw the United States, the United Kingdom and Asia and has extensive Australand Property Group, Global CFO for PwC Consulting Legacy Company the public sector organisation responsible for management of Accenture’s business in the Asia Pacific region, experience in financial markets, funds management, balance and a Partner at PwC (17 years). the masterplanning, development and maintenance of the Queen which spanned 12 countries and included 30,000 personnel. sheet management and risk management. He began his career at the Reserve Bank of Australia and has also held executive As well as his role as CFO of Australand Property Group Elizabeth Olympic Park for the London 2012 Olympic Games. Ms Hemstritch has a Bachelor of Science in Biochemistry and positions at Citibank. (now Frasers), Mr Craig was responsible for Property for the Prior to this she was Managing Director of Social Infrastructure Physiology from the University of London and is a Fellow of the last 22 years of his executive career, including overseeing three and Development at the Royal Bank of Canada (RBC). She joined Institutes of Chartered Accountants in Australia and in England Mr Coffey holds a Bachelor of Economics (Hons) from the RBC after stepping down as the Chair of English Partnerships, significant property transformations at CBA. and Wales. She is a Member of Chief Executive Women. University of Adelaide and has completed the Executive Program where she spent six years leading a new approach to housing at Stanford University Business School. He is a graduate member Mr Craig holds a Bachelor of Economics from the University and regeneration across England. Her earlier career was spent Listed Company Directorships of the Australian Institute of Company Directors and Senior of Sydney. He is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered working for various public sector organisations, including Scottish (held within the last three years) Fellow of the Financial Services Institute of Australasia. Accountants, ANZ and a Fellow of the Australian Institute of Homes, the national housing agency in Scotland. Company Directors. Non Executive Director of Telstra Corporation Limited Baroness Ford holds a Master of Arts degree from the University Listed Company Directorships of Glasgow and a post graduate Masters degree in Applied (appointed August 2016, retired January 2019) (held within the last three years) Other Current Appointments Economics. She was appointed to the House of Lords in 2006. Non Executive Director of Tabcorp Holdings Ltd Non Executive Director of Macquarie Group Limited President of the Financial Executives Institute of Australia (appointed November 2008, retired October 2017) (appointed August 2018) Deputy Chairman of the Victor Chang Cardiac Research Listed Company Directorships Institute (held within the last three years) Other Current Appointments Other Current Appointments Chairman of New River REIT Plc President of the Board of The Walter and Eliza Hall Institute Director of the Clean Energy Finance Corporation Board Board Committee Memberships of Medical Research Chairman of STV Group Plc Chairman of the Audit Committee Member of the Global Council of Herbert Smith Freehills Board Committee Memberships Other Current Appointments Global LLP Member of the Nomination Committee Chairman of the Risk Committee Member of the People and Culture Committee Independent Member of the UK Oversight Board of Deloitte LLP Board Committee Memberships Member of the Audit Committee Member of the Risk Committee Independent Member of the Deloitte North/South Europe Board Member of the Audit Committee Member of the Nomination Committee Board Committee Memberships Member of the Nomination Committee Member of the People and Culture Committee Member of the Nomination Committee Member of the People and Culture Committee Member of the Risk Committee Member of the Risk Committee Member of the Audit Committee Member of the Sustainability Committee 96 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Governance 97 Board of Directors’ General Counsel and Company Secretary qualifications and profiles experience Elizabeth M Proust, AO Nicola M Wakefield Evans Robert Welanetz Karen Pedersen (Independent Non Executive Director) (Independent Non Executive Director) (Independent Non Executive Director) Ms Pedersen was appointed Group General Counsel in January 2013. Prior Term of Office Term of Office Term of Office to this she was General Counsel and Company Secretary for other large Ms Proust joined the Board in February 2018. Ms Wakefield Evans joined the Board in September 2013. Mr Welanetz joined the Board in March 2020. property and construction companies. Ms Pedersen has a Masters of Law from Skills, Experience and Qualifications Skills, Experience and Qualifications Skills, Experience and Qualifications the University of Technology, Sydney and a Bachelor of Commerce/Bachelor of Laws Ms Proust is one of Australia’s leading business figures and has Ms Wakefield Evans is an experienced business leader and non Mr Welanetz is based in the US and has significant executive, from the University of New South Wales. had a diverse career holding leadership roles in the public and executive director with broad ranging commercial, business advisory, strategic and operational experience in the property and private sectors for over 30 years. Ms Proust spent eight years management, strategy and legal experience gained over a 30 year construction sectors, gained over an international career spanning at ANZ Group including four years as Managing Director of international career. Ms Wakefield Evans held several key management over 40 years. Esanda, Managing Director of Metrobanking and Group General positions at King & Wood Mallesons (KWM), including Managing In his most recent role, Mr Welanetz served as Chief Executive Manager, Human Resources, Corporate Affairs and Management Partner International in Hong Kong where she was responsible for the Officer in the property division of Majid Al Futtaim (MAF), based Services. Before joining ANZ, Ms Proust was Secretary (CEO) overall governance and strategic positioning of the business in the in Dubai, where he had overall responsibility for managing MAF’s of the Department of Premier and Cabinet (Victoria) and Chief Asia region. In addition to holding a number of senior management property portfolio and development pipeline. Mr Welanetz retired Executive of the City of Melbourne. and leadership roles, Ms Wakefield Evans has had a diverse career from that position in 2018. Prior to joining MAF, Mr Welanetz as one of Australasia’s leading corporate finance lawyers. Ms Proust has extensive board experience in listed and private spent over seven years in a global role in Blackstone’s Real Estate companies, subsidiaries and joint ventures, as well as government Ms Wakefield Evans has extensive experience in the financial Group advising and identifying acquisition opportunities in retail and not for profits. She was made an Officer of the Order of services, resources and energy and infrastructure sectors. She real estate and providing strategic guidance for Blackstone’s Australia in 2010 for distinguished service to public administration has extensive international experience having worked in Australia, portfolio of retail assets and retail operating companies. and to business, through leadership roles in government and New York and Hong Kong. Ms Wakefield Evans was included in Mr Welanetz also served as Chief Executive Officer of Shanghai private enterprise, as a mentor to women, and to the community the Australian Financial Review and Westpac Group’s inaugural Kinghill Ltd, based in China, with responsibility for the operations Wendy Lee through contributions to arts, charitable and educational bodies. list of ‘Australia’s 100 Women of Influence’. She is a member of and delivery of retail and development projects in mainland China. Ms Lee joined Lendlease in September Chief Executive Women. Ms Proust holds a Bachelor of Arts (Hons) from La Trobe Prior to this, Mr Welanetz was President and Chief Executive 2009 and was appointed Company University and a Bachelor of Laws from the University of Ms Wakefield Evans holds a Bachelor of Jurisprudence and a Officer, Retail at Jones Lang LaSalle Inc Americas. Secretary in January 2010. Prior to her Melbourne. Bachelor of Laws from the University of New South Wales and is a appointment, Ms Lee was a Company Mr Welanetz holds a Bachelor of Science degree from Colorado qualified lawyer in Australia, Hong Kong and the United Kingdom. Secretary for several subsidiaries of a large State University. He is a former Chairman of the International Other Current Appointments Council of Shopping Centres and served on the board of the financial institution listed on the Australian Listed Company Directorships Galileo Property Trust, an Australian shopping centre investor. Securities Exchange. She has over 15 Chairman of Nestlé (Australia) years of company secretarial experience. (held within the last three years) Chairman of the Westpac Victoria Advisory Board Non Executive Director of Macquarie Group Limited Ms Lee has a Bachelor of Arts and a Listed Company Directorships (appointed February 2014) Bachelor of Laws from the University of Chairman of Cuscal Limited (held within the last three years) Sydney, a Graduate Diploma in Applied Nil Corporate Governance, and is a Fellow of Board Committee Memberships Other Current Appointments the Governance Institute Australia. Chairman of the People and Culture Committee Chair of 30% Club, Australia Board Committee Memberships Director of the Clean Energy Finance Corporation Member of the Nomination Committee Member of the Nomination Committee Director of UNSW Foundation Limited Member of the Risk Committee Director of Australian Institute of Company Directors Member of the Risk Committee Member of the Sustainability Committee Director of MetLife Australia Member of the People & Culture Committee Director of Goodes O’Loughlin (GO) Foundation Limited Member of the Sustainability Committee Member of the Takeovers Panel Board Committee Memberships Steve B Dobbs Chairman of the Sustainability Committee (Retired 20 November 2019) Member of the Nomination Committee Member of the Audit Committee Mr Dobbs joined the Board in January 2015 and retired Member of the Risk Committee in November 2019. 98 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Governance 99 Board skills Engagement. and experience Board regional Industry experience Directors’ average tenure Gender diversity program FY20 The Board views ‘industry experience’ The Board considers it has an The target of 30 per cent female Board as skills or experience gained in one or appropriate mix of new, mid and longer members aims to improve gender more of the core Lendlease operating tenured Directors. At June 2020, the diversity and focus its attention on segments of Development, Construction average term of the Board is 5.5 years. achieving this objective. This target has and/or Investments. been exceeded. 6 of 10 100% 1-3 3-6 6-9 9+ 33% 40% years years years years Board members Have Directors’ Current female Current female have experience in experience in Directors as at Directors as at one or more of the governance and June 2019 June 2020 core segments financial acumen 3 2 4 1 The Directors have a mix of local and international experience and expertise, as well as specialised skills to assist with decision making and to effectively govern and direct the organisation for the benefit of securityholders. The table below sets out the skills and experience considered by the Board to be important for its Directors to have collectively. These skill areas are reviewed regularly to assess their alignment and support the Group’s strategic direction. The skills matrix assists the Board with succession planning and professional development initiatives for Directors. In determining the skills matrix, each Director undertakes a self assessment of their skills and expertise. As an international company and having regard to the material scale of individual Skills/Experience Comments Total projects, the Board program is formulated to reflect the geographic spread of A commitment to and experience in setting exceptional corporate governance policies, Lendlease businesses. While the Board commenced the financial year with an agreed Governance 10 practices and standards. regional program, the onset of COVID-19 meant that some of the engagement Industry Possessing industry knowledge, exposure and experience gained in one or more of the core activities with our people and customers were temporarily placed on hold. The Board Lendlease operating segments of Development, Construction and Investments. This includes 6 Experience acting in advisory roles for these industries. is now looking at ways to continue this engagement through the use of technology. International Exposure to international regions either through experience gained directly in the region or through 8 Operations the management of regional clients and other stakeholder relationships. Engaging with Lendlease During FY20, the planned Board with our investor community. As part of Health Experience in programs implementing safety, mental health and physical wellbeing, on site and The Lendlease Board views that program of site visits, staff and customer this, a presentation detailing the scope of 10 program activities, in addition to the engagement and other activities continued the Board activities was made available on and Safety within the business. Monitoring the proactive management of workplace health and safety practices. formal scheduled Board and Committee until the onset of restrictions as a result the Lendlease website in June 2020. The ability to identify economically, socially and environmentally sustainable developments. of the COVID-19 pandemic. Board Sustainability 9 meetings, are an important element of the Meeting with Lendlease people Ability to set and monitor sustainability aspirations. and Committee meetings continued, Board’s activities and enables Directors to In addition to these industry events, Developing, setting and executing strategic direction. Experience in driving growth and executing obtain the required deep understanding however, site visits and customer and staff Strategy 10 the Chairman and Board members against a clear strategy. of the activities and operations within engagement with Board members was met with local Lendlease management each region. The Chair works with the temporarily put on hold. Induction activities Risk Experience in anticipating and evaluating risks that could impact business. Recognising and managing and employees in the Australia, Asia 10 Company Secretary to forward plan the for the new Non Executive Directors Management these risks by developing sound risk governance policies and frameworks. and Europe regions. These events took program for the year. Depending on the continued through the use of technology. the form of employee ‘town hall’ style Experience in identifying and resolving legal and regulatory issues and having the ability to assist the time of year and the region, the program Stakeholder engagement events. The Board members encourage Legal 3 Board on these matters. runs for a minimum of two days and up to The Board members, led by the Chairman, employees to ask questions at these five days where deeper project reviews maintain an active and extensive sessions which provide the opportunity for People and Experience in building workforce capability, setting a remuneration framework which attracts and 10 are required. Each program comprises open and honest debate on organisational Culture retains a high calibre of executives, promoting workplace culture, diversity and inclusion. engagement program to represent the formal meetings and additional business interests of Lendlease at various industry culture. The visit to the Americas region Skills gained while performing at a senior executive level for a considerable length of time including briefings, presentations from internal and Executive functions and bodies. The Chairman was cancelled following the COVID-19 delivering superior results, dealing with complex business models, projects, and issues and change 10 external sources, project site visits, client Leadership as an advocate for Lendlease regularly pandemic. management. meetings and networking events with meets with customers, investors, Financial Understanding of the financial drivers of a business. Experience in financial reporting and corporate employees and key stakeholders. governments and media. In February 10 Acumen financial management. Directors are also encouraged to 2020, the Lendlease Board endorsed a Strong technology background including online communications, IT workplace knowledge, security make site visits outside of a scheduled refreshed investor engagement program Technology 6 Board program. to encourage two way communications and data analysis skills. 100 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Governance 101 Program Board project Reporting period between 1 July 2019 and 30 June 2020. Board meetings are scheduled in Australia and each of the international regions where assessments Lendlease operates. Typically, a program of additional activities is programmed for the full reporting period. One of the key responsibilities of the Due to the travel restrictions put in place for COVID-19, the additional activities of the Lendlease Board is to oversee the strategy Board program were temporarily suspended between 20 March 2020 to 30 June 2020. so the Group can pursue its integrated During the period impacted by COVID-19, the Board pivoted to respond to the crisis. business model in targeted gateway cities Board engagement and oversight has been elevated since the onset of the pandemic around the world. During the first half of with the focus shifting towards governance oversight of the Group’s COVID-19 response the financial year, the Board continued in addition to ‘business as usual’ Board and Committee meetings. This included the its longstanding tradition of extending a formation of a Board subcommittee which met weekly across a two month period in Board program whilst in region to conduct response to the COVID-19 pandemic. site visits and attend deep dive reviews of various projects. The Silvertown Quays and Ardor Gardens development projects are presented as case studies of the activities that the Board undertakes in reviewing and assessing strategic opportunities. Site visits allow the Board to see and experience firsthand Shanghai: Ardor Gardens Artist’s impression the challenges associated with a project’s delivery, and Board conversations around project challenges and opportunities are appreciated in a fuller geographic and Ardor Gardens, Shanghai strategic context. Lendlease’s development expertise in retirement living has been extended to Shanghai These activities undertaken by the Board where we are delivering an initial c.850 senior living homes. The Ardor Gardens project, Sydney: One are examples of how the Board oversees in the context of the senior living strategy, is an example of how the Board reviews and Singapore: London: Sydney Harbour, management, delivering projects in evaluates strategic opportunities over a longer term period. The China senior living Paya Lebar Quarter Artist’s impression Elephant Park Artist’s impression Barangaroo South Artist’s impression accordance with the Group’s strategy, strategy was first presented to the Board more than five years ago. Due to its strategic through its program of activities. significance, the Board initially received progress updates ahead of a formal request for approval to move forward in this sector in China. Numerous factors were considered prior Asia Europe Australia Silvertown Quays, London to the Board arriving at its decision. These included the rationale for the strategy, macro economic indicators, financial and commercial assessment, funding and development The Board visited Singapore and Shanghai The Board visited London in October 2019. • Quarterly engagement with regional Commencing in early 2018, the Board strategy, safety and sustainability issues, and key risks. While not exhaustive, these in July 2019. • Board networking session for the business leaders to provide updates were introduced to the opportunity factors were indicative of the issues considered during Boardroom discussions. and overview of key regional business to secure via a joint venture with • Board networking session for the Asia Europe regional senior leadership team, The Board has continued to receive updates on the senior living strategy in China and issues. (Undertaken by individual Starwood Capital, a long term large regional senior leadership team, to to determine capability at the level in July 2019, a number of the Board members visited Ardor Gardens. By visiting the directors, at regular intervals throughout scale regeneration for residential and determine capability at the level below below the GLT site, the Board gained an appreciation for its location and proximity to infrastructure, the reporting period. During COVID-19, commercial use. Silvertown Quays the GLT • Informal mentoring of various leadership and in meeting with key stakeholders, the Board further understood the complexities of the sessions continued via video offers the regeneration of an existing • Board networking session with the team members to provide guidance, conference) heritage asset – the Millennium Mills this project. China senior leadership team motivation and support in in career – and the delivery of significant new • Overview and site walk of Melbourne • Informal mentoring of various leadership development public realm. In making its investment Metro project (September 2019 by team members to provide guidance, • Attendance at Lendlease Europe decision, the Board considered numerous individual directors) motivation and support in in career Region employee update including factors relevant to the development’s • Attendance by Chairman at ‘town hall’ viability. These included focusing on the development Q&A with staff and broader networking opportunity for all regional staff event and panel session in Melbourne alignment to strategy, understanding of • Attendance at Lendlease Singapore (September 2019) risk limits, the environment, health and Region ‘town hall’ style update including • Received briefing from external speaker sustainability profile of the project and • Viewing and site walk of One Sydney panel discussion with all Board members on insights into infrastructure delivery knowledge sharing from other London followed by a broader networking in the UK and collaboration between Harbour residential precinct and overview of project (November 2019) urban regeneration projects. In October opportunity for Singapore staff public and private sectors in relation to 2019, the Board received a deep dive • Received briefing from external project delivery • Deep-dive education session of presentation from the Project Team Lendlease Digital capability and function which covered several aspects of the speakers on insights into retail‑led • Guided walk of the Euston area for (February 2020 by individual director) development including the planning opportunities in the Asia region mixed-use urban regeneration project and scheme masterplan process, • Safety induction and guided site visit • Received a deep dive presentation of community consultation program, of Paya Lebar Quarter mixed-use urban the Thamesmead project and viewed government relations, socioeconomic regeneration project the precinct and sustainability factors and technical • Received a deep dive presentation of • In conjunction with external customers, innovation. The Board visited the area the Ardor Gardens senior living project guided tour of The Elephant, Elephant to view the site and to observe how key in Shanghai and overall China senior & Castle projects to view Lendlease stakeholder consultation process was living strategy, viewed the precinct and placemaking capabilities shaping the delivery of the project. London: met with key Government officials and Silvertown Quays Artist’s impression customers 102 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Governance 103 Supporting value creation The Board continues to recognise that the five focus Health and Safety Financial Our Customers Our People Sustainability areas of value Material Issue: Material Issue: Material Issue: Material Issue: Material Issue: creation, supported Operating safely across our operations Delivering securityholder returns. Understanding our customers and Attracting, developing and retaining Managing and optimising our by disciplined and projects. Maintaining the health and Maintaining strong capital management responding to changes in the market. diverse talent. Ensuring we have the performance in the context of challenges wellbeing of our employees and those to enable investment in our future Designing and delivering innovative, right capability across the organisation facing the built environment, including governance and who engage with our assets and sites. pipeline. customer driven solutions to win the to deliver results for all stakeholders. climate change and social pressures risk management, The Board and Sustainability Committee The Board and Audit and Risk Committees projects we want to win and ultimately deliver the best places. The Board, People and Culture Committee such as population growth and housing affordability. contribute to undertook the following activities as part undertook the following activities to help and Nomination Committee undertook of their continued review of the Lendlease fulfil the Board’s oversight responsibilities The Board and its committees undertook the following activities to help attract, The Board and Sustainability Committee performance and Health and Safety Framework and the in delivering returns to securityholders the following activities as part of its develop and retain diverse talent and to engaged in the following activities to help drive the long-term unwavering commitment to the safety of our people and those who interact with and by adopting a prudent approach to capital management with a view support of the Group’s customer focused approach and to embed a process of monitor the investment in developing leaders and capabilities. deliver inclusive, healthy and adaptable places that can thrive through change. value of our business. Lendlease assets and sites. to maintaining a strong balance sheet throughout market cycles. continuous improvement based on customer insights and actions. Board activities and actions: Board activities and actions: Board activities and actions: Reviewed and discussed the Group’s Continued to support the commitment to During the year, in addition to the Reviewed the way health and safety issues Board activities and actions: Board activities and actions: talent management and strategic reconciliation in progressing the work to a responsibilities and tasks set out in are reported. Supported reporting a broader A major focus area for the Board in Continued to engage with clients, resourcing strategy and endorsed actions second Elevate Reconciliation Action Plan. the charter documents, the Board range of leading and lagging indicators to FY20 was the response to the COVID-19 investors and other stakeholders at various to provide greater transparency. Pre and Board Committees deliberated Engaged with management and attended provide a more rounded approach as well pandemic. In order to keep focus on industry functions, site visits and events. COVID-19 engaged with regional senior on the following specific matters and a number of workshops on the four as the resulting performance. business resilience during this time, a leaders and the Board to gain greater undertook a number of activities to Continued to provide feedback on Lendlease Climate Scenarios created to Board subcommittee was formed with visibility of the emerging pool of potential support value creation. While these do Discussed the measures and actions taken initiatives to improve the reporting of test business strategies and respond to the objective of oversighting cashflow, internal successors to the GLT. not represent the full scope of Board at a project and regional level in response customer satisfaction and advocacy to key trends in line with recommendations balance sheet and liquidity scenarios, activities, they highlight some of the to a fatality resulting from a critical incident the Board and Risk Committee to drive Refreshed the review of formal development of the Task Force on Climate Related culminating in a decision to raise capital areas of focus by the Board. on a project in Kuala Lumpur whereby a continuous improvement in the customer plans for the Global Leadership Team by Financial Disclosures (TCFD). in April 2020. worker passed away from an infection experience. This included the reporting creating a new baseline at which to chart This year, given the unprecedented Endorsed new, challenging sustainability whilst recovering from surgery in hospital. Approved an equity raising via an of C-SAT and NPS scores for each of the progress against these plans. COVID-19 pandemic crisis, a targets for carbon and social value to institutional placement and Security Americas, Asia, Australia Construction significant amount of Board attention Received a cross committee referral Responded to COVID-19 by endorsing begin the next chapter of sustainability. Purchase Plan as a prudent measure to & Property and Europe regions. was focused on the management on the audit of safety incidents on a various temporary workforce management strengthen the balance sheet and position Attended a ‘deep dive’ discussion on response to the crisis. Lendlease project and requested that Received regular reports on key customer initiatives. An up to six month reduction of the Group to deliver the development Modern Slavery risks in our global supply management investigate and report experience initiatives underway in various 20 percent in fixed remuneration for the pipeline and take advantage of chains and oversaw the development of on these incidents until the matter was regions including ‘deep dive’ rolling Global Leadership Team and a voluntary opportunities as markets stabilise. timetable towards submission of the 2020 closed out to the satisfaction of both the reviews across various business units. reduction of up to 20 percent of Modern Slavery Statement. Sustainability and Audit committees. Oversight and approval of workforce Non-Executive Director base fees. Received various external reports on management and cost reduction initiatives Endorsed a new global Supplier Code of Received reports on the ways that the measuring of Board effectiveness as Supported the establishment of a across the business to reflect the changing Conduct setting out the expectations of management were responding to the onset viewed by external investors. Monitored Hardship and Wellbeing Fund in response environment as a result of the COVID-19 suppliers, contractors and their supply of COVID-19 and the significant disruptions the reporting of the program of activities to COVID-19, seeded in part by the pandemic. chains across a range of areas. across Lendlease’s operations and to respond to the insights gained from voluntary fee reduction agreed by broadening of health and safety objectives. Oversight of an extensive review of the the report. Non-Executive Directors. Risk Appetite Statement, Risk Appetite Endorsed global standards in response to Received presentations from external Continue to review the progress on the work Framework and Risk Tolerances against COVID-19 addressing project shutdown customers to brief the Board on key in evolving the Group’s purpose and values. enterprise risks, to maintain alignment on protocols, social distancing applications customer relationships relevant to a the appetite for risk in order to drive more Endorsed the launch of two global on site and in regional offices, and the particular business. informed and consistent decision making. knowledge sharing Practices based on protocols in the event of confirmed cases. Approved the Risk Appetite Statement, Urbanisation and Residential Development. Pre COVID-19 Board members assessed Risk Appetite Framework and Risk These bring together senior sector leaders our health and safety culture and received Tolerances following this review. and subject matter experts to develop presentations during site visits in Asia, specialist IP for our people. Endorsed the deployment of the Risk Europe and Australia. Questioned frontline Appetite Framework (RAF) through the Endorsed a newly developed ‘Risk Index’ leaders and employees on Lendlease’s introduction of a RAF template for all in the six monthly People Survey. The Global Minimum Requirements (GMRs). investment decisions. ‘Risk Index’ provides insight into how Post COVID-19, Board members received our people feel about escalating issues reports from management on the innovative with their manager and with reporting use of technology during safety site visits. instances of unethical conduct. 104 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Governance 105 Board of Directors’ information Interests in Capital Attendance at Meetings of Directors 1 July 2019 to 30 June 2020 The interests of each of the Directors in the Stapled Securities of the Group at 17 August 2020 is set out below. The number of Board and Board Committee meetings held, and the number of meetings attended by each The current Non Executive Directors acquired Lendlease securities using their own funds. Director during the 2020 financial year, are set out in the tables below. Securities Held Securities Held Securities Held Beneficially/ Total Securities Held Beneficially/ Total (MH) Number of meetings held. (MA) Number of meetings attended. Current Directors Directly 2020 Indirectly 20201 2020 Directly 2019 Indirectly 20191 2019 Nomination M J Ullmer 110,000 110,000 100,000 100,000 Board Board Subcommittee Meetings5 Committee Membership (Chairman M J Ullmer) (Chairman M J Ullmer) (Chairman C B Carter) S B McCann 547,200 291,527 838,727 481,478 268,540 750,018 MH1 MA MH MA MH MA C B Carter 18,061 18,061 15,000 15,000 M J Ullmer 16 16 8 8 7 7 P M Coffey 21,216 21,216 9,810 9,810 S B McCann (CEO) 16 16 7 7 D P Craig 63,061 63,061 50,000 50,000 C B Carter 16 16 7 7 M Ford 4,065 4,065 P M Coffey 16 16 5 5 7 7 J S Hemstritch 23,061 23,061 20,000 20,000 D P Craig 16 16 6 6 7 7 E M Proust 53,061 53,061 25,000 25,000 M A Ford2 7 7 2 2 N M Wakefield Evans 34,020 34,020 30,248 30,248 J S Hemstritch 16 144 3 3 7 7 R Welanetz 7,000 7,000 E M Proust 16 16 2 2 7 7 Former Director N M Wakefield Evans 16 16 7 7 7 7 S B Dobbs1 12,000 12,000 12,000 12,000 R F Welanetz 2 7 7 2 2 2 2 1. S B Dobbs ceased to be a Non Executive Directors on 20 November 2019. The balance of securities held at the end of the financial year shown here represents the balance S B Dobbs3 5 5 3 3 held at that date. Directors’ Meetings a comprehensive review of the Board and Investment Committee. Given the review People and Sustainability Committee Audit its committees was undertaken. A range of major transactions moving to the Risk Board meetings Culture Committee Risk Committee (Chairman Committee of opportunities was identified to enhance Committee, all members of the Board Membership (Chairman E M Proust) (Chairman P M Coffey) N M Wakefield Evans) (Chairman D P Craig) The Board meets as often as necessary the effectiveness and efficiency of the including the Managing Director and CEO, to fulfil its role. Directors are required to Board process and the responsibilities are members of the Risk Committee. MH MA MH MA MH MA MH MA allocate sufficient time to the Group to reserved specifically for the Board and M J Ullmer 5 5 7 7 5 5 5 5 perform their responsibilities effectively, Sustainability Committee its committees. Following this review, including adequate time to prepare for The Sustainability Committee assists S B McCann6 (CEO) 5 5 7 7 5 5 5 5 there are now five standing Board Board meetings. During the financial the Board to monitor the decisions and committees to assist, advise and make C B Carter 5 5 7 7 5 5 year ended 30 June 2020, 16 Board actions of management in achieving recommendations to the Board on matters P M Coffey 5 5 7 7 5 5 meetings were held. Five meetings were Lendlease’s aspiration to be a sustainable falling within their areas of responsibility. held in person: three in Australia, one organisation. Sustainability is viewed as D P Craig 5 5 7 7 5 5 in Asia and one in the UK. In addition, The five permanent committees of the encompassing how Lendlease conducts 2 Board are: business through the pursuit of workplace M A Ford 2 2 1 1 1 1 there were three video/teleconference meetings scheduled in the FY20 Board Audit Committee safety, a commitment to corporate social J S Hemstritch 5 5 7 7 5 5 calendar. From March 2020, the Board responsibility, environmentally sustainable The Audit Committee assists the Board E M Proust 5 5 7 7 5 5 proceeded to meet using technology solutions and employee diversity, with its oversight responsibilities in only, due to the mandatory travel and development and opportunity. Lendlease N M Wakefield Evans 7 7 5 5 5 5 relation to accounting policies and group meeting restrictions put in place is strategically and culturally committed R F Welanetz2 practices, tax matters, treasury reporting, 1 1 2 2 1 1 in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. to achieving commercial success in ways monitoring of internal financial controls, S B Dobbs 3 4 4 3 3 3 3 Two of these meetings were already that honour ethical values and respect internal and external audit functions and scheduled in the FY20 Board calendar people, communities and the natural financial reporting of the Group. as in person meetings but proceeded environment. using video/teleconference technology. People and Culture Committee Nomination Committee An additional six meeting were held via The People and Culture Committee The Nomination Committee advises video/teleconference to discuss specific assists the Board with its oversight and supports the Board to fulfill its matters, and matters were dealt with as responsibilities in relation to establishing responsibilities to securityholders; to required by circular resolution. people management, diversity, talent and assure that the Board is comprised of remuneration/compensation policies for From time to time special subcommittees individuals who in combination bring the Group. are formed to give the Board better a mix of expertise, skills, experience guidance and provide oversight Risk Committee and perspectives and contribute to concerning specific matters. During The Risk Committee assists the Board with the discharge of diligent oversight and the reporting period, eight Board its oversight responsibilities in relation effective corporate governance of the subcommittee meetings were also to risk management and internal control Group. The Nomination Committee constituted to deal with specific matters. systems, risk policies and practices, and also oversees activities for Director 1. Reflects the number of meetings held during the time the Director held office during the year. 6 out of the 16 meetings were out of schedule Board teleconferences compliance. The Risk Committee also development and oversees the reviews constituted to address specific issues. 2. M A Ford and R F Welanetz were appointed to the Board on 1 March 2020. The number of meetings attended reflects the number of The Board recognises the essential role of has another important role – to review, of Board, Committee and Director meetings since their appointment. M A Ford and R F Welanetz attended the February 2020 meeting held in Sydney as observers prior to their formal appointment to the committees in guiding the organisation on Board. This meeting has not been included in the number of meetings attended as it was prior to their formal appointments. 3. S B Dobbs retired from the Board on and if approved, recommend to the performance. 20 November 2019. The number of meetings attended reflects the number of meetings until S B Dobbs’ retirement. 4. J S Hemstitch was unable to attend 2 of the 6 specific issues. Following the appointment Board for approval major transactions as unscheduled Board teleconferences as they were called at short notice to address specific issues. 5. These subcommittee meetings of the Board were convened during the of the new Chairman in November 2018, referred to the Committee by the Global reporting period to address specific issues. Only the subcommittee members attended the relevant meeting. 6. S B McCann is not a member of the Committee but as Group CEO and Managing Director, has a standing invitation to the Sustainability and Audit Committees. 106 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Governance 107 Remuneration Report Message from the Board The value of the FY20 Deferred Equity Award for the Group Board’s response to COVID-19 CEO is equivalent to 35 per cent of his STA target (23 per cent This year has been challenging and unprecedented. It has of his STA maximum) and the value of the FY20 Deferred Equity The key remuneration-related decisions Temporary release from mandatory Substantially lower FY20 required the Board and management to rapidly navigate and Awards for executives is equivalent to between 25 per cent to that the People & Culture Committee securityholding requirement Group incentive pool respond to the uncertain health, safety and financial impacts 40 per cent of STA targets (between 17 per cent to 27 per cent and Board made during FY20 in response of COVID-19. of STA maximums). to COVID-19 include: The Group CEO and GLT members were After taking into consideration FY20 provided with the opportunity to request financial and non financial performance, The Board’s primary focus has been the safety of our employees, The Board determined in August 2020 that the FY20 Deferred Workforce management actions a temporary release from the mandatory the Board approved a Group incentive pool customers, subcontractors and other stakeholders and the Equity Award was the right approach given that it: securityholding requirement, such that the that was significantly lower compared to strength of our balance sheet. Refer to the Board's response With a focus on reducing short-term costs • Recognises the achievement of non financial performance required holding of Lendlease securities prior years. The quantum of the incentive to COVID-19 on page 107 for a summary of key remunerationand preserving jobs we implemented the outcomes that support long term value creation is halved. The Group CEO did not request pool recognises the statutory loss, key related decisions made during FY20. following workforce management actions: this release. contributions made in FY20 that position For the first nine months of the year, the business performed • Considers the balance between motivating, recognising and The Fixed Remuneration for the Group the Group for success in FY21 and beyond well. As the pandemic situation has evolved and as a result of rewarding executives with securityholder interests CEO, Group Leadership Team (GLT) and Access to wage subsidy support as well as the importance of motivating and providing for the costs of separating the Engineering business, • Considers that although a final dividend for FY20 will not be other senior leaders was temporarily retaining our high performing employees Wherever we operate, Lendlease has in line with those previously advised, a statutory loss was paid from Lendlease Corporation Limited, securityholders will reduced by 20 per cent from 1 May 2020. to navigate the challenges ahead. The continued its partnership approach to recorded for FY20. receive distributions of over $191 million relating to FY20 funding rate for the FY20 Group incentive Non Executive Directors were able to helping governments respond to the public Linking remuneration decisions and performance pool is aligned to the FY20 Deferred Equity • Provides the Board with additional review points prior temporarily reduce their base fees by health and economic crisis presented Award outcomes for the Group CEO and In applying our Executive Reward Strategy (ERS), a number to vesting 20 per cent from 1 June 2020. by COVID-19. We acknowledge that our senior executives. of financial and non financial factors have been considered government partners have adopted the • Provides a retention element given that executives will be Other workforce management actions by the Board when determining remuneration outcomes for same approach and recognised the crucial required to wait up to two years for the award to vest. The across the Group included reduced hours Board discretion applied to executive Key Management Personnel (KMP) in FY20. Key points are role of the property and infrastructure Board is very mindful that the retention of highly capable of work, furlough / stand downs and, in a FY20 short term remuneration outcomes highlighted below: sectors in the economy. As our company executives is critical to our ability to deliver the pipeline into limited number of cases, redundancies. has been negatively impacted by For executives, the Board determined that Financial outcomes the future. COVID-19 in most markets, Lendlease has no cash STA would be awarded in FY20 and Given the financial result for the year, no Short Term Award Hardship & Wellbeing Fund Looking ahead been eligible and accessed wage subsidy it was more appropriate to issue an FY20 (STA) has been made to the Group CEO or senior executives in The impacts of COVID-19 have been support in markets where it was offered. Deferred Equity Award albeit at a reduced In FY21, the Board will continue to review and assess the relation to financial performance. No adjustments were made especially challenging for some of our Government support globally totalled quantum. Half of the award is scheduled to effectiveness of our ERS as we contemplate what is required to FY20 STA scorecard targets to account for the impact of people. Through no fault of their own, $15 million (in Australia $7 million) and vest in September 2021 and the balance in to motivate and retain our senior executives to navigate COVID-19. some have experienced hardship, even has been accounted for as a reduction in September 2022. the challenges and realise the opportunities that lay ahead. Accordingly, the receipt of a modest amount of COVID-19 We look forward to informing you of progress. after exploring alternative sources of employee expenses. related assistance from governments, had no influence on the support. For this reason, we established No adjustments to FY20 As a Board, we have considered the quantum of awards, nor did the completion of the capital raising. the Lendlease Hardship & Wellbeing STA scorecard targets amount of wage subsidy support accessed Fund which provides grants to support Non financial outcomes by the Group when determining FY20 During the year the Board made no our people who need short-term help to We achieved a significant improvement in performance across a remuneration outcomes. adjustments to FY20 STA scorecard targets cover essential expenses of everyday life. wide range of safety metrics and our Critical Incident Frequency to account for the impact of COVID-19. A portion of the savings achieved through Rate (CIFR) is at its lowest level since records began in 2012. FY21 Fixed Remuneration to remain Michael Ullmer, AO Elizabeth Proust, AO the workforce management actions unchanged from FY20 levels Target setting for 2020 However, tragically, a fatality was reported during 2020. This outlined above have been used to seed the Chairman Chairman, Long Term Award (LTA) incident has been accounted for in the Board's assessment of Hardship & Wellbeing Fund. There were no Fixed Remuneration People & Culture Committee increases awarded to KMPs that remained In relation to the 2020 LTA, the Board remuneration outcomes for the Group CEO and senior executives In the two months since the creation of based on either accountability or responsibility for safety outcomes. in the same role during FY20. For FY21, the deferred its decision on setting the average the Hardship & Wellbeing Fund, Board determined that Fixed Remuneration Return on Equity (ROE) target until the sale We achieved a significant increase in leadership effectiveness 99 Hardship & Wellbeing Fund grants will remain at FY20 levels for the majority of the Engineering business was complete. scores as measured by their teams. This will remain a key focus for have been approved for payment. of employees across the Group. The impact of COVID-19 will be considered us as we grow and deliver our global pipeline. when this target is set, following the sale. Our net promoter and customer satisfaction scores have improved in an otherwise challenging environment and the development and implementation of our digital strategy has continued to progress at pace and a new business brand has been launched. Contents Our Development pipeline grew by an impressive 48 per cent over a. Questions and answers 108 the year. b. Executives and Non Executive Directors covered by this report 109 Given the key contributions made during the year that position the Group for success in FY21 and beyond, the Board considered c. Snapshot of FY20 Remuneration Outcomes 110 that the recognition, in part, of the achievement of non financial d. Executive Reward Strategy on a page 111 performance was fair and appropriate. e. Executive remuneration outcomes and disclosures 112 FY20 remuneration outcomes For executives, the Board determined that no cash STA would be f. Remuneration governance 119 awarded in FY20 and it was more appropriate to issue an FY20 g. How risk management is incorporated into executive reward 121 Deferred Equity Award albeit at a reduced quantum. Half of the award is scheduled to vest in September 2021 and the balance in h. How executive rewards are linked to performance 122 September 2022. This report forms part of the i. Executive contracts 128 Directors’ Report and has been j. Equity based remuneration 129 audited in accordance with the Corporations Act 2001. k. Non Executive Directors 134 108 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Governance 109 Remuneration Report a. Questions and answers b. Executives and Non Executive Directors covered by this report We regularly receive feedback regarding our ERS from To support these objectives, we believe that this component of the The following executives and Non Executive Directors were considered KMP for the year ended 30 June 2020. securityholders. Below is a summary of the key questions that we ERS is better described as an RSA, illustrated below. Former executives and Non Executive Directors who were KMP during the year are also covered by this report. have been asked, or anticipate being asked, and our responses. Our reward structure is unlike frameworks commonly found in Name ERS Remuneration ERS Remuneration other large listed organisations as it reflects the most important Elements Elements Group CEO aspects of our business strategy, namely the long dated nature of Stephen McCann Group Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director our business, where profits emerge over an extended period of Fixed Remuneration Fixed Remuneration time. Accordingly, the ERS has a relatively high weighting toward securities that have long dated vesting and deferral periods. Short Term Award Restricted Securities Award Current Senior Executives 1. Why was a Deferred Equity Award made to KMP in LTA Johannes Dekker Group Head of Engineering and Building Minimum Short Term Award FY20 when financial goals were not achieved? Long Term Tarun Gupta Group Chief Financial Officer Lendlease has paid no cash STA in FY20. Award (LTA) LTA Award Long Term Award Denis Hickey Chief Executive Officer, Americas Lendlease uses a balanced scorecard to assess the annual performance of senior executives that comprises 50 per cent Anthony Lombardo Chief Executive Officer, Asia financial goals and 50 per cent non financial goals. The value of the RSA is fixed at the time of grant but will vary with Neil Martin Chief Executive Officer, Europe since 10 September 2019 The FY20 Deferred Equity Award recognises that although the security price over the deferral period (up to six years). Kylie Rampa Chief Executive Officer, Property Australia the FY20 financial goals were not met, significant progress The quantum of Total Target Remuneration is unchanged. David Andrew Wilson Group Chief Commercial and Risk Officer was made against most of the non financial goals that support long term value creation. The FY20 Deferred Equity Award 6. Is the RSA just Fixed Remuneration? also acknowledges the importance of motivating, recognising, The RSA is an important component of our ERS as it aligns our Former Senior Executive rewarding and retaining our key executives. senior executives to securityholders and supports long term value Daniel Labbad Chief Executive Officer, Europe until 9 September 2019 creation. The Board considered that paying a cash STA would not have been appropriate. However, an equity award that aligns the interests It is important to recognise that the RSA is not the same as Fixed Remuneration given that: Note: The term ‘senior executives’ used throughout this Remuneration Report refers to all the executives listed above, unless stated otherwise. of senior executives with securityholders into the future was considered to be fair and in the best interests of the Group. • The RSA is deferred and vests between three and six years after it is granted Non Executive Directors 2. Why was an equity award issued rather than a cash award? Our current ERS is structured to pay any STA as cash. • The value of the RSA is directly linked to the security Current Non Executive Directors price and therefore may be lower or higher than the original The Board determined that an equity award would be more Michael Ullmer Independent Chairman allocation value appropriate, with half of the award vesting in September 2021 Colin Carter Independent Non Executive Director and the balance vesting in September 2022. • The Board has discretion to forfeit part or all of any unvested RSA where it considers vesting would provide a participant Philip Coffey Independent Non Executive Director Issuing an equity award that is deferred equally over two years with a benefit that was unwarranted or inappropriate. provides the Board with additional review points prior to vesting David Craig Independent Non Executive Director and delivers a retention element given that senior executives will 7. Does Lendlease pay distributions on the RSA? Margaret Ford Independent Non Executive Director since 1 March 2020 be required to wait for up to two years for the award to vest. Distribution equivalent amounts are paid as cash on the RSA. Jane Hemstritch Independent Non Executive Director 3. Why was an award made to KMP in FY20 when dividends This practice aligns senior executive reward outcomes to Elizabeth Proust Independent Non Executive Director were reduced? securityholder interests and paying distributions on this type of award is not uncommon. Nicola Wakefield Evans Independent Non Executive Director Notwithstanding the statutory loss for the year, securityholders received an interim distribution, commensurate with our distribution Distributions are not paid on the LTA, unless and until vesting Robert Welanetz Independent Non Executive Director since 1 March 2020 policy, at the half year. Whilst a final dividend has not been paid conditions are met. from Lendlease Corporation Limited a small final distribution will Former Non Executive Director be paid from the Lendlease Trust. The reduced incentive pool for Steve Dobbs Independent Non Executive Director until 20 November 2019 the year represents a lower proportion of amounts distributed to securityholders than in any of the past five years. 4. What impact does the capital raising have on remuneration decisions and outcomes? Performance securities and performance rights for existing awards ‘on foot’ were not adjusted following the capital raising as is the practice in many large listed organisations. 5. Why is the LTA Minimum referred to as the Restricted Securities Award (RSA) in this report? The RSA (LTA Minimum) was incorporated into the ERS: • To promote alignment with securityholders as a portion of target remuneration is delivered in Lendlease securities • To support long term value creation • To better align reward to risk management. 110 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Governance 111 Remuneration Report c. Snapshot of FY20 remuneration outcomes d. Executive Reward Strategy on a page Target The FY20 target remuneration mix is: Remuneration Mix Our Vision To create the best places Fixed Remuneration RSA1 STA LTA 31% 36% 34% CEO Execs CEO Execs CEO Execs 45% CEO Execs Our Strategy Sets us up for the long term so we can continue to deliver on our vision 15% 17% 7% 15% Our strategy is urbanisation-led, leveraging our integrated model to create the best urban precincts in key gateway cities A$000s internationally. See the ‘Our strategy’ section on page 18 for further information. 2,200 1,200 500 500 1,200 500 3,200 1,100 Total Target Remuneration | Group CEO 7,100 | Typical Lendlease Senior Executive 3,300 Our Remuneration Principles Reinforce and actively support our Vision and Strategy Fixed Remuneration The Fixed Remuneration for the Group CEO and senior executives was temporarily reduced by 20 per cent from 1 May 2020 as part of the Group’s response to COVID-19. Some of the cost savings from this action were used to seed Lendlease’s Hardship & Wellbeing Fund. Executive Remuneration at Lendlease is: There were no Fixed Remuneration increases awarded to KMPs that remained in the same role during FY20. Aligned with Transparent Aligned with Market Balanced with Longer dated Risk management FY20 Cash STA No cash STA was paid in FY20: securityholder and easy to team behaviours competitive a significant and aligned to focused with Outcomes interests communicate and enterprise to retain portion of our earnings clear practices % of Target STA Paid % of Maximum STA Paid leadership highly capable remuneration profile, reflecting that minimise FY20 FY19 FY20 FY19 executives at risk, which the importance potential conflicts is only earned of urbanisation of interest and Group CEO 0% 0% 0% 0% for outstanding projects enable effective Senior Executives 0% 25% 50% 0% 17% 33% performance and aligned decision making See page 124 for more details. FY20 Deferred Equity Award The Board approved in August 2020 that an FY20 Deferred Equity Award would be fair and appropriate given that it: Our Remuneration Framework Reflects our remuneration principles and supports our Vision and Strategy • Recognises the achievement of non financial performance outcomes that support long term value creation • Considers the balance between motivating, recognising and rewarding executives with securityholder interests Aligned with At Risk – Performance At Risk – Performance • Considers that although a final dividend for FY20 will not be paid from Lendlease Corporation Limited, securityholders will receive distributions of over $191 million relating to FY20 Securityholders Hurdles Hurdles & Security Price • Provides the Board with additional review points prior to vesting • Provides a retention element given that executives will be required to wait up to two years for the award to vest. Restricted Securities Award The FY20 Deferred Equity Award will be issued in or around September 2020 as Lendlease securities that vest over two Fixed Remuneration Short Term Award (STA) Long Term Award (LTA) (RSA)1 years, with half vesting in September 2021 and the balance in September 2022. The value of the FY20 Deferred Equity Award for the Group CEO is equivalent to 35 per cent of his STA target (23 per cent Set to attract and retain Focussed on retention and long Focused on priority areas Focused on future years, of his STA maximum) and the value of the FY20 Deferred Equity Awards for executives is equivalent to between 25 per cent highly capable executives term value creation in the current financial year with a six year time horizon to 40 per cent of STA targets (between 17 per cent to 27 per cent of STA maximums). See the Remuneration Awarded table on page 115 for more details. Delivered as: Delivered as: Delivered as: Delivered as: LTI Outcomes The vesting outcomes for the two LTI awards that were subject to performance testing during FY20 are set out below: Base salary and superannuation Rights Cash Performance rights Overall for Australian executives and Deferral period: Performance period: Performance period: Performance Performance Performance Performance Vesting Vesting base salary for executives Up to six years with awards One year Three years with vested awards Period Test Hurdle Outcome Outcome Outcome outside of Australia delivered in four equal tranches delivered in four equal tranches Performance measures: Relative Total 12th percentile ranking Consistent Fixed Remuneration over Y3, Y4, Y5 and Y6 over Y3, Y4, Y5 and Y6 Securityholder 0% Financial (50 per cent) and Non 2016 1 July 2015 to compared to comparator group set for similarly sized roles to Distributions: Financial (50 per cent) measures Performance measures: LTI Year 4 Return (TSR) 16.0% 30 June 2019 simplify pay setting, support Distribution equivalent amounts aligned to Lendlease’s focus 50 per cent relative TSR Award Average 4 year ROE performance ROE 34.4% mobility and team approach are paid as cash on the RSA areas of value creation and 50 per cent average ROE was 11.5% during the deferral period Distributions: 26th percentile ranking compared 2017 Relative TSR 0% Paid as an adjustment of 1 July 2016 to to comparator group The value of the RSA is fixed at LTI Year 3 11.6% additional securities or cash Award 30 June 2019 Average 3 year ROE performance the time of grant but will vary ROE 25.0% with the security price over the for any awards that vest was 11.0% deferral period See page 126 for more details. Mandatory As part of the Group’s response to support our people during COVID-19, the Group CEO and GLT members were provided Remuneration Governance Robust governance is critical to the integrity of our remuneration framework Securityholding with the opportunity to request a temporary release from the mandatory securityholding requirement, such that the Requirement required holding of Lendlease securities is halved. The Group CEO did not request this release. The People & Culture Committee and the Board review our remuneration principles and remuneration framework as well as See Equity Holdings & Transactions for the year ended 30 June 2020 on page 133 for more details. determine the STA and LTA outcomes for the Group CEO and senior executives, which remain subject to malus consideration. The Effectiveness Review In FY21, the Board will continue to review and assess the effectiveness of our ERS as we contemplate what is required to Board retains an overarching discretion to reduce or forfeit any unvested awards if it considers that vesting of such awards will result of ERS for FY21 motivate and retain our senior executives to navigate the challenges and realise the opportunities that lay ahead. in the participant receiving a benefit that was unwarranted or inappropriate. Additionally, the Group CEO RSA and LTA is submitted for securityholder approval at the AGM. NED Remuneration Non Executive Directors were able to temporarily reduce their base fees by 20 per cent from 1 June 2020 as part of the Group’s response to COVID-19. Some of the cost savings from this action were used to seed Lendlease’s Hardship & Wellbeing Fund. There were no increases to NED fees during FY20. 1. Previously LTA Minimum. 112 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Governance 113 Remuneration Report e. Executive remuneration outcomes and disclosures The Board undertook an assessment of the Group CEO’s scorecard and the results are included below: Performance Measures For Year Ended 30 June 2020 Area of Focus Reason Chosen Result Performance Assessment Financial Performance 50 per cent Weighting A summary of the result against each financial measure is below:  range of financial measures that includes A Profit after Tax Behind Target The Group experienced a very challenging year with a Statutory Loss after Tax of $310 million for the specific targets for: year ended 30 June 2020. Profit after Tax A breadth of financial measures, in EBITDA Behind Target A solid Core operating EBITDA in H1FY20 of $628 million was followed by a $65 million loss in H2FY20 as EBITDA combination with the forward-looking our three Core segments experienced a significant deterioration in operating conditions as a result of the assessment of the financial health of the Cash flow from operating and investing pandemic. Core operating EBITDA for the full year was $563 million. The Non core segment recorded an business, focuses the Group CEO on the Overheads EBITDA loss of $495 million which included accounting for $525 million pre tax in Engineering separation delivery of financial results in the short term BELOW ABOVE An assessment of the overall financial health of costs. The EBITDA for the year ended 30 June 2020 was a $90 million loss. while taking decisions with an emphasis on the business: the long term interests of securityholders. Operating and Behind Target Actual cash flow was ($232 million), which is below target primarily as a result of a delay in apartment Comparing the quality of the result relative to Investing Cash Flow settlements. the targets set Overheads Behind Target Focus on business efficiencies saw overheads lower than targeted, but reduction in NPAT resulted in Overhead / GPM ratio not being met. Non Financial Performance 50 per cent Weighting (Aligned to our Five Focus Areas of Value Creation) Notwithstanding the progress made during the year, there was one fatal incident recorded. Tragically, Mohammed Nurul Amin passed away in hospital while in post operative recovery following an incident on the Affin Bank Berhad project in Malaysia. This tragic incident has been considered in assessing We are committed to the health and safety of the Group CEO’s overall performance. our people. The Critical Incident Frequency Health and Safety Our CIFR is at the lowest (0.7) since records began in 2012. Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) for the year is 1.5, the lowest since records began in Rate (CIFR) helps us assess how effective we are at eliminating life threatening incidents. 2000. Strong focus on safety risk management remains paramount at all times and has remained our primary concern during COVID-19. The Group CEO BELOW ABOVE continues to provide visible health and safety leadership, notwithstanding the limited number of site visits able to be arranged in the second half of the financial year. In response to the immediate impacts of COVID-19, the Group enters FY21 in a strong financial position as a result of the successful completion of the institutional placement ($950 million) and Security Purchase Plan ($260 million), with gearing below 10 per cent and total liquidity above $5 billion at 30 June 2020. In addition to these measures, significant progress has been made on our strategy, including the San Fracisco Bay Area project Effective capital management drives longer (c. $22 billion end value), PSP Investments partnership in Milan (c.$4 billion end value), PLLACes on One Sydney Harbour and a new joint venture with Strategic Initiatives and Managing Risk term securityholder returns. Mitsubishi Estate. In addition, the divestment of the Engineering business is expected to complete in early FY21. BELOW ABOVE There is continued improvement in risk management including the establishment of our first two Practices (Residential and Urban Regeneration) to drive consistency of approach on all pipeline projects globally. Customer centricity has been more systemically embedded within the business. Key customers have been assigned dedicated account leaders and all Satisfied customers drive long term activity coordinated through the account structure. Annual customer experience research is now well established across all regions and is supported by value. Innovation contributes to better regional CEOs. Our Customers and Innovation performance – capturing and responding to NPS1 and C-SAT2 global performance remains solid with small increases achieved in FY20 in a tough operating environment. disruption creates opportunity. Our digital strategy, as a founding member alongside Microsoft, Dell and Anys in establishing the Global Digital Twin Consortium, has been progressed. BELOW ABOVE The launch of our property lifecycle platform, Podium, will help us continue to lead in this space. Having the right people in leadership1 Increasing our senior leadership effectiveness was a key focus in FY20 following the targets not being achieved in FY19. Active focus, communication roles is critical to long term success. and visibility of senior leaders, supported by the Leadership Excellence Program, has driven a substantial improvement of +17 in Leadership The Group CEO sponsors key people Effectiveness scores to 61 per cent and a 4 percentage point increase in our Change Management Index (ahead of our target). Our People initiatives. The retention rate for talent segments was 91 per cent in FY20, ahead of our target of greater than 90 per cent. The proportion of women in leadership The Group CEO actively promotes diversity BELOW ABOVE roles has increased across the Group from 26.1 per cent to 26.9 per cent. and inclusion to grow capability. Capital investors, policy-makers, customers and communities are seeking partners Our new Sustainability Strategic Framework has been endorsed by our GLT, including the formation of the Carbon Target Sub-Committee to determine Sustainability who can deliver efficient, healthy, resilient, appropriate targets for the coming years. Significant progress was made in the disclosure against the Taskforce for Climate-related Financial Disclosure culturally and socially inclusive outcomes (TCFD) framework as well as the publishing of our 2050 Future Climate Scenarios. that deliver long term value. BELOW ABOVE 1. Leadership roles include a number of levels in the Lendlease Career Job Framework, including executive level roles. 1. NPS measures whether our customers’ experience fosters loyalty. 2. C-SAT measures whether customers are satisfied with our products and services. 114 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Governance 115 Remuneration Report e. Executive remuneration outcomes and disclosures continued Remuneration awarded by the Board for the year ended 30 June 2020 The remuneration awarded is set out in the table below. Comparison of remuneration tables The Board has reviewed senior executive remuneration and no further increases are anticipated for FY21, with the exception of Neil Martin In this section, the value of remuneration for the Group CEO and each senior executive is reported. In addition to the required statutory who will transition to the target remuneration for the CEO, Europe role during the year. table (based on the accounting disclosures), we have included a further table setting out the remuneration awarded on page 115, and graphs showing remuneration received on page 116, to provide a more complete illustration of our approach to executive remuneration. Total Short Term ‘At Risk’ – An explanation of the differences is set out below. A$000s1 Short Term STA Opportunity Remuneration Deferred to Future Periods Disclosure Awarded Table Remuneration Received Graphs Statutory Table % of % of Target Maximum Deferred LTA7 LTA Period Covered Remuneration disclosed relates to both time in their current role (as KMP) and any Only shows remuneration for the time Fixed STA Cash STA Cash Equity 2020 2020 other role they have held at Lendlease during the financial year. the senior executive was KMP. Name Remuneration2 STA Cash3 Paid Paid 2020 2019⁴ Award⁵ RSA 6 Target Max7,8 Fixed This includes the contractually awarded This includes the amount of TPV/Base The statutory disclosures include a Remuneration amount of Total Package Value (TPV)/ Salary received during the financial value for cash salary, non monetary Group CEO Base Salary from 1 September 2019 or year and reflects the 20 per cent Fixed benefits, superannuation and other Stephen McCann 2,127 0 0% 0% 2,127 2,200 420 500 3,200 5,550 later and reflects the 20 per cent Fixed Remuneration reduction that applied long term benefits in line with statutory Remuneration reduction that applied from 1 May 2020 as part of the Group’s remuneration disclosure requirements. from 1 May 2020 as part of the Group’s response to COVID-19. Non monetary benefits also include the Current Senior Executives response to COVID-19. It excludes annual leave and long service movement in annual leave accruals. Cash Johannes Dekker 1,161 0 0% 0% 1,161 1,325 125 500 1,100 3,200 It excludes annual leave and long service leave accruals. salary also reflects the 20 per cent Fixed leave accruals. Remuneration reduction that applied Tarun Gupta 1,160 0 0% 0% 1,160 1,325 175 500 1,100 3,200 For individuals whose remuneration For individuals employed for part of the changed during the year, remuneration from 1 May 2020 as part of the Group’s Denis Hickey 1,610 0 0% 0% 1,610 1,880 274 500 1,100 3,200 year, only remuneration paid during the received reflects the different amounts response to COVID-19 and the value of distribution equivalent amounts paid as Anthony Lombardo 1,105 0 0% 0% 1,105 1,320 166 500 1,100 3,200 employment period is included. of TPV/Base Salary paid. cash on the RSA. Neil Martin9 1,001 0 0% 0% 1,001 198 313 687 2,000 STA Cash The STA that will be paid as cash in September 2020 in respect of the financial year. Kylie Rampa 1,160 0 0% 0% 1,160 1,450 125 500 1,100 3,200 Deferred Short N/A The STI was replaced by the N/A The value of Deferred STI that The accounting expense attributed David Andrew Wilson 1,205 0 0% 0% 1,205 1,372 175 500 1,100 3,200 Term Incentive STA in FY19. vested during the year is included in Prior to this financial year for Deferred STI (STI) STI and LTI Awards. awards granted in September 2018 and the Executive Deferred Award Former Senior Executive (EDA) granted to a limited number of Daniel Labbad10 263 263 1,582 executives in September 2019. Total Short Term The sum of Fixed Remuneration and N/A N/A Remuneration received for the year ended 30 June 2020 Remuneration STA Cash. Remuneration received during the year includes Fixed Remuneration, prior STI and LTI awards and the security price growth and Deferred Equity The value of the Deferred Equity Award N/A value will be reflected in FY21 and FY22. distributions on these awards which vested during the year. Award to be issued in or around September 2020 that vests over two years with The Board determined in August 2020 that a cash STA would not be awarded in FY20. Prior STI awards that vested during the year were half vesting in September 2021 and the granted in September 2017 and 2018 and were released in September 2019. Prior LTI awards that vested during the year were tested based balance in September 2022. on cumulative performance between the start of the year in which they were granted and the year ending 30 June 2019. These awards RSA1 The value of Rights awarded at the The value of Rights which vested during The RSA is reported in the Security were also released in September 2019. time of grant. The value varies with the the year. The value shown represents the Based Payments section of the statutory security price over the deferral period. value of Rights at the grant date. No RSA disclosures. This is the accounting Security price growth and distributions represent the shared ‘gain’ senior executives and securityholders have experienced over the life of The RSA vests in September 2022, vested during FY20. expense attributed to this financial year awards. The table below illustrates the change for the awards that vested during the year. September 2023, September 2024 and for RSA’s granted in the 2019 and 2020 September 2025. financial years. LTA The LTA replaced the LTI in FY19. N/A The LTA is reported in the Security Grant price Vest price $ Gain Distributions Based Payments section of the statutory Award Granted per security $ (1 Sept 2019) per security $ paid per security $ Total $ The Remuneration Awarded table shows the target face value of the 2020 LTA disclosures. This is the accounting 2017 STI September 2017 17.11 17.02 (0.09) 1.11 1.02 offered in September 2019. expense attributed to this financial year for LTA granted in the 2019 and 2020 2018 STI September 2018 19.79 17.02 (2.77) 0.42 (2.35) The 2020 LTA vests in September 2022, September 2023, September 2024 and financial years. 2016 LTI September 2015 15.16 17.02 1.86 2.37 4.23 September 2025 and the awards are 2017 LTI September 2016 13.49 17.02 3.53 1.77 5.30 subject to relative TSR and average ROE performance hurdles (explained in detail on page 126). The impact of security price movements on unvested awards that are scheduled to vest in September 2020 will be included in the Prior STI and N/A not disclosed in this table. The value of any Deferred STI awards, Prior STI and LTI Awards are reported FY21 Remuneration Report. This will reflect the security price decline immediately following the escalation of the COVID-19 pandemic. LTI Awards including the EDA and LTI awards which as part of the Security Based Payment For example, the security price movement on the 2018 STI was a loss of 37.5 per cent between the grant date and 30 June 2020. vested during this financial year. The section of the statutory disclosures. value shown represents the value of the This includes the accounting expense awards at the grant date. attributed to this financial year for the The Deferred STI awards which vested 2018 Deferred STI Award and the LTI in September 2019 were granted in Awards granted in the 2016, 2017 and September 2017 and September 2018. 2018 financial years. 1. 2020 remuneration is reported in AUD based on the 12 month average historic foreign exchange rates for FY20 (rounded to two decimal places): GBP 0.53 (applied to Daniel The LTIs which vested in September 2019 Labbad and Neil Martin), SGD 0.93 (applied to Anthony Lombardo) and USD 0.67 (applied to Denis Hickey). All senior executives are paid in local currency. 2. Fixed were granted in September 2015 and Remuneration includes the contractually awarded amount of Total Package Value/Base Salary (including the value of any benefits salary sacrificed) but excludes any September 2016. allowances or non monetary benefits. Also reflects the 20% Fixed Remuneration reduction that applied from 1 May 2020 as part of the Group’s response to COVID-19. 3. The STA Cash refers to the Short Term Award for the Group CEO and senior executives for the year ended 30 June 2020, which is payable in cash in September 2020. For Security Price N/A The value of security price growth and N/A FY20, the Board determined that a cash STA would not be awarded. 4. 2019 remuneration is reported in AUD based on the 12 month average historic foreign exchange rates for Growth and distributions paid between the grant date FY19 (rounded to two decimal places): GBP 0.55 (applied to Daniel Labbad), SGD 0.97 (applied to Anthony Lombardo) and USD 0.71 (applied to Denis Hickey). 5. The FY20 Distributions and the vesting date for STI, RSA and LTI Deferred Equity Award was approved by the Board in August 2020 and is expected to be issued to executives in or around September 2020, in recognition of the non financial awards which vested during the year. goals that were achieved in FY20 that support long term value creation. The FY20 Deferred Equity Award also reflects the importance of motivating, recognising, rewarding and retaining our key executives and will be issued as Lendlease securities that vest over two years with half vesting in September 2021 and the balance in September 2022. This also includes the value of distribution 6. Previously LTA Minimum. 7. The LTA refers to the Long Term Award for the Group CEO and senior executives for the year ended 30 June 2020. It is awarded on a face value equivalent amounts paid as cash on the RSA. basis. Refer to page 126 for a detailed explanation of LTA awards. 8. The LTA provides for the opportunity for outperformance if hurdles are achieved above target. The maximum opportunity is 150% of the LTA target plus the RSA for the Group CEO and 200% of LTA target plus the RSA for senior executives. 9. Neil Martin was appointed to the Chief Executive Officer, Europe role on 10 September 2019 and remuneration reflects the remuneration awarded on appointment to this role. 10. Daniel Labbad ceased as a KMP on 9 September 2019 and remuneration reflects his time in his KMP role. 1. Previously LTA Minimum. 116 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Governance 117 Remuneration Report e. Executive remuneration outcomes and disclosures continued Statutory disclosures – Remuneration of the Group CEO and senior executives for the years ended 30 June 2020 and 2019 Statutory disclosures are included in the table below. Short Term Benefits, Post Employment Benefits and Other Long Term Benefits Remuneration received for the Group CEO other senior executives during 2019 and 2020 relate to remuneration for the year. Values in the Security Based Payments columns reflect the accounting expense attributed to this year for STI, RSA, LTI and LTA awards from prior years, and the accounting expense attributed to the RSA and LTA from this year. Post Short Term Employment Remuneration Received for the Group CEO during 2019 and 2020 A$000s¹ Benefits Benefits Security Based Payments7 Non Other A$000s1 6,547 Cash STA Monetary SuperannuLong Term Deferred Name Year Salary2 Cash3 Benefits4 ation5 Benefits⁶ Sub-total LTI / LTA STI Total Group CEO 2,084 Stephen McCann 2020 2,130 26 36 2,192 1,815 219 4,226 3,609 2019 2,155 25 33 2,213 2,375 875 5,463 230 Current Senior Executives 2,263 Johannes Dekker8 2020 1,180 260 10 38 1,488 1,700 74 3,262 1,252 2019 1,191 125 287 11 230 1,844 708 318 2,870 Tarun Gupta 2020 1,164 18 21 1,203 735 157 2,095 2,200 2,127 2019 1,166 125 21 1,312 757 635 2,704 Denis Hickey 2020 1,634 190 1,824 715 104 2,643 2019 2020 2019 1,558 324 251 2,133 588 467 3,188 Stephen Anthony Lombardo 2020 1,129 280 1,409 692 114 2,215 McCann 2019 1,094 227 291 1,612 655 425 2,692 Fixed Remuneration2 Prior STI & LTI Awards Security Price Growth4 Neil Martin9 2020 849 8 857 303 438 1,598 Kylie Rampa 2020 1,164 45 21 19 1,249 750 159 2,158 2019 1,149 250 3 21 18 1,441 538 593 2,572 Remuneration Received for senior executives during 2019 and 2020 David Andrew Wilson 2020 1,209 9 21 20 1,259 995 76 2,330 2019 1,287 125 21 18 1,451 735 278 2,464 3,253 1 Former Senior Executive A$000s 2,918 531 Daniel Labbad10 2020 454 355 809 865 121 1,795 2,577 630 2,244 2,480 2019 1,424 273 284 1,981 669 519 3,169 2,369 842 53 543 Total 2020 10,913 1,165 99 113 12,290 8,570 1,462 22,322 1,957 377 1,818 1,784 404 58 1,640 Total 2019 11,024 1,449 1,116 99 299 13,987 7,025 4,110 25,122 43 1,503 581 25 1,540 963 324 55 1,571 653 17 714 593 34 450 739 167 599 301 125 325 125 480 250 125 227 433 1,556 1,610 1,200 1,161 1,200 1,160 1,093 1,105 1,200 1,160 1,247 1,205 971 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 Johannes Tarun Denis Anthony Neil Kylie David Andrew Dekker5 Gupta Hickey Lombardo Martin Rampa Wilson Fixed Remuneration2 STA Cash3 Prior STI & LTI Awards Security Price Growth4 1. 2020 remuneration is reported in AUD based on the 12 month average historic foreign exchange rates for FY20 (rounded to two decimal places): GBP 0.53 (applied to Daniel Labbad and Neil Martin), SGD 0.93 (applied to Anthony Lombardo) and USD 0.67 (applied to Denis Hickey). 2019 remuneration is reported in AUD based on the 12 month average historic foreign exchange rates for FY19 (rounded to two decimal places): GBP 0.55 (applied to Daniel Labbad), SGD 0.97 (applied to Anthony Lombardo) and USD 0.71 (applied to Denis Hickey). All senior executives are paid in local currency. 2. Cash Salary includes the payment of cash allowances such as motor vehicle allowance and the value of distribution equivalent amounts paid as cash on the RSA. For Daniel Labbad and Neil Martin, this also includes cash allowances paid in lieu of pension contributions. Cash salary also reflects the 20% Fixed Remuneration reduction that applied from 1 May 2020 as part of the Group’s response to COVID-19. 3. STA Cash refers to the Short Term Award for the Group CEO and senior executives for the year ended 30 June 2020, which is payable in cash in September 2020. For FY20, the Board determined that a cash STA would not be awarded. 4. Non monetary benefits may include items such as car parking, relocation and expatriate benefits (such as house rental, health insurance, shipping of goods and tax return preparation), motor vehicle costs, travel benefits and annual leave. 5. Superannuation includes the value of insurance premiums funded by Lendlease for Australian executives who are members of the Lendlease default superannuation fund. For Daniel Labbad, the 2019 comparative has been restated to reflect 1. 2020 remuneration is reported in AUD based on the 12 month average historic foreign exchange rates for FY20 (rounded to two decimal places): GBP 0.53 (applied to Neil that cash allowances paid in lieu of pension contributions are now included in Cash Salary. 6. Other Long Term Benefits represents the accrual of long term leave entitlements Martin), SGD 0.93 (applied to Anthony Lombardo) and USD 0.67 (applied to Denis Hickey). 2019 remuneration is reported in AUD based on the 12 month average historic (e.g. long service leave). 7. Security based payments reflect the accounting expense on a fair value basis. For all executives other than Neil Martin, security based payments are foreign exchange rates for FY19 (rounded to two decimal places): SGD 0.97 (applied to Anthony Lombardo) and USD 0.71 (applied to Denis Hickey). All senior executives are issued as indeterminate rights and performance rights. For Neil Martin, Deferred STI (including his Executive Deferred Award) is issued as securities. LTI/LTA includes the paid in local currency. 2. Fixed Remuneration includes the TPV/Base Salary received during the financial year and reflects the 20% Fixed Remuneration reduction that applied accounting expense for the RSA (previously LTA Minimum). 8. For Johannes Dekker, amounts under Other Long Term Benefits, Deferred STI and LTI/LTA include the prorated from 1 May 2020 as part of the Group’s response to COVID-19. 3. STA Cash refers to the Short Term Award for the Group CEO and senior executives for the relevant financial accounting expense of future payments relating to remuneration foregone on resignation from his previous employer, and a retention award relating to the strategic review of year, payable in cash annually in September. For FY20, the Board determined that a cash STA would not be awarded. 4. Reflects the value of security price growth and the Engineering and Services businesses. 9. Neil Martin was appointed to the Chief Executive Officer, Europe role on 10 September 2019 and remuneration reflects time in this distributions paid between the grant date and the vesting date for STI and LTI awards which vested during the year. This also includes the value of distribution equivalent KMP role. 10. Daniel Labbad ceased as a KMP on 9 September 2019 and remuneration reflects his time in his KMP role. His unvested LTI, LTA and Deferred STI awards remain amounts paid as cash on the RSA. 5. For Johannes Dekker, his prior year awards include a sign-on award reflecting remuneration foregone on resignation from his previous on foot and subject to the original vesting conditions. The security based payment expense for the current period therefore includes up to three years of each unvested award employer. expense that has been accelerated and disclosed in total for FY20, including those amounts which would otherwise have been included in future year disclosures. 118 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Governance 119 Remuneration Report e. Executive remuneration outcomes and disclosures continued f. Remuneration governance Reconciliation of 2020 statutory remuneration with Remuneration Received for the Group CEO Robust governance is a critical part of Lendlease’s approach to executive remuneration. The following table shows the difference between the Group CEO’s Remuneration Received on page 116 and the Statutory Disclosure on page 117. Board Remuneration Remuneration Remuneration The Board has overall responsibility for executive remuneration at Lendlease. The Board assesses the performance of, and determines relating to Prior Years relating to Current Year relating to Prior Years the remuneration outcome for the Group CEO. People & Culture Committee 669 4,226 The Committee’s agenda reflects the importance of human capital to the Group’s strategy and business planning, and it assists the Board 3,609 (582) 219 in establishing appropriate policies for people management and remuneration across the Group. The People & Culture Committee is also 1,147 (876) accountable for reviewing and making recommendations to the Board on the goals, performance and remuneration of members of the GLT. A description of the People & Culture Committee’s scope can be found on page 104. (25) (2,127) 2,130 26 36 Management Management makes recommendations to the People & Culture Committee in relation to developing and implementing the ERS and structure. The Group CEO also provides his recommendations on Fixed Remuneration and STA outcomes for his direct reports for approval $000s by the People & Culture Committee. Independent remuneration advisor Total LTI Deferred RSA Contractual Actual Other LTA STI Expense LTI Expense Total Until 30 June 2020, the Board appointed independent remuneration advisor was PwC. The Board engaged EY in July 2020. Strict Remuneration Vested STI Vested Distributions¹ Fixed Rem Cash SuperannLong Term Expense (awards (awards Statutory governance protocols are observed to ensure advisors' advice to the People & Culture Committee is made free from undue influence by Received at Sept 19 Salary uation³ Benefits⁴ (2020 grant) on foot) on foot) KMP. The following arrangements were made to ensure that advisors' advice was free of undue influence: in 2020² • Advisors are engaged by, and report directly to, the Chair of the People & Culture Committee Less Add Long Term Incentive performance • The agreement for the provision of any remuneration consulting services is executed by the Chair of the People & Culture Committee During 2020, two LTI awards were subject to performance testing. The performance hurdles were relative TSR and average ROE. on behalf of the Board Each hurdle is tested over a three and four year performance period. The outcomes are shown below. • Any reports delivered by advisors were provided directly to the Chair of the People & Culture Committee 2016 LTI Award • Advisors are permitted, where approved by the People & Culture Committee Chair, to speak to management to understand company The four year relative TSR test was conducted in July 2019. Lendlease’s relative TSR performance achieved the 12th percentile when processes, practices and other business issues and obtain management’s perspectives. compared to the comparator group over the period from 1 July 2015 to 30 June 2019. As a result, none of the tested award vested. The Board is satisfied that any advice provided by either advisor is made free from undue influence from any of the KMP. The four year average ROE test was also conducted in July 2019. Lendlease’s four year average ROE performance was 11.5 per cent During the year, advisors did not provide a remuneration recommendation as defined in Section 9B of the Corporations Act 2001. over the period from 1 July 2015 to 30 June 2019. As a result, 34.4 per cent of the tested award vested. 2017 LTI Award The three year relative TSR test was conducted in July 2019. Lendlease’s relative TSR performance achieved the 26th percentile when compared to the comparator group over the period from 1 July 2016 to 30 June 2019. As a result, none of the tested award vested. The three year average ROE test was also conducted in July 2019. Lendlease’s three year average ROE performance was 11.0 per cent over the period from 1 July 2016 to 30 June 2019. As a result, 25 per cent of the tested award vested. The four year relative TSR and four year ROE tests for this award are scheduled for July 2020 and the results will be shown in the 2021 Remuneration Report. ROE Vesting Relative TSR Vesting 100 2016 LTI Award 0% Vested 90 2017 LTI Award 0% Vested 80 % of tested awards vesting 70 60 Average ROE % for 50 2017 LTI Award 11.0% 25% of awards vested 40 30 Average ROE % for 20 2016 LTI Award 11.5% 34.4% of awards vested 10 Vesting schedule 0 10% 11% 12% 13% 14% 15% 16% Average ROE achieved over performance period 1. Reflects the value of distribution equivalent amounts paid as cash on the RSA. 2. There is a difference between Actual Cash Salary received during 2020 and the contractually awarded Fixed Remuneration as Actual Cash Salary includes RSA Distributions and excludes superannuation whereas contractually awarded Fixed Remuneration includes superannuation and excludes RSA Distributions. 3. Superannuation includes the value of insurance premiums funded by Lendlease for Australian executives who are members of the Lendlease default superannuation fund. 4. Other Long Term Benefits represents the accrual of long term leave entitlements (e.g. long service leave). 120 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Governance 121 Remuneration Report f. Remuneration governance continued g. How risk management is incorporated into executive reward Setting remuneration levels The Board has placed a significant focus on incorporating risk management into the reward framework. Lendlease benchmarks remuneration mix and levels to confirm market competitive total rewards for on target performance, and total rewards above the market median if outstanding performance is achieved Governance • The establishment of a separate Risk Committee, of which all Directors are a member, has allowed the Board agenda to be restructured to focus on strategy, culture, customer outcomes, reputation, performance and succession planning. Drawing all risk elements under a single committee allows for risk management to be considered in an integrated fashion Remuneration is reviewed annually by the People & Culture Committee for the Group CEO and senior executives (or during the year if • The Chairs of both the Risk Committee and the Audit Committee are members of the People & Culture Committee there are any role changes or new senior executive appointments). • The Board has overall responsibility for remuneration decisions concerning senior executives • The People & Culture Committee regularly considers matters outside of remuneration – including organisational culture, talent development and succession, and feedback from employees through Our People Survey. Primary Sources The People & Culture Committee typically uses a number of sources for benchmarking Group CEO and senior executive of Data remuneration including: • Data provided by the Board’s remuneration advisor about remuneration for similar roles in companies of a similar size, such as: A Holistic • A risk adjustment is considered in the determination of the performance assessment of senior executives Comparable roles in companies listed on the ASX that are ranked between 26 and 75 by market capitalisation Performance • The Group Chief Financial Officer and the Group Chief Commercial and Risk Officer jointly present to the People & Culture (excluding companies domiciled overseas and property trusts where management is not typically employed by the trust) Assessment to Committee on the ‘Health of the Business’ when the Committee is considering year end STA outcomes Comparable roles in ASX listed companies with revenue of between 50 and 200 per cent of Lendlease’s revenue Determine STA Outcomes • The Board determines the weighting of both financial and non financial performance for STA and communicates this in • Publicly available data for comparable roles at organisations in Australia such as CIMIC, Mirvac and Stockland executive scorecards. • Published remuneration surveys, remuneration trends and other data sourced from external providers. Market Positioning The People & Culture Committee has adopted a tiered approach to setting pay levels, with a target remuneration mix defined Mandatory • The Group CEO is expected to accumulate and maintain a securityholding of 150 per cent of his TPV for senior executives at each tier as part of changes implemented in 2019. Securityholding • Senior executives are expected to accumulate and maintain a securityholding of 100 per cent of their TPV or base salary for A target fixed and total remuneration position is set for each tier, which is established with reference to the market median and senior executives outside of Australia 75th percentile, benchmarked against a number of ‘anchor roles’. • While senior executives’ holdings are below their mandatory securityholding level, a restriction is placed on half of any Application of Data The People & Culture Committee adopts the following principles when considering data and its application to setting pay: securities that vest (for senior executives in Australia). to Lendlease Senior • Understanding the relative size, scale and complexity of the organisations in the data set (so that a fair comparison can be Executives made to organisations with similar global breadth and operational complexities as Lendlease) Deferral • The RSA has a six year time horizon, vesting progressively over Y3, Y4, Y5 and Y6 • Aligning reward opportunity across similarly sized roles, supporting a team approach and facilitating mobility among • The LTA for senior executives has a six year time horizon, tested after three years and progressively vesting over the next senior executives three years – reflecting the long-dated nature of our projects. The LTA represents approximately half of senior executives’ • For senior executives based outside Australia, target pay is adjusted to account for cost of living, housing and currency Total Target Remuneration. differences, to achieve similar pay levels. Forfeiture and • Awards lapse if senior executives resign to work for competitor organisations Malus • If senior executives are considered to be a ‘good leaver’, awards are retained beyond the cessation of employment. Mandatory securityholding The Board believes that this appropriately motivates executives to make decisions in the long term interests of The mandatory securityholding requires the Group CEO and senior executives to hold a minimum number of Lendlease securities so that the Company they have a significant personal investment in Lendlease and they consider long term securityholder value when making decisions. • The Board retains an overarching discretion to reduce or forfeit any unvested awards (during the deferral period beyond the The Group CEO and other senior executives are required to accumulate and maintain a holding of Lendlease securities calculated with performance testing period) if it considers that vesting of such awards would result in the participant receiving a benefit reference to their Fixed Remuneration (divided by the security price to determine the number of securities that must be held). In the case of: that was unwarranted or inappropriate. • The Group CEO – the requirement is 150 per cent of TPV Board Discretion • The Board makes, reviews and approves decisions concerning executive remuneration throughout the year • Senior executives – the requirement is 100 per cent of TPV or 100 per cent of base salary for senior executives outside of Australia. • The Board uses its discretion to influence individual outcomes or to steer management towards appropriate outcomes The mandatory securityholding for each senior executive is outlined in the Equity Based Remuneration tables on page 133. based on a culture of accountability. Recent examples include: Personally held securities may be counted towards the mandatory securityholding requirement as does the RSA. Unvested deferred – Supporting the voluntary 20 per cent Fixed Remuneration reduction for executives in response to COVID-19 and matching it with a similar reduction to Non Executive Director base fees securities and unvested awards under the previous STI and LTI do not count towards this mandatory holding. The RSA counts towards the mandatory securityholding. – Looking beyond solely financial measures and recognising non financial performance that supports long term value creation in FY20 Until such time as the senior executive meets the mandatory securityholding requirements, for senior executives based in Australia, – The announcement the Group CEO made concerning his zero STA for FY19. Lendlease imposes a disposal restriction on 50 per cent of any senior executives’ Deferred STI, RSA, LTI or LTA that vests. This disposal restriction means that the senior executive will not be able to sell these securities until such time as Lendlease agrees to lift the disposal restriction. Senior executives based outside of Australia are required to achieve the mandatory holding requirement within six years of their appointment to a KMP role. Securities Trading Policy The Lendlease Securities Trading Policy applies to all employees of the Lendlease Group. In accordance with the policy, Directors and senior executives may only deal in Lendlease securities during designated periods. Directors and senior executives must not enter into transactions or arrangements that operate to limit the economic risk of unvested entitlements to Lendlease securities. No Director or senior executive may enter into a margin loan arrangement in respect of unvested Lendlease securities. Hedging Deferred STI, RSA, LTI and LTA awards are subject to the Securities Trading Policy, which prohibits executives from entering into any type of ‘protection arrangements’ (including hedging, derivatives and warrants) in respect of those awards before vesting. 122 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Governance 123 Remuneration Report h. How executive rewards are linked to performance Restricted Securities Award (RSA)1 This section presents a summary of the key features of the RSA plan. Five year performance summary Performance and funding for Short Term Incentives The graphs below outline some key indicators of Group Incentives are funded from an incentive pool which represents a performance over the past five years. maximum that can be awarded. Using an incentive pool provides RSA Design How the RSA Works for a fair sharing of profits between securityholders and employees Objective • The key objectives of the RSA are: by capping the amount of profits that can be paid to employees. Statutory Profit after Tax (PAT) It also forges a strong link between Group performance and short – To promote alignment with securityholders as a portion of target remuneration is delivered in Lendlease securities – To support long term value creation Attributable to Securityholders ($m)¹ term reward outcomes because they are influenced (up or down) by the available pool. – To better align reward to risk management. 758.6 792.8 Group PAT is one factor that determines the overall size of the Quantum • The RSA is set at $500,000 for the Group CEO and for senior executives2. Refer to the target remuneration mix set out in the 698.2 incentive pool. An assessment of overall profit make up, health of Snapshot of FY20 remuneration outcomes on page 110 467 the business and other financial and non financial factors are also Instrument & • The RSA is delivered to a limited number of senior executives as an annual grant of rights to acquire securities on a face considered. Eligibility value basis (310) Group PAT, influenced by the costs associated with the separation • The Board intends that the RSA be settled in Lendlease securities, although the award may be settled in cash at the Board’s of the Engineering business, was a statutory loss for FY20. discretion FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY20 Following an overall assessment of financial and non financial Determining the • T he number of rights allocated is based on the volume weighted average price (VWAP) of stapled securities traded on the performance and the overall health of the business before and number of Rights ASX over the 20 trading days prior to the release of the full year results for the financial year ending 30 June preceding the during the COVID-19 situation, the Board approved a small pool of grant date Total Dividends/Distributions ($m)1 incentive awards to recognise significant contributions. The pool Deferral Period • The RSA is deferred for three years and released in four equal tranches over a further three year period, at the end of Y3, Y4, was substantially lower than FY19 and an even smaller portion Y5 and Y6 compared to the five prior years. The Board acknowledges the 384.9 399.6 importance of continuing to motivate our employees through Distributions • Distribution equivalent amounts are paid as cash on the RSA during the deferral period 349.1 237 recognising their contributions. 191 Malus • T he Board may adjust the number of rights downwards prior to the date of vesting in the case of a material misstatement of Group CEO scorecard and performance in 2020 the Group’s financial accounts STA outcomes are based on financial and non financial measures • The number of rights can be reduced in circumstances where the Board considers that delivery of all or part of the award FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY20 and are designed to focus senior executives on priority areas for would result in a benefit that is unwarranted or inappropriate delivery in the current financial year. Termination of • If the executive is terminated for cause, the unvested RSA lapses 50 per cent of awards are assessed against a set of team targets Employment • If the executive is terminated for poor performance, the Board can adjust unvested RSA prior to the vesting date Earnings per Stapled Security (EPSS) (cents)2 for Group financial performance against metrics that include: • For ‘good leavers’, including executives who resign but do not engage in activities that are competitive with the Group, (excluding treasury securities) the RSA may remain on foot subject to the original vesting conditions. • Profit after Tax • EBITDA 126.3 135.2 137.0 • Overheads 80 • Cash flow from operating and investing. (51.8) The overall financial health of the business is also included in the assessment. FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY20 50 per cent of awards are assessed against a range of non financial performance measures including: • Safety performance Annual Total Securityholder Return (%)3 • Progress against strategic initiatives • Sustainability 38 • Our people – retention of critical talent and targets 24 (13) (33) (2) for women in leadership positions • Our customers – measures in line with our customer framework. The Board is committed to the safety and wellbeing of employees. FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY20 The Board considers safety leadership behaviour and outcomes in assessing the overall performance of the Group CEO and each senior executive. While the assessment is not structured formulaically as Return on Equity (ROE) (%)4 a ‘gateway’ measure, expectations are clearly communicated to the Group CEO and senior executives that poor health and safety 13.0 12.9 outcomes may lead to reduction in STA outcomes for the year. 12.7 7.4 The fatal incident in FY20 has been considered in assessing the Group CEO’s STA outcome. The Group CEO’s cash STA is 0 per cent of his (4.7) target and his FY20 Deferred Equity Award is equivalent to 35 per cent of his STA target (23 per cent of his STA maximum). Refer to the Group CEO’s scorecard on pages 112 and 113 for further details. FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY20 1. At 30 June 2020, all values have been rounded to the nearest million dollars unless otherwise indicated. 2. EPSS is calculated using the weighted average number of securities on issue excluding treasury securities. As required under AASB 133 Earnings per Share, the 30 June 2019 weighted average number of ordinary shares and the weighted average number of stapled securities have been updated to reflect the new stapled securities issued via the institutional placement and Security Purchase Plan during the year. FY19 EPSS has been restated from 82.9 to 80.0 to reflect this change. 3. Represents the movement in the Group’s security price, distribution yield and any return on capital during the financial year. 4. ROE is calculated as the annual Statutory Profit after Tax attributable to securityholders divided by the arithmetic average of 1. Previously LTA Minimum. 2. The FY20 RSA for Neil Martin was $312,500. beginning, half year and year end securityholders’ equity. 124 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Governance 125 Remuneration Report h. How executive rewards are linked to performance continued FY20 Deferred Equity Award This section presents a summary of the key features of the FY20 Deferred Equity Award plan. Short Term Award (STA) FY20 Deferred Equity Award How the FY20 Deferred Equity Award Works STAs are based on performance against a scorecard of financial and non financial measures Objective • The key objectives of the FY20 Deferred Equity Award are to: – Recognise the achievement of non financial performance outcomes that support long term value creation This section presents a summary of the key features of the FY20 STA plan and shows the key differences between the STA and the – Consider the balance between motivating, recognising and rewarding executives with securityholder interests previous Short Term Incentive (STI), for which some awards remain on foot. The key features of the STA are outlined in the table below: – Recognise that although a final dividend for FY20 will not be paid from Lendlease Corporation Limited, securityholders will receive distributions of over $191 million relating to FY20 – Provide the Board with additional review points prior to vesting STA Design How the STA Works – Provide a retention element given that executives will be required to wait up to two years for the award to vest. STA Quantum • The 2020 STA has been set with reference to the Group CEO and senior executive target remuneration mix set out in the Snapshot of FY20 remuneration outcomes on page 110. Quantum • Refer to the Remuneration Awarded table on page 115 for more details STA Funding • The pool of funds available to reward executives under the STA plan is determined by direct reference to Group financial and Instrument & • The FY20 Deferred Equity Award is delivered to senior executives as a grant of rights to acquire securities on a non financial performance Eligibility face value basis • In determining the pool of funds available, the Board examines safety performance and the overall health of the business, • The Board intends that the FY20 Deferred Equity Award be settled in Lendlease securities, although the award may which considers a broader set of metrics around origination, sustainability and how we have managed risk. be settled in cash at the Board’s discretion STA Targets and • The minimum possible STA outcome is zero and the maximum STA outcome is limited to 150 per cent of the senior executive’s Determining the • The number of rights allocated is based on the VWAP of stapled securities acquired on or off market around September 2020 Opportunity target STA opportunity. number of Rights STA Key • STA outcomes are based on performance during the financial year, primarily measured through the use of the Group CEO Deferral Period • The FY20 Deferred Equity Award is deferred over two years, with half vesting in September 2021 and the balance in Performance and senior executive scorecards September 2022 Indicators • The Group CEO FY20 scorecard (approved by the Board) and performance against the scorecard is summarised on pages Distributions • Distributions are not paid on any unvested FY20 Deferred Equity Award for the Group CEO and senior executives. However, in 112 and 113 calculating the amount of Lendlease securities or cash provided on vesting of the FY20 Deferred Equity Award, the value of any • Lendlease is committed to the safety and wellbeing of all of its employees. The Board considers safety leadership behaviours distributions declared during the vesting period is taken into consideration and outcomes in assessing the overall performance of the Group CEO and each senior executive. While the assessment is not structured formulaically or as a ‘gateway’ measure, expectations are clearly communicated to the Group CEO and senior Malus • The Board may adjust the number of rights downwards prior to the date of vesting in the case of a material misstatement of executives that poor health and safety outcomes may lead to a reduction in STA outcomes for the year. The fatal incident that the Group’s financial accounts occured in FY20 has been considered in assessing the Group CEO’s STA • The number of rights can be reduced in circumstances where the Board considers that delivery of all or part of the award • The People & Culture Committee considers feedback from the direct reports and teams of each senior executive. In this way, would result in a benefit that is unwarranted or inappropriate the STA considers ‘what’ is achieved as well as ‘how’ it is achieved. Termination of • If the executive is terminated for cause, the unvested FY20 Deferred Equity Award lapses How the STA is • The STA is delivered as cash in September following the end of the performance year. Employment • If the executive is terminated for poor performance, the Board can adjust unvested FY20 Deferred Equity Award prior to the Delivered vesting date • For ‘good leavers’, including executives who resign but do not engage in activities that are competitive with the Group, the FY20 Deferred Equity Award may remain on foot subject to the original vesting conditions. Prior Short Term Incentive (STI) Key features of the 2018 STI plan are the same as the FY20 STA, except for the following which apply to the 2018 STI plan only. STI Design How the STI Works How the STI is • The STI award is delivered as a mix of cash and Deferred STI, which is settled in Lendlease securities or cash as determined Delivered by the Board • For STI awards ‘up to target’, 50 per cent of the award was paid in cash in September following the end of the performance year. The remaining 50 per cent is deferred – half of which vests one year after the grant and the other half vests after two years. Deferred STI awards are held in an employee share plan trust until vesting • For ‘above target’ STI awards, the above target portion was delivered one-third as cash and two-thirds deferred on the same basis as set out above • Distributions are not paid on any unvested Deferred STI for the Group CEO and senior executives; however, the value of any distributions made during the vesting period is taken into consideration in calculating the amount of Lendlease securities or cash provided on vesting. Malus • The Board has the discretion to forfeit part or all of any unvested Deferred STI awards prior to their vesting where it considers vesting would provide a participant with a benefit that was unwarranted or inappropriate. The Board may delay vesting of any unvested Deferred STI in the event it is reviewing whether to exercise discretion to reduce or forfeit unvested awards. Treatment of • Malus provisions work alongside the Deferred STI terms to provide discretion for the Board to adjust unvested awards on Deferred STI on termination of employment. In particular: Termination If an employee is terminated for fraud or other serious misconduct, unvested Deferred STI awards will lapse Where an employee is terminated for poor performance, the number of unvested Deferred STI awards can be adjusted downwards Deferred STI awards are forfeited by the individual if they resign during the vesting period • For ‘good leavers’, the Deferred STI awards may remain on foot until the original vesting date, subject to the original terms. In exceptional circumstances (such as death or total and permanent disability), the Board may exercise its discretion and pay the award at the time of termination of employment. 126 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Governance 127 Remuneration Report h. How executive rewards are linked to performance continued LTA Design How the LTA Works Long Term Award (LTA) Performance • The Board believes that these measures, combined with other features of ‘at risk’ remuneration at Lendlease, provide a The key features of the LTA plan are set out in the table below. Page 127 shows the key differences between this award and LTI awards Measure Selection suitable link to long term securityholder value creation because: from prior years, some of which remain on foot. TSR incentivises senior executives to deliver returns that outperform what a securityholder could achieve in the market and promotes management to maintain a strong focus on securityholder outcomes ROE reflects the capital intensive nature of Lendlease’s activities and is an important long term measure of how well the LTA Design How the LTA Works management team generates acceptable earnings from capital invested and rewards decisions in respect of developing, managing, acquiring and disposing of assets Objective • Reward senior executives for delivering Lendlease’s strategy and for delivering sustained long term securityholder value • The Group’s currently stated ROE target range is 10 to 14 per cent • Align the interests of senior executives and securityholders. • The Board believes that the vesting range provides a realistic goal at the lower end (in the context of risk free rates of return, Eligibility An annual grant of performance rights is made to a limited number of senior executives on a face value basis. cost of capital and market consensus) and a stretch at the upper end • The hurdles are reviewed annually by the Board with the aim of setting an average ROE hurdle range that will drive Determining The number of performance rights allocated is based on the VWAP of stapled securities traded on the ASX over the 20 trading outperformance without incentivising excessive risk taking. The Board also has governance protocols in place to monitor the Number of days prior to the release of the full year results for the financial year ending 30 June preceding the grant date. levels of net debt and is conscious of the impact that debt can have on the ROE result Performance Rights • While the Board appreciates that there are, at times, differing views held by stakeholders, we believe that these measures provide the appropriate balance between market and non market measures. Instrument • The award is delivered as a target number of performance rights to acquire securities. The number of performance rights is adjusted up or down at vesting based on performance over the assessment period Award Target The amount of LTA achieved at target has been set with reference to: • The Board intends that the awards be settled in Lendlease securities, although the award may be settled in cash or other • The Group CEO and senior executive target remuneration mix set out on page 110 means at the Board’s discretion. • Having regard to the benchmark data and market positioning as described on page 120. Performance • Three years. The performance period was chosen as the Board believes that the timeframe appropriately reflects a LTA Maximum Opportunity to earn an award above target for outperformance across both performance hurdles. Period balance between reward that motivates executives while reflecting the ‘long tail’ of profitability and risk associated with ‘today’s decisions’. Retesting There is no retesting of the LTA. If the performance hurdle is not met at the time of testing, the awards are forfeited. Deferral • Once the award has been determined, awards are retained and released in four equal tranches over a further three Distributions Distributions are not paid on the LTA, unless and until vesting conditions are met. year period. Malus • The Board may adjust the number of performance rights downwards prior to the date of vesting in the case of a material Performance Market Measure 50 per cent Non Market Measure 50 per cent misstatement of the Group’s financial accounts Hurdles • The number of performance rights can be reduced in circumstances where the Board considers that delivery of all or part of Relative Total Securityholder Return (RTSR) Average Return On Equity (ROE) the award would result in a benefit that is unwarranted or inappropriate. • TSR is measured by the growth in security price and any • ROE is calculated by dividing the annual statutory Profit dividends/distributions paid during the performance period after Tax by the weighted average equity for the year Termination of • If the executive is terminated for cause, the unvested LTA lapses Employment • If the executive is terminated for poor performance, the Board can adjust unvested LTA prior to the vesting date • Relative TSR is measured against companies that comprise • Average ROE will be based on the average of ROE results the Standard & Poor’s (S&P)/Australian Securities Exchange over the three year performance period • For ‘good leavers’, including executives who resign but do not engage in activities that are competitive with the Group, (ASX) 100 index • Target and maximum ROE are set by the Board for each the LTA grant may remain on foot subject to the original performance hurdle. • Maximum vesting is achieved if TSR performance is three year period and are set with reference to the Group’s at or above the 75th percentile. Portfolio Management Framework. Prior LTI Awards Key differences between the LTI plan for the years 2017-2018 and the current LTA plan are as follows: Vesting Relative TSR Percentage of Target LTA Average ROE Percentage of Target LTA Schedule Percentile plus RSA Vesting1 plus RSA Vesting1 • 2017 LTI awards were allocated on a fair value basis Ranking • A target number of performance securities were awarded under the LTI plan. There is no opportunity to earn an award above target for Group CEO Senior Executives Group CEO Senior Executives outperformance, nor is there a minimum award delivered if performance hurdles are not met At the 50th 50 per cent 50 per cent Between Pro rata straight line Pro rata straight line • For LTI awards, 50 per cent of the grant value is assessed over a three year period, and the remaining 50 per cent is assessed after four years 10 per cent and vesting between vesting between At or above the Pro rata straight line Pro rata straight line target ROE set 13.5 per cent and 31.25 per cent and • Under the LTI plan, in exceptional circumstances (such as death or total and permanent disability), the Board may exercise its discretion 51st and below vesting between vesting between by the Board 100 per cent 100 per cent to pay the award at the time of termination of employment. the 75th 54 per cent and 56 per cent and 146 per cent 194 per cent 75th or greater 150 per cent 200 per cent At target set 100 per cent 100 per cent The vesting schedules for LTI awards on foot are shown below: by the Board 100 Relative TSR Percentage of Between target Pro rata straight line Pro rata straight line Percentile Ranking Relative TSR set by the Board vesting between vesting between % of tested awards vesting Performance and 14 per cent 100 per cent and 100 per cent and Securities that Vest 75 150 per cent 200 per cent if the Hurdle is Met At 14 per cent 150 per cent 200 per cent Below the 50th No vesting or greater 50 percentile At the 50th percentile 50 per cent vesting At or above the 51st Pro rata vesting on 25 2017 percentile but below a straight line basis the 75th percentile between 52 per cent 2018 and 98 per cent 0 At the 75th percentile 100 per cent vesting 9% 10% 11% 12% 13% 14% 15% 16% or greater Average ROE achieved over performance period 1. During the year the Board determined that the LTA Minimum is better described as an RSA. Given this decision was made after awards were communicated, the vesting schedule reflects the transition and shows the proportion of the combined target LTA, and half of the RSA (previously LTA Minimum) that vests at different levels of performance. 128 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Governance 129 Remuneration Report i. Executive contracts j. Equity based remuneration KMP employment contracts Deferred securities Each KMP has an ongoing employment contract. All KMP have termination benefits that are within the limit allowed by the Fair Value Total Fair Expense For Corporations Act 2001 without securityholder approval. Per Value At the Year Contracts also set out the treatment on termination for other reasons including, but not limited to, resignation, termination with STI Award Deferred Grant Ended 30 Performance Grant Vesting Number Security1 Date 1,2 June 2020 % % notice and termination for cause. The Group may make a payment in lieu of notice. Name Plan Year Date Date Granted $ $ $ Vested Forfeited Key terms for each KMP are set out below: Group CEO Stephen McCann Deferred STI 2017 Sept 2017 Sept 2019 26,725 16.37 437,512 100% Notice by Notice by Deferred STI 2018 Sept 2018 Sept 2019 22,434 19.50 437,510 100% Name Lendlease Executive Treatment on Termination with Notice by Lendlease Deferred STI 2018 Sept 2018 Sept 2020 22,434 19.50 437,510 218,755 Group CEO Total 71,593 1,312,532 218,755 Current Senior Executives Stephen McCann 12 months 6 months In the case where the Group CEO is not employed for the full period of notice, a payment in Johannes Dekker3 Sign-On Award May 2018 Sept 2019 8,535 17.57 150,000 18,750 100% lieu of notice may be made. The payment in lieu of notice includes pro rata Fixed Remuneration and the cash value of statutory entitlements and benefits Sign-On Award May 2018 Sept 2020 5,690 17.57 100,000 42,857 Deferred STI 2018 Sept 2018 Sept 2019 1,264 19.79 25,015 100% Current Senior Executives Deferred STI 2018 Sept 2018 Sept 2020 1,264 19.79 25,015 12,508 Total 16,753 300,030 74,115 Johannes Dekker¹ 12 months 6 months Notice payment is based on TPV. Payment for accrued leave is based on TPV less Tarun Gupta Deferred STI 2017 Sept 2017 Sept 2019 19,285 17.11 330,005 100% superannuation Deferred STI 2018 Sept 2018 Sept 2019 15,842 19.79 313,520 100% Deferred STI 2018 Sept 2018 Sept 2020 15,842 19.79 313,520 156,760 Tarun Gupta 6 months 6 months Notice payment is based on TPV. Payment for accrued leave is based on TPV less superannuation Total 50,969 957,045 156,760 Denis Hickey Deferred STI 2017 Sept 2017 Sept 2019 17,966 17.11 307,434 100% Denis Hickey 6 months 6 months Notice payment is based on base salary and other minimum benefits as required by applicable Deferred STI 2018 Sept 2018 Sept 2019 10,554 19.79 208,868 100% United States legislation Deferred STI 2018 Sept 2018 Sept 2020 10,554 19.79 208,868 104,434 Total 39,074 725,170 104,434 Anthony Lombardo 12 months 6 months Notice payment and accrued leave is based on base salary Anthony Lombardo Deferred STI 2017 Sept 2017 Sept 2019 9,753 17.11 166,893 100% Deferred STI 2018 Sept 2018 Sept 2019 11,517 19.79 227,926 100% Neil Martin 6 months 6 months Notice payment and accrued leave is based on base salary Deferred STI 2018 Sept 2018 Sept 2020 11,517 19.79 227,926 113,963 Total 32,787 622,745 113,963 Kylie Rampa 6 months 6 months Notice payment is based on TPV. Payment for accrued leave is based on TPV less Neil Martin Deferred STI 2017 Sept 2017 Sept 2019 11,861 17.11 202,965 100% superannuation Deferred STI 2018 Sept 2018 Sept 2019 11,605 19.79 229,668 100% Deferred STI 2018 Sept 2018 Sept 2020 11,605 19.79 229,668 114,834 David Andrew Wilson 6 months 6 months Notice payment is based on TPV. Payment for accrued leave is based on TPV less EDA 2019 Sept 2019 Sept 2019 11,329 16.86 191,007 190,987 100% superannuation EDA 2019 Sept 2019 Sept 2021 11,329 16.86 191,007 79,578 Former Executive EDA 2019 Sept 2019 Sept 2022 11,329 16.86 191,007 53,052 Total 69,058 1,235,322 438,450 Daniel Labbad 9 months 6 months Notice payment and accrued leave is based on base salary Kylie Rampa Deferred STI 2017 Sept 2017 Sept 2019 13,710 17.11 234,606 100% Deferred STI 2018 Sept 2018 Sept 2019 16,039 19.79 317,418 100% Deferred STI 2018 Sept 2018 Sept 2020 16,039 19.79 317,418 158,709 Additional disclosure for the Group CEO contract Total 45,788 869,442 158,709 In addition, the Group CEO has a non compete notice period of 12 months and a non solicitation period of 12 months. David Andrew Wilson Deferred STI 2017 Sept 2017 Sept 2019 5,698 17.11 97,504 100% Upon termination the Group CEO: Deferred STI 2018 Sept 2018 Sept 2019 7,719 19.79 152,762 100% • May continue to receive an STA award for the latest financial year based on an assessment of his performance by the Board Deferred STI 2018 Sept 2018 Sept 2020 7,719 19.79 152,762 76,381 • LTA and LTI will be treated in accordance with the plan rules at that time Total 21,136 403,028 76,381 • Deferred STI awards from prior years will remain on foot in certain mutually agreed termination circumstances. Former Senior Executive Daniel Labbad Deferred STI 2017 Sept 2017 Sept 2019 18,234 17.11 312,020 100% Deferred STI 2018 Sept 2018 Sept 2019 12,234 19.79 242,116 100% Deferred STI 2018 Sept 2018 Sept 2020 12,234 19.79 242,116 121,058 Total 42,702 796,252 121,058 1. The fair value at grant date is the value of the Deferred STI award (as advised to the executive). 2. At vesting, the minimum value is nil and the estimate of the maximum value is the fair value multiplied by the number of securities granted. 3. Johannes Dekker received a sign-on award reflecting remuneration foregone on resignation from his previous 1. Notice by Lendlease for the first four years of employment is 12 months and reverts to 6 months notice by Lendlease thereafter. employer. The award is split into three tranches and has vested, or will vest, during the first, second and third years of his employment. 130 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Governance 131 Remuneration Report j. Equity based remuneration continued Long Term Incentive Awards Long Term Incentive Awards continued Fair Value Total Fair Expense Fair Value Total Fair Expense Per Value For the Year Per Value For the Year Performance At Grant Ended 30 Performance At Grant Ended 30 Plan Grant Vesting Number Security4 Date1,2,3,4 June 20 % % Plan Grant Vesting Number Security4 Date1,2,3,4 June 2020 % % Name (For the Year Ended) Date Date Granted $ $ $ Vested Forfeited Name (For the Year Ended) Date Date Granted $ $ $ Vested Forfeited Group CEO Current Senior Executives continued Stephen McCann June 2016 LTI (50%) Sept 2015 Sept 2019 101,818 10.56 1,075,198 (473,659) 16% 84% Denis Hickey June 2016 LTI (50%) Sept 2015 Sept 2019 16,576 10.56 175,043 (77,106) 16% 84% June 2017 LTI (50%) Sept 2016 Sept 2019 122,440 11.33 1,387,245 (405,810) 12% 88% June 2017 LTI (50%) Sept 2016 Sept 2019 22,626 11.33 256,353 (74,979) 12% 88% June 2017 LTI (50%) Sept 2016 Sept 2020 122,440 11.44 1,400,714 350,178 June 2017 LTI (50%) Sept 2016 Sept 2020 22,626 11.44 258,841 64,710 June 2018 LTI (50%) Sept 2017 Sept 2020 100,388 13.07 1,312,071 382,208 June 2018 LTI (50%) Sept 2017 Sept 2020 21,904 13.07 286,285 18,196 June 2018 LTI (50%) Sept 2017 Sept 2021 100,388 13.23 1,328,133 386,889 June 2018 LTI (50%) Sept 2017 Sept 2021 21,904 13.23 289,790 84,417 June 2019 LTA (25%) Nov 2018 Sept 2021 44,476 9.94 442,091 107,271 June 2019 LTA (25%) Nov 2018 Sept 2021 19,234 11.49 220,999 53,624 June 2019 LTA (25%) Nov 2018 Sept 2022 44,476 9.94 442,091 107,271 June 2019 LTA (25%) Nov 2018 Sept 2022 19,234 11.49 220,999 53,624 June 2019 LTA (25%) Nov 2018 Sept 2023 44,476 9.94 442,091 107,271 June 2019 LTA (25%) Nov 2018 Sept 2023 19,234 11.49 220,999 53,624 June 2019 LTA (25%) Nov 2018 Sept 2024 44,476 9.94 442,091 107,271 June 2019 LTA (25%) Nov 2018 Sept 2024 19,234 11.49 220,999 53,624 June 2020 LTA (25%) Sept 2019 Sept 2022 64,240 22.55 1,448,612 286,641 June 2020 LTA (25%) Sept 2019 Sept 2022 27,780 22.08 613,382 121,399 June 2020 LTA (25%) Sept 2019 Sept 2023 64,240 22.55 1,448,612 286,641 June 2020 LTA (25%) Sept 2019 Sept 2023 27,780 22.08 613,382 121,399 June 2020 LTA (25%) Sept 2019 Sept 2024 64,240 22.55 1,448,612 286,641 June 2020 LTA (25%) Sept 2019 Sept 2024 27,780 22.08 613,382 121,399 June 2020 LTA (25%) Sept 2019 Sept 2025 64,240 22.55 1,448,612 286,641 June 2020 LTA (25%) Sept 2019 Sept 2025 27,780 22.08 613,382 121,399 Total 982,338 14,066,173 1,815,454 Total 293,692 4,603,836 715,330 Current Senior Executives Anthony Lombardo June 2016 LTI (50%) Sept 2015 Sept 2019 23,679 10.56 250,050 (110,142) 16% 84% Johannes Dekker⁵ June 2019 LTA (25%) Nov 2018 Sept 2021 19,234 11.49 220,999 53,624 June 2017 LTI (50%) Sept 2016 Sept 2019 26,618 11.33 301,582 (88,219) 12% 88% June 2019 LTA (25%) Nov 2018 Sept 2022 19,234 11.49 220,999 53,624 June 2017 LTI (50%) Sept 2016 Sept 2020 26,618 11.44 304,510 76,128 June 2019 LTA (25%) Nov 2018 Sept 2023 19,234 11.49 220,999 53,624 June 2018 LTI (50%) Sept 2017 Sept 2020 24,034 13.07 314,124 21,907 June 2019 LTA (25%) Nov 2018 Sept 2024 19,234 11.49 220,999 53,624 June 2018 LTI (50%) Sept 2017 Sept 2021 24,034 13.23 317,970 92,626 Retention Award Jan 2019 Jan 2022 251,168 11.94 3,000,000 1,000,000 June 2019 LTA (25%) Nov 2018 Sept 2021 19,234 11.49 220,999 53,624 June 2020 LTA (25%) Sept 2019 Sept 2022 27,780 22.08 613,382 121,399 June 2019 LTA (25%) Nov 2018 Sept 2022 19,234 11.49 220,999 53,624 June 2020 LTA (25%) Sept 2019 Sept 2023 27,780 22.08 613,382 121,399 June 2019 LTA (25%) Nov 2018 Sept 2023 19,234 11.49 220,999 53,624 June 2020 LTA (25%) Sept 2019 Sept 2024 27,780 22.08 613,382 121,399 June 2019 LTA (25%) Nov 2018 Sept 2024 19,234 11.49 220,999 53,624 June 2020 LTA (25%) Sept 2019 Sept 2025 27,780 22.08 613,382 121,399 June 2020 LTA (25%) Sept 2019 Sept 2022 27,780 22.08 613,382 121,399 Total 439,224 6,337,524 1,700,092 June 2020 LTA (25%) Sept 2019 Sept 2023 27,780 22.08 613,382 121,399 Tarun Gupta June 2016 LTI (50%) Sept 2015 Sept 2019 23,679 10.56 250,050 (110,142) 16% 84% June 2020 LTA (25%) Sept 2019 Sept 2024 27,780 22.08 613,382 121,399 June 2017 LTI (50%) Sept 2016 Sept 2019 33,272 11.33 376,972 (110,278) 12% 88% June 2020 LTA (25%) Sept 2019 Sept 2025 27,780 22.08 613,382 121,399 June 2017 LTI (50%) Sept 2016 Sept 2020 33,272 11.44 380,632 95,158 Total 313,039 4,825,760 692,392 June 2018 LTI (50%) Sept 2017 Sept 2020 31,638 13.07 413,509 37,962 Neil Martin June 2020 LTA (25%) Sept 2019 Sept 2022 17,362 22.08 383,353 75,872 June 2018 LTI (50%) Sept 2017 Sept 2021 31,638 13.23 418,571 121,931 June 2020 LTA (25%) Sept 2019 Sept 2023 17,362 22.08 383,353 75,872 June 2019 LTA (25%) Nov 2018 Sept 2021 19,234 11.49 220,999 53,624 June 2020 LTA (25%) Sept 2019 Sept 2024 17,362 22.08 383,353 75,872 June 2019 LTA (25%) Nov 2018 Sept 2022 19,234 11.49 220,999 53,624 June 2020 LTA (25%) Sept 2019 Sept 2025 17,362 22.08 383,353 75,872 June 2019 LTA (25%) Nov 2018 Sept 2023 19,234 11.49 220,999 53,624 Total 69,448 1,533,412 303,488 June 2019 LTA (25%) Nov 2018 Sept 2024 19,234 11.49 220,999 53,624 June 2020 LTA (25%) Sept 2019 Sept 2022 27,780 22.08 613,382 121,399 June 2020 LTA (25%) Sept 2019 Sept 2023 27,780 22.08 613,382 121,399 June 2020 LTA (25%) Sept 2019 Sept 2024 27,780 22.08 613,382 121,399 June 2020 LTA (25%) Sept 2019 Sept 2025 27,780 22.08 613,382 121,399 Total 341,555 5,177,258 734,723 1. For LTI: at vesting, the minimum value is nil and the estimate of the maximum value is the fair value multiplied by the number of securities granted. 2. For the LTA for the Group CEO: at vesting, the estimate of the minimum value is the fair value multiplied by 13.5% of the number of performance rights granted and the estimate of the maximum value is the fair value multiplied by 150% of the number of performance rights granted. Please refer to page 126 for more details. 3. For the LTA for other senior executives: at vesting, the estimate of the minimum value is the fair value multiplied by 31.25% of the number of performance rights granted and the estimate of the maximum value is the fair value multiplied by 200% of the number of performance rights granted. Please refer to page 126 for more details. 4. The fair value at grant date represents an actuarial valuation of the award, including the RSA (previously LTA Minimum), using assumptions underlying the Black-Scholes methodology to produce a Monte-Carlo simulation model in accordance with Australian Accounting Standards rounded to two decimal places. 5. Johannes Dekker received a retention award relating to the strategic review of the Engineering and Services businesses. 132 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Governance 133 Remuneration Report j. Equity based remuneration continued Equity holdings and transactions for the year ended 30 June 2020 Total Securities/ Long Term Incentive Awards continued Number of Performance Fair Value Total Fair Expense Securities Securities Rights That May Per Value For the Year Required Under Held at Securities Count Towards Performance At Grant Ended 30 the Mandatory Beginning of Received Other Net Securities the Mandatory Securityholding Financial During Change to Held at End Of Securityholding Plan Grant Vesting Number Security4 Date1,2,3,4 June 2020 % % Year at Period End1 Year the Year² Securities Financial Year RSA³ Requirement Name (For the Year Ended) Date Date Granted $ $ $ Vested Forfeited Current Senior Executives continued Group CEO Stephen McCann 2020 248,000 750,018 88,709 838,727 58,720 897,447 Kylie Rampa June 2016 LTI (50%) Sept 2015 Sept 2019 9,472 10.56 100,024 (44,059) 16% 84% 2019 169,500 766,136 213,386 (229,504) 750,018 24,024 774,042 June 2017 LTI (50%) Sept 2016 Sept 2019 19,165 11.33 217,139 (63,509) 12% 88% Current Senior Executives June 2017 LTI (50%) Sept 2016 Sept 2020 19,165 11.44 219,248 54,812 Johannes Dekker 2020 90,000 14,225 12,892 27,117 58,776 85,893 June 2018 LTI (50%) Sept 2017 Sept 2020 21,904 13.07 286,285 18,196 2019 62,000 14,225 14,225 24,048 38,273 June 2018 LTI (50%) Sept 2017 Sept 2021 21,904 13.23 289,790 84,417 Tarun Gupta 2020 90,000 116,411 73,913 190,324 58,776 249,100 2019 62,000 158,332 78,079 (120,000) 116,411 24,048 140,459 June 2019 LTA (25%) Nov 2018 Sept 2021 19,234 11.49 220,999 53,624 Denis Hickey4 2020 60,000 61,443 24,192 (57,000) 28,635 58,776 87,411 June 2019 LTA (25%) Nov 2018 Sept 2022 19,234 11.49 220,999 53,624 2019 76,000 49,063 37,494 (25,114) 61,443 24,048 85,491 June 2019 LTA (25%) Nov 2018 Sept 2023 19,234 11.49 220,999 53,624 Anthony Lombardo 2020 84,000 110,654 29,906 (79,906) 60,654 58,776 119,430 June 2019 LTA (25%) Nov 2018 Sept 2024 19,234 11.49 220,999 53,624 2019 54,000 136,708 61,614 (87,668) 110,654 24,048 134,702 Neil Martin 2020 75,000 18,391 (18,391) 21,704 21,704 June 2020 LTA (25%) Sept 2019 Sept 2022 27,780 22.08 613,382 121,399 Kylie Rampa 2020 90,000 61,925 35,216 (50,080) 47,061 58,776 105,837 June 2020 LTA (25%) Sept 2019 Sept 2023 27,780 22.08 613,382 121,399 2019 62,000 11,478 50,447 61,925 24,048 85,973 June 2020 LTA (25%) Sept 2019 Sept 2024 27,780 22.08 613,382 121,399 David Andrew Wilson 2020 94,000 49,364 23,346 72,710 58,776 131,486 2019 64,000 22,997 49,210 (22,843) 49,364 24,048 73,412 June 2020 LTA (25%) Sept 2019 Sept 2025 27,780 22.08 613,382 121,399 Total 279,666 4,450,010 749,949 Former Senior Executive Daniel Labbad5 2020 67,001 20,642 87,643 24,048 111,691 David Andrew DE Award (50%) May 2016 May 2021 80,000 13.42 1,073,600 214,781 2019 66,000 67,001 33,184 (33,184) 67,001 24,048 91,049 Wilson⁶ DE Award (50%) May 2016 May 2023 80,000 13.42 1,073,600 153,415 Total 2020 1,231,041 327,207 (205,377) 1,352,871 457,128 1,809,999 June 2016 LTI (50%) Sept 2015 Sept 2019 14,208 10.56 150,036 (66,094) 16% 84% Total 2019 1,211,715 537,639 (518,313) 1,231,014 192,360 1,423,401 June 2017 LTI (50%) Sept 2016 Sept 2019 15,971 11.33 180,951 (52,934) 12% 88% Loans to KMP June 2017 LTI (50%) Sept 2016 Sept 2020 15,971 11.44 182,708 45,676 No loans were made to KMP or their related parties during the current year or prior year. June 2019 LTA (25%) Nov 2018 Sept 2021 19,234 11.49 220,999 53,624 Other transactions with KMP June 2019 LTA (25%) Nov 2018 Sept 2022 19,234 11.49 220,999 53,624 From time to time, Directors and executives of Lendlease or its consolidated entities, or parties related to them, may purchase goods from June 2019 LTA (25%) Nov 2018 Sept 2023 19,234 11.49 220,999 53,624 the Consolidated Entity. These purchases are on terms and conditions no more favourable than those entered into by unrelated customers. June 2019 LTA (25%) Nov 2018 Sept 2024 19,234 11.49 220,999 53,624 June 2020 LTA (25%) Sept 2019 Sept 2022 27,780 22.08 613,382 121,399 June 2020 LTA (25%) Sept 2019 Sept 2023 27,780 22.08 613,382 121,399 June 2020 LTA (25%) Sept 2019 Sept 2024 27,780 22.08 613,382 121,399 June 2020 LTA (25%) Sept 2019 Sept 2025 27,780 22.08 613,382 121,399 Total 394,206 5,998,419 994,936 Former Senior Executive June 2016 LTI (50%) Sept 2015 Sept 2019 18,943 10.56 200,038 (88,118) 16% 84% Daniel Labbad7 June 2017 LTI (50%) Sept 2016 Sept 2019 27,683 11.33 313,648 (91,743) 12% 88% June 2017 LTI (50%) Sept 2016 Sept 2020 27,683 11.44 316,694 92,368 June 2018 LTI (50%) Sept 2017 Sept 2020 27,076 13.07 353,883 44,437 June 2018 LTI (50%) Sept 2017 Sept 2021 27,076 13.23 358,215 166,773 June 2019 LTA (25%) Nov 2018 Sept 2021 19,234 11.49 220,999 185,249 June 2019 LTA (25%) Nov 2018 Sept 2022 19,234 11.49 220,999 185,249 June 2019 LTA (25%) Nov 2018 Sept 2023 19,234 11.49 220,999 185,249 June 2019 LTA (25%) Nov 2018 Sept 2024 19,234 11.49 220,999 185,249 Total 205,397 2,426,474 864,712 1. Mandatory securityholding requirements are reviewed in August each year. The mandatory securityholding requirement for Neil Martin was set for the first time in September 2019 when he was appointed to the Chief Executive Officer, Europe role. As part of the Group’s response to COVID-19, Denis Hickey requested a temporary release from the applicable mandatory securityholding requirement and the reduced mandatory securityholding requirement (50% of the original mandatory securityholding 6. David Andrew Wilson was granted a Distinguished Executive (DE) Award in May 2016 that vests in two equal tranches over five and seven years. Refer to Note 33(e) of the requirement) has been reflected for 2020. 2. For senior executives, securities received relate to security entitlements under employee benefit vehicles. 3. Under the RSA Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 7. Daniel Labbad ceased as a KMP on 9 September 2019. The expense for the year ended 30 June 2020 reflects the full (previously LTA Minimum), performance rights will vest over a period of up to six years. This number of performance rights counts towards mandatory securityholding entitlement to unvested LTI and LTA which would otherwise have been included in future year disclosures and may not vest. These unvested awards remain on foot and subject requirements. 4. The 2019 comparative for Denis Hickey has been restated from 37,494 to 61,443 to include a correction to his securityholding. 5. Daniel Labbad ceased as a to the original vesting conditions. KMP on 9 September 2019. The end balance of securities for 2020 represents the balance held at that date. 134 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Governance 135 Remuneration Report k. Non Executive Directors The table below sets out fees paid to Non Executive Directors during 2020 and 2019. Non Executive Directors’ fees Short Term Post Employment Non Executive Directors receive a Board fee and fees for chairing or participating on Board committees. The Chairman does not receive A$000s Benefits Benefits extra fees for participating on committees. Committee Committee Membership Travel The maximum aggregate remuneration payable to Non Executive Directors is $3.5 million per year, as approved at the 2015 Annual Year Base Fees1 Chair Fees Fees Fees Superannuation2 Total General Meeting. Non Executive Directors Michael Ullmer 2020 629 18 21 668 Board and committee fees 2019 460 20 15 36 21 552 Nomination People & Culture Risk Audit Sustainability Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Colin Carter 2020 157 36 72 6 21 292 Chair Fee A$ 640,000 36,000 48,000 48,000 48,000 48,000 2019 160 36 72 24 21 313 Member Fee A$ 160,000 Nil 36,000 Nil 36,000 36,000 Philip Coffey 2020 157 48 72 18 21 316 2019 160 24 72 36 21 313 Board and committee fees are paid as cash. Superannuation contributions are paid in addition to the Board and committee fees outlined David Craig 2020 157 48 36 18 21 280 above in accordance with superannuation legislation and are capped at the Maximum Superannuation Contribution Base. The current Non Executive Directors are not entitled to retirement benefits other than superannuation. However, some former Non Executive Directors¹ 2019 160 48 36 36 21 301 have retirement benefits or securities which were previously accrued. Margaret Ford 3 2020 51 21 12 7 91 There were no increases to NED fees during FY20. Jane Hemstritch 2020 157 20 57 18 21 273 As an international company and having regard to the material scale of individual projects, the Board program is formulated to reflect the 2019 160 48 36 36 21 301 geographic spread of the Lendlease businesses. Board meetings are scheduled in Australia and in each of the regions where Lendlease operates. Generally, the program runs over two or three days and includes a number of activities outside of the formal meeting. These Elizabeth Proust 2020 157 28 51 18 21 275 include business briefings, presentations from external sources, project site visits, client meetings and networking events with employees 2019 160 60 36 21 277 and key stakeholders. Where deeper project reviews are required, the program may take up to five days. Nicola Wakefield Evans 2020 160 48 36 18 21 283 The program is an important element of the Board’s activities to enable the Non Executive Directors to obtain the required deep understanding of operations within the regions. 2019 160 24 54 36 21 295 Robert Welanetz4 2020 51 21 12 7 91 All Non Executive Directors may be required to travel to attend Board meetings. This can involve significant additional time, particularly when visiting project sites in the regions where Lendlease operates. Where significant additional time has been spent travelling to fulfil the Former Non Executive Directors requirements of the program, fees are paid to compensate Non Executive Directors for the extra time commitment. Phillip Colebatch5 2019 67 30 24 9 130 6 David Crawford 2019 267 24 9 300 Travel Fees Fee (Each Way) A$ Steve Dobbs7 2020 67 30 40 9 146 Travel less than 4 hours Nil 2019 160 72 63 21 316 Travel between 4 and 10 hours 2,800 Total 2020 1,743 228 396 178 170 2,715 Travel over 10 hours 6,000 Total 2019 1,914 200 447 351 186 3,098 1. Non Executive Directors were able to temporarily reduce their base fees by 20% from 1 June 2020 as part of the Group’s response to COVID-19. 2. Directors have superannuation contributions paid on their behalf in accordance with superannuation legislation. 3. Margaret Ford was appointed as a Non Executive Director on 1 March 2020. 4. Robert Welanetz was appointed as a Non Executive Director on 1 March 2020. 5. Phillip Colebatch ceased to be a Non Executive Director on 16 November 2018. 1. Applies to David Crawford and Phillip Colebatch. 6. David Crawford ceased to be Chairman and Non Executive Director on 16 November 2018. 7. Steve Dobbs ceased to be a Non Executive Director on 20 November 2019. 136 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Governance 137 Remuneration Report k. Non Executive Directors continued Non Executive Directors’ equity holdings Securities Held at Other Net Change Securities Held at Year Beginning of Financial Year to Securities End of Financial Year Non Executive Directors Michael Ullmer 2020 100,000 10,000 110,000 2019 50,000 50,000 100,000 Colin Carter 2020 15,000 3,061 18,061 2019 15,000 15,000 Philip Coffey 2020 9,810 11,406 21,216 2019 9,810 9,810 David Craig 2020 50,000 13,061 63,061 2019 24,870 25,130 50,000 1 Margaret Ford 2020 4,065 4,065 Jane Hemstritch 2020 20,000 3,061 23,061 2019 20,000 20,000 Elizabeth Proust 2020 25,000 28,061 53,061 2019 10,000 15,000 25,000 Nicola Wakefield Evans 2020 30,248 3,772 34,020 This page is intentionally left blank. 2019 16,766 13,482 30,248 Robert Welanetz² 2020 7,000 7,000 Former Non Executive Directors Phillip Colebatch³ 2019 18,323 18,323 David Crawford⁴ 2019 81,315 1,017 84,332 Steve Dobbs⁵ 2020 12,000 12,000 2019 12,000 12,000 6 Total 2020 262,058 83,487 345,545 Total 2019 260,084 104,629 364,713 Purchase of Lendlease securities by Non Executive Directors The current Non Executive Directors acquired Lendlease securities using their own funds. 1. As Margaret Ford was appointed as a Non Executive Director on 1 March 2020 a nil opening balance has been shown. 2. As Robert Welanetz was appointed as a Non Executive Director on 1 March 2020 a nil opening balance has been shown. 3. Phillip Colebatch ceased to be a Non Executive Director on 16 November 2018. The end balance of securities for 2019 represents the balance held at that date. 4. David Crawford ceased to be a Non Executive Director on 16 November 2018. The end balance of securities for 2019 represents the balance held at that date. 5. Steve Dobbs ceased to be a Non Executive Director on 20 November 2019. The end balance of securities for 2020 represents the balance held at that date. 6. The 2020 opening balance excludes the securities held by Phillip Colebatch (18,323) and David Crawford (84,332) given that they both ceased to be Non Executive Directors in the 2019 financial year. 138 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Governance 139 Directors’ Report The Directors’ Report for the financial year ended 30 June 2020 has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the f. Environmental Regulation Corporations Act 2001 . The information below forms part of this Directors’ Report: The Group is subject to various state and federal environmental regulations in Australia. • Principal activities on page 5 The Directors are not aware of any material non compliance with environmental regulations pertaining to the operations or activities • Operating and Financial Review on pages 4 to 89 incorporating the Performance and Outlook on pages 76 to 89 during the period covered by this report. In addition, the Lendlease Group is registered and publicly reports the annual performance • Biographical information for the Directors and Company Secretary on pages 92 to 97 of its Australian operations under the requirements of the National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting (NGER) Act 2007 and Energy Efficiency Opportunities (EEO) Act 2006. • Officers who were previously partners of the audit firm on page 97 All Lendlease businesses continue to operate an integrated Environment, Health and Safety Management System, ensuring that non • Directors’ interests in capital on page 104 compliance risks and opportunities for environmental improvements are identified, managed and reported accordingly. • Board and committee meetings and attendance on pages 104 to 105 • Remuneration Report on pages 106 to 137 g. Non Audit Services During the year, KPMG, the Company’s auditor, performed certain other services in addition to its statutory duties. • Lead Auditor’s Independence Declaration on page 140. The Board has considered the other services provided during the year by the auditor and, in accordance with written advice provided by a. Dividends/Distributions resolution of the Audit Committee, is satisfied that the provision of those services during the year by the auditor is compatible with, and did not compromise, the auditor independence requirements of the Corporations Act 2001 for the following reasons: The 2019 final dividend/distribution of $169 million (30.0 cents per security, unfranked) referred to in the Directors’ Report dated 19 August 2019, was paid on 16 September 2019. Details of dividends/distributions in respect of the current year are as follows: • All other services were subject to the corporate governance procedures adopted by the Group and the Audit Committee is satisfied that those services do not impact the integrity and objectivity of the auditor $m The other services provided do not undermine the general principles relating to auditor independence as set out in APES 110 Code of Interim dividends/distributions of 30.0 cents per security (unfranked) paid on 17 March 20201 169 Ethics for Professional Accountants, as they did not involve reviewing or auditing the auditor’s own work, acting in a management or Final dividends/distributions of 3.3 cents per security (unfranked) declared by Directors to be payable on 15 September 20202 22 decision making capacity for the Group, acting as an advocate for the Group or jointly sharing risks and rewards. Total dividends/distributions 191 A copy of the Lead Auditor's Independence Declaration, as required under Section 307C of the Corporations Act 2001 , is included at the end of the Directors’ Report. 1. Comprised of an unfranked dividend of 22.1 cents per share paid by the Company and an unfranked trust distribution of 7.9 cents per unit paid by Lendlease Trust. 2. Comprised of an unfranked trust distribution of 3.3 cents per unit payable by Lendlease Trust. Details of the amounts paid to the auditor of the Company, KPMG, and its related practices for audit and other services provided during the year are set out below. b. Significant Changes in State of Affairs Consolidated There have been no significant changes in the Group’s state of affairs. June 2020 June 2019 $000s $000s c. Events Subsequent to Balance Date Audit and Other Assurance Services On 1 July 2020, the Group disposed of a 25 per cent interest in One Sydney Harbour R1 Trust. The Group recorded a gain on sale of $19 million (net of transaction costs). The remaining 75 per cent interest retained by the Group provided a revaluation of $128 million Audit services 7,233 7,141 based on the transaction price. Other assurance services 524 495 d. Security Options Total audit and other assurance services 7,757 7,636 Non audit services 557 714 No security options were issued during the year by the Company or any of its controlled entities, and there are no such options on issue. Total audit, non audit and other assurance services 8,314 8,350 e. Indemnification and Insurance of Directors and Officers Rule 12 of the Company’s Constitution provides for indemnification in favour of each of the Directors named on pages 92 to 97 of this report, the officers of the Company or of wholly owned subsidiaries or related entities of the Company (Officers) to the extent permitted h. Rounding Off by the Corporations Act 2001 . Rule 12 does not indemnify a Director, Company Secretary or Officer for any liability involving a lack of Lendlease Corporation Limited is a company of the kind referred to in the ASIC Corporations (Rounding in Financial/Directors' Reports) good faith. Instrument 2016/191 dated 24 March 2016 and, in accordance with that Instrument, amounts in the Consolidated Financial Statements and this In conformity with Rule 12 of the Company’s Constitution, the Company has entered into Deeds of Indemnity, Insurance and Access report have been rounded off to the nearest million dollars unless specifically stated to be otherwise. with each of the Directors named on pages 92 to 97 of this report and for officers of the Company and Directors of related entities of This report is made in accordance with a resolution of the Board of Directors and is signed for and on behalf of the Directors. the Company. The indemnities operate to the full extent permitted by law and are not subject to a monetary limit. The Company is not aware of any liability having arisen, and no claims have been made during or since the financial year under the Deeds of Indemnity, Insurance and Access. For unrelated entities in which the Group has an interest, Deeds of Indemnity may be entered into between Lendlease Corporation Limited and the Director or Officer. Since the date of the last report, the Company has not entered into any separate Deeds of Indemnity with a Director or Officer of an unrelated entity. No indemnity has been granted to an auditor of the Company in their capacity as auditor of the Company. M J Ullmer, AO S B McCann In accordance with the Corporations Act 2001 , Rule 12 of the Constitution also permits the Company to purchase and maintain insurance or pay or agree to pay a premium for insurance for Officers against any liability incurred as an Officer of the Company or of a Chairman Group Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director related body corporate. This may include a liability for reasonable costs and expenses incurred in defending proceedings, whether civil Sydney, 17 August 2020 Sydney, 17 August 2020 or criminal, and whatever their outcome. Due to confidentiality obligations and undertakings of the policy, no further details in respect of the premium or policy can be disclosed. 140 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Governance 141 Lead Auditor’s Independence Declaration under Section 307C of the Corporations Act 2001 To the Directors of Lendlease Corporation Limited I declare that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, in relation to the audit of Lendlease Corporation Limited for the financial year ended 30 June 2020 there have been: i. no contraventions of the auditor independence requirements as set out in the Corporations Act 2001 in relation to the audit; and ii. no contraventions of any applicable code of professional conduct in relation to the audit. This page is intentionally left blank. KPMG D M McLennan Partner Sydney 17 August 2020 KPMG, an Australian partnership and a member firm of the KPMG network of independent member firms affiliated with Liability limited by a scheme approved KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”), a under Professional Standards Legislation. Swiss entity. 142 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Financial Statements 143 Financial Statements Boston: Clippership Wharf A vibrant mixed use community on the East Boston waterfront. 144 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Financial Statements 145 Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements Table of Contents Income Statement Consolidated Financial Statements Year Ended 30 June 2020 Income Statement 145 June 2020 June 20191,2 Statement of Comprehensive Income 146 Note $m $m Statement of Financial Position 147 Statement of Changes in Equity 148 Revenue from contracts with customers 4 11,671 14,889 Statement of Cash Flows 150 Other revenue 163 152 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 151 Cost of sales (11,361) (13,929) Notes Index Gross profit 473 1,112 Section A: Performance Share of profit of equity accounted investments 5 (13) 338 1. Segment Reporting 152 Other income 6 352 293 2. Dividends/Distributions 155 Other expenses (1,195) (863) 3. Earnings Per Share/Stapled Security 155 Results from operating activities from continuing operations (383) 880 4. Revenue from Contracts with Customers 156 Finance revenue 8 12 17 5. Share of Profit of Equity Accounted Investments 158 6. Other Income 158 Finance costs 8 (165) (142) 7. Other Expenses 159 Net finance costs (153) (125) 8. Finance Revenue and Finance Costs 161 (Loss)/Profit before tax from continuing operations (536) 755 9. Taxation 162 Income tax benefit/(expense) 9 194 (198) 10. Events Subsequent to Balance Date 165 (Loss)/Profit after tax from continuing operations (342) 557 Section B: Investment Profit/(loss) after tax from discontinued operations 32 32 (90) 11. Inventories 166 (Loss)/Profit after tax (310) 467 12. Equity Accounted Investments 167 13. Other Financial Assets 172 (Loss)/Profit after tax attributable to: Section C: Liquidity and Working Capital Members of Lendlease Corporation Limited (342) 313 14. Cash and Cash Equivalents 173 Unitholders of Lendlease Trust 32 154 15. Notes to Statement of Cash Flows 174 (Loss)/Profit after tax attributable to securityholders (310) 467 16. Borrowings and Financing Arrangements 174 External non controlling interests 17. Issued Capital 176 (Loss)/Profit after tax (310) 467 18. Capital Management 177 19. Liquidity Risk Exposure 177 Basic/Diluted Earnings per Lendlease Group Stapled Security (EPSS) from Continuing Operations 20. Commitments 178 Shares excluding treasury shares (cents) 32 (57.1) 95.4 21. Loans and Receivables 179 Shares on issue (cents) 32 (56.7) 94.7 22. Trade and Other Payables 180 Section D: Risk Management Basic/Diluted Earnings per Lendlease Group Stapled Security (EPSS) 23. Financial Risk Management 182 Lendlease Corporation Limited (the Company) is incorporated Securities excluding treasury securities (cents) 3 (51.8) 80.0 and domiciled in Australia. The consolidated financial report 24. Hedging 184 of the Company for the financial year ended 30 June 2020 Securities on issue (cents) 3 (51.4) 79.4 25. Fair Value Measurement 185 comprises the Company and its controlled entities including 1. June 2019 balances have been restated for discontinued operations during the year. Refer to Note 32 ‘Discontinued Operations’ for further detail. 26. Contingent Liabilities 186 Lendlease Trust (LLT) (together referred to as the consolidated 2. As required under AASB 133 Earnings per Share, the 30 June 2019 weighted average number of ordinary shares and the weighted average number of stapled securities have entity or the Group). The Group is a for profit entity and is been updated to reflect the new stapled securities issued via the institutional placement and Security Purchase Plan during the year. The Basic/Diluted EPS and Basic/Diluted Section E: Basis of Consolidation an international property and investments group. Further EPSS have been restated to reflect this change. 27. Consolidated Entities 187 information about the Group’s primary activities is included in Note 1 ‘Segment Reporting’. 28. Employee Benefit Vehicles 188 Shares in the Company and units in LLT are traded as one 29. Parent Entity Disclosures 189 security under the name of Lendlease Group on the Australian 30. Related Party Information 190 Securities Exchange (ASX). The Company is deemed to control LLT for accounting purposes and therefore LLT is consolidated Section F: Other Notes into the Group’s financial report. The issued units of LLT, 31. Intangible Assets 192 however, are not owned by the Company and are therefore presented separately in the consolidated entity Statement 32. Discontinued Operations 194 of Financial Position within equity, notwithstanding that the 33. Defined Benefit Plans 196 unitholders of LLT are also the shareholders of the Company. 34. Employee Benefits 199 The consolidated financial report was authorised for issue by the 35. Impact of New and Revised Accounting Standards 202 Directors on 17 August 2020. 36. Other Significant Accounting Policies 204 Directors’ Declaration 205 The accompanying notes form part of these consolidated financial statements. 146 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Financial Statements 147 Consolidated Financial Statements continued Statement of Comprehensive Income Statement of Financial Position Year Ended 30 June 2020 As at 30 June 2020 June 2020 June 2019 2 June 2020 June 2019 Note $m $m Note $m $m (Loss)/Profit after Tax (310) 467 Current Assets Cash and cash equivalents 14 1, 1 1 1 1,290 Other Comprehensive Income/(Expense) After Tax Loans and receivables 21 1,667 2,050 Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss: Inventories 11 2,256 2,238 Movements in hedging reserve 9b (19) (61) Other financial assets 13 16 97 Movements in foreign currency translation reserve 9b (5) 92 Current tax assets 27 11 Total items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss1 (24) 31 Other assets 59 70 Disposal Group assets held for sale 32 841 Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss: Total current assets 5,977 5,756 Movements in non controlling interest acquisition reserve 9b (1) (5) Non Current Assets Defined benefit plans remeasurements 9b 13 (39) Loans and receivables 21 744 688 Total items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss 12 (44) Inventories 11 3,113 3,345 Total comprehensive (expense)/income after tax (322) 454 Equity accounted investments 12 3,671 3,452 Investment properties 658 501 Total comprehensive (expense)/income after tax from continued operations attributable to: Other financial assets 13 1,076 1,103 Members of Lendlease Corporation Limited (381) 390 Deferred tax assets 9c 141 101 Unitholders of Lendlease Trust 27 154 Property, plant and equipment 693 548 Total comprehensive (expense)/income after tax from discontinued operations attributable to: Intangible assets 31 1,457 1,457 Members of Lendlease Corporation Limited 32 (90) Defined benefit plan asset 33 156 140 Other assets 62 87 Total comprehensive (expense)/income after tax attributable to securityholders (322) 454 Total non current assets 11,771 11,422 External non controlling interests Total assets 17,748 17,178 Total comprehensive (expense)/income after tax (322) 454 Current Liabilities 1. Includes $(39) million (June 2019: $3 million) relating to share of other comprehensive income of equity accounted investments. Trade and other payables 22 4,496 5,724 2. June 2019 balances have been restated for discontinued operations during the year. Refer to Note 32 ‘Discontinued Operations’ for further detail. Provisions 343 332 Borrowings and financing arrangements 16a 134 225 Other financial liabilities 10 6 Disposal Group liabilities held for sale 32 670 Total current liabilities 5,653 6,287 Non Current Liabilities Trade and other payables 22 2,405 1,401 Provisions 62 45 Borrowings and financing arrangements 16a 2,261 2,490 Other financial liabilities 1 1 Deferred tax liabilities 9c 434 597 Total non current liabilities 5,163 4,534 Total liabilities 10,816 10,821 Net assets 6,932 6,357 Equity Issued capital 17 1,889 1,300 Treasury securities (68) (68) Reserves 65 105 Retained earnings 3,265 3,815 Total equity attributable to members of Lendlease Corporation Limited 5,151 5,152 Total equity attributable to unitholders of Lendlease Trust 1,756 1,182 Total equity attributable to securityholders 6,907 6,334 External non controlling interests 25 23 Total equity 6,932 6,357 The accompanying notes form part of these consolidated financial statements. The accompanying notes form part of these consolidated financial statements. 148 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Financial Statements 149 Consolidated Financial Statements continued RESERVES Statement of Changes in Equity Non Controlling Members of External Foreign Interest Equity Lendlease Unitholders Non Year Ended 30 June 2020 Issued Treasury Hedging Currency Translation Acquisition Other Compensation Retained Corporation of Lendlease Controlling Total Capital Securities5 Reserve Reserve Reserve Reserve Reserve Earnings Limited Trust Interests Equity $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Balance as at 1 July 2018 1,297 (44) (23) (25) (92) 106 95 3,855 5,169 1,244 1 6,414 Total Comprehensive Income Profit for the period 313 313 154 467 Other comprehensive income (net of tax) (61) 92 (5) (39) (13) (13) Total comprehensive income (61) 92 (5) 274 300 154 454 Other Comprehensive Income (Net of Tax) Net investment hedging (8) (8) (8) Effect of foreign exchange movements 100 (5) 95 95 Effective cash flow hedges (61) (61) (61) Defined benefit plans remeasurements (39) (39) (39) Other comprehensive income (net of tax) (61) 92 (5) (39) (13) (13) Transactions with Owners of the Company Capital contributed by non controlling interests 22 22 Distribution Reinvestment Plan (DRP) 3 3 1 4 On market buyback of securities (140) (140) (34) (174) Dividends and distributions (174) (174) (183) (357) Treasury securities acquired (57) (57) (57) Treasury securities vested 33 33 33 Fair value movement on allocation and vesting of securities 17 17 17 Asset disposal and transfers 1 1 1 Other movements Total other movements through reserves 3 (24) 1 17 (314) (317) (216) 22 (511) Balance as at 30 June 2019 1,300 (68) (84) 68 (97) 106 112 3,815 5,152 1,182 23 6,357 Impact of change in accounting policy 1 (42) (42) (42) Balance as at 1 July 2019 1,300 (68) (84) 68 (97) 106 112 3,773 5,110 1,182 23 6,315 Total Comprehensive Income Profit for the period (342) (342) 32 (310) Other comprehensive income (net of tax) (19) (1) 13 (7) (5) (12) Total comprehensive income (19) (1) (329) (349) 27 (322) Other Comprehensive Income (Net of Tax) Net investment hedging Effect of foreign exchange movements (1) (1) (5) (6) Effective cash flow hedges (19) (19) (19) Defined benefit plans remeasurements 13 13 13 Other comprehensive income (net of tax) (19) (1) 13 (7) (5) (12) Transactions with Owners of the Company Capital contributed by non controlling interests 2 2 Distribution Reinvestment Plan (DRP) 9 9 2 11 Share issue via institutional placement (net of transaction costs) 2 454 454 479 933 Share issue via Security Purchase Plan (net of transaction costs)3 126 126 134 260 Dividends and distributions (178) (178) (67) (245) Treasury securities acquired (52) (52) (52) Treasury securities vested 52 52 52 Fair value movement on allocation and vesting of securities 3 3 3 Transfer as a result of asset disposal4 7 (30) (23) (23) Other movements (1) (1) (1) (2) Total other movements through reserves 589 7 (30) 3 (179) 390 547 2 939 Balance as at 30 June 2020 1,889 (68) (96) 38 (98) 106 115 3,265 5,151 1,756 25 6,932 1. June 2020 Statement of Changes in Equity has been adjusted to reflect the impact of the first time adoption of AASB 16 Leases (refer to Note 35 ‘Impact of New and Revised Accounting Standards’ for further detail) by recording $(42) million to opening retained earnings. 2. On 4 May 2020 the Group issued 97 million new stapled securities via an institutional placement at an issue price of $9.80. 3. On 4 June 2020 the Group issued 27 million new stapled securities via a Security Purchase Plan at an issue price of $9.80. 4. These movements in reserves were transferred to profit and loss in the year. The accompanying notes form part of these consolidated financial statements. 5. Opening balance for number of treasury securities 1 July 2019 was 4 million (1 July 2018: 4 million) and closing balance at 30 June 2020 was 4 million. 150 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Financial Statements 151 Consolidated Financial Statements continued Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Statement of Cash Flows Basis of Preparation Year Ended 30 June 2020 The consolidated financial report is a general purpose financial report which: June 2020 3 June 2019 3 • Has been prepared in accordance with Australian Accounting Standards (AASBs) adopted by the Australian Accounting Standards Board, Note $m $m and the Corporations Act 2001 Cash Flows from Operating Activities • Complies with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) adopted by the International Accounting Standards Board Cash receipts in the course of operations 13,488 17,026 • Is presented in Australian dollars ($). At June 2020, all values have been rounded off to the nearest million dollars unless otherwise indicated, in accordance with ASIC Corporations (Rounding in Financial/Directors’ Reports) Instrument 2016/191 Cash payments in the course of operations (13,313) (16,902) • Provides comparative financial information in the Income Statement, Statement of Comprehensive Income and related Notes has been Interest received 16 13 restated for discontinued operations during the year. The comparative information in the Statement of Financial Position, Statement of Changes in Equity, Statement of Cash Flows and related Notes has not been restated. Refer to Note 32 ‘Discontinued Operations’ for Interest paid in relation to other corporations (164) (152) further details Interest in relation to lease liabilities1 (25) • Includes certain other comparative balances that have been reclassified following the adoption of AASB 16 Leases Dividends/distributions received 146 105 Income tax paid in respect of operations (11) (30) • Is prepared under the historical cost basis except for the following assets and liabilities, which are stated at their fair value: derivative financial instruments, fair value through profit or loss investments, investment properties, and liabilities for cash settled share based Net cash provided by operating activities 15 137 60 compensation plans. Recognised assets and liabilities that are hedged are stated at fair value in respect of the risk that is hedged. Refer to the specific accounting policies within the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the basis of valuation of assets and liabilities Cash Flows from Investing Activities measured at fair value. Sale/redemption of investments 448 571 Significant accounting policies have been: Acquisition of investments (709) (378) • Included in the relevant notes to which the policies relate, while other significant accounting policies are discussed in Note 36 ‘Other Acquisition of/capital expenditure on investment properties (57) (53) Significant Accounting Policies’ Net loan drawdowns from associates and joint ventures (9) (22) • Consistently applied to all financial years presented in the consolidated financial statements and by all entities in the Group, except as explained in Note 35 ‘Impact of New and Revised Accounting Standards’. Disposal of consolidated entities (net of cash disposed and transaction costs) 136 266 Disposal of property, plant and equipment 11 14 The preparation of a financial report that complies with AASBs requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions. Acquisition of property, plant and equipment (112) (165) • This can affect the application of accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses. Actual results may differ from these estimates. Acquisition of intangible assets (77) (66) • Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to estimates are recognised prospectively. Net cash (used in)/provided by investing activities (369) 167 • The significant accounting policies highlight information about accounting judgements in applying accounting policies that have the most Cash Flows from Financing Activities significant effects on reported amounts and further information about estimated uncertainties that have a significant risk of resulting in material adjustments within the next financial year. Net proceeds from share issue 17 1,193 • These significant accounting estimates and judgements have been considered in the context of the COVID-19 outbreak and the impact of Proceeds from borrowings 4,658 4,640 the current economic conditions. Repayment of borrowings (4,970) (4,347) The Group presents assets and liabilities in the Statement of Financial Position as current or non current. Dividends/distributions paid (327) (258) • Current assets include assets held primarily for trading purposes, cash and cash equivalents, and assets expected to be realised in, or Payments for on market buyback of stapled securities (174) intended for sale or use in, the course of the Group’s operating cycle or within the next 12 months. All other assets are classified as non Payments for on market buyback of stapled securities – Distribution Reinvestment Plan (11) current. Increase in capital of non controlling interests 2 22 • Current liabilities include liabilities held primarily for trading purposes, liabilities expected to be settled in the course of the Group’s operating cycle and those liabilities due within one year from the reporting date. All other liabilities are classified as non current. Repayment of lease liabilities1 (61) The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis. In preparing the financial statements, including assessing the going concern Net cash provided by/(used in) financing activities 495 (128) basis of accounting, the Group has considered the COVID-19 pandemic. Other Cash Flow Items The Group has: Effect of foreign exchange rate movements on cash and cash equivalents 9 14 • Raised over $1.2 billion through its recent equity raising. See Note 17 ‘Issued Capital’ Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 272 113 • Over $4.2 billion in undrawn facilities. See Note 16 ‘Borrowings and Financing Arrangements’ Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of financial year 1,290 1,177 • Over $1.1 billion in cash and cash equivalents. See Note 14 ‘Cash and Cash Equivalents’ Cash and cash equivalents at end of financial year2 14 1,562 1,290 • Net positive cash inflow from operating activities. See Statement of Cash Flows. 1. June 2019 comparatives $nil as Interest in relation to lease liabilities and Repayment of lease liabilities were not recognised under AASB 117 Leases. Operating lease expenses Following this assessment, the Group is well placed to manage its financing and future commitments over the next 12 months from the date of were recorded as Cash payments in the course of operations. Refer to Note 35 ‘Impact of New and Revised Accounting Standards’ for further detail. the financial statements. 2. $451 million of Cash and cash equivalents has been classified as Disposal Group assets held for sale at 30 June 2020. Refer to Note 14 ‘Cash and Cash Equivalents’ for further detail. 3. Balances include cash flows relating to both continuing and discontinued operations. Net cash flows relating to discontinued operations have been disclosed in Note 32 ‘Discontinued Operations’. The accompanying notes form part of these consolidated financial statements. 152 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Financial Statements 153 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements continued Section A: Performance The following tables set out other financial information by reportable segment. Depreciation Non Current Group Earnings before Interest, Tax, Depreciation and Amortisation (EBITDA) and Profit after tax (PAT) are the key measures used to assess the Segment Finance Finance Share of and Material Non Segment Total Group’s performance. This section of the Financial Report focuses on disclosures that enhances a user’s understanding of EBITDA and Revenue1 Revenue Expense Results EAI2 Amortisation Cash Items3 Assets4 Assets PAT. Segment Reporting below provides a breakdown of profit and revenue by the operational activity. The key line items of the Income $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Statement along with their components provide detail behind the reported balances. Group performance will also impact the earnings per stapled security and dividend payout therefore disclosure on these items has been included in this section. Further information and analysis on performance and allocation of resources can be found in the Performance and Outlook section of the Directors’ Report. Year Ended June 2020 Core 1. Segment Reporting Development 2,344 6 (5) 67 (23) (36) 5,150 7,281 Accounting Policies Construction 7,627 (6) 17 (28) (17) 1,310 3,565 The Group’s segments are Development, Construction, Investments and Non core. The Group has identified these operating segments based on the distinct products and services provided by each segment, the distinct target returns profile and allocation of resources for each Investments 390 1 (7) (100) (17) (63) 3,032 4,236 segment, and internal reports that are reviewed and used by the Group Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director (the Chief Operating Decision Maker) in assessing performance, determining the allocation of resources, setting operational targets, and managing the Group. Total core segments 10,361 7 (18) (16) (68) (116) 9,492 15,082 The Group has arranged the segments around business activity rather than geography due to the Group’s business model being broadly Non core 2,884 6 (1) 3 (84) 9 279 1,828 consistent in all regions. Segment performance is based on EBITDA and PAT. EBITDA and PAT are used to measure performance as management believes that such Total segments 13,245 13 (19) (13) (152) (107) 9,771 16,910 information is the most relevant in evaluating the results of certain reportable segments relative to other entities that operate within these industries. The Group does not consider corporate activities to be an operating segment. Corporate activities 44 5 (147) (92) (37) 627 838 Statutory result 13,289 18 (166) (13) (244) (144) 10,398 17,748 The operating segments are as follows: Development Year Ended June 2019 Operates in all four geographic regions. Its products and services include the development of inner city mixed use developments, apartments, communities, retirement, retail, commercial assets and social and economic infrastructure. Construction margin earned on internal projects is Core recognised in this segment. Development 3,355 9 (4) 184 (12) 21 5,275 7,101 Construction Operates across all four geographic regions. Its products and services include the provision of project management, design and construction Construction 9,680 (1) 23 (12) (3) 1,440 3,710 services, predominantly in the defence, mixed use, commercial and residential sectors. Investments 348 1 (1) 126 (7) 138 2,597 4,028 Investments Services include owning and/or managing investments across all four geographic regions. The Investments segment includes a leading Total core segments 13,383 10 (6) 333 (31) 156 9,312 14,839 investment management platform and also includes the Group’s ownership interests in property and infrastructure Co-Investments, Retirement Living and US Military Housing. Non core 3,141 5 (28) 3 490 2,089 Non core Total segments 16,524 10 (6) 338 (59) 159 9,802 16,928 Non core includes the provision of project management, design and construction services in the Australian infrastructure sector. These products and services represent the Engineering and Services businesses. The Chief Operating Decision Maker receives separate information Corporate activities 31 7 (136) (63) (8) 276 250 about these businesses, given the Group announced in February 2019 that the Engineering and Services businesses are no longer a required part of the Group’s strategy. The results of the discontinued operations referenced throughout the financial statements is included in this Statutory result 16,555 17 (142) 338 (122) 151 10,078 17,178 segment. Discontinued operations represents the Engineering business that the Group intends to sell, excluding the projects retained by the 1. Segment revenue as disclosed in the Performance and Outlook section of the Directors’ Report, is comprised of Revenue from contracts with customers, Other revenue and Group. Refer to Note 32 ‘Discontinued Operations’ for further detail. Finance revenue. Financial information regarding the performance of each reportable segment and a reconciliation of these reportable segments to the financial 2. Equity Accounted Investments. statements is included below. 3. Material Non Cash Items relates to impairments and provisions raised or written back, unrealised foreign exchange movements and fair value gains or losses. 4. Excludes deferred tax assets, financial instruments and defined benefit plan assets. PROFIT INCOME TAX PROFIT EBITDA2 BEFORE TAX (EXPENSE)/BENEFIT AFTER TAX June 2020 June 2019 June 2020 June 2019 June 2020 June 2019 June 2020 June 2019 $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Core Development 322 793 300 787 (67) (233) 233 554 Construction 101 211 67 198 (25) (57) 42 141 Investments 140 489 117 482 (13) (114) 104 368 Total core segments 563 1,493 484 1,467 (105) (404) 379 1,063 Non core (495) (461) (574) (489) 168 152 (406) (337) Total segments 68 1,032 (90) 978 63 (252) (27) 726 Reconciling items Corporate activities (158) (165) (392) (358) 109 99 (283) (259) Total Group (90) 867 (482) 620 172 (153) (310) 467 Discontinued operations1 54 (135) (22) 45 32 (90) Results from continuing operations (90) 867 (536) 755 194 (198) (342) 557 Interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation2 (220) (400) Statutory result ((Loss)/Profit after tax) (310) 467 1. Refer to Note 32 ‘Discontinued Operations’ for further detail. 2. EBITDA includes continuing and discontinued operations, and represents earnings before net finance costs of $148 million (June 2019: $125 million), tax benefit of $172 million (June 2019: tax expense of $(153) million), depreciation and amortisation of $244 million (June 2019: $122 million). 154 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Financial Statements 155 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements continued Section A: Performance continued 2. Dividends/Distributions1 COMPANY/TRUST 1. Segment Reporting continued Cents June 2020 June 2019 NON CURRENT ASSETS1 Per Share/Unit $m $m June 2020 June 2019 Parent Company Interim Dividend $m $m December 2019 – paid 17 March 2020 22.1 124 Australia 4,882 5,462 December 20182 Asia 1,361 1,176 Lendlease Trust Interim Distribution December 2019 – paid 17 March 2020 7.9 45 Europe 1,382 1,158 December 2018 – paid 20 March 2019 12.0 68 Americas 2,146 2,006 Parent Company Final Dividend Total segment 9,771 9,802 June 20203 Corporate activities 627 276 June 2019 – paid 16 September 2019 9.5 53 Statutory result 10,398 10,078 Lendlease Trust Final Distribution June 2020 – provided for (payable 15 September 2020) 3.3 22 1. Excludes deferred tax assets, financial instruments and defined benefit plan assets and is based on the geographical location of assets. June 2019 – paid 16 September 2019 20.5 116 Total 191 237 The operating segments generate revenue in the following regions. 1. Final and interim dividends/distributions were not franked in the current and prior year. 2. No interim dividend was declared for the Company for the 31 December 2018 half year. 3. No final dividend was declared for the Company for 30 June 2020. REVENUE1 Dividend Franking Total Core Total Corporate Statutory The amount of franking credits available for use in subsequent reporting periods as at 30 June 2020 is $17 million, based on a 30 per cent tax Development Construction Investments Segments Non Core Segments Activities Result rate (30 June 2019: $16 million). This is calculated after adjusting for franking credits which will arise from the payment of income tax provided $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m in the financial statements and tax losses utilised in the current financial year. Year Ended June 2020 3. Earnings Per Share/Stapled Security (EPS/EPSS) Australia 1,198 3,217 172 4,587 2,884 7,471 44 7,515 Asia 13 255 134 402 402 402 Accounting Policies Europe 969 782 16 1,767 1,767 1,767 The Group presents basic and diluted EPS/EPSS in the Income Statement. This is a key performance measure for the Group. Refer to further details in the Finance Area of Focus section of the Annual Report. Americas 164 3,373 68 3,605 3,605 3,605 Basic EPS/EPSS is determined by dividing Profit/(loss) after tax attributable to members of the Company and Group, excluding any costs Total 2,344 7,627 390 10,361 2,884 13,245 44 13,289 of servicing equity other than ordinary shares/securities, by the weighted average number of ordinary shares/securities outstanding during the financial year, adjusted for bonus elements in ordinary shares/securities issued during the financial year. Year Ended June 2019 Diluted EPS/EPSS is determined by adjusting the Profit/(loss) after tax attributable to members of the Company and Group, and the Australia 2,712 4,052 210 6,974 3,141 10,115 31 10,146 weighted average number of ordinary shares/securities outstanding for the effects of all dilutive potential ordinary shares/securities. The Group currently does not have any dilutive potential ordinary shares/securities. Dilution occurs when treasury shares and employee share Asia 18 401 63 482 482 482 options are included in outstanding shares. Europe 544 941 13 1,498 1,498 1,498 The issued units of Lendlease Trust (LLT) are presented separately within equity, and therefore the profit attributable to LLT is excluded from the calculation of basic and diluted earnings per Company share presented in the Income Statement. Americas 81 4,286 62 4,429 4,429 4,429 Total 3,355 9,680 348 13,383 3,141 16,524 31 16,555 JUNE 2020 JUNE 20192 Shares/ Shares/ 1. Segment revenue as disclosed in the Performance and Outlook section of the Directors’ Report, is comprised of Revenue from contracts with customers, Other revenue and Finance revenue. Securities Securities Excluding Shares/ Excluding Shares/ No revenue from transactions with a single external customer amounts to 10 per cent or more of the Group’s revenue. Treasury Securities Treasury Securities Securities on Issue Securities on Issue Basic/Diluted Earnings Per Share (EPS)1 (Loss)/profit attributable to members of Lendlease Corporation Limited (Company) $m (342) (342) 313 313 Weighted average number of ordinary shares m 599 603 584 588 Basic/Diluted EPS cents (57.1) (56.7) 53.6 53.2 Basic/Diluted Earnings Per Stapled Security (EPSS)1 (Loss)/profit attributable to securityholders of Lendlease Group $m (310) (310) 467 467 Weighted average number of stapled securities m 599 603 584 588 Basic/Diluted EPSS cents (51.8) (51.4) 80.0 79.4 1. Balances include both continuing and discontinued operations. Earnings per share/stapled security for continuing and discontinued operations have been separately disclosed in Note 32 ‘Discontinued Operations’. 2. As required under AASB 133 Earnings per Share, the 30 June 2019 weighted average number of ordinary shares and the weighted average number of stapled securities have been updated to reflect the new stapled securities issued via the institutional placement and Security Purchase Plan during the year. The Basic/Diluted EPS and Basic/Diluted EPSS have been restated to reflect this change. 156 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Financial Statements 157 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements continued Section A: Performance continued Accounting Policies continued 4. Revenue from Contracts with Customers Sale of Development Properties The Group develops and sells residential land lots and built form products, including residential apartments, commercial and retail Accounting Policies buildings. Sales of residential land lots and apartments typically are recognised at a point in time, with each contract treated as a single Provision of Construction and Development services performance obligation to transfer control of an asset to a customer. Residential land lots and apartments are recognised on settlement with the customer. Construction services include project management, design and construction services predominantly in the defence, mixed use, commercial and residential sectors. Development services include development fees earned on development of inner city mixed use The sale of retail, commercial and mixed use assets may include land, construction, development management and investment service developments, retirement, retail, commercial assets and social and economic infrastructure. components. Where there are multiple components within one contract, the transaction price is allocated based on the stand-alone selling prices of each component, typically using the residual approach, and revenue is recognised based on the policies noted above. Contracts with customers to provide Construction or Development services can include either one performance obligation or multiple Sales of commercial and retail buildings are recognised when the customer obtains control of the asset based on the specific terms and performance obligations within each contract. The Group assesses each of its contracts individually and where there are separate conditions of the sales contract. performance obligations identified, the transaction price is allocated based on the relative standalone selling prices of the services provided. Typically, the Construction or Development services in contracts are not considered distinct as the services are highly The Group discounts deferred proceeds to reflect the time value of money where the period between the transfer of control of a interrelated and an integrated bundle of services, therefore are accounted for as a single performance obligation. development property and receipt of payment from the customer exceeds one year. Deferred proceeds from customers are recognised in trade and other receivables where the right to receive payment is unconditional. Deposits received in advance from customers are The transaction price for each contract may include variable consideration in the form of contract variations or modifications, and recognised as a contract liability until the performance obligation has been met. contract claims (collectively, ‘Modifications’). Variable consideration may also include performance or other incentive fees. The transaction price is the amount of consideration to which the Group expects to be entitled to receive in exchange for transferring The measurement of revenue from the sale of development properties is an area of accounting judgement as it requires management promised goods or services to a customer per the contract. to exercise judgement in valuing the individual components of a development property sale, given the due consideration to cost inputs, market conditions and commercial factors. The recognition and determination of when control passes requires management Variable consideration is only included in the transaction price for a contract to the extent it is highly probable that a significant judgement and is considered an area of accounting judgement. reversal of that revenue will not occur, which is an area of accounting judgement. Factors considered in assessing whether the estimated revenue associated with Modifications should be recognised include the following: Proceeds from the sale of residential land lots and apartments are received upon settlement, which will typically occur between 6-12 weeks following practical completion on the asset. Proceeds from the sale of retail, commercial and mixed use assets are received in i. Status of negotiations with customers accordance with the specific terms of each contract. ii. The contract or other evidence provides a legal basis for the Modifications The Group may enter a PLLACes (Presold Lendlease Apartment Cash Flows) transaction for certain residential apartment buildings iii. Additional costs incurred were caused by circumstances that were unforeseen at the contract date and for which entitlement from time to time. This involves the Group receiving an upfront cash inflow from third party investors (investors) in exchange for selling contractually exists the investors the rights to the cash proceeds that are due from customers once the apartments are completed. When customers settle their apartments the Group does not receive any cash proceeds nor does it pay any amounts to the investors as the customers pay the iv. Modification related costs are identifiable, measurable, and considered reasonable in view of the work performed investors directly. On entry into a PLLACes transaction the cash inflow is disclosed as an operating cash inflow in the Statement of v. Evidence supporting the Modification is objective and verifiable, which may include independent third-party advice Cash Flows which typically occurs over a year in advance of the revenue recognition from the sale of the apartments. At the same time, an Other payables PLLACes is also recognised within Trade and Other Payables and is de-recognised as revenue once settlement of vi. Commercial and market factors specific to the Modifications the apartments occurs. vii. Historical experience in resolving Modifications. This assessment is reviewed each reporting period or when facts and circumstances change during the reporting period. June 2020 June 20193 Revenue is recognised over time, typically based on an input method using an estimate of costs incurred to date as a percentage of $m $m total estimated costs. These contracts are typically executed on the customer’s land so they control the assets as it is being built or the Revenue from the provision of services customer benefits from the service as the work is performed. Differences between amounts recognised as revenue and amounts billed to customers are recognised as contract assets or liabilities in the Statement of Financial Position. Core Construction services 7,626 9,678 The measurement of revenue is an area of accounting judgement. Management uses judgement to estimate: Non core Construction services 1,441 1,644 i. Progress in satisfying the performance obligations within the contract, which includes estimating contract costs expected to be Construction services 9,067 11,322 incurred to satisfy performance obligations Development services 1,083 738 ii. The probability of the amount to be recognised as variable consideration for approved variations and claims where the final price has not been agreed with the customer. Investment services 310 260 Revenue is invoiced based on the terms of each individual contract, which may include a periodic billing schedule or achievement of Total revenue from the provision of services 10,460 12,320 specific milestones. Invoices are issued under commercial payment terms which are typically 30 days from when an invoice is issued. Revenue from the sale of development properties 1,211 2,569 A provision for loss making contracts is recorded for the difference between the expected costs of fulfilling a contract and the Total revenue from contracts with customers1,2 11,671 14,889 expected remaining economic benefits to be received where the forecast remaining costs exceed the forecast remaining benefits. 1. Further information on revenue by geography and by segments is included in Note 1 ‘Segment Reporting’. Segment revenue as disclosed in the Performance and Outlook Provision of Investment services section of the Directors’ Report, is comprised of Revenue from contracts with customers, Other revenue and Finance revenue. 2. The performance of the business including the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic on operations has been discussed further in the Performance and Outlook section of the Directors’ Report. Investment services include funds management, asset management, leasing and origination services. 3. June 2019 balances have been restated for discontinued operations during the year. Refer to Note 32 ‘Discontinued Operations’ for further detail. Each contract with a customer to provide Investment services is typically one performance obligation with revenue recognised over time as services are rendered. Typically, our performance obligation is to manage a client’s capital and/or property for a specified period of time and is delivered as a series of daily performance obligations over time. The transaction price for each contract may include variable consideration in the form of performance fees. Variable consideration is only included in the transaction price for a contract to the extent it is highly probable that a significant reversal of that revenue will not occur. The Group assesses probability of receiving variable consideration using a combination of commercial and market factors, and historical experience. Revenue is invoiced either monthly or quarterly based on the terms of each individual contract. Invoices are issued under commercial payment terms which are typically 30 days from when an invoice is issued. 158 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Financial Statements 159 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements continued Section A: Performance continued 7. Other Expenses 5. Share of Profit of Equity Accounted Investments Accounting Policies Other expenses in general are recognised as incurred. Accounting Policies Employee Benefit Expenses Investments in associates and joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method. The share of profit recognised under the equity method is the Group’s share of the investment’s profit or loss based on ownership interest held. Associates (including partnerships) are Employee benefits are expensed as the related service by the employee is provided and includes both equity and cash based payment entities in which the Group, as a result of its voting rights, has significant influence, but not control or joint control, over the financial and transactions. Employee benefits recognised in the Income Statement are net of recoveries. operating policies. A joint venture is a joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the For cash bonuses, the Group recognises an accrued liability for the amount expected to be paid. This is based on a formula that takes into net assets of the arrangement. consideration the profit attributable to the Group’s securityholders after certain adjustments. Refer to Note 34a ‘Short Term Incentives’ for For associates, this is from the date that significant influence commences until the date that significant influence ceases, and for joint further detail. ventures, this is from the date joint control commences until the date joint control ceases. Share Based Compensation The Group operates equity settled share based compensation plans that are linked to Lendlease’s security price. The fair value of the June 2020 June 2019 equity received in exchange for the grant is recognised as an expense and a corresponding increase in equity, in the Equity Compensation Note $m $m Reserve. The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the securities granted. Associates 1 The fair value is primarily determined using a Monte-Carlo simulation model. Refer to Note 34g ‘Amounts Recognised in the Financial Statements’ for further detail. Management considers the fair value assigned to be an area of estimation uncertainty as it requires Share of profit 12a (14) 24 judgements on Lendlease’s security price and whether vesting conditions will be satisfied. Joint Ventures 1 At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimates of the entitlement due. It recognises the impact of revision of original estimates on non market conditions, if any, in the Income Statement, and a corresponding adjustment to equity over the remaining vesting Share of profit 12b 1 314 period. Changes in entitlement for equity settled share based compensation plans are not recognised if they fail to vest due to market Total share of profit of equity accounted investments (13) 338 conditions not being met. Superannuation Accumulation Plan Expense 1. Reflects the contribution to the Group’s profit, and is after tax paid by the Equity Accounted Investment vehicles themselves, where relevant. However, for various Equity Accounted Investments, the share of tax is paid by the Group and is included in the Group’s current tax expense. All employees in the Australia region are entitled to benefits on retirement, disability or death from the Group’s superannuation accumulation plan. The majority of these employees are party to a defined contribution plan and receive fixed contributions from the Group. The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid. The contributions are recognised as an employee benefit expense when they are due. The Group also operates a defined benefit superannuation plan, membership of which is 6. Other Income now closed. Refer to Note 33 ‘Defined Benefit Plans’ for further detail. Impairment Accounting Policies The carrying amounts of the Group’s assets, subject to impairment tests, are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there Net gains or losses on sale/transfer of investments, including consolidated entities and Equity Accounted Investments are recognised is any indication of impairment. If any such indication exists, the asset’s recoverable amount is estimated. The calculation of this recoverable when an unconditional contract is in place. amount is dependent on the type of asset. The material assets’ accounting policies will contain further information on these calculations. Net gains or losses on fair value remeasurements are recognised in accordance with the policies stated in Note 13 ‘Other Financial Assets’. An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount. Impairment losses are recognised in the Income Statement. June 2020 June 20193 Reversals of Impairment $m $m Impairment losses on assets can be reversed (other than goodwill) when there is a subsequent increase in the recoverable amount. The increase could be due to a specific event, the indication that impairment may no longer exist or there is a change in estimates used to Net gain on sale/transfer of investments determine the recoverable amount. Consolidated entities1 183 74 An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the asset’s carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised. Other financial assets at fair value 5 20 Operating Lease Expense Equity accounted investments 35 Short term lease and low value lease payments, including outgoings, are recognised in the Income Statement on a straight line basis over Other assets and liabilities 3 the term of the lease. Total net gain on sale/transfer of investments 223 97 Depreciation and Amortisation Depreciation on owned assets is charged to the Income Statement on a straight line basis over the estimated useful lives of items of Net gain on fair value measurement property, plant and equipment. Amortisation is provided on leasehold improvements over the remaining term of the lease. Most plant is Investment properties 24 85 depreciated over a period not exceeding 20 years, furniture and fittings over three to 15 years, motor vehicles over four to eight years and computer equipment over three years. Fair value through profit or loss assets 97 Right-of-use assets are depreciated using the straight line method from the commencement date to the earlier of the end of the useful life Total net gain on fair value measurement 24 182 of the right-of-use asset or the end of the lease term. Other2 105 14 Total other income 352 293 1. During the period, the Group disposed of a 25 per cent interest in Victoria Cross Commercial Head Trust. The Group recorded a gain on sale of $31 million. Refer to Note 27 ‘Consolidated Entities’ for further detail. The remaining 75 per cent interest retained by the Group provided a revaluation gain of $92 million based on the transaction price. 2. The Group purchased the remaining stake in Intown SRL Joint Venture and subsequently formed a joint venture with an investment partner which resulted in a total revaluation gain of $64 million. At 30 June 2020, the Group held a 50% interest in the joint venture, MSG South. Refer to Note 12 ‘Equity Accounted Investments’ for further detail. 3. June 2019 balances have been restated for discontinued operations during the year. Refer to Note 32 ‘Discontinued Operations’ for further detail. 160 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Financial Statements 161 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements continued Section A: Performance continued 8. Finance Revenue and Finance Costs 7. Other Expenses continued Accounting Policies June 2020 June 20195 Finance revenue is recognised as it is earned using the effective interest method, which applies the interest rate that discounts estimated $m $m future cash receipts over the expected life of the financial instrument. The discount is then recognised as finance revenue over the remaining life of the financial instrument. Profit before income tax includes the following other expense items: Finance costs include interest, amortisation of discounts or premiums relating to borrowings and amortisation of costs incurred in Employee benefit expenses1,2 2,373 2,227 connection with the arrangement of new borrowings facilities. Costs incurred in connection with the arrangement of borrowings are capitalised and amortised over the life of the borrowings. Finance costs are expensed immediately as incurred unless they relate to Superannuation accumulation plan expense 36 39 acquisition and development of qualifying assets. Qualifying assets are assets that take more than six months to prepare for their intended Net defined benefit plans expense 1 1 use or sale. Finance costs related to qualifying assets are capitalised. Expenses include impairments raised/(reversals) relating to: Loans and receivables 4 1 June 2020 June 2019 $m $m Property inventories 30 (1) Equity accounted investments 24 6 Finance Revenue Other assets 6 Other corporations 6 8 Net loss on fair value measurement of fair value through profit or loss assets 17 Other finance revenue 4 5 Lease expense (including outgoings) 33 95 Total interest finance revenue 10 13 Depreciation on right-of-use assets3 66 Interest discounting 2 4 Depreciation on owned assets 4 80 58 Total finance revenue 12 17 Amortisation 3 54 50 Finance Costs Net foreign exchange loss (2) 6 Interest expense in relation to other corporations1 159 156 1. Total expense before recoveries through projects. Interest expense in relation to lease liabilities 2 25 2. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Group accessed Australian and international Government employee programs in the second half of FY20. This totalled $15 million (Australia: $7 million) and has been accounted for as a reduction in employee expenses. Less: Capitalised interest finance costs3 (33) (25) 3. June 2019 comparatives are $nil as depreciation of right-of-use assets was not recognised under AASB 117 Leases. 4. June 2019 comparatives have been reclassified to separately present depreciation and amortisation due to the adoption of AASB 16 Leases. Total interest finance costs 151 131 5. June 2019 balances have been restated for discontinued operations during the year. Refer to Note 32 ‘Discontinued Operations’ for further detail. Non interest finance costs 14 11 June 2020 June 2019 Total finance costs 165 142 $000s $000s Net finance costs (153) (125) Auditors’ Remuneration 1. As a result of the adoption of AASB 16 Leases, the description has changed from Other corporations to Interest expense in relation to other corporations. Amounts received or due and receivable by the auditors of Lendlease Group for: 2. June 2019 comparatives are $nil as Interest expense in relation to lease liabilities was not recognised under AASB 117 Leases. 3. The weighted average interest rate used to determine the amount of interest finance costs eligible for capitalisation was 3.5 per cent (30 June 2019: 4.0 per cent), which is the effective interest rate. Audit services 7,233 7,141 Other assurance services 524 495 Total audit and other assurance services 7,757 7,636 Non audit services 1 557 714 Total audit, other assurance and non audit services 8,314 8,350 1. Non audit services include amounts charged for work relating to financial, regulatory and asset due diligence of the Group. 162 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Financial Statements 163 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements continued Section A: Performance continued a. Income Tax Expense June 2020 June 2019 $m $m 9. Taxation Recognised in the Income Statement Accounting Policies Current Tax Expense Current year (58) 82 Income tax on the profit or loss for the financial year comprises current and deferred tax. Income tax is recognised in the Income Statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity. Under current Adjustments for prior years (2) (4) Australian income tax law, LLT is not liable for income tax, including capital gains tax, to the extent that unitholders are attributed the Benefit of tax losses recognised (2) (2) taxable income of LLT. Total current tax (benefit)/expense (62) 76 Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the financial year, using applicable tax rates (and tax laws) at the Deferred Tax Expense balance sheet date in each jurisdiction, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous financial years. Origination and reversal of temporary differences (77) 72 Deferred tax is the expected tax payable in future periods as a result of past transactions or events and is calculated by comparing the Temporary differences recovered (5) 6 accounting balance sheet to the tax balance sheet. Temporary differences are provided for any differences in the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities between the accounting and tax balance sheets. The following temporary differences are not provided for: Net tax losses recognised (18) (2) • The initial recognition of taxable goodwill Change in tax rate (10) 1 • The initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit Total deferred tax (benefit)/expense (110) 77 • Differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they are not likely to reverse in the foreseeable future. Total income tax (benefit)/expense from continuing operations (194) 198 Measurement of deferred tax is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, Total income tax expense/(benefit) from discontinued operations1 22 (45) using applicable tax rates (and tax laws) at the balance sheet date. Total income tax (benefit)/expense2 (172) 153 Recognition of deferred tax assets is only to the extent it is probable that future taxable profits will be available so as the related tax asset Reconciliation of Effective Tax Rate will be realised. Deferred tax assets may include the following: (Loss)/Profit before Tax (482) 620 • Deductible temporary differences Income tax using the domestic corporation tax rate 30% (145) 186 • Unused tax losses Adjustments for prior year (5) (5) • Unused tax credits. Non assessable and exempt income3 (30) (51) Management considers the estimation of future taxable profits to be an area of estimation uncertainty as a change in any of the assumptions used in budgeting and forecasting would have an impact on the future profitability of the Group. The Group prepares Non allowable expenses4 22 8 financial budgets and forecasts, covering a five year period, which are reviewed on a regular basis. These forecasts and budgets form Net write off/(recognition) of tax losses through income tax expense 12 8 the basis of future profitability to support the carrying value of the deferred tax assets. The performance of the Group is influenced by a Temporary differences recognised through income tax expense5 (5) 7 variety of general economic and business conditions, which are outside the control of the Group, including the level of inflation, interest Utilisation of capital losses on disposal of assets (3) rates, exchange rates, commodity prices, ability to access funding, oversupply and demand conditions and government fiscal, monetary Effect of tax rates in foreign jurisdictions6 (34) (1) and regulatory policies. Other 13 4 Presentation of deferred tax assets and liabilities can be offset if there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax liabilities and assets, and they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax authority on the same taxable entity or on different tax entities, but are Income tax (benefit)/expense (172) 153 intended to be settled on a net basis or to be realised simultaneously. Deferred Tax Recognised Directly in Equity Tax Consolidation Relating to: The Company is the head entity of the Australian Tax Consolidated Group comprising all the Australian wholly owned subsidiaries, Impact of adoption of new accounting standard (5) excluding LLT. As a consequence, all members of the Australian Tax Consolidation Group are taxed as a single entity. Defined benefit plans remeasurements 1 (8) Foreign currency translation reserve (10) 7 Non controlling interest acquisition reserve (2) 3 Total deferred tax expense recognised directly in equity (16) 2 b. Tax Effect Relating to Other Comprehensive Income June 2020 June 2019 Tax Tax Before (Expense)/ Net Before (Expense)/ Net Tax Benefit of Tax Tax Benefit of Tax $m $m $m $m $m $m Movements in hedging reserve (19) (19) (61) (61) Movements in foreign currency translation reserve (15) 10 (5) 99 (7) 92 Movements in non controlling interest acquisition reserve (1) (1) (5) (5) Movements in defined benefit plans remeasurements 14 (1) 13 (47) 8 (39) Total other comprehensive income net of tax (21) 9 (12) (14) 1 (13) 1. Refer to Note 32 ‘Discontinued Operations’ for further detail. 2. Represents income tax benefit from continuing operations of $194 million and income tax expense from discontinued operations of $22 million. 3. Includes Lendlease Trust Group profit. 4. Includes accounting expenses for which a tax deduction is not allowed permanently. 5. Includes temporary differences recognised in a previous year but are subsequently written off to income tax expense in the current year and temporary differences that arose in a previous year but were not recognised until the current year. 6. The Group operates in a number of foreign jurisdictions for trading purposes which have significantly lower tax rates than Australia such as the United Kingdom and Singapore and higher tax rates such as the United States of America (blended federal, state and local rate) and Japan. This also includes the effect of changes in tax rates and tax loss carry back. 164 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Financial Statements 165 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements continued Section A: Performance continued 9. Taxation continued 1 July Recognised Recognised Other/Foreign 30 June c. Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities 2018 in Income in Equity Exchange 2019 June 2020 June 2019 $m $m $m $m $m Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities $m $m $m $m June 2019 Recognised Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities Movement in temporary differences during the financial year: Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following: Loans and receivables (129) 64 1 (64) Loans and receivables 2 (53) (64) Inventories (264) (88) (5) (357) Inventories 62 (451) 67 (424) Other financial assets 5 (54) 2 (61) Other financial assets (54) (2) (3) (59) Other assets 104 (13) 93 (96) Other assets 3 (4) (2) (3) Equity accounted investments 4 (403) 7 (398) Equity accounted investments (292) (90) (11) 2 (391) Investment properties (57) (8) Investment properties (8) (8) Property, plant and equipment 32 (18) 3 (37) Property, plant and equipment (29) (4) (1) (34) Intangible assets (21) (23) Intangible assets (15) (8) (23) Net defined benefit plans 21 (34) 23 (29) Net defined benefit plans (10) (4) 8 (6) Trade and other payables 190 192 Trade and other payables 133 55 4 192 Provisions 135 118 (1) Provisions 125 (11) 3 117 Borrowings and financing arrangements 49 20 Other financial and non financial liabilities 18 (2) Borrowings and financing arrangements 6 10 4 20 Unused revenue tax losses recognised 157 75 Other financial liabilities 10 (10) Items with a tax base but no carrying value 54 (20) 65 (20) Unused revenue tax losses recognised 99 33 (57) 75 Total deferred tax assets/(liabilities) 833 (1,126) 665 (1,161) Items with a tax base but no carrying value 58 (10) (3) 45 Deferred tax set off (692) 692 (564) 564 Total net deferred tax assets/(liabilities) (359) (77) (2) (58) (496) Net deferred tax assets/(liabilities) 141 (434) 101 (597) Other/ 1 July Recognised Recognised Foreign 30 June June 2020 June 2019 2019 in Income in Equity Exchange 2020 $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Unrecognised Deferred Tax Assets June 2020 Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following items: Movement in temporary differences during the financial year: Unused revenue tax losses 51 43 Loans and receivables (64) 13 (51) Unused capital tax losses 24 16 Inventories (357) (29) (3) (389) Net deductible temporary differences 78 65 Other financial assets (59) 9 1 (49) Other assets (3) 93 1 91 Total unrecognised deferred tax assets 153 124 Equity accounted investments (391) (16) 10 (2) (399) Of the unrecognised deferred tax assets of $153 million, only $37 million expires by 2039. The remainder of the unrecognised deferred tax Investment properties (8) (30) (19) (57) assets have no expiry date. Property, plant and equipment (34) (5) 5 48 14 Intangible assets (23) 2 (21) Net defined benefit plans (6) (5) (1) (1) (13) 10. Events Subsequent to Balance Date Trade and other payables 192 7 (9) 190 On 1 July 2020, the Group disposed of a 25 per cent interest in One Sydney Harbour R1 Trust. The Group recorded a gain on sale of $19 million (net of transaction costs). The remaining 75 per cent interest retained by the Group provided a revaluation gain of $128 million based on the Provisions 117 33 (15) 135 transaction price. Borrowings and financing arrangements 20 30 (1) 49 Other financial and non financial liabilities 1 15 16 Unused revenue tax losses recognised 75 20 62 157 Items with a tax base but no carrying value 45 (13) 2 34 Total net deferred tax assets/(liabilities) (496) 110 16 77 (293) 166 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Financial Statements 167 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements continued Section B: Investment 12. Equity Accounted Investments Investment in the Development pipeline, joint ventures in property projects, the retirement sector, and more passive assets, such as Accounting Policies property funds, drives the current and future performance of the Group. This section includes disclosures for property such as Inventories Equity Accounted Investments (Associates and Joint Ventures) and indirect property assets such as Equity Accounted Investments and Other Financial Assets contained within the Statement of As outlined in Note 5 ‘Share of Profit of Equity Accounted Investments’, investments in Associates and Joint Ventures are equity accounted. Financial Position. The share of investment recognised under the equity method is the Group’s share of the investment’s net assets based on ownership interest held. Investments in associates and joint ventures are carried at the lower of the equity accounted carrying amount and the recoverable 11. Inventories amount. When the Group’s share of losses exceeds the carrying amount of the equity accounted investment (including assets that form part of the net investment in the associate or joint venture entity), the carrying amount is reduced to nil and recognition of further losses is Accounting Policies discontinued except to the extent that the Group has obligations in respect of the associate or joint venture. Development Properties Dividends from associates and joint ventures represent a return on the Group’s investment and, as such, are applied as a reduction to the carrying value of the investment. Unrealised gains arising from transactions with equity accounted investments are eliminated against Property acquired for development and sale in the ordinary course of business is carried at the lower of cost and Net Realisable Value (NRV). the investment in the associate or joint venture to the extent of the Group’s interest in the associate or joint venture. Unrealised losses The cost of development properties includes expenditure incurred in acquiring the property, preparing it for sale and borrowing are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment. Other movements in costs incurred. associates’ and joint ventures’ reserves are recognised directly in the Group’s consolidated reserves. The NRV is the estimated selling price, less the estimated costs of completion and selling expenses. Management considers the estimation Service Concession Arrangements (SCAs) of both selling prices and costs of completion to be an area of estimation uncertainty, as these estimations take into consideration market The Group equity accounts its investment in project companies with SCAs through Public Private Partnerships (PPPs). These conditions affecting each property and the underlying strategy for selling the property. arrangements provide facilities management and maintenance services with terms generally of 25 to 30 years. They also incorporate The recoverable amount of each property is assessed at each balance date and accounting judgement is required to assess whether a contractual obligations to make available the individual assets for their prescribed use and, where necessary, overhaul or replace major provision is raised where cost (including costs to complete) exceeds NRV. items of plant and equipment related to the assets with payment obtained through periodic draw downs from the relevant government Inventories are expensed as cost of sales in the Income Statement. Management uses accounting judgement in determining the following: authorities. • The apportionment of cost of sales through sales revenue Joint Operations • The amount of cost of sales, which includes costs incurred to date and final forecast costs A joint operation is a joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the assets and • The nature of the expenditure, which may include acquisition costs, development costs, borrowing costs and those costs incurred in obligations for the liabilities relating to the arrangement. preparing the property for sale. Investments in joint operations are accounted for by recognising amounts on a line by line basis in accordance with the accounting Construction Contract Assets standards applicable to the particular assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses in relation to the Group’s interest in the joint operation. The gross amount of Construction and Development work in progress consists of costs attributable to work performed, including recoverable pre contract and project bidding costs and emerging profit after providing for any foreseeable losses. In applying the accounting policies on providing for these losses, accounting judgement is required. June 2020 June 2019 Note $m $m Construction contract assets are presented as part of inventories for all contracts in which costs incurred plus recognised profits exceed progress billings. If progress billings and recognised losses exceed costs incurred plus recognised profits, then the difference is presented Associates in Trade and other payables as a Construction contract liability. Investment in associates 12a 518 277 June 2020 June 2019 Less: Impairment 12a (5) (7) $m $m Total associates 513 270 Current Joint Ventures Development properties1 1,337 1,031 Investment in joint ventures 12b 3,198 3,195 Construction contract assets 912 1,180 Less: Impairment 12b (40) (13) Other 7 27 Total joint ventures 3,158 3,182 Total current 2,256 2,238 Total equity accounted investments 3,671 3,452 Non Current Development properties1 3,113 3,345 Total non current 3,113 3,345 Total inventories 5,369 5,583 1. The Group has considered the impacts of COVID-19 on its recoverability assessment of inventories at 30 June 2020. As part of its semi annual review of development property projects, the Group has considered slow down in sales volumes in the short term, longer production timeframes, and increased costs for its projects. While the carrying value of most projects has not been impacted due to their long dated nature, the Group has recognised a $30 million impairment (refer to Note 7 ‘Other Expenses’) to Inventories as a result of commercial factors on certain projects. 168 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Financial Statements 169 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements continued Section B: Investment continued INTEREST SHARE OF PROFIT NET BOOK VALUE 12. Equity Accounted Investments continued June 2020 June 2019 June 2020 June 2019 June 2020 June 2019 INTEREST SHARE OF PROFIT NET BOOK VALUE b. Joint Ventures continued % % $m $m $m $m June 2020 June 2019 June 2020 June 2019 June 2020 June 2019 Asia a. Associates % % $m $m $m $m Development Australia The Exchange TRX 60.0 60.0 (5) 354 364 Development Investments CDR JV Ltd (313@somerset) 25.0 25.0 7 5 3 96 Lendlease Communities Fund 1 20.8 20.8 4 4 Paya Lebar Quarter 30.0 30.0 (10) 130 379 382 Investments Total Asia (8) 135 736 842 Lendlease Sub Regional Retail Fund1 10.0 10.0 (8) (1) 27 36 Europe Other 5 Development Total Australia (8) (1) 36 40 Hungate (York) Regeneration Limited 50.0 50.0 2 (1) 8 6 Asia Intown SRL Joint Venture 50.0 (1) 38 LRIP LP 20.0 20.0 1 9 77 39 Investments LRIP 2 LP 50.0 7 10 Lendlease Global Commercial REIT 25.3 (10) 261 MSG South 50.0 2 25 Lendlease Asian Retail Investment Fund 1 48.7 15 4 Silvertown 50.0 50.0 (5) (3) 2 6 Lendlease Asian Retail Investment Fund 2 39.4 38.2 (1) 35 30 Stratford City Business District Limited (International Quarter London) 50.0 50.0 1 4 125 130 Lendlease Asian Retail Investment Fund 3 20.1 20.1 (14) 23 180 201 Victoria Drive Wandsworth 50.0 50.0 (5) (5) 38 40 Total Asia (9) 22 480 231 Investments Europe Treviso 50.0 50.0 14 14 Development Other (2) 1 8 Other 4 Total Europe 3 1 300 281 Total Europe 4 Americas Development Americas 277 Fifth Avenue 40.0 40.0 (15) 54 64 Investments 845 Madison 37.5 37.5 38 88 44 Other 3 3 2 2 Lendlease Towers LLC 50.0 (26) (3) 30 Total Americas 3 3 2 2 Americas Residential Partnership 50.0 50.0 2 37 302 341 Total Group (14) 24 518 277 Other 1 21 9 Construction Less: Impairment (5) (7) Lendlease Turner Joint Venture 50.0 50.0 17 24 Total associates (14) 24 513 270 Total Americas 17 58 465 488 1. Although the Group has a 10 per cent ownership interest in Lendlease Sub Regional Retail Fund, it holds 20 per cent of the voting rights over the fund and has significant Total Group 1 314 3,198 3,195 influence over the investment. As a result, the Group applies equity accounting for its ownership interest. Less: Impairment (40) (13) Total joint ventures 1 314 3,158 3,182 INTEREST SHARE OF PROFIT NET BOOK VALUE June 2020 June 2019 June 2020 June 2019 June 2020 June 2019 Total associates (14) 24 513 270 b. Joint Ventures % % $m $m $m $m Total equity accounted investments (13) 338 3,671 3,452 Australia Development Circular Quay Tower 20.0 20.0 13 18 117 93 Melbourne Quarter R1 50.0 50.0 5 67 66 Melbourne Metro1 30.0 30.0 Victoria Cross 75.0 123 Other 7 3 23 16 Investments Lendlease Retirement Living Trust 75.0 75.0 (29) 100 1,367 1,397 Other (7) (1) 12 Total Australia (11) 120 1,697 1,584 1. Balance includes the Melbourne Metro equity accounted investment of $70 million (June 2019: $70 million), which is offset by Lendlease’s share of the hedge reserve of the joint venture of $70 million (June 2019: $70 million). The hedge reserve represents an out of the money position of financial instruments in the joint venture. 170 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Financial Statements 171 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements continued Section B: Investment continued c. Material Associates and Joint Ventures Summarised Financial Information continued 12. Equity Accounted Investments continued LENDLEASE GLOBAL LENDLEASE COMMERCIAL REIT PAYA LEBAR QUARTER RETIREMENT LIVING TRUST1 c. Material Associates and Joint Ventures Summarised Financial Information The table below provides summarised financial information for those associates and joint ventures that are material to the Group. Material Statement of Financial Position June 2020 June 2019 June 2020 June 2019 June 2020 June 2019 associates and joint ventures have been determined by comparing individual investment net book value with the total equity accounted $m $m $m $m $m $m investment carrying value and share of profit, along with consideration of relevant qualitative factors. The information disclosed reflects the Current assets amounts presented in the financial statements of the relevant joint ventures and associates and, where indicated, the Group’s share of those Cash and cash equivalents 87 149 84 40 34 amounts. They have been amended to reflect adjustments made by the Group when using the equity method, including fair value adjustments and differences in accounting policies. The nature and principal activities of the material associates and joint ventures is development and Other current assets 14 100 256 80 75 investment of property assets. Total current assets 101 249 340 120 109 LENDLEASE GLOBAL LENDLEASE Non current assets COMMERCIAL REIT2 PAYA LEBAR QUARTER3 RETIREMENT LIVING TRUST4 Investment properties 1,506 3,128 3,263 7,232 7,288 June 2020 June 2019 June 2020 June 2019 June 2020 June 2019 Other non current assets 16 1 2 Income Statement1 $m $m $m $m $m $m Total non current assets 1,522 3,128 3,263 7,233 7,290 Revenue and other income 60 219 361 126 165 Current liabilities Cost of sales (16) (168) (346) (26) (26) Resident liabilities 4,700 4,759 Other expenses (30) (160) (34) (60) (54) Financial liabilities (excluding trade payables) 1,864 1,911 Unrealised fair value (losses)/gains (22) (190) 638 (62) 68 Other current liabilities 21 95 37 67 63 Depreciation and amortisation (1) Total current liabilities 21 1,959 1,948 4,767 4,822 Interest expense (1) (54) (36) (18) (19) Non current liabilities Income tax expense (1) 1 Financial liabilities (excluding trade payables) 552 781 586 Profit/(loss) for the period (9) (354) 583 (39) 133 Other non current liabilities 13 121 64 146 Other comprehensive income/(expense) 17 (1) (8) Total non current liabilities 565 121 64 781 732 Total comprehensive income/(expense) 8 (354) 583 (40) 125 Net assets 1,037 1,297 1,591 1,805 1,845 Group’s ownership interest 25.3% 30.0% 30.0% 75.0% 75.0% Reconciliation to Carrying Amounts Group’s total share of: Opening net assets 1 July 1,591 875 1,845 1,720 Profit/(loss) for the period (2) (106) 175 (29) 100 Total comprehensive income for the period 8 (354) 583 (40) 125 Other adjustments (8) 96 (45) Acquisition/contributions 1,077 69 64 Total profit/(loss) for the period (10) (10) 130 (29) 100 Distributions (16) Other comprehensive income/(expense) (5) (19) 18 (6) Foreign currency translation for the period (32) (9) 69 Total comprehensive income/(expense) (15) (29) 148 (29) 94 Closing net assets 1,037 1,297 1,591 1,805 1,845 1. The presentation of the material associates and joint ventures has been reclassified to separately present Cost of sales, Unrealised fair value (losses)/gains and Interest expense. % ownership 25.3% 30.0% 30.0% 75.0% 75.0% 2. The underlying investments in this associate are office and retail investment properties measured at fair value. At 30 June 2020, valuations were undertaken that took into account the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic. The downward valuation movement was driven by the retail asset due to the impact of the contraction in the local Singapore Group’s share of net assets 262 389 477 1,354 1,384 economy. Additionally, the current market conditions relating to the carrying value of the investment were also considered. The carrying value of the investment is considered recoverable as it correlates with the net assets of the associate, which have been valued at 30 June 2020 as noted above. 3. The underlying investments in this joint venture are office and retail investment properties measured at fair value. At 30 June 2020, valuations were undertaken that took into Other adjustments (1) (10) (95) 13 account the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic. The downward valuation movement was driven by a decrease in assumptions on market rent by 3%, reduced growth rate of 30 basis points, an increase in assumed vacancies, and the impact of the contraction in the local Singapore economy. Carrying amount at end of period 261 379 382 1,354 1,397 4. The underlying investments in this joint venture are a portfolio of Australian retirement village investment properties measured at fair value. At 30 June 2020, valuations were undertaken that took into account the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic. The downward valuation movement was driven by a reduction in average sales price of 1.9%, as 1. The carrying amount at the end of the period differs to Note 12b ‘Joint Ventures’ due to an impairment in the current period of $13 million. well as a marginal increase in the discount rate from 12.3% in the first half of the year to 12.4% at June, both as a result of the Australian retirement sector market pressures including the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic. Material joint ventures had $32 million (June 2019: $99 million) in capital expenditure commitments. The table below provides summarised financial information for those associates and joint ventures that are individually immaterial to the Group. The table below provides summarised financial information for those associates and joint ventures that are individually immaterial to the Group. ASSOCIATES JOINT VENTURES ASSOCIATES JOINT VENTURES June 2020 June 2019 June 2020 June 2019 June 2020 June 2019 June 2020 June 2019 Income Statement $m $m $m $m Statement of Financial Position $m $m $m $m Aggregate amounts of the Group’s share of: Aggregate carrying value of individually immaterial equity Profit/(loss) from continuing operations (4) 24 40 84 accounted investments 257 270 1,452 1,403 Other comprehensive income/(expense) (1) 12 (14) (21) Aggregate amounts of Group’s share of total comprehensive income/ (expense) of individually immaterial equity accounted investments (5) 36 26 63 172 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Financial Statements 173 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements continued Section B: Investment continued Section C: Liquidity and Working Capital 13. Other Financial Assets The ability of the Group to fund the continued investment in the property and infrastructure pipeline, invest in new opportunities and meet current commitments is dependent on available cash, undrawn debt facilities and access to third party capital. This section contains Accounting Policies disclosures on the financial assets, financial liabilities, cash flows and equity that are required to finance the Group’s activities, including existing Financial Assets at fair value through profit or loss on initial recognition are measured at fair value (generally transaction price) and commitments and the liquidity risk exposure associated with financial liabilities. The section also contains disclosures for the Group’s subsequently stated at fair value. Transaction costs are recorded as expenses when they are incurred. Any gain or loss arising from a trading assets, excluding inventories, and the trading liabilities incurred as a result of trading activities used to generate the Group’s change in fair value is recognised in the Income Statement. performance. Financial Assets at amortised cost are presented within loans and receivables in Note 21. 14. Cash and Cash Equivalents Fair Value June 2020 June 2019 Level1 $m $m Accounting Policies Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand, deposits held at call with banks, bank overdrafts and other short term highly liquid Current Measured at Fair Value investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash within three months and which are subject to an insignificant risk of Fair Value Through Profit or Loss – Designated at Initial Recognition changes in value. Lendlease International Towers Sydney Trust Level 3 87 Bank overdrafts (if applicable) are shown as a current liability on the Statement of Financial Position and are shown as a reduction to the Derivatives Level 2 16 10 cash balance in the Statement of Cash Flows. Total current 16 97 Non Current Measured at Fair Value June 2020 June 2019 Fair Value Through Profit or Loss – Designated at Initial Recognition Notes $m $m Lendlease International Towers Sydney Trust Level 3 153 151 Continuing Lendlease One International Towers Sydney Trust Level 3 53 54 Cash 937 731 Australian Prime Property Fund – Industrial Level 3 101 96 Short term investments1 174 559 Australian Prime Property Fund – Commercial Level 3 372 369 Total cash and cash equivalents in the Statement of Financial Position 1,111 1,290 Australian Prime Property Fund – Retail Level 3 57 74 Disposal Group Assets Held for Sale Lendlease Public Infrastructure Investment Company Level 3 40 40 Cash 142 Military Housing Projects Initiative Level 3 211 211 Short term investments 309 Lendlease Asian Retail Investment Fund Level 3 44 Parkway Parade Partnership Limited Level 3 72 43 Total cash and cash equivalents classified as Disposal Group assets held for sale 32 451 Other investments Level 3 9 11 Total cash and cash equivalents 1,562 1,290 Derivatives Level 2 8 1. Short term investments earned variable rates of interest which averaged 1.5 per cent per annum during the year (30 June 2019: 2.3 per cent). Level 1 10 Total non current 1,076 1,103 Total other financial assets 1,092 1,200 1. Refer to Note 25 ‘Fair Value Measurement’ for details of the basis for determining fair value and the valuation technique. a. Fair Value Reconciliation The reconciliation of the carrying amount for Level 3 financial assets is set out as follows. June 2020 June 2019 $m $m Carrying amount at beginning of financial year 1,180 1,529 (Disposals) (51) (493) Net (losses)/gains recognised in Income Statement (16) 106 Other movements (45) 38 Carrying amount at end of financial year 1,068 1,180 The potential effect of using reasonably possible alternative assumptions for valuation inputs would not have a material impact on the Group. 174 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Financial Statements 175 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements continued Section C: Liquidity and Working Capital continued June 2020 June 2019 $m $m 15. Notes to Statement of Cash Flows June 2020 June 2019 b. Finance Facilities $m $m The Group has access to the following lines of credit: Reconciliation of Profit after Tax to Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities Commercial Notes Facility available 2,036 1,727 (Loss)/Profit after tax (including external non controlling interests) (310) 467 Amortisation and depreciation 244 122 Amount of facility used (1,634) (1,727) Net gain on sale of investments, plant and equipment (225) (99) Amount of facility unused 402 Impairment of equity accounted investments 24 6 Bank Credit Facilities Impairment of inventories 30 Facility available 4,461 3,495 Impairment of loans and receivables 4 Amount of facility used (761) (988) Impairment of intangible assets 22 Amount of facility unused 3,700 2,507 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 2 Bank Overdrafts Net unrealised foreign exchange loss and currency hedging costs 18 8 Net fair value loss/(gain) on investments 17 (97) Facility available and amount unused 124 124 Share of loss/(profit) of equity accounted investments 13 (338) Dividends/distributions from equity accounted investments 102 43 Commercial notes include: Fair value gain on investment properties (24) (85) • £300 million of guaranteed unsecured notes issued in October 2006 in the UK bond market with a 6.125 per cent per annum coupon maturing in October 2021 Other (83) (19) • US$400 million of guaranteed unsecured senior notes issued in May 2016 in the US Reg. S market under Lendlease’s Euro Medium Term Net cash provided by operating activities before changes in assets and liabilities (166) 8 Note Programme with a 4.5 per cent per annum coupon maturing in May 2026 Changes in Assets and Liabilities Adjusted for Effects of Purchase and • S$300 million of guaranteed unsecured senior notes issued in April 2017 in the Singapore bond market under Lendlease’s Euro Medium Disposal of Consolidated Entities and Operations During the Financial Year Term Note Programme with a 3.9 per cent coupon maturing in April 2027 Decrease in receivables 282 644 • $225 million of unsecured medium term notes issued in May 2013 ($125 million) and June 2014 ($100 million) in the Australian Decrease/(increase) in inventories 77 (224) bond market with a 6.0 per cent per annum coupon which matured and was repaid in May 2020 Decrease in other assets 1 9 • $80 million of unsecured medium term notes issued as an A$ private placement in December 2018 with a 5.4 per cent per annum coupon Increase in net defined benefit plans (20) (13) maturing in December 2028 Increase/(decrease) in payables 102 (439) • £300 million COVID Corporate Financing Facility from the Bank of England maturing March 2021 drawn to $134 million as at 30 June 2020. Increase in operating derivatives assets/liabilities (9) A number of bank credit facilities were entered into in the current period. These include: (Increase)/decrease in deferred tax items (176) 130 • $800 million syndicated loan facility with Tranche A $400 million and Tranche B $400 million both maturing in May 2022. As at 30 June 2020, tranches A and B were undrawn Increase in current tax (13) (23) Increase/(decrease) in other provisions 59 (32) • CNY871 million bank facility maturing in January 2025 drawn to $29 million as at 30 June 2020. Existing bank credit facilities include: Net cash provided by operating activities1 137 60 • £400 million club bank facility maturing in March 2023 undrawn as at 30 June 2020 1. Balances include cash flows relating to both continuing and discontinued operations. • $1,800 million syndicated cash advance facility with Tranche A $900m maturing December 2021 and Tranche B $900 million maturing September 2022. As at 30 June 2020, tranche A and tranche B were undrawn • $960 million A$ syndicated loan facility, maturing in March 2024. As at 30 June 2020, the $725 million tranche A was fully drawn and the 16. Borrowings and Financing Arrangements $235 million tranche B was undrawn. The bank overdraft facilities may be drawn at any time and are repayable on demand. Accounting Policies The Group has not defaulted on any obligations in relation to its borrowings and financing arrangements. Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. Borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method. Under the amortised cost method the difference between the amount initially recognised INTEREST EXPOSURE CURRENCY and the redemption value is recorded in the Income Statement over the period of the borrowing on an effective interest basis. Borrowings Fixed Floating Total A$ US$ £ CNY S$ Total are referred to in this section using their redemption value when describing the terms and conditions. $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m June 2020 June 2020 June 2019 Within one year 134 134 134 134 $m $m Between one and five years 564 725 1,289 725 535 29 1,289 a. Borrowings – Measured at Amortised Cost More than five years 965 7 972 79 575 7 311 972 Current Total 1,663 732 2,395 804 575 676 29 311 2,395 Commercial notes 134 225 June 2019 Total current 134 225 Within one year 225 225 225 225 Non Current Between one and five years 543 980 1,523 835 688 1,523 Commercial notes 1,500 1,502 More than five years 959 8 967 78 567 8 314 967 Total 1,727 988 2,715 1,138 567 696 314 2,715 Bank credit facilities 761 988 Total non current 2,261 2,490 Total borrowings 2,395 2,715 176 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Financial Statements 177 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements continued Section C: Liquidity and Working Capital continued 18. Capital Management 16. Borrowings and Financing Arrangements continued The Group assesses capital management as part of its broader strategic plan. The Group focuses on interrelated financial parameters, June 2020 June 2019 including Return on Equity, earnings growth and borrowing capacity. The Group also monitors its gearing ratio, leverage ratio, interest coverage ratio and weighted average cost of debt and maturity profile. These are all taken into account when the Group makes decisions on Note $m $m how to invest its capital and evaluate its existing investments. c. Movement in Borrowings and Financing Arrangements The Group’s capital includes total equity, borrowings and other interest bearing liabilities. When investing capital, the Group’s objective is to Balance at beginning of financial year 16a 2,715 2,359 deliver strong total securityholder returns and to maintain an investment grade credit rating by maintaining an appropriate financial profile. The Net (repayments of)/proceeds from borrowings (312) 293 Moody’s/Fitch long term credit ratings at 30 June 2020 are Baa3/BBBrespectively (June 2019: Baa3/BBB-). Effect of foreign exchange rate movements (8) 64 The capital structure of the Group can be changed by equity issuance, paying distributions to securityholders, the Distribution Reinvestment Other movements (1) Plan and changing the level of debt. For further information on how the Group allocates and manages capital, refer to details of the Portfolio Balance at end of financial year 16a 2,395 2,715 Management Framework in the Financial Area of Focus and Performance and Outlook sections of this Annual Report. 17. Issued Capital 19. Liquidity Risk Exposure Further information on liquidity risk is disclosed in Note 23 ‘Financial Risk Management’. As disclosed in Note 26 ‘Contingent Liabilities’, in certain Accounting Policies circumstances, the Company guarantees the performance of particular Group entities in respect of their obligations including bonding and bank Issued Capital guarantees. Issued bank guarantees have cash collateralisation requirements if the bank guarantee facility is not renewed by the provider. Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of ordinary shares are recognised as a At 30 June 2020, the Group does not anticipate a significant liquidity risk in relation to the following financial liabilities. This is due to its deduction from equity. continued strong cash flows and the Group’s financial profile, as supported by the $1.2 billion equity raising, significant committed undrawn When share capital recognised as equity is repurchased, the amount of the consideration paid, including directly attributable costs, is facilities and low gearing ratio. Refer to Note 14 ‘Cash and Cash Equivalents’, Note 16 ‘Borrowings and Financing Arrangments’ and Note 17 recognised as a change in equity. Repurchased shares are classified as treasury shares and are recognised as a deduction from equity. ‘Issued Capital’ for further details. The Group has provided collateral of $nil (June 2019: $nil) against letter of credit facilities. The following are the contractual cash flow maturities of financial liabilities including estimated interest payments. LENDLEASE CORPORATION LIMITED LENDLEASE TRUST More June 2020 June 2019 June 2020 June 2019 Carrying Contractual Less Than One to Two Two to Five Than Five No. of No. of No. of No. of Amount Cash Flows One Year Years Years Years Shares Shares Units Units Note $m $m $m $m $m $m m $m m $m m $m m $m June 2020 Issued capital at beginning of financial year 584 1,300 584 1,297 584 921 584 920 Non Derivative Financial Liabilities Distribution reinvestment plan (DRP) 9 3 2 1 Trade and other payables1,2 22 4,688 5,166 3,941 782 97 346 Share issue via institutional placement (net of 97 454 97 479 transaction costs)1,4 Lease liabilities3 22 544 650 119 123 234 174 Share issue via Security Purchase Plan (net of Borrowings and financing arrangements 16a 2,395 2,667 215 588 848 1,016 27 126 27 134 transaction costs)2,4 Other financial liabilities 26 26 Issued capital at end of financial year 708 1,889 584 1,300 708 1,536 584 921 Total 7,627 8,509 4,301 1,493 1,179 1,536 Buyback at beginning of financial year3 (20) (285) (10) (145) (20) (67) (10) (33) Derivative Financial Liabilities On market buyback of stapled securities3 (10) (140) (10) (34) (Outflow) (399) (397) (1) (1) Buyback at end of financial year3 (20) (285) (20) (285) (20) (67) (20) (67) Inflow 11 404 404 Balance reflected in Retained Earnings/ 285 285 67 67 Total 11 5 7 (1) (1) Reserves3 Issued capital at end of financial year 688 1,889 564 1,300 688 1,536 564 921 June 2019 1. On 4 May 2020, the Group issued 97 million new stapled securities via an institutional placement at an issue price of $9.80. Non Derivative Financial Liabilities 2. On 4 June 2020, the Group issued 27 million new stapled securities via a Security Purchase Plan at an issue price of $9.80. 3. Stapled securities acquired as part of the Group’s on market stapled security buyback have been recorded in retained earnings for the Company and in Buyback Reserves for Trade and other payables1 22 5,566 5,785 4,513 662 559 51 Lendlease Trust. 4. During the period the Group raised $1,193 million in equity after costs which was allocated 48.4% to the Company and 51.6% to Lendlease Trust. Borrowings and financing arrangements 16a 2,715 3,295 354 119 1,749 1,073 a. Issuance of Securities Total 8,281 9,080 4,867 781 2,308 1,124 As at 30 June 2020, the Group had 688 million stapled securities on issue, equivalent to the number of Lendlease Corporation shares and Derivative Financial Liabilities Lendlease Trust (LLT) units on issue as at that date. The issued units of LLT are not owned by the Company and are therefore presented separately in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position within equity. (Outflow) (434) (428) (4) (1) (1) b. Security Accumulation Plans Inflow 7 432 432 The Group’s Distribution Reinvestment Plan (DRP) was reactivated in February 2011. The last date for receipt of an election notice for Total 7 (2) 4 (4) (1) (1) participation in the DRP is 25 August 2020. The issue price is the arithmetic average of the daily volume weighted average price of Lendlease Group stapled securities traded (on the Australian Securities Exchange) for the period of five consecutive business days 1. Trade and other payables are presented excluding lease liabilities. The carrying amount of trade and other payables excludes $884 million of current and $785 million of non current amounts (June 2019: $1,375 million of current and $184 million of non current amounts) in relation to items where there is no future cash outflow or liquidity risk. immediately following the record date for determining entitlements to distribution. If that price is less than 50 cents, the issue price will be 2. Balance includes Disposal Group liabilities held for sale. 50 cents. Stapled securities issued under the DRP rank equally with all other stapled securities on issue. 3. Lease liabilities are presented separately from trade and other payables to disclose a maturity analysis as required under AASB 16 Leases. June 2019 comparatives are $nil as lease liabilities were not recognised under AASB 117 Leases. c. Terms and Conditions Issued capital for Lendlease Corporation Limited comprises ordinary shares fully paid. A stapled security represents one share in the Company Other contractually committed cash flows the Group is exposed to are detailed in Note 20 ‘Commitments’. stapled to one unit in LLT. Stapled securityholders have the right to receive declared dividends from the Company and distributions from LLT and are entitled to one vote per stapled security at securityholders’ meetings. Ordinary stapled securityholders rank after all creditors in repayment of capital. The Group does not have authorised capital or par value in respect of its issued stapled securities. 178 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Financial Statements 179 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements continued Section C: Liquidity and Working Capital continued 21. Loans and Receivables 20. Commitments June 20201 June 2019 Accounting Policies $m $m Loans and receivables, which include trade and other receivables, are non derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not equity securities. They arise when the Group provides money, goods or services directly to a debtor with no a. Capital Expenditure Commitments intention of trading the receivable. Contract debtors represent receivables where the right to receive payment from customers remains conditional. Other receivables include receivables related to investment management, property development and miscellaneous items. At balance date, capital expenditure commitments agreed or contracted but not provided for in the financial statements are as follows: Loans and receivables are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method, which applies the interest rate that discounts estimated future cash receipts over the term of the loans and receivables. Cash flows relating to short term trade and other receivables are Due within one year 16 46 not discounted if the effect of discounting is immaterial. The discount, if material, is then recognised as revenue over the remaining term. Due between one and five years The Group assesses provision for impairment of loans and receivables based on expected loss, and books provision if material. The Group considers reasonable and supportable information that is relevant and available. This includes both quantitative and qualitative Due later than five years information and analysis, based on the Group’s historical impairment experience, credit assessment of customers and any relevant Total 16 46 forward looking information. The amount of the provision is recognised in the Income Statement. 1. Balance includes Disposal Group capital expenditure commitments. Retentions receivable on construction contracts represent deposits held by the Group until the satisfaction of conditions specified in the contract are rectified. June 2020 June 2019 $m $m June 2020 June 2019 Note $m $m b. Investments Current At balance date, capital commitments existing in respect of interests in equity accounted investments and other investments contracted but not provided for in the financial statements Trade receivables 762 1,012 are as follows: Less: Impairment (16) (13) Due within one year 386 292 746 999 Related parties 32 76 Due between one and five years 1,234 340 Retentions 351 330 Due later than five years 15 Contract debtors 21a 263 349 Total 1,635 632 Accrued income 21a 62 57 Other receivables 213 241 Less: Impairment (2) c. Operating Lease Commitments Total current 1,667 2,050 Operating lease commitments are no longer required under AASB 16 Leases as these are now recorded as Lease liabilities. The difference between the operating lease commitment disclosed at 30 June 2019 and the Lease liabilities recorded on adoption is due to discounting of Non Current the lease payments. Related parties 176 38 Less: Impairment (2) (1) Retentions 218 351 Other receivables 352 300 Total non current 744 688 Total loans and receivables 2,411 2,738 As at the reporting date, $501 million of the trade debtors were current (30 June 2019: $640 million) and $261 million were past due (30 June 2019: $372 million). Of the past due amount, $245 million was not impaired (30 June 2019: $359 million). ‘Past due’ is defined under accounting standards to mean any amount outstanding for one or more days after the contractual due date. Of the total trade debtors, 23.1 per cent (30 June 2019: 18.6 per cent) are aged greater than 90 days. Other than trade debtors, no other loans and receivables are considered past due at 30 June 2020 (30 June 2019: $nil). June 2020 June 2019 $m $m Provision for Impairment Carrying amount at beginning of financial year 16 14 Bad and doubtful debts impairment loss net of provisions written back 4 2 Utilised bad and doubtful debts impairment provision (2) Other movements (including foreign exchange rate movements) Carrying amount at end of financial year 18 16 Total impairment as a percentage of total loans and receivables 0.7% 0.6% 180 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Financial Statements 181 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements continued Section C: Liquidity and Working Capital continued June 2020 June 2019 Note $m $m 21. Loans and Receivables continued The credit quality of all loans and receivables, including those neither past due nor impaired, is assessed and monitored on an ongoing basis. Non current In the current reporting period, additional reviews were undertaken to assess recoverability in light of the COVID-19 pandemic. As the majority Trade and accrued creditors 4 7 of the Group’s customers are Government entities for the Construction business and are institutional investors in the Development and Retentions 190 309 Investment businesses, no additional risk has been identified. Impairment as noted above was immaterial in FY20. The impairment provision Deferred land payments 614 635 relates to specific loans and receivables that have been identified as being impaired, including related party loans where the Group’s interest in a development was via an equity accounted investment. Unearned income 1 22a 177 183 June 2020 June 2019 Lease liabilities2 473 Note $m $m Other payables PLLACes1,3 608 a. Contract Assets Other 339 267 Current Total non current 2,405 1,401 Contract debtors 263 349 Total trade and other payables 6,901 7,125 Construction contract assets 11 912 1,180 1. June 2019 Unearned income balance has been reclassified to separately present PLLACes transactions. PLLACes transactions involve selling the presold apartment cash Accrued income 62 57 flows for a specific development project to a third party for cash consideration. 2. As a result of the adoption of AASB 16 Leases, Lease liabilities have been presented separately. June 2019 comparatives are $nil as Lease liabilities were not recognised Total contract assets1 1,237 1,586 under AASB 117 Leases. 3. Refer to Note 4 ‘Revenue from Contracts with Customers’ for further details. 1. Movements in contract assets during the period relate primarily to the transfer of balances into Trade receivables as the right to receive payment from customers becomes As a result of the adoption of AASB 16 Leases, the Group has recognised amounts for Right-of-use assets and Lease liabilities. As at 30 June unconditional and contract assets transferred to Disposal Group assets held for sale. Refer to Note 32 ‘Discontinued Operations’ for further details. 2020, the Group recognised right-of-use assets of $359 million within Property, Plant and Equipment and $50 million within Investment Properties. 22. Trade and Other Payables June 2020 June 2019 $m $m Accounting Policies a. Contract Liabilities Trade Creditors Current Liabilities are recognised for amounts to be paid in the future for goods or services received, whether or not billed to the Group. Unearned income1,2 40 119 Trade and other payables are settled in the normal course of business. Trade and other payables are carried at amortised cost using the Construction contract liabilities3 1,460 1,404 effective interest method, which applies the interest rate that discounts estimated future cash outflows over the term of the trade and other payables. Cash flows relating to short term trade and other payables are not discounted if the effect of discounting is immaterial. Total current 1,500 1,523 The discount, if material, is then recognised as an expense over the remaining term. Non Current Construction contract liabilities Unearned income1 177 183 Construction contracts where the total progress billings issued to clients (together with foreseeable losses, if applicable) on a project Total non current 177 183 exceed the costs incurred to date plus recognised profit on the contract are recognised as a liability. Retentions Total contract liabilities 1,677 1,706 Retentions are amounts payable for the purpose of security and for the provision of defects in accordance with contract terms. Release of 1. Movements in Unearned income relates primarily to residential presales settled during the period and deposits received for development properties. 2. June 2019 Unearned income balance has been reclassified to separately present PLLACes transactions. retention amounts are in accordance with contractual terms. 3. Movements in Construction contract liabilities relate primarily to billings raised during the period in excess of revenue recognised on construction contracts with customers and losses incurred on retained Engineering projects, offset by Construction contract liabilities transferred to Disposal Group liabilities held for sale. Refer to Note 32 Unearned Income ‘Discontinued Operations’ for further details. Primarily relates to unearned income and deposits received in advance on presold apartments. These amounts will be recognised as During the year, the Group recognised $846 million in revenue from contracts that held a contract liability balance at the beginning of the income in line with the ‘Sale of development properties’ accounting policy in Note 4 ‘Revenue from Contracts with Customers’. financial year. The total transaction price relating to the Group’s Unearned income on the Group’s development contracts at June 2020 is $758 Lease Liabilities million relating primarily to various UK and Australian projects. The difference between the Unearned income amount noted in the table above Lease liabilities are measured at the present value of the lease payments discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease. The and this amount primarily relates to the remaining development value of apartments versus the deposit amount received. Revenue from these Group uses its incremental borrowing rate as the discount rate. contracts is expected to be realised as control over each asset is transferred to the customer. The total transaction price allocated to unsatisfied performance obligations on the Group’s construction contracts as at June 2020 is $13.9 billion for the core business (June 2019: $15.6 billion) and $5.1 billion for the Non core business (June 2019: $5.4 billion), which is the June 2020 June 2019 construction backlog reported in the Performance and Outlook section of the Directors’ report. This includes new work secured during the Note $m $m period. Of the total construction backlog, 47 per cent is expected to be realised within the next 12 months to June 2021 (June 2019: 53 per cent to June 2020), 25 per cent to June 2022 (June 2019: 25 per cent to June 2021) and the remaining 28 per cent realised post June 2022 (June Current 2019: 22 per cent post June 2021). Trade and accrued creditors 2,281 3,136 Construction contract liabilities 22a 1,460 1,404 Related parties 17 18 Retentions 476 476 Deferred land payments 19 98 Unearned Income1 22a 40 119 Lease liabilities2 71 Other payables PLLACes1,3 164 Other 132 309 Total current 4,496 5,724 1. June 2019 Unearned income balance has been reclassified to separately present PLLACes transactions. PLLACes transactions involve selling the presold apartment cash flows for a specific development project to a third party for cash consideration. 2. As a result of the adoption of AASB 16 Leases, Lease liabilities have been presented separately. June 2019 comparatives are $nil as Lease liabilities were not recognised under AASB 117 Leases. 3. Refer to Note 4 ‘Revenue from Contracts with Customers’ for further details. 182 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Financial Statements 183 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements continued Section D: Risk Management a. Foreign Currency Risk Exposure The net asset exposure by currency is detailed below. The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks. The Group’s overall financial risk management strategy focuses on the A$m US$m £m S$m €m CNY m MYR m Other m2 unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise adverse effects on the Group’s performance. Treasury policies have been approved by the Board for managing this risk. This section contains disclosures of financial risks the Group is exposed to and how the June 20201 Group manages these risks. The impact of contingent liabilities is also considered in this section. Net asset/(liability) exposure (local currency) 3,390 717 596 593 190 599 1,044 33 June 2019 Net asset/(liability) exposure (local currency) 3,380 645 476 462 118 569 1,047 37 23. Financial Risk Management 1. Balance includes Disposal Group assets and liabilities held for sale. The Group operates across numerous jurisdictions and markets. The Lendlease Asset and Liability Committee oversees the management of 2. Other currency is translated and disclosed in AUD. the Group’s treasury risks, within the parameters of a Board approved Treasury Policy, and maintains a Group wide framework for financial risk management and reviews issues of material risk exposure within the scope of the Treasury Policy. A summary of key risks identified, exposures Sensitivity Analysis and management of exposures is detailed in the table below. The sensitivity analysis of the Group’s Australian dollar denominated Income Statement and Statement of Financial Position to foreign currency movements is based on a 10 per cent fluctuation (June 2019: 10 per cent fluctuation) on the average rates during the financial year and the spot Risks Identified Definition Exposures Management of Exposures rate at balance date respectively. This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular interest rates, remain constant, and excludes the effects of the foreign exchange contracts. Foreign Currency The risk in local currency terms • Foreign currency earnings • Physical financial instruments, including that the value of a financial natural hedges from matching foreign A 10 per cent movement in the average foreign exchange rates would have impacted the Group’s Profit after tax as follows: • Net investments in commitment or a recognised foreign operations assets and liabilities asset or liability, will fluctuate • Transactions settled in • Derivative financial instruments, mainly 10% WEAKENING LEADS TO 10% STRENGTHENING LEADS TO due to changes in foreign foreign currency foreign exchange contracts INCREASE/(DECREASE) IN PROFIT AFTER TAX INCREASE/(DECREASE) IN PROFIT AFTER TAX currency exchange rates • Contracting out • Further information on June 2020 June 2019 June 2020 June 2019 exposures is detailed in Note • Speculative trading is not permitted $m $m $m $m 23a ‘Foreign Currency Risk Exposure’ USD 4 14 (5) (12) GBP 3 (5) Credit The risk that a counterparty will • Recoverability of loans and • Policies in place so that customers and SGD 6 8 (4) (6) not be able to meet its obligations receivables suppliers are appropriately credit assessed EUR 4 (3) 1 in respect of a financial instrument, • Recoverability of other • Treasury Policy sets out credit limits for CNY 1 1 (1) (1) resulting in a financial loss to the financial assets and cash each counterparty based on minimum MYR 2 (2) (2) 1 Group deposits investment grade ratings 17 24 (15) (22) • Further information on exposures is detailed in Note A 10 per cent movement in the foreign exchange spot rates at balance date would have impacted the Group’s net assets as follows: 23b ‘Credit Risk Exposure’ 10% WEAKENING LEADS TO 10% STRENGTHENING LEADS TO Liquidity The risk of having insufficient • Insufficient levels of • Maintaining sufficient levels of cash INCREASE/(DECREASE) IN NET ASSETS INCREASE/(DECREASE) IN NET ASSETS funds to settle financial liabilities committed credit facilities and committed credit facilities to meet as and when they fall due financial commitments and working June 2020 June 2019 June 2020 June 2019 • Settlement of financial $m $m $m $m liabilities capital requirements • Further information on • Managing to funding portfolio benchmarks USD 117 103 (96) (83) exposures is detailed in Note as outlined in the Treasury Policy GBP 127 86 (104) (86) 19 ‘Liquidity Risk Exposure’ • Timely review and renewal of credit facilities SGD 72 51 (59) (46) EUR 33 20 (28) (17) Interest Rate The risk that the value of a • Financial assets, mainly cash • Physical financial instruments CNY 14 13 (11) (11) financial instrument or cash flow at bank • Derivative financial instruments, MYR 38 40 (33) (33) associated with the instrument • Financial liabilities, mainly mainly interest rate swaps will fluctuate due to changes in 401 313 (331) (276) borrowings and financing • Managing to hedging limits in respect market interest rates arrangements of recourse funding as outlined in the • Further information on Treasury Policy exposures is detailed in • Speculative trading is not permitted Note 23c ‘Interest Rate Risk Exposure’ Equity Price The risk that the fair value of either • All traded and/or non traded • Material investments within the portfolio a traded or non traded equity financial instruments are managed on an individual basis. The investment, derivative equity measured at fair value Group’s portfolio is monitored closely as instrument, or a portfolio of such part of capital recycling initiatives financial instruments, increases or decreases in the future 184 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Financial Statements 185 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements continued Section D: Risk Management continued 25. Fair Value Measurement 23. Financial Risk Management continued b. Credit Risk Exposure Accounting Policies The accounting policies for financial instruments held at fair value are included in Note 13 ‘Other Financial Assets’ and Note 24 ‘Hedging’. • The maximum exposure to credit risk at balance date on financial instruments recognised in the Statement of Financial Position (excluding investments of the Group) equals the carrying amount, net of any impairment. Management considers the valuation of assets at fair value including financial instruments to be an area of estimation uncertainty. While this represents the best estimation of fair value at the reporting date, the fair values may differ if there is volatility in market prices or • The Group is not exposed to any significant concentrations of credit risk on either a geographic or industry specific basis. foreign exchange rates in future periods. • Credit risk on financial instruments is managed under a Board approved credit policy that determines acceptable counterparties. Derivative counterparties and cash deposits are limited to recognised financial intermediaries with a minimum investment grade credit rating as determined by a recognised rating agency. All financial instruments recognised in the Statement of Financial Position, including those instruments carried at amortised cost, are • Refer to Note 21 ‘Loans and Receivables’ for information relating to impairment on loans and receivables. recognised at amounts that represent a reasonable approximation of fair value, with the exception of the following borrowings. • In certain circumstances, the Group will hold either financial or non financial assets as collateral to further mitigate the potential credit risk on selected transactions. During the current and prior year, the Group did not hold financial or non financial assets as collateral. At any point JUNE 2020 JUNE 2019 in time, the Group will hold other collateral such as bank guarantees and performance bonds to mitigate potential credit risk as a result of Carrying Carrying default by a counterparty or otherwise. Amount Fair Value Amount Fair Value Note $m $m $m $m c. Interest Rate Risk Exposure Liabilities The Group’s exposure to interest rate risk on its financial assets and liabilities is set out as follows: Current CARRYING AMOUNT Commercial notes 16a 134 133 225 234 June 20201 June 2019 $m $m Non Current Commercial notes 16a 1,500 1,676 1,502 1,640 Fixed Rate Financial assets 173 770 The fair value of commercial notes has been calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows by the appropriate government bond Financial liabilities (2,103) (1,806) rates and credit margin applicable to the relevant term of the commercial note. (1,930) (1,036) a. Basis of Determining Fair Value Variable Rate The determination of fair values of financial assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value are summarised as follows: Financial assets 1,241 476 • The fair value of unlisted equity investments, including investments in property funds, is determined based on an assessment of the Financial liabilities (736) (990) underlying net assets, which may include periodic independent and Directors’ valuations, future maintainable earnings and any special circumstances pertaining to the particular investment. Fair value of unlisted equity investments has also taken the COVID-19 pandemic 505 (514) into consideration to determine fair value at 30 June 2020. This has included more frequent independent valuations of underlying 1. Balance includes Disposal Group financial assets and liabilities held for sale. investment properties to account for current market conditions. This has resulted in a net fair value loss in Other financial assets of $17 million. Refer to Note 7 ‘Other expenses’ Sensitivity Analysis • The fair values of other financial assets and financial liabilities (excluding derivative instruments) are determined in accordance with At 30 June 2020, it is estimated that an increase of one percentage point in interest rates would have decreased the Group’s equity and Profit generally accepted valuation techniques; these include the use of recent arm’s length transactions, reference to other assets that are after tax by $6 million (June 2019: $21 million decrease in the Group’s equity and Profit after tax). A one percentage point decrease in interest substantially the same, and discounted cash flow analysis rates would have increased the Group’s equity and Profit after tax by $6 million (June 2019: $21 million increase in the Group’s equity and Profit after tax). The increase or decrease in interest income/(expense) is proportional to the increase or decrease in interest rates. Interest rate • The fair value of derivative instruments comprises forward foreign exchange contracts, which are valued using forward rates at balance derivatives have been included in this calculation. date, and interest rate swap contracts, which are measured at the present value of future cash flows estimated and discounted based on applicable yield curves derived from quoted interest rates and include consideration of counterparty risk adjustments. 24. Hedging b. Fair Value Measurements The different levels for valuation method have been defined as follows: Accounting Policies • Level 1: The fair value is determined using the unadjusted quoted price for an identical asset or liability in an active market for identical The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks arising from assets or liabilities operating, financing and investing activities. Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and subsequently remeasured at fair value. Hedge accounting recognises the offsetting effects on • Level 2: The fair value is calculated using predominantly observable market data other than unadjusted quoted prices for an identical profit or loss of changes in the fair value of the derivative financial instruments and the hedged item. The accounting for hedges that asset or liability meet the criteria for hedge accounting are classified as either fair value hedges, cash flow hedges or investment hedges. • Level 3: The fair value is calculated using inputs that are not based on observable market data. The Group has minimal hedges designated at fair value. The Group primarily uses forward foreign exchange contracts as cash flow hedges During the period, there were no material transfers between Level 1, Level 2 and Level 3 fair value hierarchies. for highly probable sale, purchase and dividend transactions. The Group also uses forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge cross border intercompany loans and transactions which mainly net off in the Income Statement. Interest rate swaps and interest rate options are used to manage the Group’s exposure to interest rates arising from borrowings. These are treated as cash flow hedges and are mainly on borrowings within equity accounted investments. The Group has foreign exchange derivative contracts primarily held in USD, EUR, SGD, JPY and MYR at reporting date to hedge specific foreign currency exposures. The total gross payable exposure, including Disposal Group, is $936 million (June 2019: $249 million). There are 56 foreign currency contracts that will mature in more than one year (June 2019: 72 foreign currency contracts). 186 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Financial Statements 187 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements continued Section D: Risk Management continued Section E: Basis of Consolidation 26. Contingent Liabilities The Group has the following contingent liabilities, being liabilities in respect of which there is the potential for a cash outflow in excess of any This section provides information on how the Group structure affects the financial position and performance of the Group as a whole. The provision where the likelihood of payment is not considered probable or cannot be measured reliably at this time. disclosures detail the types of entities and transactions included in the consolidation and those excluded. • There are a number of legal claims and exposures that arise from the normal course of the Group’s business, particularly in respect of claims for defects and under warranties and indemnities. In many cases, there is uncertainty as to whether a future liability will arise in respect to these items. Where it is probable there will be liabilities from such claims, a provision has been made for anticipated losses arising from such claims. 27. Consolidated Entities • In certain circumstances, the Company guarantees the performance of particular Group entities in respect of their obligations. This includes bonding and bank guarantee facilities used primarily by the Construction business as well as performance guarantees for certain of the Company’s subsidiaries. Accounting Policies • Securities Class Action The Group consolidation comprises all subsidiaries controlled by the Company. Control exists when the Company: On 18 April 2019, Lendlease Corporation and Lendlease Responsible Entity (Lendlease Group) were served with a shareholder class action • Has the power to direct the relevant activities such as key operating, financial and investing decisions proceeding filed in the Supreme Court of New South Wales on 18 April 2019 by David William Pallas and Julie Ann Pallas as trustees for the • Has exposure or rights to variable returns from its involvement with the investee such as dividends, loans and fees Pallas Family Superannuation Fund, represented by Maurice Blackburn. On 7 August 2019, Lendlease Corporation and Lendlease Responsible • Has the ability to use its power over the investee to affect the amount of returns. Entity (Lendlease Group) were served with a shareholder class action proceeding filed in the Supreme Court of New South Wales on 6 August In assessing control, potential voting rights that are presently exercisable or convertible are taken into account. Management uses 2019 by Martin John Fletcher, represented by Phi Finney McDonald. On 21 November 2019, the Supreme Court ordered consolidation of the accounting judgement in determining whether the Group controls an entity by applying the above control criteria and reviewing the two class actions into a single proceeding. The consolidated proceeding alleges that Lendlease was in breach of its continuous disclosure substance of its relationship with the entity. obligations under the Corporations Act 2001 and made representations about its Engineering and Services business that were misleading or deceptive or likely to mislead or deceive. It is currently not possible to determine the ultimate impact of these claims, if any, on Lendlease Group. Lendlease Group denies the allegations and intends to vigorously defend this proceeding. The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases. The financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting period as the parent company, using consistent accounting policies with adjustments made to bring into line any dissimilar accounting policies that may exist. External non controlling interests are allocated their share of total comprehensive income and are presented within equity in the consolidated Statement of Financial Position, separately from the equity of securityholders. The material consolidated entities of the Group listed below were wholly owned during the current and prior year. Refer to the following section for details on the disposal of entities. PARENT ENTITY EUROPE Lendlease Corporation Limited Lendlease Construction (Europe) Limited AUSTRALIA Lendlease Construction Holdings (Europe) Limited Capella Capital Lendlease Pty Limited Lendlease Europe Finance plc Capella Capital Partnership Lendlease Europe Limited Lendlease Building Pty Limited Lendlease Residential (CG) Limited Lendlease Building Contractors Pty Limited Lendlease (Elephant & Castle) Limited Lendlease Communities (Australia) Limited ASIA Lendlease Development Pty Limited Lendlease Japan Inc. Lendlease Engineering Pty Limited Lendlease Singapore Pte. Limited Lendlease Finance Limited AMERICAS Lendlease Infrastructure Investments Pty Limited Lendlease (US) Capital, Inc. Lendlease International Pty Limited Lendlease (US) Construction, Inc. Lendlease Real Estate Investments Limited Lendlease (US) Construction LMB, Inc. Lendlease Responsible Entity Limited Lendlease (US) Public Partnerships, LLC Lendlease Services Pty Limited Lendlease (US) Public Partnerships Holdings LLC Lendlease Trust 1 Lendlease Development, Inc. 1. Lendlease Trust is a consolidated entity of the Group as the parent entity is deemed to control it. Lendlease Trust is not wholly owned. During the current and prior year, there were no acquisitions of material consolidated entities. 188 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Financial Statements 189 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements continued Section E: Basis of Consolidation continued 29. Parent Entity Disclosures 27. Consolidated Entities continued The following summarises the financial information of the Group’s parent entity, Lendlease Corporation Limited (the Company), as at and for the year ended 30 June 2020. The following material disposals of consolidated entities occurred during the current and prior year. COMPANY Ownership Gross Consideration June 2020 June 2019 Interest Disposed Date Received/Receivable $m $m % Disposed $m Results June 2020 Profit after tax 613 110 Australia Other comprehensive income after tax (1) Victoria Cross Commercial Head Trust 25.0 21 December 2019 31 Total comprehensive income after tax 612 110 June 2019 Financial Position Americas Current assets 1,613 5,738 Americas Residential Partnership 50.0 19 July 2018 172 Non current assets 2,858 1,978 Total assets 4,471 7,716 28. Employee Benefit Vehicles Current liabilities 577 4,844 The Company sponsors a number of employee benefit vehicles, including employee security plans and employee security ownership vehicles. Non current liabilities 2 6 These vehicles while not legally controlled, are currently required to be consolidated for accounting purposes. Total liabilities 579 4,850 a. Employee Security Plans Net assets 3,892 2,866 As at 30 June 2020, employees own approximately 1.0 per cent (June 2019: 1.0 per cent) of the issued capital of the Group through various Issued capital 1,889 1,300 active Lendlease employee security plans and ownership vehicles, details of which are outlined below: Treasury securities (68) (68) • Australia: Employee Share Acquisition Plan (ESAP): ESAP was established in December 1988 for the purpose of employees acquiring securities in the Group and is funded by Lendlease subscriptions, and employee salary sacrifice contributions Reserves 182 179 • Americas: US Rabbi Trust (Rabbi Trust) was established in 2004 and updated in 2005 for the acceptance of employee profit share Retained earnings 1,889 1,455 contributions used to acquire Group securities for US based employees. This part of the plan is not currently accepting new contributions Total equity 3,892 2,866 • Employee Share Acquisition Plan (STI) (ESAP STI): ESAP STI was established in July 2014 for the purpose of acquiring and allocating securities granted as the deferred component of Short Term Incentive (STI) awards, which are funded by Lendlease subscriptions. Securities In respect of the contingent liabilities of the Group disclosed in Note 26 ‘Contingent Liabilities’, the Company participates in the provision of are currently allocated to employees across Australia, Singapore, Malaysia, the United Kingdom and the United States. guarantees to Group entities. Eligibility The eligibility rules for each plan are determined by reference to the regulatory, legal and tax rules of each country in which the Group operates. Distributions and/or Voting Rights Generally, employees in the various operating security plans are entitled to distributions and voting rights for allocated securities. The plans reflect this intention subject to regulatory, legal and tax constraints. The trustee may exercise these rights in accordance with any fiduciary or governance rules pertaining to the deed or trust laws in the legal and tax jurisdiction within which the trust operates. b. Employee Security Ownership Vehicles In addition to the plans discussed above, Lendlease has an employee security ownership vehicle, Lendlease Retirement Benefit Fund (RBF). • RBF was established in 1984 with shareholder approval for the benefit of employees. RBF holds Lendlease securities. The Lendlease securities in RBF are not available for allocation to employees other than in the event of a change of control of the Group and, in accordance with RBF’s trust deed, the capital of the trust is not available to the Group. The RBF trustee has discretion as to the distribution of the RBF funds. In 1992, a deed poll was executed which allows for the distribution of the income of RBF to the Company to fund employee benefit activities through the Lendlease Foundation. As a result of changes to the constitution and governance structure of the RBF trustee on 22 June 2017, Lendlease currently does not have control of RBF and therefore RBF is currently not required to be consolidated for accounting purposes. • The RBF arrangement is subject to periodic review to assess its ongoing role and operation. 190 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Financial Statements 191 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements continued Section E: Basis of Consolidation continued b. Associates and Joint Ventures Interests held in associates and joint ventures by Lendlease are set out in Note 12 ‘Equity Accounted Investments’. 30. Related Party Information Transactions between the Lendlease Group and its associates and joint ventures principally relate to: a. Consolidated Entities • Development: development management services, infrastructure bid and advisory services and the sale and purchase of development properties with Lendlease managed funds Intragroup balances and transactions, and any unrealised gains or losses arising from intragroup transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements. Investments in subsidiaries are carried at their cost of acquisition less impairments in the Company’s • Construction: provision of project management, building, engineering and construction services financial statements. • Investments: provision of property and infrastructure investment management, property management and asset management services. Lendlease Corporation Limited provides financing and treasury services, which includes working capital facilities and long term financing There were no non interest bearing loans provided to joint ventures at 30 June 2020 (June 2019: $nil). to certain subsidiaries. Interest is earned or incurred only on long term loans provided to or drawn with subsidiaries based on project specific Except as noted above, transactions and outstanding balances are typically on normal terms and conditions. risks and returns. Outstanding balances arising from working capital facilities and long term financing are typically unsecured and repayable on Revenue earned by Lendlease during the year as a result of transactions with its associates and joint ventures is as follows: demand. In addition, guarantees are provided to particular Group entities in respect of their obligations. These include bonding and bank guarantee June 2020 June 2019 facilities used primarily by the Construction business as well as performance guarantees for certain Development business commercial built $000s $000s form developments. Guarantee fees are charged under normal terms and conditions. The following represents the transactions that occurred during the financial year and the balances outstanding at year end between Lendlease Revenue Corporation Limited and its consolidated entities. Associates 42,343 5,808 COMPANY1 Joint ventures 1,297,079 1,197,961 June 2020 June 2019 Total 1,339,422 1,203,769 $000s $000s Transactions Other transactions and outstanding balances with associates, joint ventures and other related parties have been disclosed in Note 4 ‘Revenue from Contracts with Customers’, Note 6 ‘Other Income’, Note 7 ‘Other Expenses’, Note 8 ‘Finance Revenue and Finance Costs’, Note 13 ‘Other Guarantee fees 30,998 29,497 Financial Assets’, Note 21 ‘Loans and Receivables’ and Note 22 ‘Trade and Other Payables’. Transactions with joint operations are included in the Dividend income 478,893 306,217 consolidated Income Statement and Statement of Financial Position. Interest income 6,932 10,249 c. Key Management Personnel Interest expense 103,546 106,282 The key management personnel compensation is as follows: June 2020 June 2019 Outstanding Balances (Net of Provisions Raised) $000s $000s Receivables 1,251,166 4,730,795 Short term employee benefits1 14,623 16,501 Payables 505,634 4,772,546 Post employment benefits 1 269 285 1. During the period the funding of the majority of Group entities was moved from the Company to Lendlease Finance Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. Security based payments 10,032 11,135 Transactions that occurred during the financial year between entities in the Lendlease Group included: Other long term benefits 113 299 • Provision of project management, design services, construction management and engineering services to development projects Total 25,037 28,220 • Provision of development management services 1. The 2019 comparative has been restated to reflect that cash allowances paid in lieu of pension superannuation in the UK have been reclassified from post employment • Provision of investment management services benefits to short term employee benefits. • Provision of payroll, transaction and management services • Receipt and payment of superannuation contributions Information regarding Directors’ and senior executives’ remuneration is provided in the Remuneration Report within the Directors’ Report. • Reimbursement of expenses made on behalf of subsidiaries • Loan advances and repayments between subsidiaries • Premium payments and receipts for the Group’s insurance policies • Dividends received or due and receivable from subsidiaries. 192 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Financial Statements 193 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements continued Section F: Other Notes b. Goodwill Allocation Goodwill relating to the Construction business is allocated to CGUs identified as set out below. During June 2019, the Group identified an 31. Intangible Assets additional segment, Non core Engineering and Services, as noted in Note 1 ‘Segment Reporting’. As a result of this change in segments, the Group identified a corresponding change in CGU for goodwill impairment testing. The Construction Australia CGU was split into two CGUs, Construction Australia Core and Construction Australia Non core. Construction Australia Non core contains the Services business. Accounting Policies Goodwill has been re-allocated to each CGU on a relative value basis. Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the Group’s share of the net identifiable assets and contingent The goodwill from the Engineering business, held within Construction Australia Non core CGU, was transferred to Disposal Group assets liabilities of the acquired business at the date of acquisition. Goodwill on acquisition of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets as held for sale during the year. goodwill. Goodwill on acquisition of associates is included in the carrying value of investments in associates. Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill is not amortised. Gains and June 2020 June 2019 losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold. $m $m For the purposes of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to cash generating units (CGUs) (or groups of CGUs), that are expected to benefit from the business combination in which the goodwill arose. CGUs are an identifiable group of assets that generate cash associated Construction with the goodwill. Management considers this is an area of estimation uncertainty as these calculations involve an estimation of the Australia Core 573 573 recoverable amount of the CGU to which the goodwill is allocated. The Construction CGUs use the value in use basis, which requires the Group to estimate the future cash flows expected to arise from the CGUs and a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the recoverable Australia Non core1 151 170 amounts. Europe 246 248 Management agreements and other intangible assets acquired by the Group are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and Americas 203 201 impairment losses (see Note 7 ‘Other Expenses’). Amortisation is charged to the Income Statement on a straight line basis over the estimated useful lives of the intangible assets, ranging from three to 20 years. Asia 8 8 Total construction goodwill 1,181 1,200 June 2020 June 2019 1. Goodwill of $19 million relating to the Engineering business was transferred to Disposal Group assets held for sale during the year. This has subsequently been Note $m $m impaired within the Disposal Group assets held for sale. Refer to Note 32 ‘Discontinued Operations’ for further details. Goodwill 31a 1,213 1,232 c. Impairment Tests and Key Assumptions Used – Construction Management agreements 36 39 The recoverable amount of the Construction CGUs is determined based on value in use (VIU) calculations. For the Construction CGUs, the assumptions used for determining the recoverable amount of each CGU are based on past experience and expectations for the future, utilising Other intangibles 208 186 both internal and external sources of data and relevant industry trends. Total intangible assets 1,457 1,457 No impairment arose as a result of the review of goodwill for the Construction CGUs other than in the Disposal Group for the year ended 30 June 2020. Based on information available and market conditions at 30 June 2020, a reasonably foreseeable change in the assumptions made a. Goodwill in this assessment would not result in impairment of Construction goodwill. The forseeable change in the assumptions took the COVID-19 pandemic into consideration. Construction 1,181 1,200 The following describes the key assumptions on which management has based its cash flow projections when determining VIU relating to the Development 32 32 Construction CGUs. Total goodwill 1,213 1,232 Cash Flows Reconciliations The VIU calculations use pre tax cash flow projections based on actual operating results, and financial forecasts covering a five year period which have been approved by management. These forecasts are based on management estimates to determine income, expenses, capital Reconciliations of the carrying amounts for each category of goodwill are as follows: expenditure and cash flows for each CGU. Construction Growth Rate Carrying amount at beginning of financial year 1,200 1,185 The terminal value growth rate used to extrapolate the cash flows beyond the five year period is 3.0 per cent (June 2019: 3.0 per cent). The Transferred to Disposal Group (19) growth rate reflects the forecast long term average growth rate for each CGU and the countries in which they operate. Effect of foreign exchange rate/other movements 15 Discount Rate Carrying amount at end of financial year 31b 1,181 1,200 The discount rates applied to the cash flow projections vary between 9.4 per cent and 13.1 per cent (June 2019: between 10.0 per cent and 13.2 per cent). The Group’s weighted average cost of capital is used as a starting point for determining the discount rate, with appropriate Development adjustments for the risk profile relating to the relevant CGUs and the countries in which they operate. The discount rates used are pre tax. Carrying amount at beginning of financial year 32 30 Effect of foreign exchange rate movements 2 Carrying amount at end of financial year 32 32 194 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Financial Statements 195 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements continued Section F: Other Notes continued June 2020 June 2019 Shares/ Shares/ 32. Discontinued Operations Securities Securities Excluding Shares/ Excluding Shares/ Discontinued operations relate to a component of the Group including its corresponding assets and liabilities that have been classified as held Treasury Securities Treasury Securities for sale and represent a separate major line of business or geographical area of operation. The group of assets and their corresponding liabilities Securities on Issue Securities on Issue (together referred to as a Disposal Group), may only be classified as held for sale once the following criteria are met: • The carrying amount will be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use Basic/Diluted Earnings Per Share (EPS) from Continuing Operations • The sale must be highly probable. (Loss)/profit from continuing operations attributable to members of Lendlease Corporation Limited (Company) $m (374) (374) 403 403 A disposal group is measured at the lower of its carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell. Where fair value is lower than the carrying amount, the difference is recognised as an impairment loss within the Income Statement. Weighted average number of ordinary shares m 599 603 584 588 The results of discontinued operations are presented separately in the Income Statement and Statement of Comprehensive Income. Basic/Diluted EPS from continuing operations cents (62.4) (62.0) 69.0 68.5 Comparatives have also been restated for the Income Statement, Statement of Comprehensive Income and corresponding Notes to separately Basic/Diluted Earnings Per Share (EPS) from Discontinued Operations disclose the results of the discontinued operations from continuing operations. Profit/(loss) from discontinued operations attributable to members of Lendlease Corporation Limited (Company) $m 32 32 (90) (90) On 25 February 2019, the Group announced that its Engineering and Services businesses are no longer a required part of the Group’s strategy. Weighted average number of ordinary shares m 599 603 584 588 Management at that time committed to a plan to exit from Non core operations of Engineering and Services. On 19 December 2019, the Group entered into an agreement with Acciona to sell its Engineering business for a purchase price of $180 million. In June 2020, the purchase price was Basic/Diluted EPS from discontinued operations cents 5.3 5.3 (15.4) (15.3) revised to $160 million. The discontinued operations represents the Engineering business to be sold, excluding the projects retained by the Group. Basic/Diluted Earnings Per Stapled Security (EPSS) from Continuing Operations The transaction, which at 30 June 2020 was subject to conditions including client and third party consents, is expected to complete in the first half of FY21. On 28 April 2020, the Group announced the sales process for the Services business has been paused given the uncertainty in market (Loss)/profit from continuing operations attributable to securityholders of Lendlease Group $m (342) (342) 557 557 conditions. The Services business no longer meets the accounting criteria to be held for sale, therefore it has not been included in discontinued operations or assets and liabilities classified as held for sale at 30 June 2020. Weighted average number of stapled securities m 599 603 584 588 The Group previously disclosed a cost estimate to exit the Non core segment of $450-$550 million pre tax. These costs are now estimated to be Basic/Diluted EPSS from continuing operations cents (57.1) (56.7) 95.4 94.7 approximately $550 million pre tax, with $525 million pre tax ($368 million after tax) expensed in the year ended 30 June 2020. $15 million pre tax was expensed in the prior year. Exit related costs include: implementation and selling costs and estimated costs to cover concluding projects Basic/Diluted Earnings Per Stapled Security (EPSS) from Discontinued retained by the Group which have been recorded in Continuing Operations. Operations At 30 June 2020, the results of the Engineering and Services businesses have been presented separately from the Construction segment as Non Profit/(loss) from discontinued operations attributable to securityholders of Lendlease Group $m 32 32 (90) (90) core. Refer to Note 1 ‘Segment Reporting’ for details. Weighted average number of stapled securities m 599 603 584 588 The results of the discontinued operations, representing the Engineering business to be sold, are as follows: Basic/Diluted EPSS from discontinued operations cents 5.3 5.3 (15.4) (15.3) June 2020 June 2019 $m $m The net cash flows for discontinued operations, representing the Engineering business to be sold, are as follows: June 2020 June 2019 Results from Discontinued Operations Cash Flows from Discontinued Operations $m $m Revenue from contracts with customers 1,437 1,497 Net cash inflow from operating activities 156 263 Cost of sales (1,263) (1,509) Net cash outflow from investing activities (59) (12) Gross profit/(loss) 174 (12) Net cash outflow from financing activities Other income 8 2 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 97 251 Impairment on Disposal Group held for sale1 (19) The major classes of assets and liabilities held for sale at 30 June 2020, representing the Engineering business to be sold, are as follows: Other expenses (109) (125) June 2020 June 20192 Profit/(loss) before tax for discontinued operations 54 (135) Disposal Group Assets/(Liabilities) Held for Sale $m $m Income tax (expense)/benefit (22) 45 Cash and cash equivalents 451 Total profit/(loss) after tax for discontinued operations as presented in the Income Statement 32 (90) Loans and receivables 135 Inventories 32 1. Relates to the impairment of goodwill as a result of the measurement of the Disposal Group at fair value less costs to sell. Other assets1 223 Total Disposal Group assets held for sale 841 Trade and other payables 629 Other liabilities 41 Total Disposal Group liabilities held for sale 670 Disposal Group net assets held for sale 171 1. Includes $201 million of Property, plant and equipment. 2. The Group had no assets or liabilities recorded as held for sale at 30 June 2019. Comparative balances for the Statement of Financial Position have not been restated. 196 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Financial Statements 197 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements continued Section F: Other Notes continued June 2020 June 2019 $m $m 33. Defined Benefit Plans ii. Reconciliation of Defined Benefit Obligations Accounting Policies Defined benefit obligations at beginning of financial year 1,208 1,077 Group companies operate pension plans. The plans are generally funded through payments to insurance companies or trustee Included in Income Statement administered funds as determined by periodic actuarial calculations. Interest cost 28 30 A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that defines the amount of pension benefit an employee will receive on retirement, usually Remeasurements Included in Other Comprehensive Income dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and compensation. Actuarial loss/(gain) arising from: The asset or liability recognised in the Statement of Financial Position in respect of defined benefit plans is the present value of the defined benefit obligation i.e. ‘the pension liability’ at the balance sheet date less the fair value of plan assets. The present value of Financial assumptions 135 116 the pension liability is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high quality corporate or Experience adjustments (9) 7 government bonds, that: Demographic assumptions 31 7 • Are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid Other • Have terms to maturity approximating the terms of the related pension liability. The defined benefit obligation is calculated at least annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method, which in Benefits paid (41) (48) simplistic terms proportions the benefit based on service. Management considers the valuation of defined benefit plans undertaken by the Effect of foreign exchange rate movements (28) 19 actuaries to be an area of estimation uncertainty as a number of key assumptions must be adopted to determine the valuation. Defined benefit obligations at end of financial year 1,324 1,208 Actuarial losses/(gains) will arise where there is a difference between previous estimates and actual experience, or a change to assumptions in relation to demographic and financial trends. These actuarial losses/(gains) are recognised in the period they occur, iii. Reconciliation of the Fair Value of Plan Assets directly in other comprehensive income as remeasurements. They are included in retained earnings in the Statement of Changes in Equity Fair value of plan assets at beginning of financial year 1,347 1,228 and in the Statement of Financial Position. Included in Income Statement Past service costs are recognised immediately in the Income Statement. Interest income 32 35 Administration costs (2) (4) June 2020 June 2019 Remeasurements Included in Other Comprehensive Income Note $m $m Actual return on plan assets excluding interest income 173 83 Lendlease Superannuation Plan (1) 1 Other Lendlease UK Pension Scheme 33a 157 139 Contributions by Group companies 5 31 Total net defined benefit plan asset 156 140 Benefits paid (41) (48) Effect of foreign exchange rate movements (33) 22 a. Lendlease UK Pension Scheme Fair value of plan assets at end of financial year 1,481 1,347 Lendlease Construction Holdings (Europe) Limited (UK Construction) sponsors a funded defined benefit pension scheme (the Scheme) for qualifying UK employees. The Scheme is administered by a separate board of Trustees which is legally separate from UK Construction. The iv. Expense Recognised in the Income Statement Scheme’s Trustees are composed of representatives of both the employer and employees. The Trustees are required by law to act in the Net interest cost (3) (5) interest of all relevant beneficiaries and are responsible for the investment policy with regard to the assets plus the day to day administration of the benefits. Administration costs 2 4 The Scheme is a funded defined benefit scheme, with the final salary section providing retirement benefits based on final salary and the index Net defined benefit plan (income)/expense (1) (1) linked section providing retirement benefits based on career average salary. A separate section, the Personal Investment Section, provides v. Fair Value of Plan Assets retirement benefits on a defined contribution basis. The UK Construction’s contributions to members’ Personal Investment Fund accounts are not included in these disclosures. Plan assets comprise: The final salary section closed to future accruals on 31 August 2008 and the index linked section closed to future accruals on 31 January 2012. Global equities 437 422 There were no Scheme amendments affecting defined benefits payable, curtailments or settlements during the year. UK Construction pays Investment funds 384 417 deficit funding contributions plus four per cent of members’ basic salaries to cover the Scheme’s expected administration costs and costs of benefits payable on death in service. The Scheme expects to pay $33 million in contributions to its defined benefit plan in 2021. This includes Infrastructure 115 82 the annual deficit recovery payment of $28 million, following the triennial valuation for 31 March 2017 where deficit repair contributions have Government index linked bonds 491 335 been agreed for the period to March 2024. These contributions reduce the actuarial deficit. Other assets 54 91 The defined benefit plan is exposed to actuarial risk and market (investment) risk. The following information provides additional detail on risk. Fair value of plan assets at the end of the financial year 1,481 1,347 June 2020 June 2019 The investment funds target an absolute level of return. The plan assets can be categorised as Level 1, where the fair value is determined using $m $m an unadjusted quoted price for an identical asset, or Level 2, where the fair value is derived either directly or indirectly from observable inputs, or Level 3, where inputs are unobservable (i.e for which market data is unavailable). At year end, approximately $1,408 million (June 2019: $1,246 i. Statement of Financial Position Amounts million) and $73 million (June 2019: $82 million) of total plan assets were categorised as Level 2 and Level 3 respectively. UK Construction and The amounts recognised in the Statement of Financial Position are determined as follows: Trustees have agreed a long term strategy for reducing investment risk as and when appropriate. This includes an asset–liability matching policy which aims to reduce the volatility of the funding level of the pension plan by investing in assets that perform in line with the liabilities of the plan Defined benefit obligations (1,324) (1,208) so as to protect against inflation being higher than expected. The current benchmark allocation is 75.0 per cent growth assets and 25.0 per cent Fair value of plan assets 1,481 1,347 matching assets (June 2019: 75.0 per cent growth assets and 25.0 per cent matching assets). Net defined benefit plan asset 157 139 198 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Financial Statements 199 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements continued Section F: Other Notes continued 34. Employee Benefits 33. Defined Benefit Plans Detailed information regarding the Group’s Executive Reward strategy is provided in the Remuneration Report within the Directors’ Report. The key incentive plans are as follows: June 2020 June 2019 • Short Term Incentive (STI) vi. Principal Actuarial Assumptions • Short Term Award (STA) Discount rate (%) 1.5 2.3 • Long Term Incentive (LTI) RPI inflation (%) 3.0 3.4 • Long Term Award (LTA) • Distinguished Executives Award (DE Award) Average pension increase in payments (%) 2.5 2.7 • Executive Deferred Award (ED Award). Future mortality (years): a. Short Term Incentive (STI) Male 24.9 24.9 The STI plan is an annual incentive plan whereby a number of employees receive benefits which are dependent upon the achievement of both Female 26.4 26.4 Lendlease financial and non financial targets, and individual goals. The total value of the potential benefit varies by individual and is tested against relevant market levels for each role. The liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set with reference to corporate bond yield. If assets underperform this yield will create a • The STI plan typically comprises a cash component, which is paid in September following year end. For more senior employees, where deficit. the potential benefit is typically higher, the plan also includes a deferred component. A decrease in corporate bond yield will increase the value placed on the Scheme’s liabilities, although this will be partially offset by an increase • Deferral periods are generally for one or two years. The deferred component is normally awarded as Lendlease securities and in some in the value of the Scheme’s corporate bond holdings. The majority of the Scheme’s benefit obligations are linked to inflation and higher instances as cash. Securities are held in Lendlease employee security plan trusts on behalf of employees for the deferral period (refer to inflation will lead to higher liabilities, although in most cases this will be capped to protect against extreme inflation. The majority of the assets Note 28a ‘Employee Security Plans’). For employees to receive the deferred component in full, they must generally be employed by the are either unaffected by or loosely correlated with inflation, meaning that an increase in inflation will also increase the deficit. The majority Group at the time of vesting. of the Scheme’s obligations are to provide benefits for the life of the member, so increases in life expectancy will result in an increase in the liabilities. The mortality assumptions are based on standard mortality tables which allow for expected future mortality improvements. The b. Short Term Award (STA) assumption is that a member aged 63 will live for a further 24.9 years (June 2019: 24.9 years) if they are male and 26.4 years if they are female (June 2019: 26.4 years). The STA plan is an annual incentive plan which replaced the STI for a limited number of senior executives from 2019. It is designed to focus senior executives on priority areas for delivery in the current financial year, including key Group financial targets, safety and other non financial At 30 June 2020, the weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation was 19 years (June 2019: 19 years). targets aligned to the Group’s areas of focus. vii. Sensitivity Analysis Whilst performance is assessed against a set of Group metrics when determining awards, the Board will assess the overall performance and contribution of individual senior executives, with a particular focus on safety. Reasonably possible changes at the reporting date to one of the relevant actuarial assumptions, holding other assumptions constant, would have affected the defined benefit obligations by the amounts shown below. The total value of the potential benefit varies by individual and is set with reference to both internal peers and external market levels. The STA 0.1% 0.1% 1 Year 1 Year plan is intended to be awarded as cash in September following year end. 0.1% 0.1% Increase RPI Decrease RPI Increase in Decrease in Increase in Decrease in Inflation and Inflation and Future Future c. Long Term Incentive (LTI) Discount Rate Discount Rate Pension Payment Pension Payment Mortality Mortality $m $m $m $m $m $m The LTI plan is designed to: June 2020 • Motivate executives to achieve the Group’s long term strategic goals and provide reward where the Group delivers better value to Defined benefit asset/(obligations) 25 (26) (19) 22 (64) 63 securityholders than its peers • Align the interests of executives and securityholders, given that the reward received is linked to the Group’s security price and average June 2019 Return on Equity performance. Defined benefit asset/(obligations) 21 (20) (16) 13 (41) 41 A summary of arrangements for LTI awards is provided in Note 34d below. The sensitivity analysis presented above may not be representative of the actual change in the defined benefit obligation as it is unlikely that the change in assumptions would occur in isolation of one another as some of the assumptions may be correlated. d. Long Term Award (LTA) Non pensioner benefits are linked to RPI in the period up to retirement. Once in payment, pension increases are linked to RPI but with a zero The LTA plan replaced the LTI for a limited number of executives from 2019. It was designed to motivate and reward key executives to deliver per cent floor and different caps applying to different periods of pensionable service. The inflation sensitivity reflects a change in RPI inflation on the Group’s long term strategy and to allow them to share in the value created for securityholders. Specifically, the objectives are to: and the associated increases in payment. • Create rewards that are aligned to earnings • Align the interests of securityholders and our most senior executives • Promote team behaviours and an enterprise leadership mindset • Retain the senior executive team. The intended outcome is that reward and strategy are better aligned. 200 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Financial Statements 201 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements continued Section F: Other Notes continued Arrangements for LTA Awards 34. Employee Benefits continued LTA Design How the LTA Works Arrangements for LTI Awards Performance • An annual grant of ‘performance rights’ is made to a limited number of executives on the Global Leadership Team. Rights • The grant of ‘performance rights’ includes the minimum number of securities that will be received following vesting LTI Design How the LTI Works (the LTA minimum). The value of the LTA minimum is fixed at the time of grant but will vary with the security price over the deferral period. Performance • An annual grant of ‘performance securities’ is made to a limited number of executives. • During the year the Board determined that the LTA minimum is better described as a Restricted Securities Award Securities • The Board intends that the awards be settled in Lendlease securities, although the award may be settled in cash or (RSA). other means at the Board’s discretion. • The Board intends that the awards be settled in Lendlease securities, although some or all of the award may be • On vesting, each performance security entitles executives to one Lendlease stapled security, or at the Board’s settled in cash at the Board’s discretion. discretion, cash or other instruments of equivalent value. • Performance rights are rights to receive a variable number of Lendlease securities or at the discretion of the Board, • In the event of a change in control of the Group, the Board has the discretion to determine whether the vesting of cash with an equivalent value, upon vesting. some or all performance securities should be accelerated. • Outcomes against performance hurdles will determine how many Lendlease securities will be received following vesting between a minimum and maximum number. Performance • 50 per cent of the performance securities are assessed over a three year period. If the performance hurdle is not • In the event of a change in control of the Group, the Board has the discretion to determine whether the vesting of Period (applicable fully achieved at this time, those performance securities that have not vested will lapse. some or all performance rights should be accelerated. to FY17 and FY18 • The remaining 50 per cent of the performance securities are assessed after four years. Grants) • If the performance hurdle is not met, the awards are forfeited. Performance • 100 per cent of the performance rights are assessed over a three year period and the number of Lendlease • There is no retesting on any portion of the LTI grant. Period (applicable securities that may be delivered on vesting is determined. The first tranche will vest immediately thereafter, and to FY19 and FY20 the second, third and fourth tranches will be deferred and will vest progressively four, five and six years after the Performance • 100 per cent of the performance securities are assessed over a three year period. If the performance hurdle is not Grants) grant date. Period (applicable fully achieved at this time, those performance securities that have not vested will lapse. • If the performance hurdle is not met, the awards above the minimum award number are forfeited. to FY19 and FY20 • If the performance hurdle is not met, the awards are forfeited. • There is no retesting on any portion of the LTA grant. Grants) • There is no retesting on any portion of the LTI grant. Termination of • If the executive resigns and becomes engaged in activities that are competitive with the Group or is terminated for Termination of • If the executive resigns or is terminated for cause, the unvested LTI is forfeited. Employment cause, the unvested LTA is forfeited. Employment • If the executive is terminated and if the Board considers vesting would provide a benefit that was unwarranted or • If the executive is terminated and if the Board considers vesting would provide a benefit that was unwarranted or inappropriate, the Board can adjust unvested LTI prior to the vesting date. inappropriate, the Board has the discretion to lapse some or all performance rights prior to the vesting date. • For ‘good leavers’, the LTI grant may remain on foot, subject to the original performance hurdles. • For ‘good leavers’, the LTA grant may remain on foot, subject to the original performance hurdles. • In exceptional circumstances (such as death or total and permanent disability), the Board may exercise discretion and settle the award at the time of termination of employment. Performance Financial Years 2019 and 2020 Hurdles Performance Financial Years 2017 to 2020 • 50 per cent subject to Lendlease’s Total Securityholder Return (TSR) compared to the companies in the S&P/ASX Hurdles 100 Index. The S&P/ASX 100 companies are determined at the start of the performance period. • 50 per cent subject to Lendlease’s Total Securityholder Return (TSR) compared to the companies in the S&P/ASX • 50 per cent subject to Return on Equity (ROE) hurdle. 100 Index. The S&P/ASX 100 companies are determined at the start of the performance period. • 50 per cent subject to Average Return on Equity (ROE) hurdle. Vesting Schedule Percentage of Target LTA plus RSA Vesting – TSR (applicable Relative TSR percentile ranking Vesting Schedule Percentage of relative TSR performance securities that to FY19 and FY20 Group CEO Senior Executives Relative TSR percentile ranking – TSR vest if the hurdle is met Grants) (applicable to At the 50th percentile 50 per cent vesting 50 per cent vesting FY17 to FY20 Below the 50th percentile No vesting Grants) At or above the 51st percentile but Pro rata vesting on a straight line basis Pro rata vesting on a straight line basis below the 75th percentile between 54 per cent and 146 per cent between 56 per cent and 194 per cent At the 50th percentile 50 per cent vesting At the 75th percentile or greater 150 per cent vesting 200 per cent vesting At or above the 51st percentile but below the 75th Pro rata vesting on a straight line basis between 52 per cent percentile and 98 per cent Vesting Schedule Percentage of Target LTA plus RSA Vesting Average ROE over the – ROE (applicable At the 75th percentile or greater 100 per cent vesting performance period to FY19 and FY20 Group CEO Senior Executives Grants) Vesting Schedule Percentage of ROE performance securities that vest if the Pro rata on a straight line basis Pro rata on a straight line basis Average ROE over the performance period Between 10 per cent and the target – ROE hurdle is met between 13.5 per cent and between 31.25 per cent and ROE per cent set by the Board (applicable to FY17 100 per cent 100 per cent Grant) Less than 11 per cent No vesting At the target ROE per cent set by the 100 per cent vesting 100 per cent vesting Board At 11 per cent 25 per cent vesting Pro rata vesting on a straight line Pro rata vesting on a straight line Pro rata vesting on a straight line basis between 25 per cent Between the target ROE per cent set Greater than 11 per cent but below 15 per cent basis between 100 per cent and basis between 100 per cent and and 100 per cent by the Board and 14 per cent 150 per cent 200 per cent 15 per cent or greater 100 per cent vesting At 14 per cent or above 150 per cent vesting 200 per cent vesting Vesting Schedule Percentage of ROE performance securities that vest if the Average ROE over the performance period – ROE hurdle is met (applicable to FY18 to FY20 Grants) 10 per cent or less No vesting Pro rata vesting on a straight line basis between 0 per cent and Above 10 per cent but below 14 per cent 100 per cent 14 per cent or greater 100 per cent vesting 202 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Financial Statements 203 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements continued Section F: Other Notes continued Changes to accounting policies from 1 July 2019 34. Employee Benefits continued The Group’s accounting policies have been revised to reflect the guidance of the new leasing standard with effect from 1 July 2019. Refer below for further details. e. Distinguished Executives Award Recognition The Distinguished Executives Award (DE Award) is a program established to recognise and reward Lendlease technical mastery and significant As a lessee, the Group assesses whether a contract is or contains a lease at inception of a contract. A contract is, or contains, a lease if the contribution to the business. DE Awards are generally deferred over five and seven years. The deferred component is awarded as Lendlease contract conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset for a period of time in exchange for consideration. To assess whether a contract securities and held in Lendlease employee security plan trusts on behalf of the employees. For employees to receive the deferred component, conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset for a period of time, the Group assesses whether: they must generally be employed by the Group at the time of vesting. DE Awards are valued based on the average price of on market • The contract involved the use of an identified asset purchases made in respect of these awards at the time of grant. • The Group has the right to obtain substantially all of the economic benefits from the use of the asset throughout the period of use f. Executive Deferred Award • The Group has the right to direct the use of the asset. The Group has this right when it has the decision-making rights that are most relevant to The Executive Deferred Award (ED Award) is an award that was made to a limited number of executives and senior managers in recognition of changing how and for what purpose the asset is used. their role in supporting the Lendlease transformation program. For the leases of land and buildings in which it is a lessee, the Group has elected not to separate non lease components and account for the lease The ED Award comprises a one off grant of Lendlease deferred securities which vest in three equal tranches, with the final vesting three years and non lease components as a single lease component. after grant. Securities are held in Lendlease employee plan trusts for the deferral period. Refer to Note 28a ‘Employee Security Plans’ for The Group’s primary leasing activities are for office space in the regions and cities in which it operates. There are no material future cash outflows further details. For employees to receive the deferred components in full, they must generally be employed by the Group at the time of vesting. to which the Group is potentially exposed that are not reflected in the measurement of lease liabilities, and there are no material restrictions or g. Amounts Recognised in the Financial Statements covenants imposed by the Group’s leases. LTI and LTA awards are valued using Monte-Carlo simulation methodology where the security price can be projected based on the Measurement assumptions underlying the Black-Scholes formula. Retention awards are valued by discounting the security price by the expected dividends The Group recognises a right-of-use asset and a lease liability at the lease commencement date. The right-of-use asset is initially measured at assumed to be paid from the valuation date until the vesting date (if applicable). The model inputs include the Lendlease Group security cost, which comprises: price, a risk free interest rate, expected volatility and dividend yield. During the financial year ended 30 June 2020, a $55 million expense was • The initial amount of the lease liability recognised in the Income Statement in relation to equity settled security based payment awards (June 2019: $50 million). • Any lease payments made at or before the commencement date less any lease incentives received • Initial direct costs 35. Impact of New and Revised Accounting Standards • Restoration cost. New and Revised Accounting Standards Adopted 1 July 2019 From 1 July 2019, the Group adopted Interpretation 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments. Interpretation 23 did not have a material impact on Right-of-Use Assets the Group. Right-of-use assets which meet the definition of property, plant and equipment form part of the property, plant and equipment balance and are From 1 July 2019, the Group adopted AASB 16 Leases and consequential amendments. AASB 16 provides a new model for accounting for leases. measured at cost less accumulated depreciation in accordance with AASB 116 Property, Plant and Equipment. AASB 16 is based on the principle that all leases the Group enters as a lessee will be recognised on balance sheet, with a right-of-use asset Right-of-use assets which meet the definition of investment property form part of the investment property balance and are measured at fair value and lease liability recognised, with depreciation recognised on the right-of-use asset and interest expense on the lease liability. Lease expense in accordance with AASB 140 Investment Property. (depreciation expense and interest expense) will effectively be front loaded to the start of the lease period, even when cash lease payments are constant throughout the period of the lease. Lease Liabilities The Group utilised the modified retrospective cumulative approach to transition to AASB 16, therefore comparatives have not been restated. Lease liabilities are initially measured at the present value of the lease payments discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease. If that rate Comparatives continue to be accounted for in accordance with the Group’s previous accounting policies outlined in the 30 June 2019 annual cannot be determined, the Group’s incremental borrowing rate is used. Generally, the Group uses its incremental borrowing rate as the discount rate. consolidated financial report. Lease payments included in the measurement of lease liability comprise the following: • Fixed payments offset by any lease incentives Payments associated with short term leases and leases of low value assets are recognised on a straight line basis as an expense in the Income Statement. Short term leases are leases with a lease term of 12 months or less. Low value assets comprise IT equipment and small items of office • Variable lease payments, for lease liabilities which are tied to a floating index furniture. • Amounts expected to be payable under a residual value guarantee • The exercise price of purchase options (if it is reasonably certain that the option will be exercised) The Group presents right-of-use assets that do not meet the definition of investment property in Property, plant and equipment, the same line item in which it presents underlying assets of the same nature that it owns. Right-of-use assets that meet the definition of investment property are • Payments of penalties for terminating leases, if the lease term reflects the lease terminating early. presented within investment property. Lease liabilities are subsequently measured by: Based on analysis performed, as a lessor, there was no material impact to the Group on adoption. As a lessee, on adoption, the Group has: • Increasing the carrying amount to reflect interest on the lease liability • Recorded a right-of-use asset of $437 million, lease liabilities of $(514) million, derecognition of existing lease balances under AASB 117 Leases • Reducing the carrying amount to reflect the lease payments made of $18 million and a net deferred tax asset of $17 million in the Statement of Financial Position for its material operating lease commitments. The • Remeasuring the carrying amount upon the occurrence of certain events (such as a change in the lease term or lease payments). sum of these adjustments is $(42) million When a lease liability is remeasured, a corresponding adjustment is made to the carrying amount of the right-of-use asset and is recorded in the • The net difference of $(42) million was recorded as a reduction to equity to reflect the cumulative impact on initial adoption of the standard profit or loss if the carrying amount of the right-of-use asset has been reduced to zero. • The net impact to the Income Statement for the year is a $11 million increase in expense. Depreciation and Amortisation On adoption, the Group has measured lease liabilities at the present value of the remaining lease payments, discounted using the Group’s Right-of-use assets are depreciated using the straight line method from the commencement date to the earlier of the end of the useful life of the incremental borrowing rate as of 30 June 2019. The incremental borrowing rate applied to the lease liabilities on 1 July 2019 was 4.8%. right-of-use asset or the end of the lease term. In applying AASB 16 for the first time, the Group has applied the following practical expedients permitted by the standard for leases: Presentation • The ability to not reassess whether a contract is, or contains, a lease at the date of initial application (prior to 1 July 2019) Items relating to leases are presented as follows: • The application of a single discount rate to a portfolio of leases • Right-of-use assets are recognised in the Statement of Financial Position within the same line item as that within which the corresponding • The use of hindsight in determining the lease term underlying assets would be presented if they were owned by the Group, within either Property, plant and equipment or Investment property • The decision to exclude a lease for which the lease term ends within 12 months of initial application. • Lease liabilities are recognised within Trade and other payables in the Statement of Financial Position and split between current and non current liabilities New disclosures have been included where required. Changes to disclosures include reclassification of prior period balances to better align the • Depreciation charge for right-of-uses assets is recognised within Other expenses presentation of comparative information to the new disclosure requirements. • Interest expense on lease liabilities is recognised within Finance costs. Relevant information on the Group’s leasing has been included in the following notes: Note 7 ‘Other Expenses’, Note 8 ‘Finance Revenue and Finance Costs’ and Note 22 ‘Trade and Other Payables’. 204 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Financial Statements 205 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements continued Directors’ Declaration Section F: Other Notes continued In the opinion of the Directors of Lendlease Corporation Limited (the Company): 1. The financial statements and notes and the remuneration disclosures contained in the Remuneration Report in the Directors’ Report 35. Impact of New and Revised Accounting Standards continued are in accordance with the Corporations Act 2001, including: Short term leases and leases of low value assets a. Giving a true and fair view of the financial position of the Consolidated Entity as at 30 June 2020 and of its performance for the The Group has elected not to recognise right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for short term leases that have a lease term of 12 months or less and financial year ended on that date; and leases of low value assets. The Group recognises the lease payments associated with these leases as an expense on a straight line basis over the b. Complying with Australian Accounting Standards (including the Australian Accounting Interpretations) and the Corporations lease term. Regulations 2001. 2. The financial statements and notes also comply with International Financial Reporting Standards as disclosed in the Basis of Preparation. New Accounting Standards and Interpretations Not Yet Adopted 3. There are reasonable grounds to believe that the Company will be able to pay its debts as and when they become due and payable. Accounting Standard Requirement Impact on Financial Statements 4. The Directors have been given the declarations required by Section 295A of the Corporations Act 2001 from the Group Chief Executive AASB 2014-10 AASB 2014-10 amends AASB 10 and AASB 128 to Based on preliminary analysis performed, the Officer and Group Chief Financial Officer for the financial year ended 30 June 2020. Amendments to Australian clarify the requirements for recording the sale or amendments are not expected to have a material Accounting Standards – Sale or contribution of assets between an investor and its impact on the Group. Contribution of Assets between associate or joint venture. Signed in accordance with a resolution of the Directors: an Investor and its Associate or The amendment becomes mandatory for the Joint Venture and consequential June 2023 financial year and will be applied amendments prospectively. 36. Other Significant Accounting Policies a. Foreign Currency Translation M J Ullmer, AO Functional and Presentation Currency Chairman Items included in the financial statements of each of the Group’s entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates (the functional currency). The consolidated financial report is presented in Australian dollars, which is the Company’s functional and presentation currency. Transactions and Balances Foreign currency transactions are translated into Australian dollars using the exchange rate on the date of the transactions. Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated to Australian dollars at balance date. Foreign exchange gains or losses are recognised in the Income Statement for monetary assets and liabilities such as receivables and S B McCann payables, except for qualifying cash flow hedges and qualifying net investment hedges in foreign operations, which are recognised in other comprehensive income. Refer to Note 24 ‘Hedging’ for further detail. Group Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director Translation differences on non monetary items, such as equities held at fair value through profit or loss, are reported as part of the fair value gain or loss. Group Entities Sydney, 17 August 2020 The results and Statement of Financial Position of all Group entities that are not presented in Australian dollars (none of which has the currency of a hyperinflationary economy) are translated as follows: • Revenue and expenses are translated at average exchange rates (unless this average is not a reasonable approximation of the transaction rate, in which case revenue and expenses are translated at the date of the transactions) • Assets and liabilities for each Statement of Financial Position presented are translated at the closing rate at balance date • All resulting exchange differences are recognised in other comprehensive income, in the foreign currency translation reserve. Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate. b. Goods and Services Tax Revenue, expenses and assets are recognised net of the amount of goods and services tax (GST), except where the amount of GST incurred is not recoverable from the taxation authority. In these circumstances, the GST is recognised as part of the cost of acquisition of the asset or as part of the expense. Receivables and payables are stated with the amount of GST included. The net amount of GST recoverable from, or payable to, the Australian Taxation Office (ATO) is included as a current asset or liability in the Statement of Financial Position. Cash flows are included in the Statement of Cash Flows on a gross basis. The GST components of cash flows arising from investing and financing activities which are recoverable from, or payable to, the ATO are classified as operating cash flows. 206 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Financial Statements 207 Key Audit Matters Independent Auditor’s Report The Key Audit Matters we identified Key Audit Matters are those matters that, in our for Lendlease Group are: professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the Financial Report of the current period. • Construction Revenue Recognition To the members of Lendlease Corporation Limited These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of • Sale of Development Properties the Financial Report as a whole, and in forming our opinion Report on the audit of the Financial Report • Recoverability of Development thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these Property Inventory matters. • Asset Valuation Opinion Construction Revenue Recognition (A$9,067m) We have audited the Financial Report of The Financial Report of Lendlease Group comprises: Lendlease Corporation Limited as the Refer to Note 4 ‘Revenue from Contracts with Customers’ to the financial report • Consolidated statement of financial position as at deemed parent presenting the stapled 30 June 2020; security arrangement of Lendlease Group The key audit matter How the matter was addressed in our audit (the Financial Report). • Consolidated income statement, Consolidated statement of comprehensive income, Consolidated The Group performs various building, Our procedures included: In our opinion, the accompanying Financial Report is in accordance with the Corporations statement of changes in equity, and Consolidated engineering and services construction • Evaluating and testing management’s review and statement of cash flows for the year then ended; contract works (projects) for a wide range of approval of revenue and cost forecasting; Act 2001, including: customers. The Group contracts in a variety • Selecting a sample of contracts for testing using: • Notes including a summary of significant • giving a true and fair view of the of ways. Each project has a different risk Data Analytic routines based on a number of accounting policies; and Lendlease Group’s financial position as at profile based on its individual contractual quantitative and qualitative factors, related to size 30 June 2020 and of its financial • Directors' Declaration. and delivery characteristics. and risk of projects; and performance for the year ended on that The Lendlease Group consists of Lendlease As a result of COVID-19, disruption was the Group’s project reporting tool. date; and Corporation Limited and the entities it controlled at the experienced across certain projects, • For the sample selected, we: • complying with Australian Accounting year end or from time to time during the financial year particularly in international cities where conducted visits to a selection of project sites and Standards and the Corporations and Lendlease Trust. mandated shutdowns were implemented. used up-to-date site photographs, where site Regulations 2001. These impacted productivity, expected visits were not possible, to evidence physical Shares in Lendlease Corporation Limited and units in timing of completion and expected costs to progress; Lendlease Trust are jointly traded as a Stapled Security complete. inquired with key project personnel to assess the on the Australian Securities Exchange under the name project schedule, forecast costs, risks and of Lendlease Group. Construction revenue recognition is a key opportunities, with involvement from KPMG audit matter as judgement is required to Basis for opinion engineering specialists where appropriate; assess the timing of recognition determined read relevant contract terms and conditions to by the Group. Revenue on construction We conducted our audit in accordance with Australian Auditing Standards. We believe that the audit evaluate the inclusion of individual characteristics contracts is earned over time, typically using evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. and project risks in the Group’s estimates; costs incurred as a proportion of total tested a sample of incurred costs to supplier forecast costs as the measure of progress. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s responsibilities for the invoices or other underlying documentation; audit of the Financial Report section of our report. Estimating total forecast costs to complete tested forecast costs for labour, subcontractors, during project life is complex and requires equipment, materials, and project overheads by We are independent of Lendlease Group and Lendlease Corporation Limited in accordance with the judgement. Typical cost estimates include comparing to actual incurred spend and Corporations Act 2001 and the ethical requirements of the Accounting Professional and Ethical Standards labour, subcontractors, equipment, committed future contracts, with specific Board’s APES 110 Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (the Code) (including independence materials, and project overheads. Changes consideration of the impacts of COVID-19; Standards) that are relevant to our audit of the Financial Report in Australia. We have fulfilled our other to these cost estimates could give rise to tested the variations and claims (including COVIDethical responsibilities in accordance with the Code. variances in the amount of revenue 19 related impacts) recognised within revenue recognised. against the criteria for recognition in the KPMG, an Australian partnership and a member firm of the KPMG network of independent member firms affiliated with Liability limited by a scheme approved KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”), a under Professional Standards Legislation. Swiss entity. 208 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Financial Statements 209 The revenue on construction contracts may accounting standards via inspection and Recoverability of Development Property Inventory (A$4,450m) also include variations and claims, which fall assessment of: under either the variable consideration or o correspondence between the Group and the Refer to Note 11 ‘Inventories’ to the financial report contract modification requirements of AASB customer; 15. These are recognised on a contract-byo the Group’s legal basis for the variations and The key audit matter How the matter was addressed in our audit contract basis when evidence supports that claims, including, where necessary, external it is highly probable that a significant legal opinions; It is the Group’s policy to capitalise Our procedures included: reversal in the amount of revenue o the Group’s analysis of the amounts they development costs into inventory over the recognised will not occur. consider meet the recognition requirement of • Selecting a sample of projects for testing using: life of its projects. Development costs highly probable, using our knowledge of the Data Analytic routines based on a number of The assessment of revenue on construction include the purchase of land, site Group’s historical experience in resolving quantitative and qualitative factors, related to size, contracts resulting from variations and infrastructure costs, construction costs for variations and claims, and considering the duration and risk of projects; and claims was a focus of our audit due to the built form products and borrowing costs. commercial factors specific to each variation the Group’s project reporting tool. audit effort in assessing this across bespoke or claim and quality of information It is the Group’s policy to carry inventory at • For the sample selected, we: projects and contracting arrangements. underpinning the amounts recognised. the lower of cost and net realisable value. compared expected sales prices to published The recoverability therefore of these industry forecasts and comparable sales prices capitalised development costs is a achieved in the year, being alert to the impacts of significant judgement made by the Group, current challenging market conditions; Sale of Development Properties (A$1,211m) and their assessment is based on tested a sample of forecast construction and forecasts of: infrastructure costs to underlying supplier Refer to Note 4 ‘Revenue from Contracts with Customers’ to the financial report contracts, historical experience of similar costs, • sales prices and our industry expectation of cost contingency The key audit matter How the matter was addressed in our audit • construction and infrastructure costs to levels and cost escalation assumptions; complete the development. assessed expected sales prices, the volumes of The Group develops for sale both built form Our procedures included: Where a development is forecast to be sales expected each period and holding costs in products (for example residential • Evaluating and testing management’s review and loss making and the inventory is no longer light of current challenging market conditions, apartments, and commercial and retail approval of development revenue and cost considered to be recoverable, the Group using our industry knowledge. buildings) and residential land communities. forecasting; considers it to be impaired and it is their • Assessing disclosures included in the financial report It is the Group’s policy for development • Selecting a sample of settlements, across multiple policy for an expense to be recognised. highlighting the key factors in determining revenue to be recognised when control jurisdictions, during the year. For the sample recoverability of development property inventory, transfers to the purchaser, based on an selected we: This was a key audit matter for us due to using our understanding obtained from our testing and assessment of the contractual terms of compared revenue recognised to contractual many developments being long term against the requirements of the accounting standards. sale. terms of sale and cash settlements; which increases the level of forecasting This included considerations of the impacts of COVIDassessed the Group’s determination of when judgement and audit complexity in This was a key audit matter due to the 19. control transfers by a detailed analysis of the assessing estimated sales prices and volume of transactions that occur across contractual terms of sale against the criteria in the future costs to complete the development. multiple jurisdictions. In addition, the accounting standards; We considered the heightened risk in assessment of cost of sales includes assessed the Group’s cost allocation estimating future sales prices, the timing judgement as cost allocation for site methodology against the requirements of the of sales, and future costs as a result of the infrastructure costs is typically based on the accounting standards; impact of COVID-19 to these assumptions. proportion of revenue for each unit, lot or building as compared to total forecast tested the application of the cost allocation project revenue. methodology by comparing allocated costs to revenue recognised in the year relative to the Whilst COVID-19 resulted in some delays in total project revenue; residential settlements and cancellations, assessed total project revenue by comparing these do not impact the Group’s revenue expected sales prices to published industry recognition policy for residential apartments forecasts and comparable sales prices achieved in and residential land communities as the year, being alert to the impacts of current revenue is recognised on settlement. challenging market conditions. 210 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Financial Statements 211 • contain certain forward looking assumptions, COVID-19, against the requirements of the Asset Valuation this year with higher estimation uncertainty accounting standards. from the business disruption due to COVIDRefer to Note 12 ‘Equity accounted investments’ (A$3,671m), Note 13 ‘Other Financial Assets’ 19, which are inherently challenging to audit; (A$1,092m) and Note 25 ‘Fair Value Measurement’ to the financial report and • lead to additional audit effort, often due to The key audit matter How the matter was addressed in our audit the high number of differing assumptions and models, across varying asset classes. The Group is required to assess the value of Our procedures included: equity accounted investments and other financial • Selecting a sample of valuations performed by assets at each reporting date. The fair value of the Group, based on the significance of the Other Information the properties held by various investment asset to the Group’s financial position and entities directly impacts the Group’s interests in performance; Other Information is financial and non-financial information in Lendlease Group’s annual reporting which is these assets. • Assessing the scope, competence and provided in addition to the Financial Report and the Auditor’s Report. The Directors of Lendlease Valuations of assets are generally performed by objectivity of external valuation experts engaged Corporation Limited are responsible for the Other Information. the Group using internal valuation methodologies by the Group for assets valued by external (discounted cash flow or capitalised income valuation experts; Our opinion on the Financial Report does not cover the Other Information and, accordingly, we do not approach) or through the use of external • Assessing the impact of market uncertainty express an audit opinion or any form of assurance conclusion thereon, with the exception of the valuation experts. External valuations are caveats included in valuations performed by the Remuneration Report and our related assurance opinion. obtained on a routine basis by the Group each Group’s external valuation experts to determine In connection with our audit of the Financial Report, our responsibility is to read the Other Information. In year, with the remaining investments being the impact, if any, on our testing of key doing so, we consider whether the Other Information is materially inconsistent with the Financial Report or valued internally. assumptions; our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. • Evaluating and testing management’s review Other financial assets are predominantly We are required to report if we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this Other Information, and approval of internal valuations based on the investments in entities which in turn own and based on the work we have performed on the Other Information that we obtained prior to the date of Group’s policies for internally valued assets; commercial and retail property. Accordingly, the this Auditor’s Report we have nothing to report. • Assessing the valuation methodology for Group’s valuation assumptions are predominantly consistency with accounting standards and the capitalisation of earnings rates, discount industry practice for the asset’s class; rates, future rental income, and leasing • Comparing, with market data published by Responsibilities of the Directors for the Financial Report incentives. commercial real estate agents, previous Equity accounted investments include the external valuations, our knowledge of the The Directors of Lendlease Corporation Limited are responsible for: Group’s interest in the retirement living business. industry, and/or our knowledge of the asset and The key assumptions used by the Group in its historical performance, key assumptions • preparing the Financial Report that gives a true and fair view in accordance with Australian Accounting determining the value of retirement villages are such as: Standards and the Corporations Act 2001; discount rates, changes in village residents, discount rates • implementing necessary internal control to enable the preparation of a Financial Report that gives a true current units/homes market prices and pricing changes in village residents and fair view and is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error; and growth rates. units/home current market prices pricing growth rates • assessing Lendlease Group’s ability to continue as a going concern and whether the use of the going COVID-19 has had a significant impact on real concern basis of accounting is appropriate. This includes disclosing, as applicable, matters related to capitalisation of earnings rates estate valuations across the Group’s going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate future rental income investments. the Lendlease Group or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so. leasing incentives The assessment of the valuations of these • Assessing disclosures included in the financial assets is a key audit matter as they: report highlighting the estimates and • are inherently judgemental, amplified by the judgements in determining fair values of the impact of COVID-19. There were fewer Group’s equity accounted investments and market transactions as a result, which are other financial assets. We used our ordinarily strong sources of evidence understanding obtained from our testing, regarding fair value; including considerations of the impacts of 212 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Financial Statements 213 Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the Financial Report • Our objective is: • to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the Financial Report as a whole is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error; and • to issue an Auditor’s Report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with Australian Auditing Standards will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error. They are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the Financial Report. A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the Financial Report is located at the Auditing and Assurance Standards Board website at: http://www.auasb.gov.au/auditors_responsibilities/ar_2020.pdf. This description forms part of our Auditor’s Report. Report on the Remuneration Report Opinion Directors’ responsibilities In our opinion, the Remuneration The Directors of Lendlease Corporation Limited are Report of Lendlease Corporation responsible for the preparation and presentation of the This page is intentionally left blank. Limited for the year ended 30 June Remuneration Report in accordance with Section 300A of the 2020 complies with Section 300A of Corporations Act 2001. the Corporations Act 2001. Our responsibilities We have audited the Remuneration Report included in pages 106 to 136 of the Directors’ report for the year ended 30 June 2020. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Remuneration Report, based on our audit conducted in accordance with Australian Auditing Standards. KPMG D M McLennan Partner Sydney 17 August 2020 214 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Other Information 215 Other Information Milan: Milano Santa Giulia A mixed use redevelopment covering more than 110 hectares in the Artist’s impression south east of Milan. 216 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Other Information 217 Securityholder information Securities exchange listing and code Key sources of information Dispute resolution Security information at a glance at 1 August 2020 Lendlease Group is listed on the Australian for securityholders There is a dispute resolution mechanism (comparative 1 August 2019) Securities Exchange and trades under the We report the following to that covers complaints by securityholders. 2020 2019 code LLC. securityholders each year: For more information, please contact Lendlease Investor Relations at Number of securityholders 66,696 63,121 In the United States, Lendlease securities • Annual Report +61 2 9236 6111 or email us at Units issued 688,267,587 564,131,072 are traded on the ‘over the counter’ • Half Year Financial Report investorrelations@lendlease.com. market in the form of sponsored American Percentage owned by 20 largest securityholders 75.89% 72.18% Depositary Receipts (ADRs) under the • March and September Distribution and Share Accumulation symbol LLESY. Each ADR represents one distribution statements. Plan issue price history Interim dividend/distribution 30.0 cents per security 12.0 cents per security ordinary security. Information about ADRs Electronic communications For historical distribution and is available from the depositary, The Bank Total dividend/distribution 33.3 cents per security 42.0 cents per security Securityholders have the option of Share Accumulation Plan Issue Price of New York Mellon (www.adrbny.com). receiving the following communications information, please see the below Dividend payout ratio NA 1 51% Voting rights and all other Company related information link to our website electronically: www.lendlease.com/au/investor-centre/ Each stapled security in Lendlease Group Spread of securityholdings as at 1 August 2020 distribution-and-tax. and each ADR entitles the holder to one • Annual Report (comparative 1 August 2019) vote. Rights to Lendlease Group securities granted under Lendlease Group’s • Distribution statements 2020 2019 employee equity incentive plans do not • Notice of Annual General Meetings. 1 to 1,000 securities 35,448 33,122 carry voting rights. Lendlease makes the Annual Report 1,001 to 5,000 24,515 24,680 Share Accumulation Plan available in an online version. A hard copy The Share Accumulation Plan is of the Annual Report will only be sent to 5,001 to 10,000 4,414 3,463 designed to be a convenient way those securityholders who elect to receive 10,001 to 100,000 2,231 1,764 for securityholders with a registered it in that form. In addition, securityholders address in Australia or New Zealand may elect to receive notification when the 100,001 securities and over 88 92 to build their securityholdings without Annual Report is available online. incurring transaction costs. The laws of Total number of securityholders 66,696 63,121 Securityholders who wish to register their other countries make it difficult for us email address should go to the website of 3,396 2,544 to offer securities in this way. Lendlease Securityholders with less than a marketable parcel the Lendlease share registry (representing 60,497 securities) (representing 28,947 securities) securityholders are able to reinvest their www.investorcentre.com/ecomms. distributions to acquire more Lendlease Securities purchased on market securities through the Distribution For registry contact details, see page 220. The following securities were purchased on market during the financial year for the purpose of funding employee incentive awards Reinvestment Plan (DRP) or the Share Privacy legislation through Lendlease securities. Election Plan (SEP). Securityholders may Under Chapter 2C of the Corporations also make contributions of between Number of Securities Purchased Average Price Paid Per Security Act 2001 , a securityholder’s information $500 and $2,500 to acquire new (including their name, address and details Stapled Securities 1,971,036 $16.85 Lendlease securities under the Share of securities held) is required to be Purchase Plan (SPP). Together the included in Lendlease’s public register. DRP, SEP and SPP constitute the Share This information must continue to be Accumulation Plan. included in Lendlease’s public register The rules of each of these plans are for seven years after a person ceases set out in the Share Accumulation Plan to be a securityholder. These statutory Information Sheet. Copies are available obligations are not altered by the Privacy on the Lendlease website. Please note Amendment (Private Sector) Act 2000 . that the Share Election Plan and the Share Information is collected to administer Purchase Plan are currently suspended. the securityholder’s holding and if some or all of the information is not collected, then it may not be possible to administer the holding. Lendlease’s privacy policy is available on its website. 1. Dividend payout ratio is nonmeaningful in FY20 due to the Group statutory loss. 218 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Other Information 219 Securityholder Glossary information Rank Name Units % of Units Co-investment: The total market value Investments: Includes equity invested Residential for rent: Residential of Lendlease equity invested across in Lendlease managed funds and direct apartments, typically in the form of an 1 HSBC Custody Nominees (Australia) Limited 208,004,440 30.22 Lendlease managed funds as at period investment in property and property entire building, that are made available 2 J P Morgan Nominees Australia Pty Limited 131,088,694 19.05 end. Represents the Group’s assessment related assets. Represents the Group’s for rent as separate dwellings. Lendlease of the market value. assessment of market value. and its investment partners maintain 3 Citicorp Nominees Pty Limited 61,379,423 8.92 ownership of these apartments. Construction backlog realisation: The Investments performance: The 4 National Nominees Limited 42,136,610 6.12 proportion of Construction backlog performance of our Investments Return on Equity (ROE): ROE is calculated 5 BNP Paribas Nominees Pty Ltd <Agency Lending DRP A/C> 17,790,146 2.58 revenue which is expected to be earned business which includes our funds under using annual statutory Profit after Tax across future years. management, assets under management, attributable to securityholders divided by 6 BNP Paribas Noms Pty Ltd <DRP> 15,549,473 2.26 Construction backlog revenue: Current co-invested equity in Lendlease managed the arithmetic average of beginning, half 7 LL Employee Holdings Custodian Pty Limited <Castle Account A/C> 14,075,522 2.05 year Construction backlog revenue is the funds and direct investment in property year and year end securityholders’ equity. 8 HSBC Custody Nominees (Australia) Limited <NT-Comnwlth Super Corp A/C> 5,557,573 0.81 total revenue to be earned across future and property related assets. Securityholders: An individual or entity periods. Key Management Personnel (KMP): that owns Lendlease securities. 9 Argo Investments Limited 4,480,092 0.65 Critical incident: An event that had Those executives who have the authority Senior executive: Employees who hold 10 LL Employee Holdings Custodian Pty Limited <ESAP STI A/C> 4,174,080 0.61 and responsibility for planning, directing a position at executive level according the potential to have caused death or 11 BNP Paribas Nominees Pty Ltd Hub24 Custodial Serv Ltd <DRP A/C> 3,003,387 0.44 permanent disability. and controlling the activities of the Group to the Lendlease Career Job Framework. directly or indirectly (as per Accounting This generally includes Regional Business 12 Custodial Services Limited <Beneficiaries Holding A/C> 2,787,498 0.41 Development pipeline: Estimated Standard AASB 124 Related Party remaining end value of all of the Group’s Unit Heads, Regional Function Heads and 13 Netwealth Investments Limited <Wrap Services A/C> 2,165,644 0.31 Disclosures ). in some cases, direct reports to Group secured development projects based 14 Citicorp Nominees Pty Limited <Colonial First State INV A/C> 2,002,395 0.29 on values as at period end; includes 100 KPIs: Key Performance Indicators. Function Heads. per cent of joint venture projects and Long Term Incentive (LTI)/Long Term Settlements (units): Apartments – units 15 Avanteos Investments Limited <Encircle Ima A/C> 1,738,214 0.25 therefore will not necessarily correlate Award (LTA): An incentive scheme which cash settled in the period on completed 16 LL Employee Holdings Custodian Pty Limited <ESAP Account> 1,583,948 0.23 with the Group’s Profit after Tax. provides Lendlease equity (or cash, in units in Australia, Europe and Americas, 17 BNP Paribas Noms (NZ) Ltd <DRP> 1,468,741 0.21 Distribution payout ratio: Distribution some circumstances) to participating and units which have reached practical divided by Profit after Tax. executives that may vest, in whole or part, completion in Asia; Communities and 18 CS Fourth Nominees Pty Limited <HSBC Cust Nom AU Ltd 11 A/C> 1,205,107 0.18 if specified performance measures are Retirement – units settled in the period on Distribution per security: Amount of completed land lots or units; Commercial 19 HSBC Custody Nominees (Australia) Limited-GSCO ECA 1,086,864 0.16 met over a three or four year period. interim and final distribution per stapled – buildings that have achieved practical 20 Australian Executor Trustees Limited <IPS Super A/C> 1,063,881 0.15 security from the Company/Trust. Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR): An indicator and industry standard completion during the period. Total Top 20 holders of fully paid ordinary shares 522,341,732 75.89 Earnings per security: Profit after Tax measuring a workplace injury which Short Term Incentive (STI)/Short Term divided by the weighted average number Award (STA): Incentives awarded with Total Remaining Holders Balance 165,925,855 24.11 prevents a worker from returning to duties of securities on issue during the year direct reference to financial and non the next day. LTIFR refers to the number (including treasury securities) unless financial performance over a one year of lost time injuries within a year, relative Substantial securityholders as shown in the Company’s Register at 1 August 2020 otherwise stated. period. Measures are designed to focus to the total number of hours worked in the EBITDA: Earnings Before Interest, Tax, financial year. individuals on priority areas for the current Name Date of Last Notice Received No. of Units % of Issued Capital Depreciation and Amortisation. financial year. BlackRock Group 08/01/2020 34,049,935 6.03 Market capitalisation: The number of Effective tax rate: Income tax expense as securities on issue multiplied by the Total Package Value (TPV): Salary The Vanguard Group 29/4/2019 33,903,122 6.01 a percentage of Profit before Tax. security price at year end. plus the value of salary package items Face value of a security: The value of a Net debt: Borrowings, including certain such as motor vehicles and parking and Lendlease security at the applicable time. other financial liabilities, less cash. compulsory superannuation contributions paid on behalf of an employee. Funds under management (FUM): The New work secured revenue: Estimated total market value of investments across revenue to be earned from construction Total Shareholder Return/Total Lendlease managed funds. contracts secured during the period. Securityholder Return (TSR): The New work is secured and forms part of movement in a company’s share/security Gearing: Net debt to total tangible assets Construction backlog revenue when price, dividend yield and any return of less cash. formal contracts are signed. capital over a specific period. It is often Global Minimum Requirements expressed as a percentage. (GMRs): GMRs are Lendlease’s minimum People and Culture Committee: The Board subcommittee that helps the Urbanisation pipeline: Estimated environment, health and safety standards Board fulfil its responsibilities in people remaining end value of all of the Group’s designed to control the risks across our management and reward policies. It is secured development projects (excluding operations. made up entirely of independent Non Communities projects and Retirement Good leaver: A senior executive who is projects) based on values as at period leaving Lendlease for a reason such as Executive Directors. end; includes 100 per cent of joint venture retirement, redundancy, or resignation Profit after Tax (PAT): Profit after projects and therefore will not necessarily where the senior executive is not joining a Tax attributable to securityholders, correlate with the Group’s Profit after Tax. competitor, and who may remain eligible determined in accordance with Australian Accounting Standards. Weighted average number of securities: for part or all of an incentive opportunity. The time weighted number of securities Green Star rating: Green Star is a national Public Private Partnerships (PPP): outstanding during the period. voluntary environmental rating system A joint procurement arrangement for used by the Green Building Council of infrastructure development contracts Australia to evaluate the environmental between the public and private sectors. design and achievements of buildings. 220 Lendlease Annual Report 2020 Managing and Measuring Value 221 Corporate directory Annual General Meeting 2020 The Annual General Meeting (AGM) of shareholders of Lendlease Corporation Limited and the general meeting of unitholders of Lendlease Trust (together, Lendlease Group) will be held at 10am on Friday 20 November 2020. Due to the ongoing risks of the COVID-19 pandemic, and in light of the social distancing requirements of the Australian and State governments currently in place, the Board has decided in the interests and health and safety of securityholders, staff and other stakeholders, that a virtual rather than face to face meeting will be held. Securityholders will not be able to physically attend the AGM. We will provide securityholders with full details of participation in the Notice of Meetings. Lendlease advises that the date of close of director nominations for election at the AGM is Friday 2 October 2020. 2020 Financial Calendar Mon 17 Aug Full Year Results Announced Fri 21 Aug Security Price Ex Dividend Mon 24 Aug Final Distribution Record Date Tue 15 Sep Final Distribution Payable Fri 20 Nov Annual General Meeting 2021 Financial Calendar Mon 22 Feb Half Year Results Announced Fri 26 Feb Security Price Ex Dividend Mon 1 Mar Interim Distribution Record Date Wed 17 Mar Interim Distribution Payable Please note that the timing of events can be subject to change. A current calendar is available online at www.lendlease.com Entity Details Lendlease Corporation Limited ABN 32 000 226 228 Incorporated in NSW Australia Lendlease Responsible Entity Limited ABN 72 122 883 185 AFS Licence 308983 as responsible entity for Lendlease Trust ABN 39 944 184 773 ARSN 128 052 595 Registered Office Level 14, Tower Three International Towers Sydney Exchange Place 300 Barangaroo Avenue Barangaroo NSW 2000 Contact T: +61 2 9236 6111 F: +61 2 9252 2192 www.lendlease.com Share Registry Information Computershare Investor Services Pty Limited ABN 48 078 279 277 GPO Box 242, Melbourne Victoria 3000 Australia T: 1800 230 300 (within Australia) T: +61 3 9946 4460 (outside Australia) www.computershare.com.au Artist’s impression Sydney: Sydney Place 222 Our paper goes another round This report is printed on locally sourced recycled paper and contains waste from Lendlease assets around Australia including Melbourne Quarter and Barangaroo South, Sydney. Level 14, Tower Three International Towers Sydney Exchange Place 300 Barangaroo Avenue Barangaroo NSW 2000 www.lendlease.com @lendlease @lendleasegroup @lendlease
