Autoliv Sustainability Report 2019 Creating Sustainable Value Content 03: CEO Statement Sustainability is a continuous 04: Clarity of Direction journey and we are committed – Autoliv’s Commitment Who we are to continually strengthening Our sustainability commitment our sustainability work and Our sustainability strategy performance. 06: Life-Saving Innovations Our priorities The global road safety problem Life-saving innovations Product quality & safety 12: Limiting Our Impact on the Environment Our priorities Our policy and commitment Environmental management Environmental performance 18: Committing to Our Employees Our priorities From our President and CEO A Health and safety Labor rights Autoliv is a purpose-driven company and the Indian government and other stakeholders. The Diversity and inclusion we exist because life matters. Our busiplatform aims to facilitate an exchange of knowTalent management and Employee development ness is guided by our vision of Saving ledge in order to drive the adoption of global best More Lives and our mission of providpractices from Vision Zero and help build a stronger 22: Acting Ethically and ing world-class, life-saving solutions for mobility framework for road safety in India. and society. Sustainability is firmly rooted in our We also continued to progress in other areas of Committing to Society business strategy and our sustainability targets our sustainability strategy. Health and safety is one Our priorities are part of our long-term strategic plan. Our core of our continuous focus areas and we made a good Business ethics and integrity business supports the UN Sustainable Developprogress towards our incident and severity rate inCommunity engagement ment Goal #3: Good health and well-being, and its terim targets; however, we still have work to do in target of halving global deaths and injuries from order to progress towards our ultimate goal of zero 28: Supply Chain Management road traffic by 2020. Our products save over 30,000 accidents. In the environmental area, our organiOur priorities lives every year and we aspire to save over 100,000 zation established action plans to drive progress Our policy lives by 2030. towards our new environmental targets. We also Supply chain audits In 2019, Autoliv Inc. became a signatory of the advanced in our supply chain sustainability work Conflict minerals United Nations Global Compact. We are committed as well as rolling out our renewed Code of Conduct to making the UN Global Compact and its princithroughout the organization. 30: Sustainability Governance and ples part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day Sustainability is a continuous journey and we Risk Management operations of our company, and continuing to are committed to continually strengthening our Governance engage in collaborative projects which advance the sustainability work and improving our performance. Risk management broader development goals of the United Nations, I invite you to learn more about our progress Stakeholders particularly the Sustainable Development Goals. during 2019. Reporting scope and boundaries During 2019, we continued to participate in several collaborations in traffic safety, with a special 34: Global Compact Index focus on vulnerable road user protection and countries with a high number of traffic-related deaths. For example, Autoliv is a long-standing member of the China Sweden Research Centre for Traffic AUTOLIV, INC. Visiting address: Klarabergsviadukten 70, Section B, 7th Floor, Stockholm, Sweden Safety and a founding member of the Sweden-India Mail: P.O. Box 70381, SE-107 24 Stockholm, Sweden Transport Innovation & Research Platform. During Telephone: +46 (0)8 587 20 600 2019, we continued to work with the India Road Yours sincerely, E-mail: info@autoliv.com Safety Knowledge Sharing Platform together with Mikael Bratt www.autoliv.com 3 Clarity of Direction OUR SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY functions. Our top strategic sustainability priorities Autoliv operates in an industry undergoing a siginclude: nificant transformation, driven by changing driver • Continuing to deliver on our commitment to – Autoliv’s Commitment behavior, emerging technologies and an evolving saving more lives competitive arena. Our strategy, business priorities and targets are deeply rooted in the growing de• Focusing on the health and safety of our emmand for traffic safety. Our leading role, developed ployees and contractors, with the ultimate goal over many years, places us in the pole position to of zero accidents spearhead the transformation in our industry and • Focusing on increasing resource efficiency and WHO WE ARE OUR SUSTAINABILITY COMMITMENT we aspire to position ourselves firmly in the wider reducing our carbon footprint Autoliv has pioneered automotive safety for over 65 Autoliv’s business is guided by our vision of Saving mobility safety arena, looking beyond the light vehicle • Ensuring that no corruption or anti-competiyears. We are the world’s largest automotive safety More Lives. Our products save over 30,000 lives a safety industry. tive behavior takes place in our business supplier, with sales to all leading car manufacturyear and prevent ten times as many severe injuries. Our mission is to provide world class, life• Managing the sustainability risks in our supply ers in the world and a current estimated market Our goal is to increase the number of lives saved to saving solutions for mobility and society, guided by chain share of 41%. We have more than 65,000 associ100,000 a year by 2030. Our vision directly supports our vision of Saving More Lives and our values: One ates in 27 countries. We develop, manufacture and the UN Sustainable Development Goal #3: Good Autoliv, Transparent, Innovative and Agile. We have established targets for each of these priorimarket protective systems, such as airbags, seathealth and well-being, and its target of halving Sustainability is an integral part of our busities and regularly monitor the progress achieved. belts, steering wheels and pedestrian protection global deaths and injuries from road traffic accidents ness strategy, and in 2019 we focused on rolling out systems to meet the mobility needs of today and by 2020. our new sustainability strategy to all divisions and tomorrow. Autoliv Sustainability targets: Autoliv’s current commitment is expressed in four categories: Our Priorities Our Targets Page reference Innovate 100,000 6-11 Life-Saving Lives saved Products By 2030 Innovate LifeCommit to Our Saving Products Employees Limit Our 12% 12% 100% Y-o-Y 12-17 Impact on the REDUCTION REDUCTION PERFORMED REDUCTION By staying at the forefront of We are commited to C02e Emissions* Energy Water Risk Waste and technology, innovating and respecting human rights, Environment Scope 1 & 2 Consumption* Assessment Scrap manufacturing high-quality diversity, and health and * Efficiency target, measured By 2023 By 2023 By 2020 Continuous products, we save more safety for our employees. per part delivered lives in real-life traffic. Commit to Our Employees 0.50 5.00 18-21 Incident Rate Severity Rate By 2022 By 2022 Limit Our Act Ethically Impact on the and Commit Act Ethically 100% 100% 100% 22-25 Environment to Society & Commit to Anti-corruption Antitrust Code of Conduct Society training completion* training certification* Continuous completion* Continuous Our commitment is to limit We believe in sound business * Completion rate measured from Continuous our environmental impact, practices and our actions the annual target group particularly through reducing are based on observance of energy and water consumpethical standards and ention, waste and emissions. gagement with communities Supply Chain 100% 100% 95% 28-29 where we operate. We expect Sustainability New DM* suppliers All DM* suppliers DM* suppliers respond our suppliers and business sustainability audited sustainability audited to conflict minerals partners to act with the same Continuous By 2021 survey. By 2022 * DM = Direct Material level of integrity. 4 5 Life-Saving Innovations Proportion of population, road traffic deaths, and registered motor vehicles by country income category OUR PRIORITIES According to World Health Organization (WHO), Population Road Traffic Deaths Vehicles Autoliv’s most important contribution to society road traffic injuries are the leading cause of death and sustainability are its products, which save over among young people between the ages of 5 and 7% 30,000 lives a year and prevent countless more in29. Low and middle-income countries are hit the 15 % 59 % juries. Our vision of saving more lives is supported hardest, accounting for over 90% of global traf13 % by our deep understanding, continuous innovation fic deaths. Vulnerable road users – pedestrians, and collaborations in traffic safety, and relentless cyclists, and motorcyclists – make up more than 9% quality work to ensure the safety of our products. half of these fatalities. Road traffic injuries are 76 % 80 % Our target is to save 100,000 lives a year by currently estimated to be the eighth leading cause 2030. This target is based on the assumptions that of death across all age groups globally, and are 40 % we retain our strong market position and continue predicted to become the seventh leading cause to grow in our core business, and that there will of death by 2030. As well as being a public health be increased multi-stakeholder efforts in end-user problem, road traffic injuries are a development education to increase seatbelt use. Reaching the issue: according to WHO, lowand middle-income 1% target will also require that we successfully expand countries lose approximately 3% of their GDP as our business in new mobility segments, including a result of road traffic crashes. Many families are High-income Middle-income Low-income vulnerable road user protection. driven deeper into poverty by the loss of a breadSource: WHO Global Status Report on Road Safety 2018 winner, or by the expenses of prolonged medical THE GLOBAL ROAD SAFETY PROBLEM care. MILLIONS OF REASONS TO DO MORE Improving traffic safety requires global action Most countries in the world have adopted the UN and collaboration in several areas, including Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), including the target of halving the number of global deaths • Strengthening traffic safety laws and Distribution of deaths by road user type by WHO Region and injuries from road accidents, which is a target standards globally to enforce safe behavior of Goal #3: Good health and well-being. Today, 1.35 • Designing safe infrastructure, giving million lives are lost annually on the roads, a figsufficient attention to the needs of the Driver/passengers of 4-wheeled vehicles EUROPE ure likely to increase significantly unless disruptive most vulnerable road users Drivers of motorized 2 and 3-wheelers EASTERN moves are made. • Improving vehicle safety 9% 5% MEDITERRANEAN Cyclists AMERICAS 2% Pedestrians 27% 48% 10% 3% Others WORLD 18% 39% SOUTH-EAST 34% 11% ASIA 34% 22% 15% 2% 3% 23% 25% 16% 17% AFRICA 29% 14% 43% 7% 4% WESTERN PACIFIC 23% 40% 28% 40% 28% 6% 9% 38% 14% 22% 22% 36% Source: WHO Global Status Report on Road Safety 2018. LIFE-SAVING INNOVATIONS research to provide guidance on how to accomplish Autoliv has a strong track record in innovation. this goal. We are engaged in research activities Throughout our history, we have introduced severtogether with universities in the fields of biomeal world firsts. The main purpose of our research chanics, human factors and traffic safety analysis. STATUS 2019 and development activities is to reduce road fatalOur research and development are based on reMore than ities and injuries. Our activities are guided by inal-life data on traffic accidents and injuries as well 30,000 dustry trends, such as advanced driver assistance as numerous crash tests, user clinics, simulations, systems, autonomous driving and electrification, field operational tests and the vast expertise gathadaptivity to the size and age of occupants as well ered by our specialists over many years. The way as vulnerable road user protection. we innovate solutions is a key differentiator that sets us apart from our competition. RESEARCH During 2019, we continued to participate in Autoliv not only develops and engineers technologies research collaborations to develop human body to enable more lives to be saved, but also conducts models for virtual simulations. A new project 6 7 phase (“I-HMB” step 4) was started, with a focus and Intelligent Automated Transport systems on Autoliv is a long-standing member of the well-esIn 2019, we introduced a new service: Safety Score on pelvis and spine injuries considering new seatOur Roads) project, we have set out to mediate betablished China Sweden Research Centre for Trafby Autoliv, a smartphone and artificial intelliing positions in automated vehicles. tween human driving and automated driving to asfic Safety. This year, we expanded our involvement gence-based application with the goal of helping Developing tools to assess the safety of the sign the driving task to the best-suited entity in the in research platforms with a regional focus on Inpeople of all ages to become safer drivers. Safenew seating positions and validation of these tools given context, with proven safety benefits expected dia, continuing our dialogue with the Indian govty Score monitors real-time driver behaviors, are at the core of two new collaborative projects in a few years. We also initiated a collaboration ernment and other local stakeholders and working compares them against Autoliv’s proprietary data started in 2019. In ENOP (Enable New Occupant with Chalmers University of Technology concerntowards a common goal to Save More Lives (for algorithms and known causes of accidents and seating Positions), we are working with European ing cloud-based, in-vehicle health monitoring as more information, see chapter “Acting Ethically provides the user with a personalized safe driver partners to achieve these goals, complemented by well as a collaboration with Fraunhofer Institute and Committing to Society), in addition to being a score. Having a personalized safety score based on research conducted by Autoliv and the University of for Industrial Engineering related to our ambition founding member of SITS (Sweden-India Transport individual driving behavior can be used, for examVirginia in the US. to support safe driving and to develop the safest Innovation & Research Platform). ple, by ride-hailing, taxi, limousine and other fleet We continued to collaborate with Swedish inhuman-machine interaction. Autoliv sponsors and presents its research at and professional driving companies to provide an dustry and academia in the EU-funded OSCCAR Autoliv has a long history of protecting Vulnernumerous traffic safety-related conferences. This objective picture of a user’s safe-driving habits and (Future Occupant Safety for Crashes in Cars) proable Road Users with Pedestrian Protection Airbag year, we sponsored the Safe Roads India Summit provide a platform for evaluating and improving ject and have taken steps towards creating human and Piston Hood Lifter, products found in today’s in New Delhi, where we discussed factors leading driving behavior. Additionally, Safety Score can be body models in a variety of sizes and shapes and vehicle fleet. For the next step, we started a proto traffic accidents and fatalities with OEMs, supused to reduce insurance costs and to give a measdeveloping restraint systems to better protect the ject with Swedish Industry and Academia to study pliers and policy makers. ure of objectivity in sharing platforms, allowing diverse population of car occupants. automobiles overtaking cyclists and how crashes Our outreach is not limited to sponsoring or to people to have confidence in people they have never We are not only working in the field of biomeand injuries can be prevented or mitigated, called presenting our research at conferences, but also met before, and in sharing their car with them. chanics, preventing injuries in crashes, but also MICA2 (Modelling Interaction between cyclists and includes educational activities for the general pubWe have continued to innovate lower weight on preventing crashes from happening. In the automobiles 2). lic, such as presenting our vehicle technologies for products that support our customers’ carbon EU-funded MEDIATOR (MEdiating between Driver traffic police officers in Tianjin in China or during footprint reduction strategies, in which weight rethe Vehicle Safety Course organized by ASEAN duction is one tactic used to reduce the vehicles’ NCAP. We are also active in several working groups overall carbon footprint. For example, we recently focusing on regulatory and standardization work in introduced a compressed side airbag module to traffic safety the market that is 80g lighter and much smaller than the previous generation. SIDE-CURTAIN AIRBAGS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT Materials management is an important part of Reduce Head Injuries FRONTAL AIRBAGS Our product portfolio spans airbags, seatbelts, our product development process with overlaps in In near-side crashes, curtain and Save Lives and Reduce Injuries steering wheels and pedestrian protection. We several areas, from identifying materials and their side airbags together reduce In frontal crashes, driver airbags fatalities by 31% for vehicle occupants. also provide additional safety features, such as composition for new products to requesting quotes PEDESTRIAN AIRBAGS reduce driver fatalities by 29%. Autoliv offers front and rear side pyro safety switches for electric vehicles, automatfrom suppliers and reporting on the material comAND HOOD LIFTERS Combining driver airbag with using airbags, curtain and far ic bolt releases, integrated child booster seats and position of our supplied parts to customers. We Protect Pedestrians seatbelt reduce fatalities in frontal side airbags. crashes by 61%. Driver airbags also digital services. aim to ensure an optimized material catalogue and When pedestrians are involved in We are committed to creating a safer society supply base within Autoliv that meets our global reduce severe injuries in frontal crashes traffic accidents, severe or fatal injuries are often the result. Active hood lifters by 32%. Autoliv offers driver, by designing products that will one day appear in requirements for all functions and all products and passenger and knee airbags. future vehicles. The vehicles of the future, with at the same time reduces cost and complexity. As and outside pedestrian protection airbags aim to reduce the severity of increasing levels of electrification and autonomy, part of our materials management, we have clear pedestrian head injuries in case of a are placing new demands on automotive safety requirements for reporting the material composipedestrian-vehicle accident. CHILD SEATS systems. Our solutions for automotive driving are tion of our supplied parts and the restrictions to Protect Children a natural evolution of our safety products. We are which certain substances will be subject. Autoliv’s An integrated booster cushion continually developing airbag and seatbelt sysrelated standard for substance use restrictions is and specially designed seatbelt tems for new seating configurations as well workregularly reviewed and updated to meet the latest offer a vehicle system solution that ing with electrification of seatbelts and steering legal and customer requirements. Autoliv’s classiimproves the comfort and safety wheels. For example, the Lifecell airbag – a world fications for declarable, restricted and prohibited of children while reducing the risk of misuse. first introduced by Autoliv – provides protection substances are based on GADSL (The Global Auregardless of how a driver or passenger is seated. tomotive Declarable Substance List) and customIn the future transportation system, with a er specifications, and are subject to governmental mixed fleet of vehicles, there will be an increasregulations, including ELV (end-of-life vehicles) diSEATBELTS ing need to protect vulnerable road users. To rerectives in different regions, the EU REACH ReguTop Life-Saving Device spond to this demand and advance our vision of lation (or similar), POPs (persistent organic pollutThe seatbelt is the top life-saving device. PYRO SWITCH STEERING WHEELS It reduces fatalities for front row occupants in Stop the Fire Saving More Lives, we are developing new soluants) regulations (such as EU POPs) and SEC (US With the Lives of Others passenger cars by 45% for all types of crashes. Autoliv has developed a device tions to protect pedestrians, cyclists and powered Securities and Exchange Commission) disclosure in Your Hands Seatbelts also reduce moderate and severe to stop potential fires caused two-wheelers. For example, we are cooperating rules related to conflict minerals. We continuously injuries by 45%. The technology content of with a customer to provide airbags for scooter follow up with our suppliers to phase out substancAutoliv is the leading supplier of steering by short-circuiting: a pyro safety modern seatbelts has increased to include wheels. The steering wheel is a key eleconstant load limiters, adaptive load limiters, switch that can disconnect or riders and developing a modified pedestrian airbag es in time, according to the latest updated legal rement for the interaction between driver and cut the power after an that can also protect cyclists in case of a collision quirements, such as REACH. pretensioners, pre-pretensioners with vehicle. This is reflected in our innovative accident. electrical motor activation, warning functions with equipped vehicles. The number of two-wheelWe also investigate options for increasing the HMI-(human machine interface) steering and integrated ECUs (electronic wheel for future cars , which uses touch ers has surged recently and they are involved in use of bio-based and recycled-content materials control units). technology and air gesture controls to keep a high percentage of fatal and serious accidents. in our products. During 2019, for example, we inthe driver in full control and demonstrates Governments are increasingly becoming aware of troduced a driver airbag housing using bio-based the seamless transition between manual and the need to protect this vulnerable group of road plastic from castor oil. In addition, we invested in automated driving. It enables the driver to users, and we foresee that demand for safety sysa new LCA tool, which will be used to support our control more functions with less distraction, which makes for a safer driving experience. tems for these vehicles will grow. product design process. 8 9 PRODUCT QUALITY & SAFETY – OUR PRODUCTS new orders, preventing recalls and maintaining low The integration of quality and the Q5 program into lem? Do we have a working climate where we share NEVER GET A SECOND CHANCE scrap rates. all aspects of our operations – from product and good and bad news and promote Jidoka? The survey Our life-saving products never get a second Autoliv implements its quality strategy through process development to supplier management, proresults provide a tool to help each site identify areas chance. Accordingly, we are committed to deliverthe Q5 program, which shapes a proactive quality duction and after delivery – is supported by a dedfor development and to improve year after year. ing the highest quality, safety and performance in culture of zero defects. Q5 addresses quality in five icated quality organization. In addition, employee Autoliv’s quality management system is reguour products and services, in alignment with our dimensions: customers, products, suppliers, growth involvement and the “It Starts with Me” concept are larly audited by both internal and external parties. vision of Saving More Lives. Our quality culture is and behavior. In our pursuit of excellence, we have core parts of our Q5 program. Our quality program According to Autoliv’s policy, facilities that ship parts personified by the daily efforts throughout the ordeveloped a chain of four “defense lines” against includes well-defined cross-functional workshops directly to OEMs need to have a third-party registraganization to: quality issues: 1) robust product designs, 2) flawless to eliminate potential defects and an ongoing drive tion of IATF 16949, the quality management standard components from internal and external suppliers, to empower teams with a proactive mindset. A vifor automotive component suppliers. • Reduce the risk of critical quality issues and 3) manufacture of flawless products with a system tal part of Q5 is Jidoka, a commitment that when an As a part of our product development process, near misses, and drive toward zero customer for verifying that our products conform with specioperator detects an abnormality he or she should our products are also thoroughly tested from a safeissues and zero defects fications, and 4) an advanced traceability system in directly stop the line to take appropriate actions. ty performance and durability point of view to ensure • Provide customers with products and services the event of a recall together with Yokoten, our sysWe monitor our quality culture through a regular government and customer specification compliance. that are – and are perceived to be – more tem for identifying and applying lessons learned to employee survey that measures how our employees During 2019, our share of industry recalls valuable than those of our competitors ensure robust improvements throughout the organperceive the quality culture and behavior in the comremained low (less than 2% since 2010), compared • Reduce waste and internal errors ization. In combination with our Q5 behaviors, these pany. For example, do we encourage curiosity and do with our market share of 41%. “defense lines” are intended to allow us to deliver we actively look for ways to improve our way of workQuality is also a key to our financial performance, flawless products to our customers on time. ing? How are we regarded when we bring up a probsince excellence in quality is critical for winning Our Continuous Proactive Quality Work 1 2 3 4 PRODUCT AND PROCESS SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT PRODUCTION AFTER DELIVERY DEVELOPMENT By involving and training our Through the Autoliv Production As we maintain an advanced Autoliv’s Product Development suppliers early in projects we System (APS), we all work acproduct traceability system we System (APDS) ensures that all ensure robust component decording to the continuous imare able to trace and limit new products pass five mandasigns and processes. This provement philosophy. Our asbatches of potentially defective tory checkpoints: 1) project prevents non-conforming sociates are also trained to parts in an effective way. planning, 2) concept definition, parts from being produced by react to anomalies and to unWe also maintain an effec3) product and process develour in-house and external derstand the critical connective change-management sysopment, 4) product and prosuppliers and from reaching tion between themselves and tem as any change to a prodcess validation, and 5) product our manufacturing lines. We our lifesaving-products. To preuct or process can potentially launch. In this way, we proacactively phase out any supplivent us from delivering create problems. tively prevent problems and ener that does not adhere to our non-conforming products we Through lessons learned we sure we deliver only the best quality principles. verify quality by using mistakecan take advantage of experidesigns to the market. proofing methods such as ences to make a difference in Poka-Yoke, in-line inspections, future projects and help them and cameras and sensors. to succeed. Minimal recalls Less than 2% of recalled vehicles since 2010 Less than 2% 2% Share of Global Recalls Autoliv Other and ~41% Market Share 10 11 Limiting Our Impact Environmental management at Autoliv is supMany of our facilities have significantly increased ported by a number of other methods. their production output and at the same time Our quality program (Q5) aims to achieve zero improved their efficiency in terms of such variables on the Environment defects and eliminate waste from our processes. as energy use per part delivered. Waste refers to all activities that do not add value to what we deliver. As one of our KPIs, we continuously Certifications track the “non-quality cost” of our operations, 85% of our production facilities (89% in 2018) are which includes waste and scrap cost. externally certified in accordance with ISO 14001 Our 1P1P method focuses on product and and the rest, 15%, follow the principles of our process standardization and reducing cost and internal EMS standard. The reduction in the covercomplexity. age of externally certified facilities is due to cloOUR PRIORITIES ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT The Autoliv Production System (APS) is based sures of previously certified facilities and opening Climate change and resource scarcity are global Autoliv’s global environmental management on lean manufacturing philosophy, which aims to of new facilities, which are not yet certified. megatrends that drive significant environmental, system (EMS) emphasizes continuous improvecontinuously increase output with fewer resources. social, political and economic changes, posing ment and learning and is aligned with the ISO both risks and opportunities for businesses. Our 14001:2015 requirements. The management sysenvironmental targets support our ambitions to tem applies to all our manufacturing sites, officincrease resource efficiency and to reduce our es, logistic centers and technical centers. Our Image below: carbon footprint. During 2019 we made progress in EMS standard establishes the requirements for Seatbelt Webbing Process at Autoliv in Brasov, Romania all of our target areas. a standardized global approach to environmental management, including identification of material OUR POLICY AND COMMITMENT environmental aspects, objective setting, compeWe are committed to operating our business in an tence development and performance follow-up. environmentally sustainable manner and to developThe EMS also establishes standardized reporting ing and producing products in an energy-efficient of energy, greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, water, way while preventing pollution and limiting our enwaste, spills and fines. vironmental impact. We encourage our employees All our facilities complete an annual EMS to continually improve environmental sustainself-assessment to verify the adherence of their ability in their daily work, and we are committed local management system to the Autoliv globto implementing and continuously improving our al EMS standard and to identify opportunities for environmental management system, to fulfilling improvement. We also continued to develop our our compliance obligations and to enhancing our reporting and internal data quality assurance environmental performance. processes and implemented a new sustainability reporting database solution. * Efficiency target, measured by part delivered STATUS 2019 2% 1% Water risk assessment Waste and scrap reduced reduction in CO2e reduction in energy progressing from previous emissions (per part consumption (per according to year delivered) part delivered) schedule 12 13 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE dependent on water for their production processes. ENERGY The assessment will be concluded during 2020. In The total annual energy use of our facilities in 2019 many of Autoliv’s operating regions identified as was 947 GWh (952 GWh in 2018). The energy use having water stress, Autoliv already has processes per part delivered in 2019 decreased slightly over in place to reduce the amount of water withdrawn 1% compared to the target baseline year of 2018. from municipal sources. In India alone, facilities During 2019, Autoliv’s divisions and facilities startharvest nearly 7,000 cubic meters of rainwater ed to implement a number of energy efficiency imannually and treat over 30,710 cubic meters of provement initiatives, both in relation to building waste water for reuse. At our facility in Queretaro, infrastructure as well as manufacturing processes. Mexico, all rain water is harvested and sent to a Of the total energy use, 66% was purchased nearby dam. The water is used by local farmers to electricity and the remainder comprised different water their crops. fuels used for heating, cooling and power producAll water use data reported is based on actual tion. Natural gas is the main fuel source used. abstraction. Water is reported in total cubic meters Autoliv’s organizational boundary consists of abstracted. Where needed, standardized generic 93 facilities, of which 87 report actual energy use conversion factors are used to convert water use data. The remaining six facilities are office spaces from liters, US gallons or UK gallons into cubic with no material impact to the inventory. Data from meters. The 2019 data represents water reported reporting facilities is converted, using standardfrom 87% of all Autoliv facilities, and 100% of all the ized generic conversion factors, into metric units production facilities, which are the main contribuof measure where needed. Each facility maintains tors to Autoliv’s water use. a current record of reported data, including billing documents for self-assessment and auditing purposes. Data and graphs of energy use are reported in Water use GWh and include Scope 1 and Scope 2 energy use by region in cubic meters from all Autoliv facilities, including plants, offices, technical centers and logistics centers. 1,000,000 WATER 800,000 At Autoliv’s production facilities, water is used for production and for non-industrial uses. Our total 600,000 water use in 2019 amounted to 2,110,527 cubic meters (2,441,767 cubic meters in 2018), with municipal water being the main water source. 400,000 The decrease in water use was driven by a number of initiatives taken by our facilities to reduce 200,000 water consumption, such as increased recycling and reuse of water and equipment improvements. 0 Americas Asia Europe Middle East/Africa In 2019, Autoliv started an in-depth water risk assessment focusing on the facilities that are 2017 2018 2019 Share of energy use Energy use By source By region in GWH Purchased Electricity 500 66% 400 300 200 100 27% Natural Gas 5% 0 Americas Asia Europe Middle East/Africa Other 2017 2018 2019 Fuel 2% Sources Purchased Steam 14 15 GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS main types of waste from Autoliv’s operations inScope 1 and Scope 2 location-based CO2 equivaclude non-hazardous waste (87% of total waste in lent emissions from Autoliv’s operations in 2019 2019) – such as metals, office waste and packaging; totaled 406,402 metric tons (410,665 metric tons in and hazardous waste (13% of total waste in 2019). 2018), of which most – 72% – were Scope 2 emisMost of the waste is recycled, reused or recovered. sions from purchased electricity. The CO2 equivaWe continuously seek to reduce the amount of lent emissions per part delivered in 2019 decreased waste and scrap generated by our operations and close to 2% compared to the target baseline year we search for recycling opportunities for all waste of 2018. During 2019, Autoliv started to implement before considering landfill as a final option. For a number of energy efficiency initiatives and there example, we have facilities that recycle Autoliv’s was also a reduction in fugitive emissions. In India, scrap airbags and sell the different materials, we entered into a power purchase agreement to such as metal, fabric and plastic, to local recycling supply solar energy to one of our facilities and are companies. We have also implemented reusable investing in solar panels in the new facility under packaging for products in many facilities, thereconstruction in Bangalore. by reducing the amount of cardboard, Styrofoam Scope 1 emissions for Autoliv consist of fuel and plastic waste generated. Autoliv complies with sources for heating, cooling and power production global regulations on hazardous waste and, where processes as well as vehicles, and fugitive emisconflicting policies exist, our practice is to follow sions. Fuel sources include fuel oil, natural gas, the stricter of the regulations. liquified petroleum gas (LPG), diesel and gasoline. All data and graphs are reported in metric Fugitive emissions include emissions from CO2, nitons. Where needed, standardized generic controus oxide, sulfur hexafluoride, and a very limited version factors are used to convert the data. The number of refrigerants and compressed gases. 2019 data represents waste reported from 100% Autoliv determines organization boundaries of Autoliv’s production facilities and 87% of all based on the operational control approach. 100% facilities. We continued to develop our waste reof all energy use data is reported as actual use porting during 2019, which has impacted how we and GHG emissions are calculated at the global capture and report the treatment methods for both level (centralized approach), using the IPCC’s fifth non-hazardous and hazardous waste. The methassessment report (AR5) emission factors and odology change has not impacted the total waste other relevant emission factors from GHG Protogeneration numbers. col cross-sector tools. All data and graphs are reported in metric tons SIGNIFICANT SPILLS AND FINES and include Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions from There were no environmental incidents resulting all Autoliv facilities, including plants, offices, techfrom major permit violations or spills. Two minor nical centers and logistics centers. non-compliances with limited environmental impact resulted in administrative fines in China. WASTE These incidents were related to waste water In 2019, Autoliv’s activities generated a total of permit limit exceedance. Necessary corrective 106,071 metric tons of waste (111,696 in 2018). The actions have been taken in both cases. Share of CO2e emissions CO2e emissions Share of waste Waste From Autoliv activities by scope and energy (%) By region in metric tons By type (%) By region in metric tons 2% Purchased Steam Natural Gas 180,000 Landfill 40,000 13% 160,000 35,000 18% 140,000 Fugitive 30,000 Emissions 11% 120,000 25,000 100,000 Other Fuel 20,000 3% 80,000 Sources 15,000 60,000 40,000 10,000 20,000 82% 5,000 72% 0 0 Purchased Americas Asia Europe Middle East/Africa Recycling, Americas Asia Europe Middle East/Africa Electricity 2017 2018 2019 recovery and 2017 2018 2019 reuse Scope 1 Scope 2 16 17 Committing to Autoliv’s Health & Safety Work Principles: Our Employees OUR PRIORITIES at all levels share a responsibility for identifying Employee health and safety, diversity and respect and eliminating unsafe conditions and behaviors, for labor rights are the priorities of our employeeand for speaking up. We believe that work-relatrelated sustainability agenda. We also work to coned injuries and illnesses are preventable and will tinually develop our employees, which is essential continually strive to eliminate all workplace acin a highly competitive and rapidly changing envicidents. Our health and safety (H&S) strategy foronment. During 2019 we made a good progress cuses on continuously improving H&S leadership, towards our incident and severity rate interim awareness, training and competence, and our H&S targets; however, we still have work to do in order management system in general. to progress towards our ultimate goal of zero accidents. HEALTH AND SAFETY MANAGEMENT Every Autoliv facility is required to implement HEALTH AND SAFETY Autoliv’s health and safety management system Leadership Employee OUR POLICY AND COMMITMENT (HSMS). System requirements are defined in Aucommitment involvement Working safely As a leading producer of automotive safety compotoliv’s internal health and safety management sysLeaders at all levels of Employees are actively engaged the organization are actively in all aspects of health and is a condition of nents, Autoliv is committed to the development and tem standard, which is aligned with the ISO 45001 employment involved in creating a culture safety performance, including manufacturing of quality automotive safety systems requirements. The HSMS is supported throughout that supports and promotes establishing goals, identifying Every employee is while providing safe working conditions for our the organization by leadership teams who encoura strong health and safety and reporting hazards/risks, responsible for his/her own employees and contractors. In both the marketage operators and visitors to engage in and speak performance and continuous investigating incidents and workplace safety. place and workplace, health and safety is more than up about health and safety concerns and take reimprovement. tracking progress. an element of our business – it is our business. sponsibility for their actions. The implementation Autoliv understands the importance of a posiof the system is monitored through internal and tive health and safety culture, and we attach great external audits. Internal audits are performed by value to protecting the health, safety and weldivisional and facility cross-functional teams. In Continuous fare of our employees, contractors and visitors. A addition, our sites undergo external health and Recognition improvement focus on health and safety puts people first. It also safety audits. The external health and safety audits and control of risks Processes, procedures and makes good business sense: a good safety record are performed as part of the site risk management Processes, procedures and programs are implemented to reduces risk and costs and enhances productivity. audits or as external certification audits. Currently, programs are implemented monitor health and safety, At Autoliv, the responsibility for health and safe12% (15% in 2018) of Autoliv facilities are externally to properly identify, prevent, verify implementation, identify ty starts with senior management. All employees certified in accordance with OHSAS 18001 or ISO reduce and/or control potential deficiencies and provide hazards/risks. opportunities for improvement. 45001. The reduction in the coverage of externally at Autoliv’s production facilities. We conducted a certified facilities is due to closures of previoustalent review in our environment, health and safely certified facilities and opening of new facilities, ty (EH&S) organization in order to identify training which are not yet certified. needs and talented individuals for global EH&S The cornerstone of our health and safety manexpert teams. We reviewed the contractor safety agement system is the Hazard Risk Assessment programs at our production facilities, revised our (HRA) program. HRAs provide a factual basis for personal protective equipment guidelines and inidentifying significant hazards/risks and impletroduced new visual factory guidelines. We also menting continuous improvement activities to implemented a new global sustainability database eliminate or mitigate hazards/risks. HRAs estabto further develop our global performance monilish the primary principles and standards by which toring and management. the global health and safety activities and operations are managed. HEALTH AND SAFETY PERFORMANCE In 2019, health and safety was one of the main We closed the year with an incident rate of 0.57 STATUS 2019 focus areas in Autoliv’s annual policy deployment (0.64 in 2018) and a severity rate of 5.82 (8.03 in process. Policy deployment is a tool which turns 2018). We were also able to increase the number of Incident Rate: Severity Rate: Autoliv’s strategy into concrete annual targets facilities with zero injuries to 29 (from 22 in 2018). 0.57 5.82 and tactics at all levels of the organization. We revised our global Health and Safety Policy and inUnfortunately, one fatal accident took place in Autoliv’s operations during 2019. In December, an troduced a number of global H&S communication Autoliv employee was involved in a fatal warehouse tools, including the launch of regular safety talks forklift accident at our facility in Turkey. We are 18 19 collaborating with authorities and conducting a Our human and labor rights commitments are part The strike was not directed towards Autoliv as a engage employees. We take great pride in our thorough internal investigation of the accident and of Autoliv’s Standards of Business Conduct and company but involved close to 60,000 people in vision of Saving More Lives and in our values. We will take appropriate measures as necessary. Ethics (the “Code of Conduct”) and we also have the city of Matamoros. The strike started with are constantly looking for people who share our We will continue our relentless focus on health a Respect in the Workplace Policy, which specifies workers in the factories of 45 different companies commitment to our vision, who can live our values and safety in order to progress towards our ultithat we have zero tolerance for harassment. and was eventually extended to approximately 100 and contribute to our mission. mate goal of zero accidents. Our health and safeWe provide Code of Conduct training for all companies. We successfully negotiated with the We strive to retain employees by providing a ty management system has been instrumental in employees and have a Respect in the Workplace union and reached an agreement, and have a new respectful and growth-oriented work environment improving the health, safety and well-being of our e-learning program that specifically teaches all contract in place. where our people can develop and become their employees and we are committed to continuousemployees about what constitutes harassment best selves. Training our leaders to deliver on this ly improving health and safety performance at all and informs them that sexual harassment and all DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION ambition is critical, as are our continued efforts locations and at all levels. other forms of harassment and discrimination are We are committed to diversity and acknowledge, to understand how our people perceive Autoliv as not tolerated. accept and value differences among our people an employer and what they value. An important LABOR RIGHTS We encourage our employees to speak up and and the contributions they make. The diversity of cornerstone of employee retention and the growth Autoliv is committed to offering fair terms and report known or suspected violations of the Code our people is one of the things that makes Autoliv of each employee is the ongoing personal, transconditions of employment. Our values, Code of of Conduct or our polices. Whenever an employee great. We recognize that each person has unique parent communication between the team memConduct, talent development strategies and emreports an issue through our confidential third parstrengths, and embracing those strengths helps ber and manager, which is summarized during an ployment policies support the principles conty-operated helpline or other channels, we invesus Save More Lives. Inclusion is fundamental to annual performance and development dialogue tained in the United Nations Universal Declaration tigate the issue and take necessary actions (read our culture and we believe that everyone should (PDD). During 2019, 99% (99% in 2018) of targeted of Human Rights and the International Labour more about business ethics and integrity in “Acting be respected and treated fairly. Autoliv is commitemployees conducted PDDs with their managers. Organization’s Fundamental Principles and Ethically and Committing to Society” chapter). ted to an inclusive and diverse workplace where To support the development of our people, we Labour Standards. We strive to: Autoliv recognizes and respects ­ employees’ people can be themselves and deliver results. have created a competency framework differentiright to freedom of association and collective barOur workforce reflects the diversity of the ated at several levels depending on the complexity • Provide fair and equitable wages, working gaining. In the majority of the countries where countries and cultures in which we operate. At the and scope of the role. Linked to this competency hours, benefits and other conditions of emwe operate, our workforce is covered by a collecend of 2019, 46% (46% in 2018) of our workforce framework is an architecture of development proployment in accordance with applicable laws, tive bargaining agreement. In addition, we have a and 21% (21% in 2018) of our senior management grams, supporting the development of the skills number of different mechanisms through which positions were filled by women. We have operations and capabilities needed at each particular career • Recognize and respect employees’ right to employees can bring up topics with management. in 27 different countries and 28% of our workforce stage. In addition to promoting continuous defreedom of association and collective These include the Autoliv helpline, an employee is located in Asia, 31% in the Americas and 41% in velopment on the job every day, more than 4,000 bargaining, suggestion program, facility Health and Safety Europe (including Africa, Russia and Turkey). employees attended at least one such training pro• Provide humane and safe working conditions, Committees, and Operational Committees. The gram this year. Additionally, we have a multitude major unions representing Autoliv employees TALENT MANAGEMENT AND EMPLOYEE of development channels, including technical and • Prohibit forced and child labor, and in different regions are disclosed as part of our DEVELOPMENT specialist career paths, international assignments • Promote a workplace free of discrimination Annual Report (10-K). In January 2019, one of Autoliv builds a winning team by focusing on havand other such programs. and harassment. our facilities in Mexico was affected by a strike, ing the right people, the right culture and a work which was a result of social unrest in the region. environment that allows us to attract, retain and Incident rate Severity rate Number of facilities Well-balanced workforce Number of reportable injuries per Total days away from work due to a workWith zero injuries By age, group, and gender in % 200,000 employee hours of exposure related reportable injury and/or illness per 200,000 employee hours of exposure Men Women 3% >60 1% 2,0 0,514 13.47 0,5 30 29 0,5 12 5% 51-60 4% 1,6 0,4 10.54 0,4 25 22 0,4 20 10 20 18 9% 41-50 10% 1,2 0,3 8.03 0,3 0,3 1.03 8 0.83 5.82 15 16% 31-40 15% 0,2 6 0,2 0,2 0,8 0.64 0.57 10 4 19% 21-30 14% 0,4 0,1 0,1 0,1 2 5 2% <20 2% 0,0 0,0 0,0 0 0,0 0 2016 2017 2018 2019 2016 2017 2018 2019 2016 2017 2018 2019 20 21 Acting Ethically and policies. Annual goals and actions are identified to system (LMS) hosted by a training company as continuously enhance and advance the program. well as an in-house system. The LMS supports Each year, all employees at the managerial the reporting of attendance at training courses Committing to Society level and higher submit Code of Conduct certifiand monitors on-time completion. Related KPIs, cations electronically in our compliance system. which include the number of employees and perThe certification requires the disclosure of known centage of the workforce that receives compliance violations of the Code of Conduct, including our training, are reported by division on a monthly baAnti-Corruption and Anti-Bribery Policy and Ansis, discussed in management meetings and pretitrust and Competition Policy, as well as other sented to the Risk and Compliance Committee for OUR PRIORITIES Promoting ethical behavior matters that may give rise to actual or perceived review every quarter. How we do business is as important as the busiAutoliv’s Board of Directors, in particular the Risk compliance concerns. We also require a conflict of During 2019 more than 50,000 employees ness we do. Acting ethically and ensuring that no and Compliance Committee, has the ultimate reinterest disclosure to be submitted by all indirect participated in and completed Code of Conduct corruption, anti-competitive or other illegal behavsponsibility for overseeing the Compliance Proemployees (office workers) and anyone with an actraining. The focus of the training this year was on ior takes place in our business are key priorities gram, which has been formalized and in place for tual, potential or perceived conflict of interest, so interactive dilemma based face-to-face training. for us. We also contribute to local communities eight years. In consultation with management, that each case can be assessed to determine if When it comes to Code of Conduct certification, through our business operations and engage in the Board reviews compliance reports periodicalmitigation or remediation is necessary. we achieved 97%. locally relevant community activities. ly, and business conduct and ethics are standing A critical aspect of our Compliance Program items on the agendas of annual Board meetings is education, which supports employees in underAUTOLIV HELPLINE BUSINESS ETHICS AND INTEGRITY and the quarterly meetings of the Risk and Comstanding company expectations and policies perThe effectiveness of Autoliv’s ethics culture relies OUR CODE OF CONDUCT pliance Committee. taining to the Code of Conduct and related comon our employees being empowered to speak up At Autoliv, the Code of Conduct is the foundaEach member of Autoliv’s business leadership pany policies. The goal of our business conduct and report any concerns they may have. We protion for business ethics and integrity. We publish is responsible for ensuring that, within their reand ethics education is to provide a continuing mote and encourage all employees to speak up the Code of Conduct in 19 languages and make spective organizations, employees understand communication channel for compliance matters, through different channels. it available to all employees, consultants and the Code of Conduct and have sufficient inforto deliver compliance messages to employees, to Autoliv employees are responsible for immecontractors. mation to enable them to meet their business train and educate employees in their compliance diately reporting suspected or known violations of Our Code of Conduct was revised during responsibilities legally and ethically. Management responsibilities, and to support the Code of Conthe Code of Conduct, the law or Autoliv’s policies 2018 and was launched to all employees in is responsible for adopting and enforcing approduct and our Compliance Program. to their manager or a member of management, February 2019. The main changes include havpriate controls and for taking the steps necessary The training activities that were rolled out durHR, the Legal Department, a Compliance Officer ing a more conversational tone that is easier for to ensure compliance. ing the year included both classroom training and or through the Autoliv Helpline. The Autoliv Helpemployees to relate to. The Code was commuCompliance with the Code of Conduct and e-learning. Examples of areas covered include line is an ethics and compliance reporting line that nicated to employees through various channels related company policies is the responsibility of Code of Conduct training for new hires, complihas been available to all employees since 2011. throughout the organization and via face-to-face every Autoliv employee. Our objective is to embed ance investigations, antitrust, respect in the workThe Autoliv Helpline is a multilingual, third partraining/engagement sessions including group a culture of compliance and ethics into our dayplace, conflicts of interest, whistleblowing, insider ty-operated service where reports can be made discussions about relevant ethical dilemmas to-day work and decisions, and to live our culture trading and GDPR. confidentially, without fear of retaliation, 24 hours related to different areas in the Code of Conof “It starts with me.” Each employee is responsia day, seven days a week, by phone or online. This duct. This training is being rolled out with a ble for acquiring a sufficient understanding of the Our performance can be done anonymously where allowed by law train-the-trainer concept, and the goal is that all Code of Conduct and related company policies in We track and report the number of courses ofand/or confidentially in the language of any counemployees should have received face-to-face order to recognize situations which may not comfered and percentage of completion for each actry where Autoliv operates. training by end of 2020. ply with the Code of Conduct and related company tive course. We also use a learning management * Completion rate measured from the annual target group STATUS 2019 Anti-corruption Anti-trust training Code of Conduct training completion: completion: certification: 98% 99% 97% 22 23 The Autoliv Anti-Retaliation Policy states that transactions. Any conduct that violates anti-corand anti-bribery. Periodically, we also conduct Our performance no employee will be adversely affected for ruption laws is detrimental to the societies where face-to-face training to enhance the employees’ In 2019, we trained a total of 3,223 employees on reporting in good faith or for refusing to carry out a it occurs and to the best interests of Autoliv. understanding of compliance with our policy. antitrust matters, achieving a course completion directive believed to constitute fraud or a violation rate of 99%. of the Code of Conduct, laws or regulations. At Our policy Our performance Since 2011, Autoliv was subject to antitrust inAutoliv, we are committed to protecting individuals We strictly prohibit the acceptance or offering of In 2019, we trained a total of 3,027 employees vestigations and inquiries in various jurisdictions, who make a report or participate in an investigaany form of bribery. It is our policy to compete vigin anti-corruption matters, achieving a course including the US, Brazil, South Africa and the EU. tion in good faith. orously and effectively while always complying with completion rate of 98%. The final investigation was resolved in May 2019. We take all reports seriously and investigate the applicable anti-corruption laws in all counFor more information on the conclusions of these to determine whether there is any violation of the tries in which we operate. We have defined clear ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR matters, please refer to Contingent Liabilities law, the Code of Conduct or other Autoliv policies. expectations to prevent corruption in our Code of The purpose of antitrust and competition laws is footnote to the financial statements contained in In the event that a case is substantiated, the ComConduct and our Anti-Corruption and Anti-Bribery to preserve and continue fair and honest compeAutoliv’s periodic reports on Form 10-Q and Form pliance Department will develop a remediation Policy. The policy includes guidance to ensure all tition and to protect society from anti-competitive 10-K, as filed with the SEC. plan with recommendations and action plans to employees are aware of what is acceptable and not practices. Any conduct that violates antitrust laws prevent the situation from occurring in the future, acceptable relating to gifts given/received, hospiis detrimental to the best interests of the market TAX POLICY and responsible management will document the tality and entertainment, with a strong emphasis and to our company. At Autoliv, tax planning is carried out in compliactions and implementation timeline. on government officials. During 2019, the Anance with all relevant laws, disclosure requireti-Corruption and Anti-Bribery Policy was reviewed Our policy ments and regulations while safeguarding shareOur performance and revised to make it even clearer and more releAs a company with worldwide business activities, holder interests as well as the organization’s The Autoliv Helpline receives 87% of all incoming vant for our employees. Autoliv is determined to adhere to all applicable reputation and brand. All tax planning must be reports that result in an investigation, while 13% A third party who acts on Autoliv’s behalf must laws and regulations in force in the various counin line with Autoliv’s business purpose and no of the cases handled in 2019 were submitted inalways behave in accordance with Autoliv’s Code of tries where it operates and to implement high artifice in organizational structure is permitted. ternally – for example, reported to management, Conduct and the Anti-Corruption and Anti-Bribery standards of integrity in all business transactions. Specifically, all Autoliv affiliates are required to HR, the Legal Department or the Compliance Policy. The term “third party” refers to any outside To ensure compliance with antitrust laws in all pay all tax obligations and meet relevant payment Department. A total of 443 Helpline reports were party acting on behalf of Autoliv, including but not countries where we operate, we have defined clear deadlines, to fully comply with all relevant tax laws received in 2019. The reporting volume per 100 limited to agents and intermediaries, consultants, expectations in order to prevent violations of our and accounting rules and regulations in the tax employees in 2019 amounted to 0.68, which is a representatives, distributors, teaming partners, Code of Conduct and our Antitrust and Competijurisdictions in which the business operates, and decrease from 0.89 in 2018. contractors and suppliers, consortia, and joint tion Policy. This policy includes guidance to ensure to be open and transparent with tax authorities venture partners. Management is responsible all employees are aware of what is acceptable about its tax liability. Where disputes arise, Autoliv Autoliv helpline reports for evaluating each third-party relationship and and not acceptable relating to interactions with will proactively seek to work cooperatively with full assessing the risk involved. competitors in order to ensure independent price transparency. Number of Per 100/ Autoliv takes bribery and corruption very decisions. Reports employees seriously, and any employee or representative who COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT 600 1,0 violates this policy will be subject to disciplinary Training and education OUR POLICY action up to and including termination of employEvery other year, we enroll all employees in our We believe in contributing to the well-being of the 500 0,8 ment and legal action. target groups, such as management, sales and communities in which we operate. We do this by 400 Similarly, we do not provide or accept kickbacks purchasing, in a business conduct and ethics educacontributing to the local economy through our 0,6 or facilitation payments. Kickbacks refer to the retion e-learning course in antitrust and competition. business operations and through locally relevant 300 turn of a sum received (or due to be received) as Periodically, we also conduct face-to-face training community involvement projects. We encourage 0,4 part of an agreement to foster or arrange business. to enhance the employees’ understanding of comour business operations to engage in and support 200 Facilitation payments are small payments used to pliance with our policy. We have also held facetheir local communities. Many of our projects are 100 0,2 facilitate government actions, such as processing to-face antitrust training for target groups of eminitiated by Autoliv employees who are passionate an operating license. Although these facilitation ployees in management and high-risk functions. about their communities and include a wide range 0 0,0 payments may be allowed in some countries, we To provide further clarity regarding the of community giving and volunteering activities, 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 do not allow facilitation payments at Autoliv. Antitrust and Competition Policy, we also provide from road safety awareness to education, envia brochure on our Antitrust “Dos and Don’ts” ronmental projects, charity runs and donations ANTI-CORRUPTION Training and education Guidelines, which gives employees practical during local natural catastrophes. As a company with worldwide business activities, Every other year, we enroll all employees in our guidance on complying with antitrust and compeAutoliv is determined to adhere to all applicable target groups, such as management, sales and tition regulations. anti-corruption laws where we operate and to impurchasing, in a business conduct and ethics plement high standards of integrity in all business education e-learning course on anti-corruption Anti-corruption training Antitrust training 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Number of employees trained 3,347 8,602 5,982 7,589 3,027 Number of employees trained 3,674 8,874 5,820 8,002 3,223 % completed of the target group 97% 87% 100% 100% 98% % completed of the target group 95% 87% 100% 98% 99% 24 25 ROAD SAFETY AWARENESS ucational programs for employees and the comAutoliv participates in road safety awareness munity. Many Autoliv locations have developed or education in its local communities. We do so sponsored programs with the aim of introducing through country-wide initiatives, such as the Road­ local children to technology by inviting students Safety Knowledge Sharing Platform in India, as into facilities to pique their interest in pursuing well as locally initiated events. studies in math and science and to inspire them to During 2019, we continued to work with the one day pursue a career in a technical field. Road Safety Knowledge Sharing Platform together We recognize that not all people have access with the Indian government and other stakeholdto basic education or are able to read or write. ers. The platform aims to facilitate an exchange of For this reason, we are proud of our Pratham knowledge in order to drive the adoption of global partnership. Together with other leading Swedish best practices from Vision Zero and help build a industries, we are part of Pratham Sweden. The stronger framework for road safety in India. objective of the 2017-2020 program is to ensure The Annual China Auto Safety Exhibition Roadthat 30,000 children in the targeted state of Assam, show, held as part of the UN Decades of Action India, are given an effective education that and organized by the China Automotive Technolpromotes the children’s development as well as ogy and Research Center, focuses on increasing building capabilities and skills that will be useful public traffic safety awareness. 2019 marked Auin later life. Recent figures show that 96.9% of chiltoliv’s seventh consecutive year of participating in dren between the ages of six and 14 attend school the event and leading roadshows, along with over in rural India, but they are not receiving an effec20 OEMs and other automotive suppliers. Autoliv tive education in reading or math. Pratham hopes participated in the roadshow and visited numerous to alleviate this problem and give every child the cities to increase public traffic safety awareness. chance to go to school and learn. The results Local road safety education outreach proachieved in the project so far are encouraging. grams are commonplace in the communities where Autoliv operates. A notable example is Autoliv Romania, where we have continued to support awareness raising concerning traffic safety, targeting both adults and children in the area. Dedicated activities have been organized for our approximately 10,000 employees in Romania and for younger children and high school students in Students in Pratham’s Learning Camps (Picture from Pratham Sweden) the area. Over 350 children visited Autoliv Romania in 2019 as part of the “School in a different way” program. Autoliv Romania is also one of the partners in a project which focuses on road safety edThe “Teaching at the Right Level” (TaRL) methwe also mentored high school students by offerucation for local high school students. The project odology pioneered by Pratham and used in the ing possibilities for the students to solve real-life is a partnership with local authorities, including project has been evaluated and refined through technical problems. the Police, the County School Committee and the the collaboration with the 2019 Nobel Laureates In addition to traffic safety and education, our Emergency Response Authority. High school stuin Economic Sciences, Esther Duflo and Abhijit facilities hold activities in other areas relevant to dents receive training on topics such as defensive Banerjee. our sustainability agenda. For example, Autoliv driving, first aid in car accidents and the risks asVocational training in the communities where Poland’s employees decided to focus on one of sociated with distracted driving. During 2019, we we operate enables Autoliv to train future employthe largest and growing environmental problems, reached more than 2,800 students from over 40 ees for our operations and allows local people to plastic waste, by working to eliminate disposable local high schools. acquire new skills. Training in sewing and leather plastics at our premises. A number of actions In Japan, we collaborated with Tsukuba city wrapping is commonplace in many countries. In have been already implemented, such as stopping to organize a traffic safety event for elementary Lugoj and Resita in Romania, for example, we are the sale of water in plastic bottles, installing more school children. Almost 50 families took part in active in the local educational system. The Dual water dispensers, using refillable bottles and this event, and our employees shared their know­ Schooling project is also continuing this year with eliminating disposable cutlery, plates and bowls. ledge on traffic safety, the importance of wearing a new generation of pupils. The pupils benefit from In Mexico, we implemented a PET recycling cambike helmets and the effectiveness of seatbelts. a scholarship and will be able to work at Autoliv paign for our employees. Activities were also demonstrated using radioas qualified employees when they graduate. In orIn India, we provided disaster support to local controlled cars. der to ensure that they have the practical abilities communities affected by flooding in the state of Autoliv India launched a safety awareness required, we set up a dual schooling workshop, Karnataka, providing immediate support to 500 movie, which will be used for educational purposwhere our colleagues teach the pupils. families. Air pollution is a growing problem in es in various industries, educational institutes and Collaborations with institutions of higher edIndia, and we also organized safety awareness universities, and to educate people in surrounding ucation are very important for Autoliv. In Germacampaigns at different locations to inform people communities on road, construction and domestic ny, for example, we actively collaborate with local about air pollution and to distribute masks and safety. The movie is available in three local lanuniversities and our facilities train students as apinformation handouts. In the US, we supported guages. prentices. In 2019, our facilities hosted 17 apprenfacility upgrades to a local shelter for domestic tices. In Mexico, Matamoros, Autoliv hosted ten violence victims, and in Mexico, we supported SUPPORT FOR EDUCATION apprentices from the local university. In Utah in non-profit organizations working with disabled In addition to road safety education, several the US, our team partnered with the local univerpeople and with children suffering from cancer or Autoliv facilities host and participate in various edsity to create a new quality specialist degree and other serious diseases. 26 27 Supply Chain Management OUR PRIORITIES is included in the general terms and conditions Suppliers play a key role in managing our global attached to purchasing orders. supply chain in a responsible manner. We focus on integrating sustainability into existing purchasing SUPPLY CHAIN AUDITS and supplier quality management processes and Autoliv has a global team responsible for the work to ensure responsible sourcing of minerals. quality management of our supply base. Our During 2019 we met our target related to new supSupplier Quality Department and Supply Chain plier sustainability audits and progressed towards Management Department work closely together, the other targets. including such mandatory steps as the qualification of a new direct material supplier or new OUR POLICY supplier site and pre-qualification audits. Once We expect our suppliers to comply with the laws a direct material supplier has been approved, and regulations in the areas where they operate we have a three-year audit cycle for the process and to follow Autoliv’s policies and procedures, audit. These audits ensure that our suppliers including our Standards of Business Conduct and adhere to Autoliv’s standards as well as to appliEthics for Suppliers (Supplier Code). The Supplier cable local laws and regulations, and establish Code conveys our expectation that suppliers will a process for working with suppliers that fail to uphold our social, ethical and environmental meet our policies and standards. standards in conducting their businesses, includSustainability criteria are included as a module ing human rights and working conditions, the in the direct material supplier quality audits. Durenvironment, and business conduct and ethics. ing 2019, all new direct material suppliers were For direct material suppliers, the Supplier audited, and by the end of 2019, 41% of our direct Code of Conduct is included in the Autoliv Supmaterial suppliers had undergone a sustainability plier Manual (ASM). All suppliers are required to audit. During 2019, we continued to develop the acknowledge their compliance with the ASM as supplier sustainability audit criteria and process. part of our general terms and conditions and by We provided further guidance to our supplier qualsigning a separate acknowledgement letter for ity auditors who perform sustainability audits, and the ASM. In the case of indirect material supplialso worked to further integrate sustainability into ers, a reference to the Supplier Code of Conduct our supplier risk management process. CONFLICT MINERALS purchaser. As part of our supply chain processes, Autoliv’s policy on conflict minerals (the “Conflict we work with our suppliers to improve the traceMinerals Policy”) provides further clarification ability of minerals and ensure responsible sourcas to the principles of the Standards of Business ing of components, parts or products containing 100% 100% 95% Conduct and Ethics regarding the illegal trade of tin, tantalum, tungsten and/or gold. In order to natural resources, in particular certain minerals comply with the rules and regulations regarding known as “conflict minerals.” Pursuant to SEC conflict minerals as promulgated by the SEC, we rules, conflict minerals include certain minerreview our sourcing supply chain to identify any New direct material All direct material Direct material suppliers als that originated in the Democratic Republic minerals that may qualify as “conflict minerals.” suppliers sustainability suppliers sustainability respond to conflict of Congo or an adjoining country and are sold We have incorporated the principles of this polaudited. Continuous audited. By 2021 minerals survey. By 2022 to benefit groups financing armed conflicts in icy into the requirements of our contractually those regions. We recognize the need to end the binding Supplier Manual and we work with our illegal extraction and trade of natural resources, suppliers to increase transparency in the supply and the human rights violations, conflicts and chain. Autoliv supports industry initiatives, such STATUS 2019 environmental degradation that result from this as the Conflict-Free Smelter (CFS) Program, to trade. validate that the metals used in our products do 100% 41% 94% We have designed our conflict minerals approach in accordance with the Organisation not contribute to conflicts and come from sustainable sources. Autoliv publishes an annual of new direct material of all direct material direct material suppliers for Economic Co-Operation and Development report on this conflict minerals process on its suppliers sustainability suppliers sustainability responded to conflict (“OECD”) Due Diligence Guidance for Responwebsite. The response rate to the 2018 direct audited audited minerals survey sible Supply Chains of Minerals from Conflictmaterial supplier conflict minerals survey was Affected and High-Risk Areas, specifically as 94% (85% in 2017). The 2019 Conflict Minerals it relates to our position as a “downstream” Report will be published in May 2020. 28 29 Sustainability Governance and Risk Management GOVERNANCE sustainability strategy as well as its annual and Autoliv’s sustainability program is managed withlong-term plans for key categories, and monitors in a well-defined governance structure, through clearly established ownership and responsibilities implementation. The Sustainability Board also involves individual Executive Management Team Creating More Value at multiple levels in the organization. Line and members as required for new projects and initifunctional managers lead the execution of program initiatives. At Autoliv, the ultimate oversight for the comatives. The Sustainability Board meets at a minimum on a quarterly basis. Day-to-day sustainability work and integration Saving More Lives pany’s sustainability activities lies with the Board of sustainability into Autoliv’s business is led by of Directors. The Board of Directors sets the directhe Vice President Sustainability, who reports to tion for the sustainability activities and regularly the Executive Vice President HR, Sustainability and monitors progress of Autoliv’s sustainability stratCommunications. The Vice President Sustainability egy through its Nominating and Corporate Governcoordinates, develops and monitors Autoliv’s susance Committee (NCGC). The Board also annually tainability agenda and facilitates the Sustainability reviews the Sustainability Report disclosures and Board meetings. Everyday sustainability topics are approves Autoliv’s Modern Slavery Statement. managed, as appropriate, by the Group sustainImplementation responsibility for sustainabiliability function, category owners, divisions, globCustomers ty lies with the Executive Management Team. The al functions, other corporate functions and topic Executive Management Team (EMT) has appointexperts. Ultimate responsibility for execution lies ed a Sustainability Board charged with providing with the respective line and functional managers. direction and oversight. The Sustainability Board Read more about governance as it relates approves Autoliv’s annual Sustainability Report to compliance in chapter “Acting Ethically and disclosures, reviews and approves Autoliv’s Committing to Society”. Owners & Business & Creditors Partners Board of Directors Nominating and Corporate Governance Commitee VALUE Executive Sustainability Board Management Team Family & Employees Society Head of Sustainability Category Owners Sustainability Agents • Subcategory Owners • Project Managers • Project Contributors • Initiative Owners • Contributors 30 31 RISK MANAGEMENT employees as well as family and society. Healthy, priorities and approach to managing each of them External reporting guidelines Autoliv has a global risk management organization balanced and sustainable relationships are as well as the ways in which we are measuring our We use the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guideand utilizes a number of different tools, such as an fundamental for business success and produce progress. lines to inform our reporting, though we do not enterprise risk management (ERM) framework, long-term value. The information in this report covers the 2019 report in accordance with GRI. When selecting and divisional risk mapping activities, and standards We aim to ensure that we understand the perfinancial year, unless otherwise stated. Information developing our performance indicators, we have for site risk management, business contingency spectives of our key stakeholders through both about our business and financial performance is used GRI as a reference in the areas of environplanning and physical security. We include sustainstructured and daily business interactions. In 2019, provided in our 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K. ment, occupational health and safety, business ability risks, such as product safety, environmental we conducted our regular Autoliv Quality Culture Unless otherwise stated, this report covers ethics and diversity. compliance, water scarcity, climate change, H&S Survey to track the views of our employees. CusAutoliv Inc. and all companies over which Autoliv We have aligned our reporting with the Directive and other labor rights, business ethics and supply tomer views are tracked as part of our monthly Inc. directly or indirectly exercises control, which 2014/95/EU requirements. Those European chain sustainability, in our overall risk management customer scorecards and investor views as part of as a general rule means that the company owns subsidiaries that are required to produce an framework. We assess how sustainability relates to our regular dialogue with investors. We also perimore than 50% of the voting rights. Exceptions ocannual non-financial report use the information business risks, such as legal proceedings, reguodically perform additional surveys and in-depth cur with respect to the following performance data: provided in this report to comply with their nationlatory changes, contingent liabilities, supply chain interviews to further increase our understanding of al requirements. disruptions and operational disruptions. We mandifferent stakeholder views. • Environmental data: data from joint venage sustainability-related risks through company We actively collaborate with our stakeholders. tures, where Autoliv owns more than 50% of External assurance management systems and programs described in For example, we collaborate with our customers, the voting rights, is reported by assessing the The Sustainability Report has not been assured by a different chapters of this report. suppliers and the research community on innopercentage of operations that is equal to the third-party assurance provider. A more detailed description of Autoliv’s materivation projects, and we have had an external Reeconomic substance of the relationship with al operational, strategic and financial risks, includsearch Advisory Board since 1984. Our research the company, referred to as the operational ing sustainability-related topics, can be found in the findings contribute to the development of global control approach. “Risk Factors” and “Risks and Risk Management” automotive safety standards and we contribute to sections of the Annual Report on Form 10-K filed traffic safety education and other activities in our Changes in scope and methodologies with the SEC. local communities. During 2019 there were no major changes in scope or reporting methodologies that would have had STAKEHOLDERS REPORTING SCOPE AND BOUNDARIES material impact on the data reported. Smaller We aim to create value for our main stakeholdIn Autoliv’s 2019 Sustainability Report, we outline changes are disclosed in relevant report chapters. ers: customers, shareholders, business partners, why sustainability is relevant to our business, our 32 33 Global Compact Index Autoliv Inc. supports the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact on human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. We are committed to making the UN Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company, and to engaging in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Sustainable Development Goals. Our annual Sustainability Report serves as our DS Communication on Progress and describes our AR D company’s efforts to implement the Ten Principles. N TA RS LABO Global Compact Principles and Sustainability Report Reference Chapter HUMAN RIGHTS REPORT CHAPTER Businesses should support and respect the protection 1 of internationally proclaimed human rights; and • Life-saving innovations • Committing to our employees make sure that they are not complicit in human 2 rights abuses. • Supply chain management LABOR REPORT CHAPTER Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and 3 the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining the elimination of all forms of forced and 4 compulsory labor • Committing to our employees • Supply chain management 5 the effective abolition of child labor; and the elimination of discrimination in respect of 6 employment and occupation ENVIRONMENT REPORT CHAPTER Businesses should support a precautionary approach to 7 environmental challenges; • Limiting our impact on the environment undertake initiatives to promote greater 8 environmental responsibility; and • Supply chain management 9 encourage the development and diffusion OUR SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY contributes to several of the Sustainable Development Goals. However, ANTI-CORRUPTION REPORT CHAPTER the one where we can make the most significant contribution is the Goal #3: Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being at all ages. Our vision of Saving More Lives directly supports the target of halving global Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, • Acting ethically and deaths and injuries from the road traffic accidents. We also actively participate in multi-stakeholder efforts 10 including extortion and bribery committing to society to advance this target, aligned with the Goal #17: Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the Global Partnership for Sustainable Development. • Supply chain management 34 autoliv.com
