Growing with purpose Sustainability Report 2019 Sustainability Report 2019 Table of contents / 2 Table of contents Introduction 3 Our Corporate Sustainability Strategy 11 Engagement 56 Message from our President and CEO 4 Environmental 15 Social investment programs 57 A note about Kelly’s COVID-19 response 5 Environment 17 Disaster recovery 60 A timeline of Kelly’s Corporate Sustainability Strategy 6 Energy efficiency 19 Governance 61 Our business 7 Water consumption 22 Ethics and business conduct 63 Mergers, acquisitions, investments, and divestitures 8 Waste management 22 Governance 64 Kelly by the numbers 9 Occupational health & safety 23 Code of Business Conduct and Ethics 65 Recognition 10 Occupational health & safety: employees 24 Privacy and data protection 66 Occupational health & safety: customers 24 Communication and reporting 67 Social 27 Internal communications 68 Employees and people 29 External communications sustainability standards 69 Our people 30 Transparency and integrity line 69 Diversity and inclusion 41 How we report 70 Human rights 45 Materiality 71 Supply chain and customer relations 46 Stakeholder engagement 73 Our supply chain (KellyOCG) 49 Supplier risk management 52 About this report 76 Supplier Code of Conduct 53 GRI index 78 Diverse supplier strategy 54 Sustainability Report 2019 Table of contents / 3 Introduction Message from our President and CEO A note about Kelly’s COVID-19 response A timeline of Kelly’s Corporate Sustainability Strategy Our business Mergers, acquisitions, investments, and divestitures Kelly by the numbers Recognition Sustainability Report 2019 Introduction / Message from our President and CEO Table of contents / 4 Message from our President and CEO At Kelly , we know who we are. We are a talent ® our corporate headquarters. Hosting a community began supporting the UN Global Compact and company with a deep sense of purpose: to connect volunteer event in-house provided for a rewarding we are committed to aligning our initiatives to the people with work in ways that enrich their lives. experience for both our guests, as well as us as Sustainable Development Goals. We have also And, we carry out our purpose in ways of welcoming volunteers. created processes and procedures to advance and celebrating the varied backgrounds, talents, sustainability proactively, resulting in an increase ideas, contributions, and workstyles of all. Being Based on six key pillars, our sustainability strategy to our performance and scoring in all our external a champion for people to succeed in their work/ focuses on an Environmental, Social, and assessments and auditing processes. life journey is how we win in a global, competitive Governance (ESG) structure, coinciding with our market, and most importantly make a positive critical business values: Thank you for joining us on our journey of impact on the world and people everywhere. sustainability, as we continue to grow with purpose. • Environmental: Health, Safety & Environment We are proud of the positive impact we have had Our approach to sustainability relates to making • Social: Employees and People; Supply Chain and on our communities, our world, and people, where a positive environmental and social impact, being Customer Relations; Engagement together we thrive. strategic to our business values, rather than • Governance: Ethics and Business Conduct; being philanthropic. Designed on the concept Communications and Reporting of social investment, it ensures the creation of future development capacities instead of aiding As sustainability initiatives continue to be a forefront on isolated occasions. We support initiatives of ambition for positive change in the world where our employees can actively engage in the and workplace, Kelly is on a path of continuous Peter Quigley causes they believe in that are also connected to improvement, setting impressive goals ingrained in President & Chief Executive Officer our sustainability strategy. In 2019, I had the honor our business values that help address the world’s Kelly Services of participating as a volunteer in the ﬁrst Engage environmental and social challenges, while adding (our corporate volunteer program) event held at value for all our stakeholders. As of 2019, Kelly Sustainability Report 2019 Introduction / A note about Kelly’s COVID-19 response Table of contents / 5 A note about Kelly’s COVID-19 response Since the Coronavirus outbreak was ﬁrst reported in December 2019, Kelly has been carefully Kelly operations remain open. We have allocated as many resources as possible to support those keen focus on personal well-being, we made training available through the Kelly Learning Center (KLC) “An experienced crisis team monitoring the situation. The Covid-19 pandemic displaced from their jobs and ﬁnd them employment around topics such as health and safety, wellness, at Kelly is working around the has dramatically affected the rhythm of our daily life with severe health and economic impacts. within our Kelly network. The health and safety of our employees and workers continue to be a stress and anxiety management, and remote work readiness. We also made counseling sessions clock to assess and decisively During this difficult, uncertain time, we reinforce priority, and we have implemented health and safety available to our employees and created a follow-up act on the latest Coronavirus our commitment to helping our employees and protocols to ensure social distancing in essential plan for those directly impacted by the pandemic. customers with information and support to navigate jobs and avoid the unnecessary risk of transmission. You can ﬁnd more information here. information so that we can the crisis. Our industry and its valuable temporary workers are actively serving health care, science, technology, The depth and breadth of our global ﬁeld network help protect our workers Our Emergency Management Team is leading and education organizations that are on the front and our shared services operations allow us to everywhere.” the company’s global response plan and business lines of ﬁghting the Coronavirus. continue offering our customers the support they continuity actions, ensuring the health and safety need to maintain their operations, even from Peter Quigley of our employees and customers. Every day, this We established a dedicated page on our website to a remote location. Kelly’s business continuity President and CEO group monitors the Covid-19 situation, evaluates stay connected with our workers and collaborators team is supporting local responses across all our readiness to respond, and adopts strategic and provide updated information and responsive customers and regions, following guidelines decisions to support our Kelly community around actions across the world. It includes helpful and recommendations from the World Health the globe. In the wave of the Covid-19 crisis, we information for employers and employees alike, such Organization (WHO), the U.S. Center for Disease have implemented a speciﬁc business continuity as virtual work best practices and resources, tips for Control (CDC), and the European Center for plan for preparing and responding to pandemics. balancing their work and personal lives during the Disease Prevention and Control. We continue This plan includes infectious control measures, crisis, and the Kelly Cares Hotline (855.Kelly.06), working closely with our customers to provide communication, education, and travel safety which was launched to more rapidly connect with individualized business continuity plans and mechanisms. employees and help them ﬁnd what’s next. With a encourage collaboration and action. Sustainability Report 2019 Introduction / A timeline of Kelly’s Corporate Sustainability Strategy Table of contents / 6 A timeline of Kelly’s Corporate Sustainability Strategy In 2017, Kelly made a formal commitment to and economic aspects of the organization, and In 2019, Kelly’s commitment to sustainable maintaining and reinforcing its corporate ethics— one that fully integrates our stakeholder needs development increased, as we adhered to the speciﬁcally, in terms of sustainable development, and expectations. This comprehensive corporate United Nations Global Compact in order to which is to invest in the resources of the present sustainability strategy is also a transverse axis within contribute to the achievement of its Sustainable and ensure those resources are available for the entire company, thus influencing all functional Development Goals and Impact 2030 Agenda. future generations. The following year, we began areas and emerging as part of the company’s DNA. a process of self-evaluation and stakeholder We are very pleased to present Kelly’s Sustainability engagement, to create a comprehensive strategy As the Corporate Sustainability Lead, I am Report, Growing with Purpose, for the year 2019. for corporate social responsibility and sustainability particularly proud of the integration and active participation of our stakeholders in the Belen Benitez that combines the needs of our stakeholders— development of our strategy. It is for this reason Corporate Sustainability Lead including customers, collaborators, suppliers, control entities, and the community. The main that our strategy’s content and vision for the future objective: To generate mediumand long-term is endorsed by our stakeholders, generating a sustainable development processes that help all strong sense of belonging; creating added value; Kelly stakeholders thrive. promoting respect and equity; strengthening the idea of common good; and rescuing the value of With this model, Kelly can generate real and engagement. It is an exercise in corporate ethics signiﬁcant changes in a sustainable way over time; that demonstrates the high values and principles it’s a balance between the social, environmental, which make up our organization. Sustainability Report 2019 Introduction / Our business Table of contents / 7 Our business It’s an exciting time at Kelly! We have a compelling and vivid voice in the marketplace, we are the To be the most creative, We ARE a talent company – inspired directly by our Noble Purpose. number one recognized brand, and we’re boldly insightful, and agile talent We ARE creative – our roots are as founders of the embracing the future of work. Late in 2018, Kelly introduced its revitalized brand identity with the company, committed to industry; innovation is at our core. tagline: What’s Next. This new identity indicated uniting vital talent with We ARE insightful – we know our stuff better than that it was time for us to #DitchTheScript and visibly challenge the stigma attached to temporary great organizations where, anyone; applying our insights and knowledge will help work, to champion those who choose to work in together, we thrive. us solve complex problems today and in the future. “independent” ways (temporary, contract, gig, We ARE agile – speed is key in our industry; we freelance, etc.), and to help them discover what’s This refreshed vision is an aspirational declaration favor practicality over perfection. We will readily next for their careers. of the company we want to be. It describes what adjust to change, both externally and internally. winning looks like for Kelly. It illustrates what will Revitalizing our brand is a multi-faceted initiative. During these times of constant change, there are uniquely set us apart from the competition. And, Knowing where Kelly wants to go next and certain things that will never falter: our commitment it is inspired by our Noble Purpose: We connect envisioning our future, Peter Quigley, President to our Noble Purpose; our commitment to integrity people to work in ways that enrich their lives. & CEO, recently announced the next step in our and ethics; our commitment to our talent and our It’s our WHY. exciting journey—Kelly’s new vision: customers; and our commitment to each other. Sustainability Report 2019 Introduction / Mergers, acquisitions, investments, and divestitures Table of contents / 8 Mergers, acquisitions, investments, and divestitures Acquisitions in 2019 Both companies provide services to the largest Investments in 2019 carriers and original equipment manufacturers • Global Technology Associates LLC (GTA), a Our ﬁrst three investments from the Kelly in the telecommunications industry, positioning leading provider in engineering, technology, Innovation Fund, launched in 2018: Kelly as one of the largest engineering workforce and business consulting services to the • Kenzie Academy, a college alternative that solutions companies in the fast-growing 5G telecommunications/5G industry technology space. provides job education in Software and UX • NextGen Global Resources, LLC (NextGen), a engineering to grow digital skills on new talent leading provider of telecommunications, wireless, Divestitures in 2018 • IPSE-U.S., a nonproﬁt association passionate and connected technology staffing solutions in At the end of 2018, we completed the sale of our about giving independent workers a powerful the U.S. voice at the policy-making table legal staffing and document review operations to Trustpoint.One, and our healthcare staffing • The Business Talent Group (BTG), which operations to InGenesis, a longtime Kelly partner. delivers specialized independent talent through a human cloud model, connecting skilled talent with client needs Sustainability Report 2019 Introduction / Kelly by the numbers Table of contents / 9 Kelly by the numbers Approximately 1,000 employees at the Corporate Leader in PK-12 educational workforce solutions Among the top 5 global MSP providers 2019 revenue of $5.4 billion Headquarters in Troy, Michigan, and 6,700+ throughout our global network Worldwide coverage in 56 countries 440,000+ temporary employees hired on behalf Number 1 provider of substitute teachers in Gross proﬁt: 18.1% of customers around the globe in 2019 the U.S. 45,000 customers worldwide World’s largest provider of scientiﬁc staffing in Among the top 10 engineering staffing providers markets where we operate in the U.S. Sustainability Report 2019 Introduction / Recognition Table of contents / 10 Recognition • HRC Corporate Equality Index 2020 – For the • Great Place to Work Certiﬁcation – KellyOCG ® • Michigan Minority Supplier Diversity Council third year in a row, Kelly has achieved the top in India and Australia are named a Great Place to (MMSDC) ACE Awards – Kelly was recognized by score (100) on the Human Rights Campaign Work-Certiﬁed company; this is the ﬁrst year for the Michigan Minority Supplier Diversity Council (HRC) Foundation’s Corporate Equality Index and India to receive this recognition. as a 2019 ACE Awards recipient for “Corporation is one of 686 companies to earn a “Best Place to of the Year” Professional Services, the 10th time in Work for LGBTQ Equality” designation. • Best of the Best by IAOP – IAOP’s The Best of ® 10 years. The Global Outsourcing 100 list recognizes the ® • Flexjobs 2019 and 2020 “Top 100 Companies world’s best outsourcing service providers—with • Forbes’ list of America’s Best Recruiting Firms for Remote Work” List – For the seventh year this year’s list, a culmination of the very best of the for 2019 – Kelly earned the fourth spot (out in a row, Kelly has been named as a Top 100 best from the last 10 years. KellyOCG is proud to of 250) on Forbes’ 2019 list of America’s Best company for remote work, helping job seekers be recognized in the categories of Top Leaders, Professional Recruiting Firms. and employers “ditch the script” on old ways of Top Customer References, Top Corporate Social thinking about work, and earning the No. 8 spot Responsibility, and Multiple Appearances. IAOP • Michigan Association for College Admission on the list. is the global standard-setting association and Counseling Achievement Award – Kelly has advocate for outsourcing professionals and the been recognized for partnering with the Michigan • INTEL Supplier Continuous Quality Improvement organizations that they support. Association for College Admission Counseling Award – KellyOCG received the 2018 Intel SCQI ® (MACAC) in support of legislation focused on award for Supplier Achievement with distinguished • Human Resources Vendor of the Year for 2019 – Michigan school counselors advising students on performance in the category of safety. KellyOCG in Malaysia and Singapore both future careers. received the Gold level award in the category of Best Recruitment Process Outsourcing Partner as a Human Resources Vendor of the Year for 2019. This is the fourth year in a row for KellyOCG in Malaysia to place at the Gold level, and the second year for KellyOCG in Singapore. Sustainability Report 2019 Table of contents / 11 Our Corporate Sustainability Strategy Environmental Governance Environment Ethics and business conduct Energy efficiency Governance Water consumption Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Waste management Privacy and data protection Occupational health & safety Communication and reporting Occupational health & safety: employees Internal communications Occupational health & safety: customers External communications sustainability standards Social Transparency and integrity line Employees and people Our people Diversity and inclusion Human rights Supply chain and customer relations Our supply chain (KellyOCG) Supplier risk management Supplier Code of Conduct Diverse supplier strategy Engagement Social investment programs Disaster recovery Sustainability Report 2019 Our Corporate Sustainability Strategy / Corporate Sustainability Strategy Table of contents / 12 Corporate Sustainability Strategy We consider sustainability to be a guiding principle Two years ago, Kelly embarked on a transformation Our strategy is built on in strengthening the relationship with our global from a Corporate Social Responsibility model, to six key pillars: a new Corporate Sustainability Strategy aligned workforce, suppliers, and customers. As a leading • Occupational health & safety to our business core. This new approach, rather provider of global workforce solutions, we connect Environmental than focusing on philanthropic initiatives, is (OH&S) and environment Health, Safety, and people with employment opportunities and make a strategic to our business values and embodies • Employees and people Environment our mission of connecting people to meaningful difference in the communities in which we live and • Engagement work opportunities in ways that enrich their lives, work. Through our programs and initiatives, we seek while strengthening our relationship with our • Supply chain and customer Governance Social to contribute to improving the quality of life of our Ethics and Business Employees and global workforce, suppliers, and customers, where relations Conduct People together we thrive. • Ethics and business conduct employees, their families, as well as the communities Corporate in which they operate. Given the worldwide span Sustainability Our Corporate Sustainability Strategy aims to • Communication, evaluation, Commitments guide all our subsidiaries and collaborators in the and reporting of our workers, clients, suppliers, and partners, we Built Around planning, management, and implementation of recognize the global reach of both our business Six Pillars responsible and sustainable practices for creating practices and our public accountability. meaningful, measured, and impactful shared value to all our stakeholders. This strategy is Governance Social embedded across our business operations and Communication and Engagement Reporting has been developed with consideration given to the perceptions of our stakeholders, as well as its impact on our business operations. Social Supply Chain and Customer Relations Sustainability Report 2019 Our Corporate Sustainability Strategy / Corporate Sustainability Strategy Table of contents / 13 In 2018, we achieved signiﬁcant milestones in our Transitioning to a Corporate Sustainability Strategy Sustainability Strategy. For the ﬁrst time, Kelly conducted a materiality assessment that helped deﬁne the policies and guidelines to develop our Kelly awarded the Top sustainability agenda. This process helped us Corporate Sustainability Kelly Services formally Score of the Corporate identify the main concerns and actions needed to Strategy design and joins the United Nations Equality Index planning Global Compact • 3rd year in a row focus on supporting the Triple Bottom Line*. Kelly assessment and External assessments 2019 evaluation of current status Engage: Philosophy and • Ecovadis As we continue developing and monitoring our and CSR practices Guidelines • CDP Sustainability Strategy, we work closely with crossfunctional areas to assess our outreach and impact, considering an interdisciplinary perspective. We also November January Feb – May July November January February May July November January have formalized the oversight of our Environment, 2017 2018 2018 2018 2018 2019 2019 2019 2019 2019 2020 Social, and Governance (ESG) efforts through a sustainability governance committee represented by executive leaders and supervised by the Board. Materiality assessment Engage program launch Kelly launched the Sale of owned facilities. ENGAGE EVENT Will help drive further sustainability improvements In early 2019, Kelly signed the United Nations Corporate Sustainability Growing with Purpose – CSQ assessment in the long term. Global Compact, which continues to inform its Strategy Implementation Sustainability Report 2019 commitment to the United Nations Sustainable • 6 pillar strategy is published in accordance to the GRI Standards Development Goals (UN SDGs). Our progress is reported to our stakeholders following international sustainability frameworks through the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), CDP (formerly Carbon Sustainable facilities management is part of a continuous improvements plan Disclosure Project), UN SDGs, and several investorand customer-facing external disclosures. * The Triple Bottom Line (TBL) is a concept that includes social and environmental considerations to the business model, in addition to the ﬁnancial ones. It measures a company’s degree of social responsibility, its economic value, and its environmental impact. Sustainability Report 2019 Our Corporate Sustainability Strategy / Corporate Sustainability Strategy Table of contents / 14 Alignment to SDG Our mission Kelly recognizes the importance of actively working Connect people to meaningful employment opportunities and toward the achievement of UN Sustainable make a difference in the communities in which we live and work Development Goals (SDGs) and the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. Our Corporate Our approach Sustainability policy is based on six pillars that are aligned with these Sustainable Development Goals. Environment Social Governance This policy sets out guidelines and strategies to ensure universal principles of human rights, labor, Our pillars environment, and governance to advance societal Occupational health & safety and Employees and Supply chain and Ethics and Communications and goals. We have been signatories since 2019, and are Engagement environment people customer relations business conduct reporting committed to the 10 business principles of the UN Global Compact. Our initiatives Talent attraction, Supplier risk Internal OH&S: Employees and customers retention and Social investment Governance management communications development External communications Code of Business Resource conservation Diversity and inclusion Engage program and sustainability Conduct and Ethics standards Waste management Supplier Code of Privacy and data Transparency and Human rights Disaster recovery Conduct protection integrity line Our fundamentals Global policies, standards and scope | Stakeholder engagement | Communication, evaluation and reporting Our SDGs Sustainability Report 2019 Table of contents / 15 Environmental Environment Energy efficiency Water consumption Waste management Occupational health & safety Occupational health & safety: employees Occupational health & safety: customers Our ambition in occupational health & safety and environment contributes to SDGs. Sustainability Report 2019 Our Corporate Sustainability Strategy / Environmental Table of contents / 16 Key milestones and ﬁgures Between 2007 and 2019, we have Scope 1 emissions: 771 metric tons of We launched the Rocketrip Travel Our Absolute Zero program recorded reduced our corporate campus CO2. Rewards Program to promote smart the lowest recordable incident rate in buildings’ carbon footprint by 39.89%. business travel decisions and reduce our history. Scope 3 greenhouse gas (GHG) Scope 2 emissions: 5,762 metric tons of emissions. We purchased 3,687 square yards CO2. Kelly received the Gold Standard for of carbon-neutral flooring for our Safety Excellence. HQ campus. This will result in the The Shred-it program recycled more reduction of 32 metric tons of CO2 in our Scope 3 emissions: 2,747.07 metric tons than 275,900 lbs. of paper. This is atmosphere. of CO2 from air travel and 2.07 metric equivalent to saving 2,357.72 trees. tons of CO2 from rail travel. This program has contributed to saving approximately 1,810,550 gallons of Since 2007, the energy consumption in water in 2019. our corporate campus has decreased 16.05%. Energy consumption in the Kirts building decreased 48.06%, in the 5,750 electronic items were properly Lindsey Center 16.41%, and in our HQ, recycled, representing approximately 84.05%. 37,997 pounds of electric waste. Sustainability Report 2019 Our Corporate Sustainability Strategy / Environmental Table of contents / 17 Environmental Environment Energy efficiency Water consumption Waste management Kelly is committed to its responsibility to protect and maintain our planet for future generations. We strive to keep our ecological footprint to a minimum and promote internal environmental initiatives in order to promote a culture of preservation, conservation, and waste reduction. Sustainability Report 2019 Our Corporate Sustainability Strategy / Environmental Table of contents / 18 We acknowledge the importance of contributing to addressing climate change, and we are adopting internal practices to reduce our environmental Environmental recognition: impact and climate-related risk. Our commitment • The Outstanding Building of the Year is to establish companywide environmental policies (TOBY) Award 2019: Presented by and practices to reduce our ecological footprint the Building Owners and Managers and support our customers in adopting their own Association of Metro Detroit (BOMA), environmental sustainability goals. the TOBY award recognizes quality in office buildings, rewarding excellence Since 2017, we have implemented environmental in office building management—taking guidelines across our operations to identify issues, energy consumption data, as well as measure progress, reduce our carbon footprint, environmental, regulatory, sustainability, and report on our performance regarding ENERGY STAR® ratings, and waste climate-related issues. Our environmental programs into account. In 2019, we practices are formally disclosed through received the award for the Lindsey Centre environmental guidelines that involve external Building in the “Corporate Facility under compliance standards, ensuring transparency 100,000 Sq. Ft.” category. and accountability. In the CDP, we report our environmental impact regarding measurements of green building procedures in our facilities; and • National Air Filtration Association: energy usage in our building operations, as well as promoting smart environmental decisions from our Kelly was awarded the Clean Air CO2 emissions from air and rail travel by employees. employees, in addition to having implemented our Award for 2017-2019 at our Annex and robust remote work program, “Kelly Anywhere.” Headquarters buildings. Our efforts are focused on reducing our GHG Although Kelly is not a water-intensive user, we aim emissions and increasing the energy efficiency to improve our water management and implement of our Corporate Headquarters; integrating better waste management in our direct operations. Sustainability Report 2019 Our Corporate Sustainability Strategy / Environmental Table of contents / 19 Energy efficiency We measure energy consumption in the Energy consumption Energy Usage Index (EUI) organization based on the electricity and natural We reduced the energy consumption in our gas used for operations at the corporate campus, Headquarters campus by 16.05 percent between Per building by year in kBtus, or thousands of British thermal units located in Troy, Michigan. Our business operations 2007 to 2019. The energy reduction is partly due are limited to four building/office spaces: Kirts, to IT services’ transition to cloud technology, as Lindsey Centre, the Annex, and HQ, as well as a well as the implementation of conservation and 250,000 signiﬁcant amount of personnel working remotely, efficiency initiatives in our facilities. In the Kirts and through our Kelly Anywhere program. Lindsey Centre buildings, this reduction was 48.06 200,000 percent and 16.41 percent, respectively. In our HQ, Since 2017, our corporate campus has been this reduction was 84.05 percent. However, the 150,000 undergoing a remodeling process in all its Annex building in our corporate campus reported offices that is expected to alter business as an increase of 3.72 percent in energy consumption, 100,000 usual, in terms of energy consumption. Once the due to relocation of employees to this building renovation process is completed, the operational during the remodeling process. 50,000 baseline will be reviewed to establish more assertive, measurable targets and to enhance our In December 2019, we sold our Lindsey Centre 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 performance in reducing emissions and increasing and Annex buildings. Additionally, we entered energy efficiency. The remodeling process also into a deﬁnitive agreement to sell and lease back seeks to implement the use of materials and our Corporate Headquarters in Troy for the next Headquarters Annex Kirts Lindsey technologies that can help us reduce the ecological 20 years. This agreement will help us expand footprint of our operations. our Kelly Anywhere initiative and consolidate our Energy Consumption is measured by the Energy Usage Index (EUI) that analyzes the energy efficiency per building, per year. EUI takes into account the different types of employees into two buildings. We will co-manage energy used by a building for one year and is calculated in units of energy (kBtus, or our emissions reductions in collaboration with the thousands of British Thermal Units) per square foot. This Index allows us to measure the new facility owner. energy actually consumed, including factors affecting consumption, rather than its total monetary cost. These factors refer to occupants’ habits, the building’s outer surface, as well as the effect of weather. The lower the value, the more efficient the building. Sustainability Report 2019 Our Corporate Sustainability Strategy / Environmental Table of contents / 20 The adoption of green building procedures in our Kelly Anywhere: Kelly has developed Kelly Rocketrip Travel Rewards Program: In June 2019, corporate campus and the implementation of Anywhere for employees seeking consistent and Kelly launched an innovative corporate travel our Kelly Anywhere program have contributed to flexible work arrangements for the long term. The beneﬁts program for U.S. and Puerto Rico full-time increasing our energy efficiency and reducing our program allows employees to collaborate with employees. This program rewards employees for carbon footprint. coworkers and managers while working online, and making smart business travel decisions by providing • In 2019, we purchased 3,687 square yards not necessarily being present at the work space. Rocketrip points that can be redeemed in gift cards of carbon-neutral flooring for remodeling This initiative is an opportunity to balance personal and even charities, including the Kelly Relief Fund. life and work—responding to a need to adapt to new Employees can earn points by making decisions two complete floors in our HQ building. This ways of working and reducing commutes, including for choosing a cheaper flight, staying with a friend, certiﬁcation, veriﬁed by APEX, will result in the reduction of 32 metric tons of carbon dioxide from the social and environmental impacts associated increasing online meetings, and others. our atmosphere. with transportation. This program is currently available for exempt employees working at the HQ • Our corporate and ﬁeld offices use LED lights— in Troy, Michigan, and eligible employees working which contribute to reducing our long-term remotely due to business need. Currently, Kelly energy usage. has 400-plus employees participating in the Kelly • Kelly’s lighting systems are integrated into an Anywhere program. energy management system to monitor our energy efficiencies. Remote workers: Considering our global operations and disposition to offer flexible work • All boilers and hot water systems in our corporate opportunities, Kelly has an increasing number campus have night setback controls, which were of employees working remotely. This initiative installed to take advantage of periods when the responds to market trends, allowing us to promote buildings are not occupied or are at reduced and offer flexible opportunities to better balance occupancy. employees’ work/life. Our KellyConnect call center ® program has 6,800 employees working remotely. Sustainability Report 2019 Our Corporate Sustainability Strategy / Environmental Table of contents / 21 GHG emissions Carbon footprint Scope 1: Direct GHG emissions As a non-energy intensive industry, our goals Our baseline emissions have been estimated at 700 metric tons of CO2 on our are mainly focused on measuring and reducing Per building by year in metric tons of CO2 Scope 1-direct GHG emissions, which came from our own operations in 2017. In our greenhouse gas emissions from our HQ 2018, our emissions increased due to construction and remodeling of our facilities, campus buildings, (Scope 1) and (Scope 2), based increasing to 899 tons for Scope 1-direct emissions. However, in 2019, we reported upon electrical (kWh) and natural gas (MMBtu) 7,000 emissions of 771 metric tons of CO2, fulﬁlling our aim to reduce our footprint and not consumption, as well as from our business travels 6,000 exceed our baseline target by the end of 2020. Our medium-term goal is expected (Scope 3). From 2007 to 2019, Kelly has made to reduce our emissions by three percent over a three-year period until 2020. signiﬁcant improvements in reducing the energy 5,000 usage in our corporate campus buildings, as well as 4,000 Scope 2 (location-based): Indirect GHG impact the carbon footprint, by 39.89 percent over the years. Our Scope 2 GHG emissions are measured by the energy we purchase to power 3,000 our offices. In 2019, we reported emissions of 5,762 metric tons of CO2, based on 2,000 our location-based analysis, using information from the utility consumption in our Global GHG Emissions by Scope 1,000 own buildings. All leased locations are excluded from this measurement, as we do not have access to electricity supplier or residual emissions factors. (CO2e MT) 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Scope 3: GHG impact from business travel 7,000 10,336 9,282 Our Scope 3 measures only GHG emissions from business travel via air and rail Headquarters Annex Kirts Lindsey from our employees. Metrics are calculated using Carson Wagonlit Travel’s 6,000 AnalytlQs, which measures emissions based upon the locations of airports and 5,000 traveled distance. In 2019, our CO2 emissions from air travel generated in U.S. 4,000 operations were 2,747.07 metric tons CO2e. For rail travel, this value was 2.07 metric tons CO2e. 3,000 2,000 The energy intensity ratio measures the amount of energy used by our employees in the U.S. In 2019, the energy intensity ratio was 4.5 tons of GHG emissions, 1,000 which is calculated estimating the average annual number of employees in our 899 6,475 2,962 771 5,762 2,749 0 HQ campus (est. 1,000) and employees working remotely in our Kelly Anywhere 2018 2019 program (est. 449), against Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions reporting. Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Sustainability Report 2019 Our Corporate Sustainability Strategy / Environmental Table of contents / 22 Water consumption Waste management We are not a water-intensive user; our water usage Kelly manages its waste generation by implementing is relatively small. We only use water in our offices recycling initiatives from our operations and for domestic purposes, irrigation, and operational electronic equipment (e-waste), in order to improve processes. Still, we strive to evaluate water-related efficiency and reduce operating costs. In our issues and opportunities to prevent resource corporate campus, we implemented the Shred-it depletion and reduce our ecological footprint. program to recycle more than 517,300 lbs. of paper With the renovation of the HQ campus, we have in 2019. This is equivalent to saving 4,420 trees. adopted green building practices to minimize the amount of water usage in our everyday operations We intend to use resource-efficient workplaces and consolidate the measurement of water that can help us to reduce our ecological footprint consumption within our building facilities. Inside and waste generation. We also have implemented our HQ offices, we installed water conservation responsible procurement guidelines to acquire and faucets and toilets. use our office products made from 100-percent recycled content and environmentally friendly Outside our campus, we use controlled irrigation materials. systems that reduce water use and have impermeable brick pavers to mitigate storm 1,810,550 gallons of water in 2019. According to The creation of a recycling center at our corporate in order to remarket the devices or ensure the ﬁnal water runoff. Our external gardens have low water Shred-it, each ton of recycled paper can reduce campus has guaranteed the ﬁnal environmental environmentally friendly disposal of assets and all consumption plants and grass, which require less energy consumption by 65 percent and water by disposition of electronic items. We have collected their components. We also work with our vendor, irrigation during the summer and also have a better 58 percent, reducing air pollution by 60 lbs. as it old phones, batteries, cables, PCs, laptops, and Staples, to reuse and guarantee the ﬁnal disposition re-growth process during spring. We also have reduces the demand for new lumber and resources other electronic items, following stewardship of toner cartridges from printers and copiers in our implemented initiatives to increase awareness of for manufacturing. The program also helps plant standards for responsible e-waste management. In office buildings. This program has recycled more water conservation with our employees. The Shredmore trees to balance gases in the atmosphere. partnership with vendors, Kelly has implemented than 5,750 items, representing approximately it program has contributed to saving approximately standardized procedures for proper separation and 37,997 pounds of electronic waste. recycling of IT assets and equipment. Vendors are responsible for deleting information from machines Sustainability Report 2019 Table of contents / 23 Environmental Occupational health & safety Occupational health & safety: employees Occupational health & safety: customers Kelly recognizes a shared responsibility to protect our people and planet. Our human capital is our most important asset. We are committed to achieving zero accidents and occupational hazards to create working environments with the highest standard of safe and healthful conditions. Sustainability Report 2019 Our Corporate Sustainability Strategy / Environmental Table of contents / 24 Occupational health & safety: employees Occupational health & safety: customers Our commitment to employee safety is an integral We hold managers, employees, and customers Our health and safety workplace commitment part of our culture and a key to our continued responsible for understanding, leading, and extends to our customers. As a global workforce success. Kelly maintains a safe and healthful upholding our commitment to safety standards in supplier, we strive to help our customers prepare working environment through the highest safety the workplace. We train our employees to become for and ensure the highest safety standards at the standards and proactive initiatives to prevent familiar with customers’ work environments, safe workplace for our employees through our Global occupational illnesses and injuries. Our Absolute work practices, emergency procedures, and Safety and Health Program. This program provides Zero program provides internal processes, training, protective equipment. All employees are expected pre-assignment risk assessments, worker training, and companywide guidelines to ensure that we to follow and promote safety standards, recognize and analysis of incident reports to assess customers’ maintain standards of worker safety protection safety hazards, and report them in a timely fashion commitment to safety standards, determining what that instill a sense of conﬁdence and security in our to on-site management. conditions exist at the workplace, which hazards workplaces. Safety training and an introduction to may be encountered, and how to best ensure our safety handbook are critical elements of our protection for temporary workers. This program orientation program for all new employees. Beyond also leads a Health & Safety committee in which our just compliance with health and safety legislation, temporary employees actively participate. the Kelly Safety team, through our Absolute Zero program, recognizes the importance of each Kelly managers are responsible for working with and every healthful employee—solidifying our customers to assess work conditions, identifying potential issues, and preparing employees to and Safety Assessment (OHSAS 18001) and is commitment to zero accidents, zero injuries, and complete their work while following safe and analyzed in accordance with two measurements: zero harm. healthy procedures. All customers are assessed Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR), and Days prior to servicing and are regularly monitored Away Restricted and Transferred (DART) rate. This under their health and safety performance measurement consistently represents just onethrough performance evaluation and safety third to one-fourth of the industry average. committees. The Global Safety and Health Program is aligned with the Occupational Health Sustainability Report 2019 Our Corporate Sustainability Strategy / Environmental Table of contents / 25 In 2019, our Absolute Zero program recorded a 0.15 DART – Days away restricted and transferred rate TRIR – Total recordable incidence rate total recordable incident rate—the lowest in our history—and a 0.08 DART rate. Data rates were incidence per 200,000 work hours incidence per 200,000 work hours calculated using OSHA recordable injuries to fulltime and directly supervised U.S. employees only. 1.2 2.5 1 2 0.8 1.5 0.6 1 0.4 .05 0.2 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Kelly Services Employees Staffing Industry Average Kelly Services Employees Staffing Industry Average *2019 BLS staffing industry average not available at time of printing. Sustainability Report 2019 Our Corporate Sustainability Strategy / Environmental Table of contents / 26 Kelly maintains an industry leadership Kelly is involved in the following role in safety Kelly received the Gold Standard for initiatives: Our commitment to health and safety workplaces safety excellence • Development and implementation of Employee has allowed us to keep our leadership in driving Safety Best Practices by the American Staffing The Houston Business Roundtable (HBR) safety standards across the staffing industry. We Association’s Employee Safety Committee. Since awarded Kelly with the Gold Level Award collaborate with industry peers and government 2011, the guidelines have helped to improve the for Safety Excellence. This marks the fourth agencies to design and share best practice guidelines industry’s safety record, and have been used to consecutive year that Kelly has earned that provide recommendations to help other staffing analyze impacts on productivity, turnover, and this recognition among 1,500 industry ﬁrms and their customers ensure a culture of health insurance costs. representatives from both owner and and safety in their work environments. • Participation in the OSHA Temporary Worker contractor companies. Kelly was proudly In 2019, Kelly participated in two signiﬁcant nominated by The Dow Chemical Company Initiative – We launched this initiative in 2013 safety initiatives to increase safety awareness and (Dow) and ExxonMobil, based on factors to help staffing agencies and host employers encourage staffing ﬁrms to adopt standards to foster including level of contingent worker safety understand and manage their OSHA compliance Pictured (from left to right): Cheri Duggan, senior and measure continuous safety improvements. In engagement and overall safety performance and safety program obligations through speciﬁc manager of Safety, Health and Environmental; partnership with the American Society of Safety for both customers. enforcement and compliance tools. OSHA Joe Erickson, manager of Safety, Health and Professionals Greater Detroit Chapter, Kelly hosted Environmental Onsite at ExxonMobil Baytown; has stipulated that “staffing agencies and host Other safety recognition in 2019: employers are jointly responsible for maintaining the sixth annual event for the Coffee with MIOSHA Ashlee Bainbridge, manager of Safety, Health and to share best practices that improve the safety of • Outstanding Safety Performance as the SAI Environmental Onsite at Dow Texas Operations; a safe work environment for temporary Michigan’s workers across all sectors. Large Company Leader – presented by the and Jerry Plattenberg, director of Safety, Health and workers—ensuring that OSHA’s training, hazard SAI Team, ExxonMobil Baytown Complex Environmental. communication, and recordkeeping requirements Kelly also participated in the Michigan Safety • Outstanding Safety Performance as the SAI are fulﬁlled.” Conference, the largest safety educational event Medium Company Leader – presented by the in the state that gathers professionals from human SAI Team, ExxonMobil Baytown Complex resources, safety, and risk management, as well as employee representatives. This year, Kelly was invited by our partner, Ford Motor Company, to present on the topic: Temporary Employee Safety, The Division of Responsibility. Sustainability Report 2019 Table of contents / 27 Social Employees and people Our people Diversity and inclusion Human rights Supply chain and customer relations Our supply chain (KellyOCG) Supplier risk management Supplier Code of Conduct Diverse supplier strategy Engagement Social investment programs Disaster recovery Our ambition in Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) and our people, engagement, and supply chain and customer relations all contribute to SDGs: Sustainability Report 2019 Our Corporate Sustainability Strategy / Social Table of contents / 28 Key milestones and ﬁgures 91% of suppliers committed to our eMeRGe (Kelly’s millennial resource 400-plus employees are participating We hired 10,000 veterans on behalf of Supplier Code of Business Conduct. group) reached 83 members in 13 in our corporate volunteering program. our clients. countries worldwide. This represents more than 4,000 hours of service to their local communities. 100% of Kelly full-time and temporary employees participated in new training Diverse supplier programs reached $4KellyConnect has engaged 700 that covers internal policies and plus billion in investments to contribute Approximately $115,000 USD was individuals with disabilities for work guidelines: anti-harassment, diversity, to economic sustainability in minority contributed to social development opportunities with our clients. and data protection. communities. initiatives. We deployed a program to connect Kelly was awarded the top score in Our Leadership in Action program The Kelly Relief Fund provided ﬁnancial furloughed federal workers affected the in the 2019 Corporate Equality reached approximately 800 support to 13 of our employees who were by the U.S. government shutdown to Index, by the Human Rights Campaign participants—designed to develop and impacted by climate-related issues. short-term assignments in 10 cities Foundation. build our internal talent community. across the nation. Our new Wellness Initiative allows our global workforce to integrate practices of being focused, balanced, and healthy, while enhancing our corporate culture. Sustainability Report 2019 Table of contents / 29 Social Employees and people Our people Diversity and inclusion Human rights Kelly takes seriously its responsibility to protect, support, and prepare workers for successful careers. Talent is at the core of our business, and we are committed to providing meaningful career opportunities, resources, and skills to the global workforce. Our goal is to enrich our communities and workers’ lives while leading by example in areas such as workplace safety, health, wellness, diversity, inclusion, and training and development. Sustainability Report 2019 Our Corporate Sustainability Strategy / Social Table of contents / 30 Our people Kelly provides employment opportunities to Talent attraction, retention, and more than 7,700 individuals around the globe. development We truly believe in our responsibility of providing inclusive and fair working conditions that ensure Kelly has implemented worldwide standards our corporate citizenship in all our operations to guarantee compliance with fair business worldwide. We are committed to providing Equal practices and labor conditions, along with our Employment Opportunity and welfare for all our global operations across our supply chain. All our employees and ensuring the protection of human working and labor practices and standards align rights in our global operations. with global initiatives such as the International Labour Organization (ILO) Convention or the Our business hinges on preparing our workforce UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human for delivering the best talent and skills to meet Rights. Although the outreach of our operations is the work expectations of the present and future global, working conditions are adapted to ensure labor market, regardless of which industry or client compliance with local labor laws and regulations. we are serving. Kelly provides the resources and skills that the global workforce needs to thrive Kelly has implemented formal internal policies to in a more competitive and digitized world. Since guarantee non-discriminatory practices and equal many companies allocate nearly 60 percent of employment opportunities in the workplace. We their expense to talent, our partnerships with abide by our internal compensation guidelines to customers offer a critical resource through ongoing attract and retain our talent, endorse a pay-forconsultation and real-time workforce strategies. performance culture, and provide competitive beneﬁts to support the health and ﬁnancial wellbeing of all our fulland part-time employees and their families. We are proudly ranked in the top ﬁve percent of the supplier’s assessment by EcoVadis regarding fair business practices. Sustainability Report 2019 Our Corporate Sustainability Strategy / Social Table of contents / 31 We monitor our employment New employee hires in 2019 (U.S.) Number of employees in 2019, globally statistics as one measurement Full-time internal employees / Total hires: 980 Permanent employees only of our talent management BY AGE Under 30 30 – 50 Over 50 BY REGION Americas EMEA APAC effectiveness. 29% 57% 14% 71% BY GENDER Male Female 35% 65% 25% Employee turnover rate in 2019 (U.S.) 4% Total employees: 1,139 Permanent employees: 7,529 BY AGE Under 30 30 – 50 Over 50 18% 61% 21% BY GENDER, in the U.S. Male Female BY GENDER Male Female Full-time internal employees Total 4,427 31% 69% 29% 71% Sustainability Report 2019 Our Corporate Sustainability Strategy / Social Table of contents / 32 Understanding our data Employment in 2019, in Americas helps our company improve BY GENDER Male Female our performance and better Kelly’s U.S. allocate our resources. leadership ranks are 36% female. 29% Employees in leadership roles, in the U.S. Total: 64 71% BY GENDER Male Female 64% 36% Employees in non-leadership roles, in the U.S. Total : 4,400 Full-time employees BY GENDER Male Female 28% 72% Sustainability Report 2019 Our Corporate Sustainability Strategy / Social Table of contents / 33 Competitive beneﬁts Parental leave We provide additional standard beneﬁts for all our employees, In 2019, our employees beneﬁted from our paid parental leave program in the U.S. including: • Medical insurance – health care, dental, and vision; health savings BY GENDER Male Female account; health care spending, and dependent care spending 2% • Life and Disability insurance – group term life; disability; 98% accidental death and/or dismemberment; outpatient physician’s treatment; disability income (basic and supplemental), and more Participated in parental leave program: 82 employees • Retirement plans – Starting in 2020, Kelly has included a new Environmental, Social, and Governance fund option: Parnassus Core Equity • Paid time off – holidays; personal time off; bereavement; volunteer day; birthday; and sick days Return to work and retention rates • Parental leave • Employee Assistance Program – offers access to counselors, BY GENDER Male Female wellness, and mental health programs and resources; discount programs; life advisor coaching services, and others • Supplemental plans – business travel accident plan; employee discount program; group home and auto program; transportation spending; vacation purchase; voluntary legal 100% 100% 96% 75% plan, as well as others • Educational assistance – including the new Peanut Butter program that will help to tackle student debt Returned to work after Retention rate Returned to work after Retention rate • Stock ownership taking parental leave (still employed) taking parental leave (still employed) • Flexible work schemes Sustainability Report 2019 Our Corporate Sustainability Strategy / Social Table of contents / 34 Non-discrimination and compensation Kelly’s total rewards framework is designed to attract and retain talent; provide differentiated rewards to Kelly’s total rewards framework entails philosophy recognize key talent; provide market-competitive ﬁve key components: Our Global Compensation Philosophy and equitable compensation; align with the budget establishes internal policies to guarantee equitable and ﬁnancial performance of the company and compensation to all our employees and provide business segments, and apply fair and equitable comprehensive opportunities for their career pay practices. It is applied using internal guidelines development. This philosophy has formalized based on factors such as: roles and responsibilities; Base salary and enhanced transparency in our compensation employee performance, skills, experience, and practices, ensuring equal employment in qualiﬁcations; external benchmarking; internal recruitment, selection, training, compensation, equity, and geographical location. promotion, job transfer, and assignments. Relational Skills Knowledge Short-term rewards and Our aim is to guarantee our commitment to incentives recognition nondiscriminatory practices in the workplace, where all qualiﬁed applicants and employees enjoy the same right to employment and advancement opportunities, irrespective of race, color, sex, age, religion, national origin, sexual orientation, disability, veteran status, or any other category under applicable laws. Beneﬁts and Long-term Performance Experience employee incentives well-being equity/stock Sustainability Report 2019 Our Corporate Sustainability Strategy / Social Table of contents / 35 Career development opportunities offering a framework for the exchange of feedback. • Leadership Development program, offering and training The program, as well as its objectives, is evaluated training on how to become a leader and enhance annually by managers and their team members, leadership skills, as well as offering experiential We play a signiﬁcant role in preparing future to help prepare the skills and select programs that training, and learning from the framework of talent and shaping a diverse workforce that best support their interests and individual career others; the Leadership Learning Circle focuses on effectively responds to workforce trends and labor development. speciﬁc leader skills, such as inclusion opportunities in all industries where we operate. Our commitment is to facilitate employment • Transition assistance programs provided to In 2019, we launched the Growth Zone initiative opportunities and continuously provide today’s facilitate continued employability, as well as that provides resources to support career talent with the necessary resources, skills, and the management of career terminations due to development conversations to better track and supporting tools to advance in their careers and retirement or other causes measure performance, strengthen employees’ work opportunities. skills, and help with their career planning model. • Other speciﬁc skill development training: We also presented the Internal Résumé Program to • SHRM Certiﬁcation Program for selected The Kelly Learning Center (KLC) provides a promote internal recruitment opportunities using learning platform that offers employees ongoing Partnered Staffing employees internal résumé building and career proﬁle tools. online training through virtual instructor-led • PMP Certiﬁcation training in the learning courses, web-based training, and videos/seminars. management system and a study session led by In 2019, the KLC provided approximately 11 hours of This online learning community is available for free to all employees and aims to develop the skills, training per employee. The KLC provides training Kelly project management professionals Total training hours in 2019 opportunities, with more than 4,000 courses • Six Sigma Certiﬁcation training curricula and/or re-skill employees, to be competitive in the Approximate average to all employees. Some of the available training (Yellow, Green, and Black Belt) current labor market. opportunities in the KLC are: • AGILE training to improve program 12.2 The KLC also offers a career development program, • General training for full-time and temporary performance Senior Management 10.25 which provides individual development needs employees, with global policies considering 8.1 Middle Management through a development management tool that working conditions, health and safety; Employee helps employees and businesses design career Handbook and Code of Conduct; anti-harassment; Non-managerial goals and provides skills-related training, while diversity; and General Data Protection Regulation, including privacy and security awareness Sustainability Report 2019 Our Corporate Sustainability Strategy / Social Table of contents / 36 TalentX Kelly is on a continuous journey to better understand connected with Kelly after onboarding through meeting expectations, and being a responsive and talent and deliver an exceptional experience that assignment completion and/or redeployment. trusted point of contact creates loyalty and continued engagement. As talent • Acting as their talent advocate to guide them continues to become increasingly more selective We understand that committed and engaged through the lifecycle of their assignment and scarce, our objective is to remain on the talent have higher job satisfaction, which leads forefront of what drives people to engage with Kelly to better on-the-job performance, contract • Assisting with general payroll, beneﬁts, absence and our clients. So, while it may appear that talent extensions, more completed assignments, client requests, and assignment information engagement should be simple, it is not. To be what’s leads, talent referrals, and higher chances of re• Leading activities around talent referrals and next for the best talent available means that we employment. This in turn leads to higher client redeployment take seriously the notion of “getting to know talent satisfaction. beyond the résumé.” Kelly will continue to invest in improving the talent TalentX has reimagined our approach to candidate experience within each of our business units TalentX provides a talent research program to engagement. With an initial focus on professional to optimize services and create differentiated and technical talent in the U.S., our Talent Care “It is a very exciting time for Kelly! Putting understand expectations during the sourcing, experiences based on our audience needs and Advisors provide dedicated virtual assistance that talent ﬁrst is the right thing to do. This is recruitment, and placement processes, in order to requirements. By driving meaningful and selfestablishes a strong human connection across our all-encompassing; it starts with our internal fulladjust our internal processes for both efficiency and reflective conversations with our talent, we provide time talent rallying together, feeling enriched by responsiveness in the job search and placement business, allowing us to differentiate ourselves from an easy way for talent to express themselves, the work we do and focusing our efforts outward process. Our qualitative and quantitative research the competition and provide the best experience to relay their interests, self-identify motivations, and to enrich the lives of those we impact every day ﬁndings have shown that the job search process is retain top talent. Talent Care Advisors are aligned uncover what really matters to them. with work. I am proud to work for a talent-centric extremely stressful and riddled with moments of by skill areas to provide dedicated expertise to organization that puts people ﬁrst.” elevated anxiety. talent in their chosen industry. Talent Care Advisors are focused on: – Lisa Tamblyn, Business Lead, TalentX Loyalty With TalentX, we aim to provide dedicated virtual • Building meaningful relationships with talent by advisors from our U.S. Professional Technical understanding their job life desires, setting and Operations to help talent navigate and stay Sustainability Report 2019 Our Corporate Sustainability Strategy / Social Table of contents / 37 ECONOMIC SKILLS TECHNOLOGICAL DEMOGRAPHIC WORK LIFE PRESSURES GAP ADVANCEMENTS SHIFTS DESIGN • Volatile market • Increased demand for • Creates both disruption • Millennials are the • 78% of U.S. free agents conditions workers in emerging and opportunity largest generation in the choose free agency • Increased expense competencies • Mobile and virtual U.S. workforce because it enables them control • 40% of U.S. companies collaboration tools • 81% of talent managers to organize work around say they can’t ﬁnd the transform how business hiring gig workers are life • Increasing competition to create variable skills they need gets done and how millennials • Higher skilled talent workforce • U.S. companies spend companies connect with • 53% of hiring managers increasingly considers $1M on average each talent report difficulty ﬁnding flexibility as a key factor • Pressure to nimbly react in their employment to market demands year to ﬁnd workers with • Human cloud platforms and retaining millennial these emerging skills are the backbone of the talent • Boomers looking for a • Increasingly dynamic gig economy “soft” retirement and global business • Free agent culture is to • 41% of hiring managers climate re-skill for the next gig • Automation has plan to hire more • The skill gap creates an increased the use of freelancers in the next increased need to retain free agents ﬁve years knowledge workers near retirement Sources: 1. McKinsey, 2. CareerBuilder, 3. Upwork Sustainability Report 2019 Our Corporate Sustainability Strategy / Social Table of contents / 38 Kelly’s Millennial Resource Group: eMeRGe In October 2019, Kelly launched the new business eMeRGe has reached 83 members in 13 countries resource group eMeRGe with the desire to attract worldwide. Our aim is to engage new members and retain millennial talent. This program promotes and promote this group as a millennial subjecta global employee resource group dedicated to matter expert for business and employees; impacting business results; advancing responses share knowledge in order to create long-lasting to concerns; and maximizing opportunities by connections around the globe; communicate engaging, enabling, and empowering millennials as effective best practices; advise on their concerns subject-matter experts. and opportunities, and provide support to other groups (internal and external). eMeRGe—as an acronym for Millennial Resource Group—targets employees born between 1981 and We have also developed the Inforum’s Millennial 1996 in all countries where Kelly has operations. The Affinity Group, which focuses on leveraging the group brings opportunities for young professionals sharing of best practices, generating innovative ideas, “I believe the Millennial Resource Group is “With the expansion of Kelly Anywhere and the who are looking to network, develop relationships, and identifying ways to enhance Kelly’s presence important because it gives our generation a vast network of global colleagues, it’s imperative and better themselves overall in their personal and among our millennial workforce. In 2019, eMeRGe voice. It provides a platform for us to connect to bring everyone together to form powerful professional lives. partnered with community groups to enhance the and collaborate on things we truly believe in… networking relationships and bring a sense of presence and outreach of the program, including the sustainability, health and wellness, work/life connectivity. This group has also provided a space Detroit Symphony Orchestra’s NewGen groups, Best balance…. We provide the organization with an for learning, development, and positivity about Buddies, Peer to Peer Mentorship Programs, and eager group ready to lend their opinions and the future.” Detroit Young Professionals. support in any way possible.” – Morgan El-Zeinab, Finance Manager and Global – Jen Wright, Process Optimization Lead and Pricing and eMeRGe Chair eMeRGe Vice-Chair Sustainability Report 2019 Our Corporate Sustainability Strategy / Social Table of contents / 39 Wellness, a Professional Service Organization pilot initiative In the last couple of years, Kelly has been adopting The Wellness program was launched in December The Wellness program allows employees to a flexible work environment to meet business needs 2019, with diverse activities and learnings identiﬁed as and employee interests for a better work-life balance. “The 12 Days of Wellness.” This initiative helped build be focused, balanced, and healthy. With roughly 75 percent of our professionals working momentum and excitement, leading to the creation remotely and not in a traditional office environment, it of our Wellness Champions group, which encourages has been a priority to engage our employees around insights and activities related to the eight dimensions the globe and prioritize our attention to a peopleof Wellness to the organization. Intellectual ﬁrst leadership approach. This commitment has led to creating a Wellness Initiative that enables every The Wellness Champions select topics based on individual in our organization to realize the priority we areas of interest, promoting wellness practices that Environmental Social are placing on them. should be present in our everyday lives. This initiative sets out eight dimensions from which each person The Wellness program is supported by the Global may connect with one or more others according Professional Services Organization (PSO) team, to their interest and experiences outside of the which delivers our company’s solution for enabling workplace, helping to build deeper connections Financial 8 areas of Emotional the strategy of both our sales and business units at Kelly. The PSO has over 120 experts who deliver between our employees, regardless of where they work. The program covers topics for restructuring wellness greater sales and operational alignment, faster workplaces, and promotes global and diversiﬁed project implementation times, and more engagement workforces, intellectual wellness, and personal with our global workforce. Wellness has been a key to development plans. enabling our success, as we have seen an increasing Occupational Physical positivity, passion, and inclusion that both creates a differentiator for us and has helped us to accelerate alignment in our culture. Spiritual Sustainability Report 2019 Our Corporate Sustainability Strategy / Social Table of contents / 40 The most signiﬁcant impacts of the Wellness Volunteer hours program: PSO Overall Kelly • 67% of the PSO employees believe our Wellness Program has had a personal impact on them. PSO, • Department employee turnover has reduced by 320, 8.23% 6% in 2019, down from nearly 15% in 2018. • Employee engagement has risen, which has increased overall satisfaction in the PSO by 4.6% in 2019. • Introduction of the Day of Autonomy – A full day dedicated to allowing employees to focus on a topic of their choosing (autonomy/mastery/ “During a recent presentation to the Professional “Our commitment to people-ﬁrst was the purpose). Services Organization, I witnessed ﬁrst-hand most important element in creating our PSO how the inclusion of a Wellness Moment prior to operating methodology when our group was • The creation of an internal engaged community their team meetings creates the right environment formed. Helping to create and cultivate a wellness group that shares experiences in our Salesforce to help shift your thoughts away from your usual program that enabled every individual in our Chatter group and web page for more than 120 preoccupations, increase your presence, and organization to see the priority we were giving to Overall Kelly, members. creates a healthy energy in the room.” this was key. In return, we got positivity, passion, 3,569, 91.77% • The initiative has helped business units to foster a and inclusion that creates a differentiator for us and – Darryl Staskowski, Chief Information Officer helped us accelerate the formation of our culture. sense of community, create personal connections, Wellness has been key to enabling our success!” PSO is responsible for 8.23% of our overall help people strive to be their best selves, and volunteer hours. create experiences that are shared. – Steven Green, Vice President, Professional Services Organization (PSO) Sustainability Report 2019 Our Corporate Sustainability Strategy / Social Table of contents / 41 Diversity and inclusion As a global workforce provider, diversity and Our strategy and D&I initiatives demonstrate our Kelly D&I impact and initiatives 2019 for inclusion is a big part of our success. We embrace inclusive philosophy and have been recognized talent hired on behalf of our clients diversity and strive to provide equal opportunities with an outstanding top score (100) in the 2019 for all our employees, who reflect the diverse Corporate Equality Index—a national benchmarking • $4-plus billion investment in Diverse Supplier regions, industries, and customers that we serve survey of corporate policies and practices relating Programs in the last ﬁve years, contributing to globally. Our diverse workforce represents to LGBTQ workplace equality, administered by the economic sustainability in diverse communities more than half a million employees globally. We Human Rights Campaign Foundation. • 18% increase in diverse hires and 37% minority continuously work to increase the diversity of hires by diverse suppliers; economic impact of our representation across our communities, including Since 1979, we have been invested in D&I initiatives diverse supplier program extends to job creation lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer to promote talent and address the unique needs and in their communities (LGBTQ); military veterans; ethnic and racial capabilities of the disabled, minority groups, women entrepreneurs, military members and their families, • Kelly hired 10,000-plus veterans in 2019 groups; gender, and people with disabilities. Our commitment is to provide a diverse and equal young people, and the semi-retired. In 2003, we • 81% spending on diversity in STEM, operating workplace environment while ensuring a culture made further progress with the formation of the D&I in business professional categories (science, of inclusion and belonging, where everyone feels Executive Council, which continues to oversee the technology, engineering, and mathematics), welcome, respected, and valued. outreach and performance of our initiatives. yielding a greater return-on-investment Our strategy in D&I has allowed us to increase • 500-plus suppliers participated in our Diverse Diversity and Inclusion (D&I) are cornerstones of the diversity of our talent pool and recognize Programs; inclusive sourcing strategy ensures our operation and have become a key component opportunities for hiring a wide range of employees. business opportunities where diverse suppliers of our business strategy. Kelly has implemented a In our attraction and recruitment process, we have compete on a level playing ﬁeld multidimensional global strategy across emerging and mature markets, in order to maximize implemented processes to neutralize gender tone, • 31% Diverse Expenditures – in 2019, our Diverse business results and create opportunities in remove unconscious bias from job posting, as well Supplier spend by designation equaled 71% underrepresented workforces. This strategy covers as using talent outreach communications in order ethnic minorities, 20% women, and 9% smallsupplier, workforce, and workplace diversity. to attract a more diverse group of talent. business owners Sustainability Report 2019 Our Corporate Sustainability Strategy / Social Table of contents / 42 We offer a variety of specialized programs to after fulﬁlling their military duties. The U.S. Military Compass program promote talent and address the unique needs and Pipeline allows veteran candidates to create In 2019, Kelly launched a partnership with Best capabilities of the disabled, minority groups, women proﬁles that can be matched with employment Buddies International to provide Best Buddies entrepreneurs, military members and their families, opportunities within our customer database. This participants with Intellectual and Developmental young people, and the semi-retired. program feeds into the Hero2Hired program, which Disabilities (IDD) with job opportunities through matches those who have served in the National Kelly, both in-house and with our clients. This pilot Kelly Veteran Employment and Transition Guard and any of the Reserves to jobs and careers. program, implemented in the Detroit Territory and Services in Troy, Michigan, aims to enable people with IDD Our clients seek universally accepted attributes Kelly Disabilities Network conditions to become ﬁnancially independent such as leadership, adaptability, problem-solving, We have partnered with vocational rehabilitation through their own efforts and remove the need for dependability, and persistence. These are often organizations, professional networking associations, government reliance or parental support. critical attributes of current and former members and government or publicly funded disability of the armed services. We have implemented resource programs, increasing job opportunities for The program also provides participants an an in-house recruiting program that aligns disability communities where they can contribute opportunity to connect with a Kelly employee, who military experience and traits from U.S. veterans, their unique skills to our company and our will coach and accompany them during their ﬁrst current reservists, and military spouses with job customers. In 2019, Kelly’s Global Talent Solutions several months on the job. The e-Buddies initiative Kellyann Hahn, Shared Services Specialist, opportunities. On average, Kelly hires 20 veterans team partnered with On My Own, a nonproﬁt will match Kelly Anywhere employees with an email Global Business Services per day, 600 per month, and 7,200 per year. In 2019, organization located in Troy, Michigan, to assist friend to expand the global outreach of this program. Kelly hired 10,000 veterans. young adults with developmental disabilities to “I love working with Kelly Services. It’s really prepare them during the job search process and This program strengthens Kelly’s effort in delivering fun having a job.” Our Government solutions team dedicates more interview preparation. Kelly also complies with the and sharing best practices, and provides a more than 95 percent of its time to recruiting services U.S. Americans with Disabilities Act and similar robust inclusion program for those people living with – Kellyann Hahn, ﬁrst Best Buddies colleague for veterans and military spouses—both with and disabilities, while fortifying Kelly’s commitment to at Kelly regulations to ensure equal opportunities including without security clearance. This team is primarily employment and accommodation for those social inclusion and development. made up of veterans. with disabilities in all our operations around the world. Approximately, 10.5 percent of employees We have also implemented a cloud-based solution participating in KellyConnect are part of our enabling veterans to search for job opportunities disability network program. Sustainability Report 2019 Our Corporate Sustainability Strategy / Social Table of contents / 43 Leadership in Action (LIA) program We are dedicated to preparing and developing Diversity and inclusion affiliations Kelly’s current and future leaders, ensuring an environment where leaders can achieve success by following our purpose of Leaders Lifting Leaders. LIA’s purpose is to foster an environment that is inclusive to all employees, where leaders can thrive and achieve personal growth while delivering strong business results. In 2019, LIA had 913 participants (576 females and 337 males). In the U.S., Kelly female employees represent more than 71 percent of our workforce. This representation extends to our global services, where women account for 71 percent of full-time employees. Our operations reflect the growing role of women in the workforce and present Kelly as a driver to help advance their careers. Women also account for nearly 46 percent of our leadership positions at the global senior vice president level and above, representing 30 percent of our board of directors. Since its establishment in 1946, Kelly has recognized a signiﬁcant commitment to promote, recruit, and COUNCIL OF retain women who enter the workforce, providing SUPPLIER DIVERSITY PROFESSIONALS opportunities to earn an income and balance their commitments outside of the workplace. Currently, LIA efforts are focused on continuing to support advancement into higher levels and leadership roles, as well as promoting leadership and work opportunities for underrepresented communities. Sustainability Report 2019 Our Corporate Sustainability Strategy / Social Table of contents / 44 2019 D&I Awards and Recognition • Thompson Hine Selects Kelly for 2019 Diversity • SeniorAdvice.com Names Kelly to their list of • WBENC America’s Top Corporations for Achievement Award. Thompson Hine, one of “America’s Best Companies for Seniors.” One Women-Owned Businesses. For the 10th Kelly’s outside counsel partner ﬁrms, announced of the top information and advocacy websites for consecutive year, Kelly was named one of the winners of its ninth annual Diversity Awards, seniors and their caregivers has named Kelly to its America’s Top Corporations for Women-Owned with Kelly being named the recipient of the Diversity list of 20 companies they consider “America’s Best Businesses. The award, presented by the Women’s Achievement Award. The award recognized Kelly’s Companies for Seniors.” Business Enterprise National Council (WBENC), commitment to promoting diversity, equity, and recognizes companies for demonstrating a inclusion, both internally and externally. • 2019 Military Friendly Employer® and 2019 Military Spouse Friendly Employer®. Kelly was commitment to the inclusion of women-owned • QWEConnect International 2019 Top 10 Global named a 2019 Military Friendly Employer and businesses in their supply chains, helping to drive Champions for Supplier Diversity and Inclusion. a 2019 Military Spouse Friendly Employer by results and develop them as valued suppliers. Kelly was named to this inaugural 2019 Top Global VIQTORY, a service-disabled, veteran-owned • Great Lakes Women’s Business Council Champions for Supplier D&I ranking—the only small business that connects the military “Excellence in Supplier Diversity” – Best in one of its kind, making up of some of the world’s community to civilian employment, educational, Class Award 2014 – 2019 (6th Consecutive largest corporations demonstrating a commitment and entrepreneurial opportunities. This is the Year). The Great Lakes Women’s Business Council to global inclusive sourcing from diverse groups, third consecutive year Kelly has earned both congratulated Kelly for receiving an inaugural including minority, women, LGBTQ, and disableddesignations. Excellence in Supplier Diversity Award in the “Best owned businesses around the globe. in Class” category. Best in Class is the highest-level • America’s Top Corporations for Women’s • Best Place to Work for LGBTQ Equality. Kelly award given. It is an indication that a corporation Business Enterprises (WBEs) Award. The was named to the Human Rights Campaign (HRC) has excelled in all categories surveyed, including: 2019 Top Corporations award honors those 2019 Annual Corporate Equality Index and is one WBE spending, WBE capacity building, corporate corporations who have demonstrated a sustained of 571 top U.S. companies to earn a perfect score. integration of supplier diversity, and advocacy of commitment to the inclusion of women-owned women-owned businesses. businesses in their supply chains. Sustainability Report 2019 Our Corporate Sustainability Strategy / Social Table of contents / 45 Human rights Kelly has a global commitment to protect guarantee responsible recruitment and retention by Kelly, including, but not limited to, disclosure of Freedom of association and collective bargaining its employees and candidates against any practices in our operations and across our global the violation to government officials, when required Kelly states that partners and suppliers should human trafficking, and will not partner with any suppliers and customers. by law or contract, and immediate termination. recognize the need to guarantee the right to organization that condones or has practiced freedom of association and to promote collective human trafficking of any kind. We have stated Kelly employs approximately 7,700 employees with Child labor bargaining and social dialogue. All employees our commitment to addressing this issue through whom it has an “at-will” employment relationship. Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and shall be free to join, or to refrain from joining, our Human Trafficking Policy Statement, Code of Our talent supply chain spans 56 countries across the Supplier Code of Conduct state that in our trade unions or similar external representative Business Conduct and Ethics, as well as the UK six continents, in which we have worked together business practices, as well as for our partners and organizations. However, Kelly has not identiﬁed a Modern Slavery Transparency Act statement. with our partners and suppliers to guarantee fair suppliers, compliance with all applicable child labor unionist workers’ association within the company, labor practices and compliance with working laws—including those relating to minimum age nor in the industry. Our suppliers must also comply with our Supplier standards that are attached to our Supplier Code limits, limitations of working hours, and prohibition Code of Conduct, which sets our expectations of Conduct. These help to identify, prevent, and against certain types of work—are mandatory. Kelly Kelly respects the rights of all employees to engage to comply with local labor and safety law and address any issues related to forced labor. understands that opportunities may arise in protected activities, including those of freedom regulations, including hiring practices, forced labor, for the placement of minors under the age of 18, of association and collective bargaining. Employees discrimination, and other critical labor rights. Kelly Human trafficking and slavery and has therefore implemented a policy to ensure may engage in activities without fear of intimidation also conducts annual quality audits to conﬁrm Kelly does not and will not permit its employees, its compliance with federal labor law and OSHA or reprisal, in accordance with applicable law. and reinforce our regulatory and corporate policy subcontractors, vendors, suppliers, or other entities regulations. This policy is extended to all countries Kelly believes in its policies and procedures, which obligations related to compliance with the principles it does business with to engage in any form of of operation and respects all internationally encourage employees to work with their Kelly of human rights and environmental stewardship. human trafficking or modern slavery. We have proclaimed human rights. representative to problem-solve potential disputes. communicated speciﬁc guidelines on actions that Forced or compulsory labor may be considered human trafficking and slavery, In the U.S., Kelly complies with laws in all 50 states, Kelly has a zero-tolerance policy against any form of which we do not accept under any circumstances. including the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico, human trafficking or related activities, including any as well as federal laws regarding the employment form of unlawful employee harassment, retaliation, Kelly prohibits retaliation against anyone who ﬁles of minors. Kelly thoroughly vets its placement of forced or compulsory labor, sex trafficking, child a complaint or reports a suspected violation of this minors and does not permit them to be placed in labor, or any type of debt peonage. We strive to policy. Any employee or other party who violates certain high-risk jobs, including manufacturing and this policy will be subject to appropriate discipline warehouse positions. Sustainability Report 2019 Table of contents / 46 Social Supply chain and customer relations Our supply chain (KellyOCG) Supplier risk management Supplier Code of Conduct Diverse supplier strategy Kelly recognizes the importance of promoting and replicating our corporate values and responsible practices across our supply chain. We aim to build stronger relationships with our customers and suppliers to guarantee that all employees have access to fair job conditions and healthful work environments. Sustainability Report 2019 Our Corporate Sustainability Strategy / Social Table of contents / 47 Supply chain and customer relations Global coverage and value chain Kelly global footprint AMERICAS EMEA APAC* Temporary Staffing Argentina Angola Luxembourg Australia Business and Professional Services Brazil Austria Netherlands China Managed Service Provider Canada Belgium Norway Hong Kong Recruitment Process Outsourcing Colombia Croatia Oman India * Temporary staffing serviced through PERSOLKELLY, Costa Rica Czech Republic Poland Indonesia Joint Venture with PERSOL Group, or strategic partners Mexico Denmark Portugal Japan Puerto Rico France Russia Malaysia Trinidad and Tobago Georgia Saudi Arabia New Zealand United States Germany South Africa Niue Hungary Spain Philippines Iraq Sweden Singapore Ireland Switzerland South Korea Israel Turkey Taiwan Italy Ukraine Thailand Kazakhstan United Arab Emirates Vietnam Libya United Kingdom Sustainability Report 2019 Our Corporate Sustainability Strategy / Social Table of contents / 48 In 2019, Kelly presented a new business strategy focused on ﬁve specialties to unleash our potential to grow and address ever-changing market challenges. These ﬁve specialties allow our leadership to accelerate each specialty’s topand Professional bottom-line results and to achieve our mission of STEM Education International OCG becoming a specialty talent company that delivers & Industrial results for clients, talent, and shareholders. This strategy is managed around ﬁve business units organized around chosen specialties, each of them with a clear strategy and measurable targets to monitor performance. •Global Talent Solutions •Early Childhood •Global Talent Solutions •EMEA Staffing •Key Accounts Kelly’s ﬁve specialties will include: and U.S. Ops North and U.S. Ops North America, Science, IT, • Higher Ed America • APAC JV • MSP • Kelly STEM (which includes Science, IT, and Engineering Engineering) • PreK-12 • Contact Center/ • Mexico • RPO • Kelly Education • Government KellyConnect • Special Needs • Brazil • PPO • Kelly Professional and Industrial (formerly • BPO, STEM, & FSP • Finance Commercial) • Teachers On Call • TAS • Kelly International • NextGen • BPO PASM • Insight • Ayers • KellyOCG • GTA Sustainability Report 2019 Our Corporate Sustainability Strategy / Social Table of contents / 49 Our supply chain (KellyOCG) Our supply chain has two deﬁned categories, Workforce solution supplier consisting of our third-party vendors and suppliers, as well as our talent supply chain. Our talent supply chain offers workforce solutions for suppliers, which mainly provides Managed Service Providers (MSP), but also supports our Staffing Solutions, Recruitment Process Outsourcing (RPO/Perm) solutions, and Business and Professional Services (BPS) solutions. Up to one percent of our supply chain enables all sorts of solutions—the majority once again are MSP. 85% Managed Service Provider 7% Staffing Solutions 5% Recruitment Process Outsourcing 2% Business and Professional Services 1% Other solutions Sustainability Report 2019 Our Corporate Sustainability Strategy / Social Table of contents / 50 KellyOCG global MSP coverage KellyOCG deﬁnitions KellyOCG MSP programs Talent supplier network • Managed Service Provider (MSP) programs: Contingent workforce, integrating suppliers, and vendor management system (VMS) technology to bring visibility and control to contingent NORWAY DENMARK workforce. In addition to temporary staff, fully NETHERLANDS optimized solutions include a spectrum of noncompany labor categories, such as Independent BELGIUM RUSSIA U.K. GERMANY Contractors, Payroll Services, RFx/Statement of CANADA IRELAND POLAND Work (SOW) Services, Talent Pools, and Identity CZECH REPUBLIC LUXEMBOURG FRANCE HUNGARY GEORGIA Management (IDM). Recruitment Process PORTUGAL AUSTRIA CROATIA ARMENIA Outsourcing offers preeminent talent acquisition UNITED STATES ITALY TURKEY JAPAN SPAIN SWITZERLAND ISRAEL IRAQ CHINA (Incl. HK) solutions that focus on the engagement and LIBYA SAUDI ARABIA SOUTH KOREA acquisition of fullor part-time talent through TAIWAN PUERTO RICO INDIA VIETNAM end-to-end, project-based, or selective talent MEXICO OMAN TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO UAE acquisition functions. COSTA RICA COLOMBIA THAILAND MALAYSIA • Business and Professional Services offers SINGAPORE full staffing and operational management of BRAZIL ANGOLA business functions or departments, assuming full accountability and responsibility for outcomes AUSTRALIA that allow our clients to focus on their core business. Areas include contact centers/help GLOBAL OPERATION HUBS ARGENTINA desk, lab management, engineering services, APAC: Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia manufacturing/supply chain, and professional/ NEW ZEALAND AMER: Troy, Michigan administrative solutions. EMEA: Telford, UK As reported to SIA Sustainability Report 2019 Our Corporate Sustainability Strategy / Social Table of contents / 51 Connecting talent to the world of work TM STAFFING SOLUTIONS MANAGED SOLUTIONS TALENT SUPPLY STAFFING SPECIALTIES CHAIN MANAGEMENT MANAGED SERVICE KELLYCONNECT® TALENT SUPPLY CHAIN PROVIDER (MSP) (CONTACT CENTER Business Quality Speed Contact Center Information Technology OUR VISION Contingent Talent OUTSOURCING) Creative Manufacturing & Logistics Connecting companies Customer Service Strategy Education Marketing with great people delivering Direct Sourcing Technical Support Independent Contractors Engineering Office/Clerical the best workforce solutions to Compliance Value Finance & Scientiﬁc every organization Payroll Service Custom Programs Home-Based Agents Accounting SOW/RFx Management Workforce Government CAREER TRANSITION Strategy PRIORITIZED OBJECTIVES RECRUITMENT PROCESS & EXECUTIVE STAFFING OPTIONS COACHING OUTSOURCING (RPO) BUY BUILD BORROW Temporary Centralized Delivery End-to-End Programs BUSINESS & Temporary to Hire Local Branches Project Hiring PROFESSIONAL Resourcing Strategy • Managing Demand Direct Hire On-site Management AMERICAS SERVICES Commercial Insight • Supply Market Knowledge Payroll Service TALENT ADVISORY Administrative Solutions Processes & Governance • Business Analytics The Right EMEA SERVICES CADD Services Outcomes APAC INTEGRATED Engineering Support Field Services WORKFORCE Lab Management TALENT SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS Solutions Mfg. & Logistics Solutions Technical Writing Our workforce solutions enable the placement of third-party labor to work for our customers in a variety of assignments, from office/ clerical, light industrial, contact center, education, creative, and marketing, to lines of specialty service which focus on ﬁnance and accounting, engineering, IT, and science. Sustainability Report 2019 Our Corporate Sustainability Strategy / Social Table of contents / 52 Supplier risk management Kelly screens its suppliers using two methods. On a We also have implemented a Supplier methodology to conduct risk assessments for basic level, we analyze contractual compliance with Performance Management process to initiate those suppliers identiﬁed as high-risk, including consideration given to client-directed suppliers. suppliers into our program; measure and analyze information on their performance results, Kelly was a recipient of Honda’s This process is regularly audited by Kelly’s Supply their performance; take actions to improve compliance from breach reports, and assessment 2019 Indirect Procurement Chain Enablement Team, which requires proof of corrective plans, and implement initiatives to scores. This information is useful for evaluating Supplier Award. insurance coverage, relevant tax documentation, control and sustain these improvements. This strategic importance to KellyOCG, or to the client, In July 2019, Honda honored 22 as well as a completed relevant supplier agreement process is regularly monitored through scorecards. as well as analyzing their resiliency in driving risk out of 2,200 suppliers that provide that includes them in our client program. The team If a low-performing supplier is not meeting mitigation plans more effectively. indirect products and services to its monitors and communicates noncompliance, minimum performance expectations, an action manufacturing plants in North America. following the internal supplier breach report plan is put in place for improvement. However, As we continue to engage with our customers Kelly was recognized in the Special process. Worker compliance is audited and if the supplier fails its performance plan, an and suppliers worldwide, we expect to formalize Recognition category. communicated to the client program teams through offboarding process is initiated. This process also Environment, Social, and Governance (ESG) the worker on-boarding process. Contractual monitors suppliers’ and partners’ compliance with requirements on the supplier risk assessment noncompliance can lead to adjournment or all topics covered in the Supplier Code of Conduct. methodology in order to evaluate their termination from the Kelly program. Adherence to this agreement is mandatory and commitment to ESG issues and opportunities. In must be renewed prior to any new task being 2020, we will conduct a third-party risk analysis gap assigned through a client. assessment to identify supplier performances and capabilities to assess risk considering ESG. Our Supplier Risk Management program identiﬁes high-risk suppliers in our KellyOCG (Outsourcing and Consulting Group), or to the client. In 2019, we implemented an internal Sustainability Report 2019 Our Corporate Sustainability Strategy / Social Table of contents / 53 Supplier Code of Conduct We hold our suppliers to the same high level of accountability to which we hold ourselves. We seek In 2019, 91% of our The Kelly Supplier Code of Conduct addresses the following areas: suppliers committed to engage with workforce suppliers that abide by socially responsible business practices enumerated in the Supplier Code of Conduct, which adhere to to our Supplier Code • Ethical and professional conduct – • Human rights – KellyOCG, in all contexts, the professional code of conduct outlined by the KellyOCG expects its partners and suppliers seeks ways to honor internationally World Employment Confederation. to be committed to doing the right things; recognized principles of human rights, even Kelly established a Supplier Code of Conduct of Conduct. conducting themselves in a legal, ethical, and trustworthy manner; to uphold regulatory when faced with conflicting requirements. We expect our partners and suppliers to that communicates and sets expectations for all obligations, and to comply with both the respect all internationally proclaimed human our suppliers, in order to ensure that they meet our letter and the spirit of applicable laws and rights and strive to ensure that they are not high standards of ethics and business conduct. We The ethical business conduct of our partners and business policies. complicit in any human rights abuses. strive to replicate, throughout our supply chain, suppliers forms an integral part of our purchasing and the general guidelines that must be ensured in the partnering decisions. At KellyOCG, we work closely • Employees and people – KellyOCG expects • Environmental sustainability – KellyOCG business operations of our partners and suppliers— with our partners and suppliers to guarantee that their its partners and suppliers to help protect, expects its partners and suppliers to take regarding ethical and professional conduct; standards regarding business ethics and operations support, and prepare workers for successful due account of the need to protect the employee and working conditions; human rights, will be as rigorous as our own. This Supplier Code careers and to advocate on their behalf. environment, public health and safety, and and environmental sustainability. of Conduct is available publicly to all stakeholder This includes, but is not limited to, providing generally to conduct their business activities communities. It is aligned to our values in service, career opportunities and resources to the in a manner that contributes to the wider goal integrity, and taking personal responsibility for global workforce, and leading by example in of sustainable development. actions, outcomes, as well as our global reputation. areas such as workplace health and safety, employment conditions, diversity, and We expect our partners and suppliers to inclusion. replicate these standards further down the supply chain and encourage them to drive similar corporate citizenship commitments from organizations comprising their own respective supply chains. Sustainability Report 2019 Our Corporate Sustainability Strategy / Social Table of contents / 54 Diverse supplier strategy We understand that diversity and inclusion don’t We are dedicated to building, sustaining, and Our diversity recruitment strategy Our diverse suppliers just happen; these principles must be an everyday optimizing strong partnerships with a diverse is built on the following foundational consideration in all business operations involving supplier base to promote a sourcing strategy approaches: our suppliers and customers. As a global workforce where diverse suppliers can compete and enhance supplier, we leverage hundreds of diverse staffing their business opportunities in servicing our • Knowledge: We use advanced labor intelligence organizations around the globe, both as partners supply chain. In 2019, our Diverse Global Supplier tools to help us understand variations in the and as subcontractors in supporting our customers’ Network reached more than 500 diverse suppliers demographic makeup of the labor market. The various diversity initiatives. and reached contributions of $4 billion toward data, combined with trending and forecasting D&I programs that promoted the economic intelligence, allows us to more strategically target, We help our customers create greater sustainability of minority communities through as well as attract, a diverse pool of job seekers. diversity in both their workforce and corporate investments in training and engagement. • Reach: It is essential that our job opportunities sustainability strategies. The Kelly Supplier reach a diverse audience of job seekers. In today’s Diversity Development Team implements globalized and interconnected world, we make a multidimensional approach to support D&I every effort to meet diverse candidates where practices with our suppliers and workforce in all they are, when they begin to search for jobs. markets where we operate. These programs drive business success for customers and also provide • Customized approaches: We have partnered development, growth, and revenue opportunities with our customers to create and execute diversity recruitment action plans. These plans 74% minority-owned business enterprise for our strategic suppliers. include building relationships with speciﬁc 18% women-owned business enterprise area organizations that support diverse talent, 7.9% small-business administration promoting our job opportunities via postings 0.10% representation from LGBTQ community on niche job boards, or hosting specialized recruitment events. Sustainability Report 2019 Our Corporate Sustainability Strategy / Social Table of contents / 55 Supplier Excellence Award honored 19 KellyOCG suppliers Kelly recognizes performance and good • 1st Executive • PE Global practices. Every year, KellyOCG hosts the • CK Group • ProClinical Supplier Excellence Award global event • Hays • Procom Services to recognize contingent labor suppliers • Hoban Recruitment • Sentinel who have met the performance, program, spending, compliance, and qualitative • Hobson Prior • SIRE program relationship criteria—and have shown • i-Pharm Consulting • Software Galaxy consistently excellent results throughout • LabResource Systems the year in helping Kelly meet and exceed • Mid-States Technical • Talent International the needs of our clients. In 2019, KellyOCG • The Fountain Group • NES Global Talent honored 19 companies with the Supplier • PageGroup • US Tech Solutions Excellence Award: Winners received one-on-one development sessions; a designated KellyOCG representative to support their business growth; participation in supplier focus groups; access to KellyOCG supplier insight, and the ability to work directly with KellyOCG senior leaders. Sustainability Report 2019 Table of contents / 56 Social Engagement Social investment programs Disaster recovery Kelly understands that it takes all of us working together to truly make an impact in the communities where we live and work. We aim to contribute to the development of future talent through STEM education and scholarship programs, accelerating opportunities by providing social investment that responds to local communities’ needs, and inspiring our employees to give back to society while strengthening their commitment to our core business values. Sustainability Report 2019 Our Corporate Sustainability Strategy / Social Table of contents / 57 Social investment programs Kelly has a tradition of giving back while enriching digital skills to further their careers. Through these professional women with small groups of focusing on three areas: renovating and repurposing opportunities for local communities. Our purpose this partnership, Kenzie students have access to at-risk teenage girls for monthly mentoring sessions former community assets; repairing owner-occupied is to create signiﬁcant shared value through flexible, part-time, at-home jobs with Kelly. Since in public high schools in a threeto four-year homes; and mobilizing 10,000 volunteers to sustainable investment in our society that is aligned its creation in 2018, the Kelly Innovation Fund has mentoring program. beautify, within six days, the four-square mile area with our core values. Each year, we support several provided investments in organizations where we surrounding the Durfee Innovation Society. large-scale national and local organizations that can provide value beyond our ﬁnancial investment. Alternatives For Girls. Alternatives For Girls is a provide opportunities for talent development; southwest Detroit-based nonproﬁt organization Troy Community Foundation. The Troy Community increase opportunities for small businesses or Social partners that empowers homeless and high-risk girls and Foundation provides a simple one-stop place for disadvantaged workforces; and empower our young women to avoid violence, teen pregnancy, charitable individuals and businesses to support Let’s Detroit Initiative. Let’s Detroit is a strategy of and exploitation. This program helps girls the entire City of Troy. They serve the community employees to be change-makers, maximizing the Detroit Regional Chamber, as part of its Detroit explore and access the support, resources, and by creating unique partnerships that connect opportunities for social impact in their communities. Drives Degrees initiative. Detroit Drives Degrees’ opportunities necessary to be safe, to grow strong, individual, family, and business donors with the full goal is to increase the region’s postsecondary and to make positive choices in their lives. spectrum of charitable organizations and causes. In 2019, The Kelly Innovation Fund made the attainment rate to 60 percent, and to reduce ﬁrst investment in the Kenzie Academy. Kenzie the equity gap by half, by 2030. Let’s Detroit was Boys and Girls Club of Troy. The Boys and Girls is an Indianapolis-based college alternative that launched to help achieve these goals and drive Club of Troy, incorporated in 1974, provides a safe, provides job education in software engineering relationship-building, regional collaboration, social positive place for young people to grow, learn, play, and UX engineering to students looking to acquire mobility, and equity across southeast Michigan. interact, and develop into self-reliant, responsible, contributing members of the community. Women of Tomorrow. Founded in 1997, the Kelly invested more than Women of Tomorrow Mentor & Scholarship Life Remodeled. Life Remodeled exists to serve Program (WOT) inspires, motivates, and empowers as a means for people to bridge divides in order to $115,000 USD in social young women to live up to their full potential help transform each other’s lives. With substantial development initiatives in 2019, through a unique mentoring program with highly accomplished professional women, as well as investments of cash, labor, and materials, Life Remodeled focuses on the intentional and equitable including the Kenzie Academy scholarship opportunities. WOT is believed to be revitalization of Detroit neighborhoods. Projects are and social investments with the only program of its kind in the country, pairing determined by the community’s needs and vision, partners and local community initiatives. Sustainability Report 2019 Our Corporate Sustainability Strategy / Social Table of contents / 58 Engage program: Kelly volunteer initiative Engage at HQ and around the world This event helped to build momentum for Kelly launched the Engage program in the the promotion of our volunteering program, Our employees actively participate in multiple ﬁrst-ever service day event, where 68 employee encouraging employees to participate in volunteering initiatives whose social impact is volunteers contributed more than 185 hours community initiatives that align Kelly’s social maximized through support of local communities. in order to help enrich the lives of 73 young investment with support for social initiatives that We provide our employees up to eight paid hours people in Troy, Michigan. In this opportunity, we focus on: for their participation in volunteer efforts to drive partnered with Developing K.I.D.S., a Detroit• Socioeconomic needs of communities: meaningful change in the communities where based organization committed to helping youth in they live and serve. Our Engage program aims to Reducing poverty levels and covering basic vulnerable communities to become the leaders of empower our employees to contribute their time needs, especially with respect to education, tomorrow and prepare them for what’s next. workforce readiness training, and access to work and talent to support local social impact cases focused on three main areas: Usually, our social impact and community opportunities. • Diversity and inclusion outreach activities take our volunteers outside • Cooperative projects with alliance, network, of the company. In this event, hosted at our HQ and partnership organizations: Working in • Talent, skills, and training for labor campus, we provided the perfect opportunity to conjunction with other established organizations • Vulnerable communities and workforce reinsertion bring the community to us, and share our talents extends the value of our community outreach and knowledge in a corporate environment to a initiatives and broadens their impact and results. group of participants between 14 and 24 years of • Mediumand long-term sustainable initiatives: age. We provided workshops and guidance across Favoring mediumand longer-term initiatives work and educational environments, including with broad impact, while avoiding isolated communicating with conﬁdence tips; learning philanthropic activities such as donations and the impacts of the Internet and social media; sponsorships not aligned with the corporate In 2019, Kelly volunteers and participating in mock interviews with Kelly employees, in which they received constructive strategy of the business. provided 4,000-plus hours feedback on their performance. “We want them to leave the Engage experience knowing dedicated to community that whatever they’re going through right now is temporary, and that they have the power to change their future development processes and circumstances, whether that’s higher education or a job.” social investment. – Belen Benitez, Corporate Sustainability Lead Sustainability Report 2019 Our Corporate Sustainability Strategy / Social Table of contents / 59 HAVEN. Kelly is a longstanding supporter of HAVEN, a local nonproﬁt organization that provides shelter, counseling, advocacy, and educational programming to nearly 30,000 victims of domestic violence and sexual assault in Oakland County, Michigan. In addition to the trained Kelly volunteers who provide career preparation services to help HAVEN clients boost their conﬁdence and achieve ﬁnancial independence, Kelly employees at large provide in-kind donations to the organization and volunteer their time to support the HAVEN holiday shopping room. Every year, our volunteers team up with HAVEN to develop a Career Readiness Seminar. This event helps participants learn about job A group of 150 Kelly volunteers participated KellyOCG India employees teamed up with In Malaysia, a group of 45 Kelly employees readiness, social media management, and interview in Life Remodeled 2019 to clear every blighted SayTrees to help with an urban afforestation combed the beach and picked up trash at preparation, and provides a continuous mentorship alleyway within 300 city blocks in Detroit. initiative, planting over 150 tree saplings to Kelanang Beach. The group collected nearly half a opportunity with one of our volunteers. promote environmental sustainability in their local ton (477 kg/1,051 lbs.) of garbage from the beach. communities. Life Remodeled. Life Remodeled provides investments of cash, labor, and materials to revitalize Detroit neighborhoods. Projects are determined by the community’s needs and vision. Life Remodeled partners assist in three areas: remodeling a community asset, repairing owner-occupied homes, and mobilizing 10,000 volunteers to beautify 300 city blocks. In 2019, more than 150 Kelly employees from HQ and Detroit area participated with nearly 1,000 volunteer hours clearing brush and picking up trash and debris in a four-square-mile surrounding the Durfee Innovation Society. Sustainability Report 2019 Our Corporate Sustainability Strategy / Social Table of contents / 60 Disaster recovery It is our primary interest to protect the health and •Communications: We use a variety of methods impacted by natural and human-made disasters safety or our employees and their families when there to maintain communications with employees, such as floods, hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, is a disaster—natural or human-made—that could customers, and vendors/suppliers before, during, and ﬁres. This Fund is sustained through generous affect the viability of our company and jeopardize the and after a crisis event. donations from Kelly employees and reached interests of our shareholders and customers. $39,270 USD in 2019. •Emergency management team: We have a Kelly has developed a Disaster Recovery Risk team approach to decision-making in response The Fund provided ﬁnancial support to 13 Management program in order to be prepared to critical events that affect our employees and employees who were impacted by either ﬁres, to respond as quickly and effectively as possible facilities. tornadoes, or flooding. These employees received to situations such as natural disasters, safety •Continuity of operations: Based on the reach grants that totaled $10,400 to support disaster and security concerns, and changing business of our branch network, as well as our integrated relief and assistance programs. conditions. This program supports our operations information systems, Kelly has the ability to quickly and evaluates our readiness to respond to re-establish business operations at an alternative U.S. government shutdown accidental or natural disaster situations that may site if necessary. In early 2019, the U.S. government was partially impact our customers, vendors, and employees. shut down, leaving thousands of federal workers •Emergency Operations Resource Plan: Our idled and without pay. Responding to this Kelly utilizes a variety of scalable solutions and Emergency Operations Resource Plan is available crisis, Kelly deployed a program to connect strategies to both ensure the health and safety of to support ﬁeld operations in the case of major qualiﬁed furloughed workers to short-term Kelly employees and their families, and to enable us to events, whether natural or human-made, which assignments in 10 cities across the U.S.: Metro resume services after experiencing any type of signiﬁcantly impact our ability to serve employees Detroit, Michigan; Cleveland, Ohio; Memphis, disruption. Key components of the program include: and customers. Tennessee; Tampa and Orlando, Florida; Denver, Colorado; Portland, Oregon; Salt Lake City, Utah; •Global incident monitoring: Kelly invests in stateKelly Relief Fund of-the-art technology solutions that enable us to Louisville, Kentucky; and Kansas City, Missouri. We have also developed the Kelly Relief Fund—a Positions were in a range of areas, from light globally track and monitor crisis events which may nonproﬁt 501(c)3 organization, established after industrial work, to contact center positions, to affect our employees and assets. Hurricane Katrina—which provides short-term scientiﬁc and educational staffing. ﬁnancial assistance to Kelly’s regular staff and temporary employees who have been severely Sustainability Report 2019 Table of contents / 61 Governance Ethics and business conduct Governance Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Privacy and data protection Communication and reporting Internal communications External communications sustainability standards Transparency and integrity line Our ambition in governance contributes to SDGs: Sustainability Report 2019 Our Corporate Sustainability Strategy / Governance Table of contents / 62 Key milestones and ﬁgures Kelly has 30% representation by women 100% of employees participated in on the Board of Directors. training in Anti-Corruption and AntiBribery, as well as Data Privacy and Protection. In 2019, the Sustainability Governance Team formalized alignment with ESG impacts and Corporate Sustainability In 2019, we became signatories to the Strategy. UN Global Compact. We report our sustainability performance following the UN principles of good business 100% of employees signed the Code of practices. Business Conduct and Ethics. Our EcoVadis score places Kelly in the 91% of our suppliers signed the Supplier “Silver” category. Code of Business Conduct. Our ambition in governance contributes to SDGs: Sustainability Report 2019 Table of contents / 63 Governance Ethics and business conduct Governance Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Privacy and data protection Kelly is committed to doing the right thing; conducting ourselves in a legal, ethical, and trustworthy manner; strictly upholding our regulatory obligations in every country in which we operate, and complying with both the letter and spirit of our business policies and values. Our commitment is to remain accountable for our actions and goals. Sustainability Report 2019 Our Corporate Sustainability Strategy / Governance Table of contents / 64 Governance Our Board of Directors is responsible for leading Kelly complies with the listing standards of the Meetings held in 2019 effective governance over the affairs of the Nasdaq Global Market pertaining to controlled ® company, for the beneﬁt of all our stakeholders. companies. Our Board of Directors, management, 26 total meetings The Board is committed to acting in good faith, on and the Kelly company are judged by the return an informed basis, maintaining an honest belief provided to shareholders and stakeholders, that their decisions are made in the best interests including the management of ESG metrics in our of the company. global operations. Type of meeting: Our principles of corporate governance provide Diversity and inclusion are important to us; we 7 Audit Committee a framework of responsibilities and procedures expect to lead operations throughout our business 6 Compensation Committee that guide management of the Board. These based on these principles. Diverse representation 4 Governance Committee principles, which are reviewed regularly, relate to in our board is important to ensure a better 9 Board of Directors the qualiﬁcations of our directors; the criteria for decision-making process. Kelly has 10 directors— independent directors; the size of our board; tenure; three of whom are female, seven of whom are male. planning for succession; compensation, and more. Two of our directors are ethnically diverse. Kelly’s Board of Directors has delegated the Kelly Board of Directors responsibility of overseeing and monitoring ESG • 10 members impacts and the implementation of the Corporate • 30% women and 20% representing ethnic Sustainability Strategy to the Sustainability minorities Governance team. This team is represented by • 26 meetings in 2019 cross-functional leaders across the company who determine strategies, policies, and goals related to ESG and sustainability initiatives. This team is also responsible for reviewing, monitoring, and communicating all external disclosures and sustainability frameworks in order to guarantee transparency and industry-level benchmarking. Sustainability Report 2019 Our Corporate Sustainability Strategy / Governance Table of contents / 65 Code of Business Conduct and Ethics The Board of Directors has adopted a Code Kelly places great value in our partnerships; Kelly’s Code of Business Conduct of Business Conduct and Ethics, applicable we expect and require ethical behavior from addresses areas such as: to all employees at all levels, at all locations of our partners and customers. We have spent In 2019, we revised and updated employment. The Code is intended to help all considerable effort developing a vast global • Conflicts of Interest: Such conflicts may occur all global policies, training, and employees and collaborators identify and resolve network of partnering suppliers who work on a daily when a Kelly employee’s individual private processes that comprise the interest interferes with, or appears to interfere ethical issues, deter wrongdoing, and to provide basis to support our client programs worldwide. acknowledgment of our Code of mechanisms to report dishonest or unethical This supplier network is one of our company’s in any way with, the interests of the company. Employees are responsible for avoiding such Business Conduct. conduct, as well as fostering a culture of honesty strongest competitive advantages, as well as one of conflicts and communicating any such situation Kelly’s Law department provided and accountability. our greatest responsibilities. in a timely manner. training on Antitrust and Anti-Bribery Employees must comply with the Code and Suppliers who work with us trust us to treat them to all employees who work in customer-, • Anti-Bribery/Anti-Corruption: All Kelly conduct themselves in a legal and ethical manner. fairly and help them grow their businesses, and in supplier-, government-, and competitoremployees are subject to anti-bribery/antiThey are also responsible for ensuring that our return, we have developed a set of ethical conduct facing roles. The training covered corruption policies and have an obligation to suppliers, agents, and representatives are aware and business standards that we encourage all information related to The Foreign comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices of their obligations to do the same. The Code of our global partners and suppliers to meet. These Practices Act (FCPA), Antitrust laws of the Act (FCPA), as well as to all other country-speciﬁc Conduct is reviewed and benchmarked annually standards are stated in our Supplier Code of United States, and Anti-Bribery/Kickback anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws. Employees to adjust it against best-in-class performers and Conduct, covering topics related to ethical laws—all of which encompass serious may not give, promise, or offer anything—no business requirements. business conduct, employees and people, human criminal and civil penalties for individuals, matter how small in value—to any customer, rights, and environmental sustainability. It is as well as for the company. government employee, or other person for the We do not tolerate any form of unethical behavior. mandatory that all suppliers adhere to the Supplier purpose of improperly influencing a decision, We have implemented a reporting system allowing Code of Conduct and recommit to it prior to taking securing an advantage, avoiding a disadvantage, employees at all levels, as well as suppliers, to on a new assigned task. or obtaining or retaining business. report any wrongdoing anonymously and conduct investigations when required. This reporting system Each employee is required to annually certify is administered by an independent third party. compliance with the principles outlined in the code, as well as participate in FCPA and antibribery/anti-corruption training each year, to ensure understanding of all internal policies and procedures to address any wrongdoing and guarantee our reputational image. Sustainability Report 2019 Our Corporate Sustainability Strategy / Governance Table of contents / 66 Privacy and data protection We understand our responsibility to collect and The IT Global Risk and Compliance team has manage personal data from our workforce and implemented an Information Security Policy to customers worldwide. With the increased use of ensure the highest security standards of Kelly’s technology and global outreach of our business, network, and ensure compliance with applicable Kelly has prioritized the implementation of standard laws and regulations. The team also analyzes and procedures to comply with General Data Protection communicates any changes in the regulatory Regulation (GDPR) standards and all applicable environment that may impose additional compliance data privacy laws. Data protection and privacy is requirements related to the collection, use, especially relevant for companies such as Kelly, which processing, transfer, disclosure, and retention have access to large volumes of personal data from of personal information (such as is the case with our employees, customers, suppliers, and other the European Union’s GDPR and the California stakeholders. Consumer Privacy Act). All employees at Kelly are aware of this commitment and have completed mandatory training on GDPR and Privacy and Security Awareness. Team members and suppliers must understand all internal procedures and comply with the GDPR statement of Data Privacy Agreement in our Code of Business Conduct and Supplier Code of Conduct. This document is mandatory for all our workforce solution suppliers. Sustainability Report 2019 Our Corporate Sustainability Strategy / Governance Table of contents / 67 Governance Communication and reporting Internal communications External communications sustainability standards Transparency and integrity line We recognize that communicating and reporting our Corporate Sustainability Strategy performance helps to demonstrate openness and transparency. Our interest is to be accountable and responsible for our actions and reputation. We are committed to having continual communications with our interest groups, so that we can implement diverse communication channels to inform internal and external stakeholders about our performance. Sustainability Report 2019 Our Corporate Sustainability Strategy / Governance Table of contents / 68 Internal communications Internal communications to our employees are reported through two main channels: our Kelly intranet (KellyWeb) and the AVA (chatbot) system. Growing Our company intranet facilitates the easy sharing of and access to information, connecting different with purpose work teams to trending topics occurring in the Sustainability Report 2019 company and the industry. Internal communication categories include Kelly News; Leadership Messages to communicate information from the top management level to all employees; and Need to Know messages, which inform employees about Growing important policies and operational initiatives. with purpose Sustainability Report 2018 Sustainability Report 2019 Sustainability Report 2019 Our Corporate Sustainability Strategy / Governance Table of contents / 69 External communications sustainability standards Transparency and integrity line Following international standards, our external • Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standard – The We have established an integrity line for employees communication helps us monitor and inform our GRI helps us to understand and communicate our and customers who may encounter what is believed external audiences, including customers and sustainability performance and strategy on critical to be a potential violation of our business Code of clients, about our performance. We also participate sustainability issues such as climate change, Conduct or a violation of local laws or regulations. in external assessments such as the EcoVadis and human rights, governance, and social well-being. Inquiries and reports on unethical behavior follow the CDP (formerly Carbon Disclosure Project), • UN Global Compact – In 2019, Kelly became a conﬁdential process and can be reported to Kelly which provide consistency in measuring our a member of the UN Global Compact, which Business Conduct and Ethics Reporting Program internal performance, as well as validating our supports the alignment of our Corporate at 1-877-978-0049 or https://www.integritysuccess in strategy implementation. Sustainability Strategy to the 10 principle-based helpline.com/kellyservices.jsp. • EcoVadis’ assessment has helped us to align our approaches of good business practices of the Kelly prohibits and will not tolerate any type of sustainability initiatives and strategies with the UN. This signiﬁes operating in responsible ways, retaliation against any individual who reports expectations of our customers, in order to report meeting human rights, labor, environmental, and in good faith any concerns about violations results accurately. Our 2019 EcoVadis score places anti-corruption principles. of our values and principles. We will conduct our company in the “Silver” category of suppliers; • NASDAQ 2019 Annual Report – As a public an investigation promptly and fairly to ensure we have been recognized in the top ﬁve percent company, we are committed to full compliance anonymity, and then take appropriate action. in Fair Business Practices among 400 suppliers with the U.S. Securities and Exchange evaluated in our industry worldwide. Commission’s Regulation Fair Disclosure. We ﬁle • CDP (formerly Carbon Disclosure Project) – this information annually, which may be accessed We participate in the CDP questionnaire, which by the public at sec.gov. This report contains evaluates Fortune 500 companies on their information and statements regarding public greenhouse gas emissions. Kelly is proud that its business ﬁnancial reports and operational strategy. environmental performance ranks well above the industry average. Sustainability Report 2019 Table of contents / 70 How we report Materiality Stakeholder engagement Sustainability Report 2019 How we report / Materiality Table of contents / 71 Materiality Our approach Identiﬁcation of selected stakeholders Identiﬁcation of the most material topics and The stakeholders were identiﬁed considering: the their boundaries Our materiality assessment analyzed an exhaustive number of social dialogues and interactions with a We identiﬁed 16 of the most relevant topics, which list of sustainability issues that cover all aspects speciﬁc group of interests; the level of influence on were evaluated against two dimensions: relevance of our business, considering ESG issues related the type of business, industry, and business sector; for stakeholders, and their impact on the business to external standards such as the GRI, EcoVadis and the direct beneﬁciaries and consumers of our strategy. Each topic was analyzed through 61 Assessment, CDP, Sustainable Development products or services. consultations—including interviews, focus groups, Goals, UN Guiding Principles of Human Rights, and online surveys of the selected group of UN Global Compact, and the World Employment We selected a group of representatives from stakeholders. The identiﬁcation of the most material Confederation. In this process, we identify both key internal and external stakeholders, topics and their boundaries followed a prioritization stakeholders’ expectations and prioritize the including workers, customers, consumers, process based on a risk assessment analysis. most relevant topics on which we established our community members, and value chain vendors Corporate Sustainability Strategy. and suppliers. To ensure variety in this group, we Considering Kelly’s worldwide business outreach invited administrative and non-administrative and the material topics identiﬁed through the This process was analyzed with 238 internal and representatives from neighboring communities and materiality assessment process, the boundary for external stakeholders from more than 10 countries local businesses in areas where we operate. each of the identiﬁed topics is considered to be where we operate. We plan to conduct this process global. Therefore, the company has established every two years, or as deemed necessary. Included were suppliers; industry unions; local standardized global practices for partners and authorities such as regulatory bodies and industrial suppliers worldwide to ensure compliance and associations; non-governmental organizations address issues at a local level. with an interest in our line of business, and customers. In this process, we worked closely with as many stakeholders as possible from differing backgrounds, especially those with strategic roles or in senior leadership positions. Sustainability Report 2019 How we report / Materiality Table of contents / 72 Prioritization of the most material topics We scored each topic regarding three factors: ﬁrst, Materiality Prioritization of the most material topics We scored each topic in regard to three factors: The materiality matrix was revised with our stakeholders’ perceptions regarding the frequency of issues ﬁrst, stakeholders’ perceptions regarding the stakeholders to deﬁne the six principles in raised, as well as their variety, relevance, and level of power; Employees and frequency of issues raised, as well as their variety, Communication working conditions which we guide our Corporate Sustainability second, the severity of impact on stakeholders; and third, and reporting relevance, and level of power. Second, the severity strategy and this reporting content. The six the level of risk associated with our business operations. of impact on stakeholders. Third, the level of risk Market pillars are deﬁned as follows: Engagement: community associated with our business operations. This analysis helped us identify how each topic was rated, presence outreach and social impact 1. Employees and people considering its level of associated risk and the level of This analysis helped us identify how each topic was STAKEHOLDERS’ EXPECTATIONS management from the company. The issues rated the Customer relations rated, and supply chain 2. considering Ethics its level of associated risk and highest priority were prioritized both in their signiﬁcance Environmental the level of management from the company. The to our stakeholders, as well as their level of impact on our impact issues 3. rated highest priority were prioritized both in Engagement business strategy. The results are plotted on the graph their signiﬁcance to our stakeholders and their level below to visualize the relationship of the most relevant Human rights 4. Occupational of impact & safety and healthstrategy. on our business issues to our stakeholders and, most importantly, to the environment success of our business. Responses to each topic were descriptively 5. Supply analyzed, chain and facilitating customer their relations interpretation Responses to each topic were descriptively analyzed, Ethics and business considering whether their level of associated facilitating their interpretation and considering whether Grievance conduct 6. Communication, risk was high, medium, or evaluation, low, and whether the their level of associated risk was high, medium, or low—as mechanism Organizational and reporting businesses would be impacted in a positive or well as whether the businesses would be impacted in a health and safety negative manner. Some of the most material topics positive or negative manner. Some of the most material are well-managed by the company, however it is topics are well-managed by the company; however, it necessary to continue to guarantee high standards is necessary to continue to guarantee high standards regarding those topics as they may imply a higher regarding those topics, as they may imply a higher risk if not risk if not well-managed. well-managed. The materiality assessment prioritized the following The materiality assessment prioritized the following 10 most ten most signiﬁcant topics that help us remain “in signiﬁcant topics that help us remain “in accordance” with BUSINESS IMPORTANCE accordance” with the Global Reporting Initiative the Global Reporting Initiative: Standard report. GRI: Standard report. Sustainability Report 2019 How we report / Stakeholder engagement Table of contents / 73 Stakeholder engagement Our approach We recognize the importance of engagement with our stakeholders for a better understanding of their concerns, helping us deliver an effective and valuable Corporate Sustainability Strategy. Our latest materiality assessment helped us to leverage the dialogue in a two-way engagement process with both internal and external stakeholders, to identify their main concerns, and establish how we may respond to address those issues in the short, medium, and long term, regarding the impact and influence of our business operations. Kelly responds to stakeholders through a variety of initiatives and activities directed toward our customers, suppliers, and communities where our offices are located. The following matrix presents the most relevant issues raised by our stakeholders and our responses in addressing them. Sustainability Report 2019 How we report / Stakeholder engagement Table of contents / 74 Stakeholder engagement matrix STAKEHOLDERS POSSIBLE IMPACT TO STAKEHOLDERS IF STAKEHOLDER VALUES HOW WE ADDRESS ISSUES AND CONCERNS ENGAGED VALUES ARE NOT ADDRESSED Employees and working Kelly leadership, Kelly Child and forced labor are themes of very high sensitivity. a. We have in place several procedures and guidelines to control any case related to child and forced labor as much as conditions employees, Suppliers, The company has established internal policies and possible. Customers procedures to minimize its occurrence and guarantee good b. We have implemented internal policies and procedures to guarantee transparency regarding salaries throughout our working conditions for all employees. However, if there is compensation system. a single issue related to child or forced labor, the company may be affected in terms of business, exposing it to an immediate closure of operational activity. Customer relations and Kelly leadership, Kelly Suppliers may be affected in case of not meeting the a. We have implemented internal policies and practices to promote and replicate our corporate values and standards with supply chain employees, Suppliers, requirements to operate. Likewise, employees and all our employees, customers, and collaborators. We comply with the Slavery Act UK to prevent and address cases of Customers customers may be highly affected if the company does forced labor in our supply chain. not have internal effective procedures to address possible b. We have implemented internal guidelines to ensure and expand our diversity and inclusion practices along the supply cases of discrimination within its operations. This may not chain. only affect its reputation but may expose the company to non-compliance with laws and regulations. c. We work closely with our customers and partners to ensure compliance with our business Code of Conduct, work towards a stronger relationship with our customers worldwide, and guarantee all internal guidelines in our value chain. Human rights Kelly leadership, Kelly Employees’ rights may be violated if there is a limitation to We have stated a human rights policy in our employee handbook and our Code of Conduct that recognizes, among other employees, Suppliers, associate. topics, our employees’ right of freedom of association. However, we have not identiﬁed a unionist employee association in Customers our U.S. operations, nor in the industry. Engagement: Kelly leadership, Kelly Social impact initiatives have been historically reactive and Since 2017, we have implemented a transformative approach of our Social Responsibility programs towards a Corporate community outreach employees, Suppliers, not aligned to the company’s core strategy. Sustainability Strategy. This strategy considers a more strategic engagement of our social impact and community and social impact Customers, NGOs engagement, focused on three speciﬁc areas: i) diversity and inclusion; ii) talent, skills, and training for labor; iii) vulnerable communities and reinsertion to the workforce. It is also aligned to the UN Sustainable Development Goals. Market presence Kelly leadership, Kelly Challenges in adaptability of stakeholders to respond to We have implemented a strategy to constantly analyze and respond to new market trends: i) Embracing the future of work, employees, Suppliers, new labor requirements. ii) Being the destination for top talent, iii) Investing in technology for innovation and efficiency, iv) Leading in our chosen Customers markets via scale or specialty. Sustainability Report 2019 How we report / Stakeholder engagement Table of contents / 75 Stakeholder engagement matrix STAKEHOLDERS POSSIBLE IMPACT TO STAKEHOLDERS IF STAKEHOLDER VALUES HOW WE ADDRESS ISSUES AND CONCERNS ENGAGED VALUES ARE NOT ADDRESSED Communication and Kelly leadership, Kelly Inadequate information may lead to mistakes and Since 2018, the company has reported its sustainability strategy following the international standardized reporting Global reporting employees, Suppliers, increase risks. Reporting Initiative-GRI: Standard. Additionally, in February 2019, the company signed the UN Global Compact to Customers, NGOs disclose reporting based on the Communication of Progress. Ethics and business Kelly leadership, Kelly A bribery or corruption practice may not only affect the We are committed to abiding by all applicable laws in the countries where we operate. We comply with the U.S. Foreign conduct employees, Suppliers, corporate reputation and license to operate but expose the Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), the UK Bribery Act, as well as all other country speciﬁc anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws. Customers, NGOs company to civil and/or criminal liability, and undermine the We have implemented a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics to help us to recognize and address ethical issues, deter trust from our customers, shareholders, and community. wrongdoing, and provide mechanisms to report any concern, fostering a culture of honesty and accountability. Organizational Kelly leadership, Kelly The perception that OH&S conditions are only ensured We have set standardized internal guidelines with our customers, partners, and suppliers regarding OH&S, to guarantee health & safety employees, Suppliers, for temporary employees can create a negative working proper working conditions for all temporary and full-time employees. Customers environment for full-time employees and can increase the risk of accidents in the workplace. Environmental impact Kelly leadership, Kelly There is a disconnect regarding environmental practices We have set internal procedures to measure our ecological footprint, and to reduce the environmental impact of our employees, Suppliers, from the majority of employees. It may affect the business through education in preservation, conservation, and waste reduction practices. Customers, NGOs implementation of those initiatives in the long term. Grievance mechanism Kelly leadership, Kelly Retaliation may lead to hostile work environments, We have established a formal complaint process that can be used by any internal or external stakeholder respecting employees, Suppliers, affecting not only the corporate reputation but also anonymous and safe procedures, to report any inappropriate behavior or situation in the workplace that involves violence, Customers its relationship with customers, employees, and the threats, bullying, intimidation, or harassment. Contact Kelly Services’ Business Conduct and Ethics Reporting Program at community. 877.978.0049 or https://www.integrity-helpline.com/kellyservices.jsp. For Europe: https://kellyserviceseu.alertline.com/gcs/welcome Sustainability Report 2019 Table of contents / 76 About this report Sustainability Report 2019 About this report Table of contents / 77 Scope of the organization. The data has been revised, with also aligns our sustainability initiatives considering This report conveys our Corporate Sustainability estimations clearly denominated. Any assumptions external international sustainability frameworks such performance for the 2019 ﬁscal year, in accordance in the description have been speciﬁed in the as CDP, UNGC, EcoVadis, and ﬁnancial disclosures of Any concerns or feedback? with our alignment with international reporting content or index section. The report presents both the NASDAQ 2019 annual report. If you have any questions or would like standards on sustainability and UN Sustainable the positive results of our Sustainability Strategy, further information about our latest Development Goals. Previous communications as well as the main challenges and drawbacks we Report structure work in sustainability, please contact: were transmitted through the Corporate Social must overcome in order to ensure the quality of This report formalizes our Corporate Sustainability sustainability@kellyservices.com Responsibility publications in 2015-2016, 2016information presented. Strategy aligned to ESG topics. Each of the https://www.kellyservices.com/global/ 2017, and the GRI Sustainability Report of 2018. Environmental, Social, and Governance criteria We continue to work on improving our data about-us/corporate-sustainability/ presents updated information regarding the gathering, especially from business partners and corporate-sustainability-program/ Kelly’s 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report six pillars of our Corporate Sustainability formalizes our Sustainability Strategy to customers worldwide. Strategy. Each pillar describes internal policies, ESG practices and provides updates on the procedures, initiatives, and main achievements implementation of our sustainability principles and Reporting standard in communicating how we respond to our initiatives. Considering our global operations, this This report has been prepared in accordance with performance. Since we are a company of global report’s scope focuses on our internal operations, the GRI Standards: Core Option. It is presented reach, the topics covered here are global in scope, extending to our supply chain and business as the second Kelly Sustainability Report that unless speciﬁed otherwise. partners, who support our operations worldwide. enumerates our actions in addressing the most relevant economic, environmental, and social All data has been collected by the Sustainability impacts of our business performance in accordance team in collaboration with other operational areas with the expectations of our stakeholders. This report Sustainability Report 2019 Table of contents / 78 GRI Index Sustainability Report 2019 GRI Index Table of contents / 79 GRI matrix GRI: Standard Disclosure Standard disclosure title Kelly response number GRI-Foundation GRI-Foundation 101 Reporting principles and standards Reporting principles, standards, and content are described here: About this report Organizational proﬁle Organizational proﬁle 102-1 Name of the organization Kelly Services, Inc. KELYA 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Kelly is a workforce solutions leader delivering staffing solutions and talent management for a variety of industries and companies worldwide. Our services span outsourcing, consulting, recruitment, talent advisory, career transition, and vendor management services. We do not provide services that are banned in certain markets. 102-3 Location of Headquarters Global and U.S. Headquarters: 999 West Big Beaver Road, Troy, Michigan 48084 EMEA Headquarters: Av. Edouard-Dubois 20, CH-2006 Neuchatel, Switzerland APAC Headquarters: 36 Robinson Road, #20-01 City House, Singapore 068877 102-4 Location of operations Our global operations serve 56 countries worldwide in three regions: Americas; EMEA-Europe, Middle East, and Africa; APAC-Asia Paciﬁc: Global representation and value chain 102-5 Ownership and legal form Kelly Services is a public company traded on the Nasdaq stock exchange under stock ticker symbols KELYA and KELYB. Our legal business structure is designated as a C Corporation: Annual Report 2019 102-6 Markets served • Market presence: 9 countries in the Americas (AMER); 32 countries in Europe, the Middle East, and Africa (EMEA); and 15 countries in the Asian Paciﬁc (APAC). • Kelly supports any size and type of organization, in all industries, mainly focused on energy, life sciences, consumer brands, industrial/manufacturing, and ﬁnancial services/insurance. Sustainability Report 2019 GRI Index Table of contents / 80 GRI: Standard Disclosure Standard disclosure title Kelly response number Organizational proﬁle (continued) 102-7 Scale of the organization Total number of employees: 7,700: Kelly by numbers Main products/services and operations: Supply chain and customer relations Net revenue in 2019 was $5.4 billion: Annual Report 2019 Financial statements specifying total capitalization, debt and equity, provided in the annual ﬁnancial report: Annual Report 2019 102-8 Information on employees and other workers We employ approximately 1,000 employees at our corporate headquarters and 6,700+ throughout our global network. Total number of permanent and temporary employees by gender and region: Our people Number of temporary workers are variable based on client needs and are estimated based on the annual average. Total number of full-time and part-time employees by gender: Our people Kelly’s activities are performed by direct or temporary employees. 102-9 Supply chain Our supply chain has two deﬁned categories. First: our third-party vendors and suppliers. Second: our talent supply chain, part of our workforce solutions. In our second category our main services are: 1. Workforce solution supplier; 2. Managed service provider (MSP), integrating our suppliers and vendor management system (VMS); 3. Recruitment process outsourcing (RPO); 4. Business and professional services; and 5. Temporary staffing which includes a spectrum of non-company labor categories, such as Independent Contractors, Payroll Services, RFx/Statement of Work (SOW) Services, Talent Pools and Identity Management (IDM): Supply chain and customer relations Our worldwide operations require our customers and suppliers to follow our global business standards on working conditions, governance, OH&S and Environment: Supplier Code of Conduct. 102-10 Signiﬁcant changes to the organization Non-signiﬁcant changes in organization structure during 2019. Acquisitions: NextGen and GTA. Sells: HQ, Lindsey and its supply chain and Annex buildings. Divestitures: At the end of 2018, we completed the sale of our legal staffing and document review operations to Trustpoint.One and healthcare staffing operation to InGenesis. Investments: Kelly Innovation Fund invested in Kenzie Academy; ISPE-U.S.; The Business Talent Group (BTG). Our Business-Mergers, Acquisitions, Investments and Divestitures; Annual Report 2019 Sustainability Report 2019 GRI Index Table of contents / 81 GRI: Standard Disclosure Standard disclosure title Kelly response number Organizational proﬁle (continued) 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach Kelly has set internal policies and guidelines to minimize its environmental impacts. However, Kelly does not have a speciﬁc policy as it pertains to the precautionary principle. 102-12 External initiatives 1. External institutions and principles: • The World Employment Confederation (WEC) https://www.wecglobal.org/ • Corporate Equality Index https://www.hrc.org/campaigns/corporate-equality-index • EcoVadis https://www.ecovadis.com/ • Nasdaq Annual Report http://ir.kellyservices.com/ﬁnancial-information • U.S. Americans with Disabilities Act https://www.ada.gov/ • U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act https://www.justice.gov/criminal-fraud/foreign-corrupt-practices-act • General Data Protection Regulation https://eugdpr.org/ • UK Modern Slavery Transparency Act Statement https://www.kellyservices.com/global/siteassets/3-kelly-globalservices/ﬁles/uk-modern-slavery-transparency-act-statement-revised.pdf • UN Global Compact https://www.unglobalcompact.org/ 2. External initiatives we endorse through our social investment program: • Kenzie Academy https://www.kenzie.academy/ • Compass program in alliance with Best Buddies International https://www.bestbuddies.org/; • HAVEN; Let’s Detroit Initiative; Women of Tomorrow; Alternatives For Girls; Boys and Girls Club of Troy; Life Remodeled; Troy Community Foundation; Developing K.I.D.S.; Engagement-Social Investment Program 3. Environmental initiatives: The Building Owners and Managers Association of Metro Detroit (BOMA), recognized Kelly with The Outstanding Building of the year (TOBY) AwardLindsey Center Building; CDP (formerly Carbon Disclosure Project); Environment 4. Supply chain initiatives and principles: Supplier Code of Conduct; Supplier Diversity Development Team: Supplier diversity 5. Diversity and Inclusion affiliations Sustainability Report 2019 GRI Index Table of contents / 82 GRI: Standard Disclosure Standard disclosure title Kelly response number Organizational Proﬁle (continued) 102-13 Memberships of associations Kelly works to advance the interests of the staffing industry and its customers through our involvement in local, state, national, and international organizations. We are a founding member of the American Staffing Association (ASA). Members of the World Employment Confederation (formerly CIETT). Members of Diversity and Inclusion affiliation initiatives: Diversity and Inclusion affiliations. Since 2018, we are partners of IPSE-U.S. Since 2019, we are signatories to the UN Global Compact. Strategy Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Message from our President and CEO 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Message from our President and CEO, Our Corporate Sustainability Strategy, Annual Report 2019 Kelly response to COVID -19 Ethics and integrity Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior Our Business-Mission, Vision, Values, Character Our Corporate Sustainability Policy Our norms of behavior: Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, regarding global practices in labor conditions, human rights, governance principles, transparency, accommodation policy, and anti-harassment policy: Supplier Code of Conduct. Equal employment opportunity policy and affirmative action: https://www.kellyservices.com/global/aboutus/company-information/eeo-policy/. 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, regarding conflict of interest; anti-bribery/anti-corruption; insider trading; conﬁdential and customer data privacy. Supplier Code of Conduct, regarding ethical and professional conduct. Sustainability Report 2019 GRI Index Table of contents / 83 GRI: Standard Disclosure Standard disclosure title Kelly response number Governance Governance 102-18 Governance structure Executive Leadership and Senior Leadership: https://www.kellyservices.us/us/about-us/company-information/ourleadership2/ Board of Directors: http://ir.kellyservices.com/corporate-governance/board-of-directors Corporate Governance Principles: https://kellyservices.gcs-web.com/corporate-governance-principles-0 The Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee: responsible for determining the competencies and personal attributes required of director nominees and for making recommendations to the Board. The Compensation Committee: shall annually oversee, evaluate, and present to the committee achievements of performance objectives for the Chief Executive Officer. Each Committee shall have a written charter of responsibilities, duties, and authorities, which shall be reviewed at least annually by the Board. Each Committee shall report to the full Board with respect to its activities, ﬁndings, and recommendations after each meeting held. The Board has the authority to form additional committees for such purposes as it deems necessary. Additionally, the Sustainability Governance Committee oversees the implementation of the Corporate Sustainability Strategy for social and environmental impacts. 102-19 Delegating authority The Board of Directors has delegated authority to the Sustainability Governance team for structuring and overseeing the ESG metrics and Corporate Sustainability Strategy. This team is responsible for monitoring and communicating environmental and relevant social topics, creating strategies for addressing them in a timely and appropriate fashion. 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, The Sustainability Governance Team has delegated responsibility for analyzing and implementing economic, environmental, and social topics environmental, and social initiatives to Tim Dupree, Senior Vice President and Chief Growth Officer, and Belen Benitez, Corporate Sustainability Lead, Global Service: Q&A 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, In January 2018, we conducted our ﬁrst formal stakeholder engagement process, helping us to understand the most and social topics relevant concerns from our stakeholders and how we can appropriately respond, considering our business core and approach to sustainability. This consultation process was delegated to our Corporate Sustainability Lead and reviewed by management and leader executives at Kelly Services, Inc.: Stakeholder engagement, Materiality Sustainability Report 2019 GRI Index Table of contents / 84 GRI: Standard Disclosure Standard disclosure title Kelly response number Governance (continued) 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its The highest governance body is represented by the Board of Directors committees Committees include: Audit committee; Compensation committee, Governance and nominating committee 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body The Chairman of the Board: Donald R. Parfet Board of Directors. At the present time, the board has determined that the roles of the Chairman of the Board and the Chief Executive Officer should be separated. Corporate Governance Principles 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body The Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee is responsible for identifying and recommending to the Board qualiﬁed candidates for the Board membership with the goal of building a board that is effective, collegial, diverse and responsive to the current and anticipated needs of the company. Corporate Governance Principles 102-25 Conflict of interest Independent directors shall meet the independence criteria set forth in the NASDAQ listing rules. The Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee shall make initial determinations and recommendations to the Board of any development that might affect the director’s independence. Corporate Governance Principles Our Conflict of Interest policy states that all employees must act with integrity and avoid any relationship or activity that might impair our ability to make objective and fair decisions while fulﬁlling job responsibilities. Some possible situations of conflict of interest are communicated in the Code of Conduct as well as all disclosure mechanisms to properly reporting and addressing. Directors and Executive Officers must seek determination and prior authorization or approval of potential conflict of interest from the Audit Committee. Code of Business Conduct and Ethics 102-26 Role of the highest governance body in setting purpose, The Board of Directors is responsible for establishing and maintaining the most effective leadership structure for the values and strategy company. The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for managing the business affairs of the company, leading the company’s management team, keeping the Board reasonably informed, and communicating with all directors about key issues. The CEO is subject to the oversight of the Board. Corporate Governance Principles 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and The Board of Directors oversee the development and implementation of the company’s Corporate Sustainability social impacts from the highest governance body Strategy and ESG metrics which is based on the following pillars: Ethics and business conduct; employees and people; engagement; OH&S and environmental; supply chain and customer relations; and communications, evaluation and reporting. Corporate Governance Principles Sustainability Report 2019 GRI Index Table of contents / 85 GRI: Standard Disclosure Standard disclosure title Kelly response number Governance (continued) 102-31 Review of economic, environmental and social topics The Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee organize and oversee an annual evaluation by the Board and its committees of their performance. Since 2019, the Board has formalized ESG impacts on the Corporate Sustainability Strategy, recognizing the increasing importance of these topics to many investors. The Board oversees the development and implementation of the Corporate Sustainability Strategies regularly reported by the Corporate Sustainability Lead. Corporate Governance Principles 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting The Corporate Sustainability Lead is responsible for managing information presented in this report and overseeing the organization’s sustainability performance and ESG metrics. The Sustainability Governance committee will review the ﬁnal version of the sustainability report before its publication. 102-33 Communicating critical concerns The CEO communicates critical concerns from the leadership team to the Board via mail or email. Stockholders may also communicate with the Board through writing communications. All written stockholder communications will be reported to the Board at its regularly scheduled meetings. Corporate Governance Principles 102-36 Process for determining remuneration Kelly has a global compensation philosophy that sets internal policies that guarantee transparency and equitable compensation to all employees: Global compensation philosophy Stakeholder engagement Stakeholder 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Kelly engages different stakeholders through a variety of initiatives and communications dedicated to our customers, engagement suppliers, and communities where offices are located. In 2018, the materiality assessment allowed us to engage with a group of 238 internal and external stakeholders, including customers; employees and staff; suppliers and labor industry organizations; nonproﬁt organizations; local communities directly impacted by our business; government and regulatory agencies; shareholders and investors; and external assessment agencies: Stakeholder engagement matrix, Materiality 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Kelly Services has not identiﬁed a labor unionist industry organization in any of our markets. No Kelly team members are currently covered by a collective bargaining agreement. Sustainability Report 2019 GRI Index Table of contents / 86 GRI: Standard Disclosure Standard disclosure title Kelly response number Stakeholder engagement (continued) 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders The stakeholders were identiﬁed considering the following criteria: 1. Number of social dialogues and interactions with the group of interest 2. Direct influence on the type of business, industry, business sector 3. Direct beneﬁciaries of our products or services 4. Areas of influence: i.e., neighboring communities, local businesses 5. Public organizations such as regulatory bodies, industrial associations, among others 6. Nonproﬁt organizations with an interest in our line of business 7. Our consumers 8. Our value chain Stakeholder engagement, Materiality 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement We recognize the importance of engaging with our stakeholders for a better understanding of their concerns, which could help focus our sustainability strategy on high-priority issues. Our latest materiality assessment served as a formal engagement process for identifying the most material issues covered in this report. This process is expected to be done on a biannual basis. Previous to this process, Kelly had responded to stakeholders, formally and informally, through differing approaches toward customers, suppliers, and communities where our offices are located: Stakeholder engagement, Materiality 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised The Stakeholder Engagement Matrix presents the top 10 issues raised, main concerns from speciﬁc stakeholders, impact on stakeholders, and how the organization has responded to those key topics: Stakeholder engagement, Materiality Reporting practice Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements A list of wholly owned subsidiaries and entities are included in the organization’s ﬁnancial statements: Annual Report 2019 102-46 Deﬁning report content and topic boundaries The report’s content is presented based on our materiality assessment, which prioritized the 10 most relevant topics considering our business core and relevance for stakeholders. The rating process scored a variety of topics based on how frequently they were raised by certain stakeholder groups. The relevance criteria helped to identify the level of authority that the stakeholder has over each topic. Considering our worldwide operational outreach, the boundaries for each topic are considered to be global: Materiality Sustainability Report 2019 GRI Index Table of contents / 87 GRI: Standard Disclosure Standard disclosure title Kelly response number Reporting practice (continued) 102-47 List of material topics The following topics presented in the materiality matrix are identiﬁed as the most material: 1. employees and working conditions; 2. market presence; 3. customer relations and supply chain; 4. human rights; 5. engagement: community outreach and social impact; 6. communication and reporting; 7. ethics and business conduct; 8. organizational health & safety, 9. grievance mechanism; and, 10. environmental impact: Materiality 102-48 Restatements of information Restatement of information on Kelly Services -GRI Report 2018: disclosure 305Direct Scope 1 GHG Emissions 2018 reported for: 690 metric tons of CO2. Restatement of information: Direct Scope 1 GHG Emissions for 2018 were 899 metric tons of CO2. The change of this information results from adjustments in measurement methods that have been validated to report current GHG emissions in Direct and Indirect metrics. 102-49 Changes in reporting No signiﬁcant changes in the reporting structure. 102-50 Reporting period This report represents Kelly Services’ global operations and performance for ﬁscal year 2019 (January 1, 2019 to December 31, 2019): About this report 102-51 Date of most recent report Our latest GRI Report 2018, was published in May 2019: About this report 102-52 Reporting cycle Reporting cycle is on an annual basis, from January 1, 2019 to December 31, 2019: About this report 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report sustainability@kellyservices.com: About this report Kelly Services HQ 999 W Big Beaver Road Troy, MI 48084 Sustainability Report 2019 GRI Index Table of contents / 88 GRI: Standard Disclosure Standard disclosure title Kelly response number Reporting practice (continued) 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards The report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option: About this report 102-55 GRI Context Index GRI Index 102-56 External Assurance The general content of this report does not seek external assurance or validation. However, some of our social and environmental data is assured by external standards such as the CDP (formerly Carbon Disclosure Project), and EcoVadis. Management approach Management 103-1 Explanation of material topics and their boundaries The materiality assessment followed a process of risk assessment for identifying how the material topics were managed approach by the company and how the level of risk was perceived by stakeholders. Our material topics considers Kelly’s worldwide business outreach and prioritized 10 topics identiﬁed through the materiality assessment: Employees and working conditions; market presence; customer relations and supply chain; communicating and reporting; human rights; ethics and business conduct; organizational health and safety; grievance mechanism; engagement: community outreach and social impact; environmental impact. The boundary for these topics are considered as global, with certain exceptions explained throughout this report. Therefore, the company has established standardized global practices for partners and suppliers worldwide to ensure compliance and address issues at a local level. Sustainability Report 2019 GRI Index Table of contents / 89 GRI: Standard Disclosure Standard disclosure title Kelly response number Management approach (continued) 103-2 Management approach and its components All material topics are analyzed and evaluated following internal principles, standards, and goals to ensure implementation in all areas and countries of operation. This analysis follows: • Current status and policy gap analysis for each material topic • Sustainability roadmap for each pillar (including an action plan for the period time of 2018 to 2021, to ensure implementation of initiatives per business unit, related to each topic) • Evaluation of main goals, by the end of 2019, for analyzing performance implementation as well as high-level overview throughout the organization Speciﬁc goals and targets relevant to material topics are: • Employee working conditions: Diversity and Inclusion, Human Rights, Compensation Philosophy and Beneﬁts. • Market presence: increase market presence by specialty. • Customer relations and supply chain management: Risk assessment management process and third party gap analysis. 100% of workforce suppliers have signed and agreed to the Supplier Code of Conduct. • Human rights: will also be included in the sustainable procurement directive for supply chain management. In the case of Kelly full-time employees, we will keep working on the policy gap analysis to guarantee all human rights are understood and minimize any case of violations. • Ethics and business conduct: zero events of bribery and corruption identiﬁed in the reporting period. In 2019, Kelly reviewed and updated all global policies including anti-bribery, anti-corruption, anti-harassment, anti-trust. • Organizational health & safety: zero working-related fatalities along our operations. • Grievance mechanism: Integrity line. • Communication and reporting: GRI sustainability report for 2019, UNGC Report on progress and external assessments. • Environmental Impact: do not exceed our operational carbon footprint during the remodeling process by 2020, in comparison to 2017 baseline. • Engagement: community outreach and social impact. Engage corporate volunteer program guidelines and implementation. 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach We have implemented the Corporate Sustainability Questionnaire, which assesses and evaluates our sustainable performance on a yearly basis. The tool evaluates our sustainability performance based on our strategic pillars and provides inputs on our goal achievements. This tool is also the main source of information for this report, as it includes veriﬁcation sources and report on progress. Sustainability Report 2019 GRI Index Table of contents / 90 GRI: Standard Disclosure Standard disclosure title Kelly response number Economic standards Economic standards 201 Direct economic values generated and distributed Kelly’s economic value, as well as ﬁnancial implications and risk/opportunities disclosure, can be found in our ﬁnancial Economic report. We do not have a risk and opportunity assessment speciﬁcally related to climate change: Annual Report 2019 performance Deﬁned beneﬁt plan obligations and other retirement To help save for retirement, Kelly offers the Kelly Retirement Plus (KRP) Plan, an optional 401(k) savings plan for all U.S. plans based full-time employees. The plan offers a savings feature with Company matching contributions. Information about the organization’s general resources and the plan’s liabilities are available in the ﬁnancial report: Annual Report 2019 202 202-1 Ratios of standard entry-level wage by gender Kelly does not track the total number of employees compensated based on minimum wage rules. However, we have Market compared to local minimum wage established internal policies for our customers and suppliers worldwide regarding adherence to local standards and presence rules on minimum pay, and to guarantee that employees are compensated accordingly. Within the U.S., our lowest hourly rate for non-exempt (hourly) employees is $14.99 USD. 202-2 Promotion of senior management hired from the A senior management position is referred to SVP and above upper-level positions. Kelly does not manage a percentage local community of employees in senior management positions at signiﬁcant locations of operation that have been hired from the local community. For this reason, we do not have a deﬁnition for “signiﬁcant locations of operation,” nor a geographical deﬁnition of “local.” 203 Infrastructure investment and services supported Disaster recovery program contributed $39,270 through the Kelly relief fund. This fund can increase its amount to Indirect support disaster recovery programs when there is critical need: Disaster recovery economic impacts Signiﬁcant indirect economic impacts Total number of volunteer hours in 2019: 4,000 (est.); with participation of 10% of our workforce. Total annual contributions to social investment initiatives with partners and local communities in 2019: $115,000 USD: EngagementSocial Investment Programs Sustainability Report 2019 GRI Index Table of contents / 91 GRI: Standard Disclosure Standard disclosure title Kelly response number Economic standards (continued) 204Proportion of spending on local suppliers In 2019, our multidimensional strategy reached over 500 diverse suppliers across our global network. We invested Procurement nearly $4 billion ($1 billion in the U.S. only) to develop a sourcing strategy where diverse suppliers can compete and practices enhance their business opportunities in servicing our supply chain. Considering the worldwide market presence of our supply chain, the organization’s deﬁnition of “local” is referred to each country of operation: Diverse supplier strategy 205Operations assessed for risks related to corruption Kelly is committed to doing the right thing, conducting ourselves in a legal, ethical, and trustworthy manner. We have Antiimplemented global policies and processes to manage a Supplier Code of Business Conduct (SCoC) which provides corruption guidelines to our global suppliers and their employees regarding anti-corruption and anti-bribery practices. 100% of our workforce suppliers and 91% of our suppliers have signed the SCoC and are expected to understand and follow these procedures: Supplier Code of Conduct Communication and training about anti-corruption We conduct annual training to all employees and communicate mechanisms to report any concerns or unethical policies and procedures conduct: Code of Business Conduct and Ethics In 2019, 100% of our employees certiﬁed acknowledgment of understanding our “Code.” This code is intended to serve as a guide; employees are encouraged to present their questions/concerns to the vice president, internal audit, the general counsel, human resources, or to the Kelly anonymous hotline. In 2019, all our employees received training on anti-corruption and anti-bribery policies and guidelines. Governance Conﬁrmed incidents of corruption and actions taken We are not aware of any incidents of corruption. 206Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and Notwithstanding our long history of effective compliance with laws and regulations, Kelly, as any other large corporation, Antimonopoly practices is involved in legal matters in the ordinary course of its business. These matters are generally resolved favorably, with no competitive behavior material ﬁnancial effect on the continuing operations of the business or our ability to serve our clients. Sustainability Report 2019 GRI Index Table of contents / 92 GRI: Standard Disclosure Standard disclosure title Kelly response number Environmental standards Environmental 103 Management approach and its components As a workforce and talent services provider, our environmental impact mainly relates to our office operations. We are Standards committed to measuring and managing our impact on the planet through the implementation of internal practices that promote preservation, conservation, and waste reduction: Environment 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume Kelly is renovating its headquarters offices with consideration given to green building procedures that use Materials environmentally friendly materials. This procedure follows procurement and purchasing standards on office supplies and building materials. In 2019, we purchased 3,687 square yards of carbon neutral flooring for remodeling two complete floors in our HQ building in Troy, Michigan. We do not have measurements of composed materials in order to report on volume and weight. EnvironmentEnergy consumption Recycled input materials used Our recycled practices within our headquarters offices: Total weight recycled = 1,500 lbs. Total weight of recycled paper = 517,300 lbs (Shred-it): EnvironmentWaste Management 302Energy consumption within the organization Our business operations are limited to office space, with a signiﬁcant amount of personnel working remotely (onlineEnergy based). We measure energy consumption within the organization based on the electricity and natural gas used in our headquarters offices, located in Michigan, United States. The Energy Consumption within our organization is measured by the Energy Usage Index (EUI) that analyzes the energy efficiency per building by year: Energy ConsumptionEnergy Usage Index Direct energy consumption at the Corporate campus for 2019: 379,831 kBtus per square foot (note: source of veriﬁcation and methodology for calculation based on utility bill data for Scope 2 and internal fuel consumption for Scope 1). Kelly participates in the annual CDP (formerly Carbon Disclosure Project) which evaluates companies on their greenhouse gas emissions. Energy consumption outside the organization Although we operate in branches and lease offices outside of our headquarters, we are just able to report on consolidated electricity expenses for those offices. We expect to start consolidating measures on energy consumption outside the organization, in our lease and branch offices, in the next two years. Sustainability Report 2019 GRI Index Table of contents / 93 GRI: Standard Disclosure Standard disclosure title Kelly response number Environmental standards (continued) 302Energy intensity Because of the nature of our business and our flex job model, estimating our energy intensity ratio represents a Energy challenge. Our energy consumption is reflected in Scope 1 and Scope 2 reporting emissions. However, additional to the (cont.) 1,000 employees based in Troy, Michigan, a signiﬁcant number of employees travel for office days to our HQ buildings, as well as a signiﬁcant portion work remotely, modifying the daily influx of employees and users at our locations. Therefore, our energy intensity ratio is calculated estimating the average number of employees present in HQ (1,449) against Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions reporting. That gives us an estimate of 4.5 tons of GHG emission for employees in the U.S. The numbers obtained come from the following calculation: ((Scope1 +Scope2 emissions)/ average number of employees in HQ)) or (6,533/1,600). Reduction on energy consumption From 2007 to 2019, we reduced the energy consumption in our headquarters by 16.05%. In the Kirts and Lindsey buildings, this reduction was 48.06% and 16.41% respectively. However, The Annex building in our corporate campus reported an increase of 3.72% in energy consumption due to relocation of employees during the remodeling process: EnvironmentEnergy Consumption 303Water withdrawals by source The water supply in our building is provided via municipal systems and is limited to water consumption of sanitary and Water domestic use at building facilities. Kelly at this time does not track water use by withdrawals: Water consumption Water recycled and reused Kelly Services has no facilities that track recycled and reused water. 305Direct Scope 1 GHG emissions Direct (scope1) GHGe 2019: 771 emissions in metric tons of CO2e.: GHG Emissions (NOTES) * Base year for calculation: GHG 2017. Emissions in the base year: 700 CO2. *Carbon Footprint (CO2) measurement is based upon electrical (kWh) and emissions natural gas (MMBtu) consumption. For electricity, the values are based on related emissions (indirect emissions from power plants); for natural gas, values are based on emissions from stationary combustion. * Standards, methodologies, and measures used: the data of usage was compiled from monthly utility consumption bills from the company owned facilities located in Troy, Michigan. *All other leased/branch locations are excluded. The standards followed the USEPAUS Environmental Protection Agency Methodology. * We do not categorize gases in our measurement. Sustainability Report 2019 GRI Index Table of contents / 94 GRI: Standard Disclosure Standard disclosure title Kelly response number Environmental standards (continued) 305Indirect Scope 2 GHG emissions Indirect Scope 2 (location-based) GHGe 2019: 5,762 emissions in metric tons of CO2e: GHG Emissions (NOTES) * We GHG report Scope 2 (location-based) emissions from information obtained and documented by utility consumption in emissions (cont.) our own commercial office buildings located in Troy, Michigan. * All leased/branch locations are excluded from this measurement. We do not have access to electricity supplier emission factors or residual emissions factors, to report on Scope 2 market-based ﬁgures. * The standards followed the USEPA-U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Methodology. * We do not categorize gases in measurement. Other indirect Scope 3 GHG emissions Scope 3GHG emissions 2019: 2,749,14 metric tons CO2, which accounts for AIR TRAVEL: 2,747,07 metric tons CO2, and RAIL TRAVEL: 2,07 metric tons CO2. GHG Emissions: *We report Scope 3 GHGe from air and rail travels from employees in our headquarters operations. * The standards followed the Carson Wagonlit Travel methodology (CWT AnalytlQs-CO2 calculation), based on the guidelines produced by DEFRA’s GHG Conversion Factors. *Gases included in calculation: CO2, CH4, N2O. * The criteria to determine calculations, included: Total distance of flight based on origin and destination airports; class type (economy, premium economy, business, ﬁrst). *Factors used do not include an “uplift” for Radiative Forcing (RF-measure of additional environmental impacts of aviation emitted at high altitude, including emissions of nitrous oxides, water vapor). * Scope 3 baseline was determined in 2018. 306Waste by type and disposal method In our office-based operations, waste is mainly generated from paper use and other office-related activities. We have Effluents created internal programs for proper recycling of materials, and reduce as much as we can, the ﬁnal disposition of reuse and water waste in landﬁlls. In future reports we expect to report the amount of generated waste and its ﬁnal destination, as well as to have more speciﬁc data on its diversion. Total weight of materials recycled 2019: 100.42 tons. We do not have access to associated data regarding waste management in some branches and lease offices. Speciﬁc environmental data 2019: ENVIRONMENTAL EFFORTS: RECYCLED PAPER: 517,300 lbs of paper SAVED TREES: 4,420 trees OIL SAVED: 98,287 gallons WATER SAVED: 1,810,550 gallons of water CUBIC YARD LANDFILL SAVED: 776 Sustainability Report 2019 GRI Index Table of contents / 95 GRI: Standard Disclosure Standard disclosure title Kelly response number Environmental standards (continued) 307Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations We have not identiﬁed any non-compliance with environmental laws and/or regulations. Environmental compliance Social standards Social standards 103 Management approach and its components Kelly is committed to providing all our employees with fair and safe working conditions, and opportunities they need for growth. Our most important assets are our employees; we have created internal practices to ensure labor conditions and beneﬁts to all our employees in all countries of operation. All our working and labor practices and standards are aligned with global initiatives such as the ILO Convention or the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights: ILO Convention 401New employee hires and turnover New full-time employees hired in 2019: 980. Employees and people. We do not have sufficient information to track new Employment employee hires by region. Employee turnover for 2019: 1,139: Employees and people. We do not have sufficient information to track employee turnover by regions. Beneﬁts provided to full-time employees that are not Beneﬁts provided to all employees: Competitive beneﬁts. All full-time employees are eligible for 12 weeks of unpaid provided to temporary or part-time employees leave in the FMLA job protection program to take care of their own disability, take care of a family member, or baby bonding (in the U.S. and Puerto Rico). Eligible employees must have been employed at least one year with the company and have worked at least 1,250 hours. This program is administered by Prudential. All other regions and countries abide by their respective legislation on the topic. Parental leave Kelly offers paid parental leave to eligible full-time employees, including birthing mothers, partners/spouses of birthing mothers, and employees who adopt a child minor of 18 years old in the U.S. or Puerto Rico. Employees beneﬁting from parental leave in the U.S. in 2019: 82 in our headquarters location: Parental leave. All other regions and countries abide by their own respective legislation on the topic. Sustainability Report 2019 GRI Index Table of contents / 96 GRI: Standard Disclosure Standard disclosure title Kelly response number Social standards (continued) 402Labor management relations Kelly has implemented a disclosure and communication policy to formally communicate changes in policies and Labor procedures within the organization to all employees and suppliers. However, this policy does not provide a guideline management relations regarding a minimum number of weeks for noting changes that may affect employees and suppliers. Kelly has not identiﬁed a collective bargaining agreement with an industry association. 403Workers’ representation in formal joint managementKelly is committed to ensuring healthful and safe working conditions for all our employees. We provide regular training Occupational worked health & safety committee on safety guidelines in order to help them become familiar with customers’ work environments, safe work practices, health & safety emergency procedures, and protective equipment. We also assist our customers and suppliers in preparing the workplace for our employees, through our Global Safety and Health Program, which includes a pre-assignment risk assessment, worker training, and analysis of incident report. Kelly has implemented a Health & Safety program based on a detailed risk assessment that sets the basis for the occupational health and safety management system. We also have developed a Health & Safety Risks and Good Practices policy that is communicated to all employees and presents procedures for recording injuries by both direct and temporary employees. We have a Safety & Health and Environmental department that oversees execution of the safety management system and policy: Occupational health & safety: Customers and Employees Kelly participates in the Safety Committee of the staffing industry association. Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, (NOTE) * Data of incident report was calculated using PSHA recordable injuries to only full-time and directly lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related supervised employees in the U.S. fatalities 2019 Total number of employee hours worked 9,447,900 Lost work day incidence rate (LTOR) 0.15 Average number of employees 4,499 Restricted Case Incidence Rate (RCIR) 0.02 Total number of work-related employee fatalities 0 Days away/restricted and transferred incidence rate (DART) 0.08 Total number of recordable injuries/illness 7 Temporary Help Services (561320) BLS average TRIR TBD Total number of cases with days away from work 3 Percent above/below BLS industry average TRIR TBD Total number of restricted/transferred cases 1 Experience Modiﬁcation Rate (Interstate) TBD Total Case Incidence Rate (TCIR) 0.15 Sustainability Report 2019 GRI Index Table of contents / 97 GRI: Standard Disclosure Standard disclosure title Kelly response number Social standards (continued) 403Workers with high incidence or high-risk diseases related Kelly does not have any direct employees involved in an activity that may be exposed to a high risk of speciﬁc disease Occupational to their occupation at any of its sites. When placing talent into our customers’ sites we conduct a risk assessment to ensure health & safety health & safety (cont.) standards for every employee. Responsibilities and liabilities are shared between Kelly and its customers. Health & Safety topics covered in formal agreements with We do not have an agreement with trade unions and have no record of workers’ representation in formal joint trade unions management-worker health & safety committees. 404Average hours of training per year per employee Kelly continuously offers training and educational opportunities for all employees. We have an online learning platform Training and with more than 4,000 courses to provide instructor-led trainings to advance employees in their careers and career education opportunities. We also have partnered with leading educational institutions in the U.S. to offer employees beneﬁts that access and endorse their educational skills with formal and informal programs: Career development In 2019 Kelly launched the Growth Zone Initiative that provides resources for career and skills development planning. Average hours of training per year per employee for 2019: approximately 19 hours. Total average training hours 2019: Senior Management 8.1 hours; Middle Management: 10.25 hours; non-managerial: 12.2 hours. (NOTE) * We do not have sufficient information to track data of average hours of training by gender nor employee category. Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition KLC offers more than 4,000 online courses. Some upgrading skill training and courses include: assistance programs • General training for full-time and temporary employees: global policies considering working conditions, H&S; employee handbook and Code of Conduct; anti-harassment; diversity; General Data Protection Regulation, including privacy and security awareness • Leadership development program • Transition assistance programs provided to facilitate continued employability as well as the management of career terminations due to retirement or other causes • SHRM Certiﬁcation Program for selected partnered staffing employees • PMP Certiﬁcation training • Six Sigma Certiﬁcation training curricula • AGILE training to improve program performance In 2019, Kelly launched the Growth Zone Initiative that provides resources for career and skills development planning. The TalentX program offers Talent Care Advisors to provide assistance to employees for career transition and talent engagement. Career development opportunities and training. Sustainability Report 2019 GRI Index Table of contents / 98 GRI: Standard Disclosure Standard disclosure title Kelly response number Social standards (continued) 404Percentage of employees receiving regular performance Currently KLC also offers My Career program “Growth Zone Initiative” which provides career management tools to Training and and career management programs design business goals, create a career development plan, and generate feedback between the employee and their education (cont.) manager. This program is reviewed annually by employee and managers: Career development In 2019, Kelly launched TalentX, a talent research program to provide an understanding of expectations during the sourcing, recruitment and placement process that aligns more effectively to customer and employees needs. In 2019, Kelly implemented a pilot initiative program to provide professional services engaging employees across the globe to a people-ﬁrst leadership approach: Wellness. In 2019, we launched eMeRGe —as an acronym for Millennial Resource Group—to bring career development opportunities to young professionals in our Kelly network: eMeRGe 405Diversity of governance bodies and employees Kelly has a diverse workforce of more than a million employees globally. It is important to guarantee that our workforce Diversity reflect diversity in age groups, gender, and ethnicity. and equal opportunity 2019 Diversity and Inclusion awards and recognitions Diverse representation on our Board is important for ensuring a better decision-making process. Kelly has 10 directors: three female and seven male. 20% of our directors represent ethnic diversity: Governance Kelly has had a Diversity and Inclusion Council since 2003: Diversity & inclusion 406– Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken In 2019, we did not have incidents related to discrimination. Nondiscrimination Discriminatory incidents refer to legal actions taken towards the organization regarding discriminatory issues related to employee race, color, religion, gender identity/expression, sexual orientation, national origin, age, genetic information, disability, veteran and military status, and/or other protected categories under applicable laws. Incidents and actions related to discrimination are received through our integrity line and addressed internally by our legal and HR team. 407Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of Kelly has not identiﬁed a unionist workers’ association within the company nor the industry. However, in our Supplier Freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at risk Code of Conduct, we state that all partners and suppliers must respect the right of all employees to engage in association and collective protected activities, including those of freedom of association and collective bargaining: Human Rights; Code of bargaining Business Conduct Sustainability Report 2019 GRI Index Table of contents / 99 GRI: Standard Disclosure Standard disclosure title Kelly response number Social standards (continued) 408Operations and suppliers at signiﬁcant risk for incidents of In the U.S., Kelly complies with state and federal law regarding the employment of minors in all 50 states, the District Child labor child labor of Columbia, and Puerto Rico. Additionally, we have stated in agreements with partners and suppliers, as well as in our Supplier Code of Conduct, that in our global operations, it is mandatory to comply with all applicable child labor laws, including those relating to minimum age limits, limitations of working hours, and prohibition against certain types of work. Kelly thoroughly vets its placement of minors and does not permit the placement of minors in certain high-risk jobs, including manufacturing and warehouse positions: Human Rights; Code of Business Conduct 409Operations and suppliers at signiﬁcant risk for incidents of Kelly has a zero-tolerance policy against any form of human trafficking and related activities, including any form of Forced or forced or compulsory labor unlawful employee harassment, retaliation, forced or compulsory labor, sex trafficking, child labor, or any type of compulsory labor peonage: Human Rights; Code of Business Conduct. All Kelly employees have an “at-will” employment relationship. In our operations worldwide, we have implemented global practices to guarantee labor working standards through the Supplier Code of Conduct. UK Modern Slavery Transparency Act statement 412Operations that have been subject to human rights We have not implemented a human rights assessment. However, we have stated global policies on human rights, Human rights reviews or impact assessment including a human trafficking and slavery statement, to ensure compliance with our suppliers and partners. assessment We are developing a supplier risk assessment platform that would deliver current human rights status in our operations worldwide. This information would help us deﬁne risk areas and address plans: Human Rights; Code of Business Conduct Employee training on human rights policies or procedures We conduct annual trainings to all employees on human rights and issues related to human trafficking and antiharassment. Trainings also are conducted on an annual basis to hiring managers and human resources staff to protect employees and candidates against any type of trafficking. Human Rights; Code of Business Conduct 413Operations with local community engagement, impact We implemented the “Engagement” pillar to improve our local community engagement through volunteering, social Local assessment, and development programs investment, and support for small, minority, and disadvantaged businesses. Engagement communities In 2019, we launched our corporate volunteering program, Engage, to encourage and empower employees to drive change in local communities supporting social causes focused on three areas: diversity and inclusion; talent, skills and training for labor; vulnerable communities and workforce reinsertion. Engagement Kelly has developed a disaster recovery program to be ready for and respond to situations such as natural disasters as well as safety and security concerns, which may be critical to our employees and their families, as well as to the viability of the company. Disaster recovery Sustainability Report 2019 GRI Index Table of contents / 100 GRI: Standard Disclosure Standard disclosure title Kelly response number Social standards (continued) 414New suppliers that were screened using social criteria Our global suppliers commit to conducting business with the same high level of accountability to which we hold our Supplier operations, by signing the Supplier Code of Conduct. We conduct due diligence to all our suppliers through our social assessment Supplier Chain Enablement Team, which analyzes supplier risk assessments as well as the planning process for the enhancement of their performance. The team monitors all new and current suppliers against pending non-compliance requirements: Supply chain risk management Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken The supplier risk assessment program does not include a social impact risk assessment. In 2020, we expect to conduct a third-party risk analysis gap to identify supplier performances and capabilities to assess supplier risk considering ESG. 415Political contributions The company Code of Business Conduct and Ethics prohibits the use of company property, equipment funds, or other Public policy resources to make direct or indirect political contributions, unless certiﬁed approval by the Company’s general counsel is given: Code of Business Conduct and Ethics 416Assessment of the health & safety impacts of products and We assist our customers in preparing the workplace for our employees through our Global Safety and Health Program. Customer service categories The program includes a pre-assignment risk assessment, worker training, and analysis of incident report, which health & safety analyzes safety at workplaces with respect to OSHA’s regulations and recommendations: Occupational health & safety. Health & safety liabilities and responsibilities are shared with our customers. Our products and services do not represent a health & safety impact as we manage talent. We don’t have any record of non-compliance for the reporting period resulting in ﬁnes or warnings: Supply chain risk management 418Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of Kelly has not received any notice or complaint from outside parties or regulators regarding breaches of its customers’ Customer customer privacy and losses of customer data privacy during the reporting period. privacy The IT Global Compliance Team has implemented an Information Security Policy and standardized procedures to ensure compliance with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and other applicable laws and regulations. This process is annually communicated through mandatory trainings to all employees and suppliers, as well as additional trainings on Privacy and Security Awareness. We also implemented a GDPR Data Privacy agreement in the Supplier Code of Conduct: Privacy and data protection Sustainability Report 2019 Table of contents / 101 GRI: Standard Disclosure Standard disclosure title Kelly response number Social standards (continued) 101Reasons for omission This report has been made according to the GRI Standards CORE option. This option indicates that a report contains Clause 3.2 the minimum information needed to understand the nature of the organization, its material topics and related impacts, and how these are managed. Therefore, the following disclosures are not applicable for reporting. (102-27) Collective knowledge of highest governance body (102-28) Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance (102-30) Effectiveness of risk management process (102-34) Nature and total number of critical concerns (102-35) Remuneration policies for highest governance (102-37) Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration (102-38) Annual total compensation ratio (102-39) Percentage increase in annual total compensation ratio (304) Biodiversity (308) Supplier environmental assessment (410) Security practices (411) Rights of indigenous people (417) Marketing and labeling (419) Socioeconomic compliance 101GRI notiﬁcation of use of standards GRI This report has been registered to GRI at its website: www.globalreporting.org/standards Clause 3.4 Sustainability Report 2019 All trademarks are property of their respective owners An Equal Opportunity Employer © 2020 Kelly Services, Inc. All rights reserved CM-295 kellyservices.com Sustainability Report 2019
