ESG Repor� 2020 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Editing Policy ITOCHU Corporation's Perspectives on Sustainability ITOCHU Corporation believes that responding to the expectation of society through business activities keeps our Sustainability and further growth. This report presents our initiatives for promotion of Sustainability. Referenced Guidelines Corporate Profile GRI Standards 2016 issued by Global Company name ITOCHU Corporation Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB) Founded 1858 Environmental Reporting Guidelines (2012 version) issued by the Ministry of the Environment of Japan Incorporated December 1, 1949 ISO 26000 (Guidance on social responsibility) Headquarters A side-by-side comparison of GRI Standards and Tokyo 5-1, Kita-Aoyama 2-chome, Minato-ku, the UN Global Compact can be found at: Tokyo 107-8077, Japan www.itochu.co.jp/en/csr/report/gri/ Osaka 1-3, Umeda 3-chome, Kita-ku, Osaka 530-8448, Japan Reporting Period Tokyo Headquarters Osaka Headquarters Chairman & CEO Masahiro Okafuji (North Gate Building) This report principally covers actual data for the Common Stock 253,448 million yen fiscal year beginning on April 1, 2019, and ended on March 31, 2020 (FYE 2020). Number of offices Domestic ofﬁces 9 However, some of the most recent information on Overseas ofﬁces 94 our activities and initiatives are also included. Number of employees * Consolidated 128,146 Non-consolidated 4,261 Publication Information (As of March 31, 2020) Inquiries Publication: September 2020 * The number of consolidated employees is based on actual ITOCHU Corporation working employees excluding temporary staff. Next publication (scheduled): August 2021 Sustainability Management Department Previous publication: August 2019 TEL : +81-3-3497-4069 FAX : +81-3-3497-7547 Reporting Boundary E-mail : csr@itochu.co.jp This report covers ITOCHU Corporation (9 domestic offices and 94 overseas offices) and its major group companies. Disclosure of Sustainability-related Information To make information on ITOCHU's sustainability initiatives widely accessible, information is disclosed through the following media. ESG Repor� 2020 Corporate Website Sustainability Pages ESG Report Annual Report Information is disclosed regarding ITOCHU Wide-ranging information covered in detail on Aimed at investors and other stakeholders, Corporation's sustainability activities in a format the website Sustainability pages is published in we provide particularly important reporting on that provides detailed coverage across a wide PDF format as an annual ESG Report. The reports ITOCHU's Sustainability activities, along with range of themes. Moreover, information on activities provide an ongoing perspective of ITOCHU's information such as management results and future conducted during the current year is disseminated sustainability activities. growth strategies, in a comprehensive manner on a timely basis. from a perspective based on the characteristics of the business activities of a sogo shosha. www.itochu.co.jp/en/csr/ www.itochu.co.jp/en/csr/report/ www.itochu.co.jp/en/ir/ 1 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Contents Editing Policy / Corporate Profile / Contents 1 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Top Commitment : Chairman & CEO 3 Policy & Basic Approach 7 Structure and System 8 Top Commitment : President & COO 4 Initiatives 10 Message from Chief Administrative Officer 5 Stakeholder Relations 29 Environment Environmental Policy 32 Water Resources Conservation 63 Environmental Management 33 Approaches to Conservation of Biodiversity 70 Climate Change 39 ITOCHU's Clean-tech Business 76 Prevention of Pollution and Resource Circulation 54 Society Labor Practices 86 Respect and Consideration for Human Rights 127 Employee Training 106 Responsibilities to Customers 135 Occupational Safety and Health Management 113 Sustainability in the Value Chain 146 Governance Corporate Governance 169 Compliance 204 Risk Management 198 Evaluation by Society 213 Independent Assurance Report 216 2 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Top Commitment Chairman & CEO Sustainable Growth based on Our Corporate Philosophy of Sampo-yoshi ITOCHU has overcome various difficulties such as the oil shocks and the 2008 financial crisis in our history of over 160 years. Since our foundation, we have adhered to the principle of Sampo-yoshi (good for all three sides, meaning good for the buyer, good for the seller and good for society) – our founding spirit and corporate philosophy. Each one of our employees follows the approach of I Am One with Infinite Missions by leveraging the strengths of the consumer and consumer business even in a difficult business environment of economic downturn and simultaneous global recession impacted by the global pandemic. Through our business, we will continue to contribute to the stable continuation of people's lives and live up to the expectations of our stakeholders. We will advance our work style reform and health management by focusing on the health of our employees so that they can deliver the maximum results through elevated motivation and enhanced workplace environment. We will continue to aim to be a company that is trusted and supported by our business partners, shareholders, local communities and other stakeholders in addition to our employees. ITOCHU's Brand-new Deal 2020 mid-term management plan launched in 2018 was achieved ahead of schedule even under the harsh environment of COVID-19. Our commitment to robust management remains strong. Member of the Board Chairman & Chief Executive Officer 3 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Top Commitment President & COO Sampo-yoshi – Returning to Our Founding Spirit In our modern age, the overall corporate value of ITOCHU is assessed not only by profit, but also by how much value we create for the environment, society, our employees and our shareholders. Business activities based on our founding spirit and corporate philosophy of Sampo-yoshi (good for the buyer, good for the seller and good for society) thus remains relevant to the pursuit of ESG and SDGs in the present day. I would like to make 2020 a year in which we return to our founder's roots. ITOCHU wants to further emphasize what is good for society, the third aspect of Sampo-yoshi. Responding to current challenges in environmental and social issues presents business opportunities for ITOCHU. The founding spirit of Sampo-yoshi that we have inherited over 162 years will help us establish a solid profit as well as tackle environmental and social issues including climate change. We will continue our efforts in building a company in which each individual employee can work with a sense of accomplishment and happiness in doing good services for the society. Member of the Board President & Chief Operating Officer 4 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Sampo-yoshi – Our Corporate Philosophy we have inherited throughout our history for over 160 Years —We will pursue the highest level of productivity in the sector through the adoption of a Human Resources Strategy as a management policy. We have inherited Sampo-yoshi (good for the buyer, good for the seller and good for society) for over 160 years since our foundation by Chubei Itoh I – an Ohmi merchant. We will continue to pass down this founding spirit in our future as our corporate philosophy. Since then, we have connected the fruits of the efforts built up by each one of our predecessors without interruption to the present day. This idea is also encapsulated in the Guideline of Conduct I am one with infinite missions. In recent years, with a small group of capable talent, ITOCHU has been involved in cutthroat competition with other companies, and the importance of the Human Resources Strategy for that has, therefore, increased still further. ITOCHU's pioneering workstyle reforms, such as the morning-focused working system, have had a significant impact on Japanese society, including the government. The focus of these reforms is the pursuit of productivity. Our work style reform is not just a pursuit of streamlining to save time, but also increase productivity by hands-on approach. Moreover we aim to increase employee motivation by developing employee skills, supporting the active use of diverse human resources, and promoting health management. For example, the aim of the Support Measure for Balancing Cancer Care and Work introduced in FYE 2018 in accordance with ITOCHU Health Charter is to achieve a work environment in which every employee fighting cancer can continue working without concern while maintaining motivation and challenging work, thus ensuring that individuals and organizations perform at their full potential. Each and every employee working to their heart's content with health and vitality is the foundation for us, which has a small number of employees than other companies in the industry, to producing profits. This is in the interests of all stakeholders in addition to our company. At the same time, I believe that, through our employees' fulfilment of infinite missions via our main business, we will be able to fulfil our responsibilities for achievement of the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDG's). 5 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance —We will help solve social issues though our main business, grounded in the Sampo-yoshi spirit. Itinerant trading is business that only Ohmi merchants could do, consisting of going to lands far away from the Ohmi region and negotiating with only a little sample of cloth and delivering the goods afterwards. The Sampoyoshi spirit developed by the Ohmi merchants as they gained the confidence and trust of sellers, buyers and the regions they traded with is also still alive today as a management philosophy that values not only the company's own profit but also business partners, employees, shareholders and various other stakeholders. To demonstrate our intent to honor this approach to the international society, since 2009 we have participated in the UN Global Compact. In April 2018, we formulated a Basic Policy on Promotion of Sustainability as a direction for initiatives based on the ESG perspective and the Sampo-yoshi spirit. At the same time, in light of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) adopted by the United Nations, the enforcement of the Paris Agreement and the viewpoint of ESG, we have newly identified seven material sustainability issues. Each company has formulated sustainability action plans and accomplishment indicators based on those. This is further strengthening our efforts through our business. In May 2019, we stated our participation with the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) established by the Financial Stability Board (FSB) in regards to the particularly pressing issue of efforts on climate change (contribution to a low carbon society). Our groupwide sustainability promotion measures are planned and promoted by the Sustainability Promotion Department. This is done under the Chief Administrative Officer who serves as the Sustainability Committee Chairperson. Serious matters are discussed and determined by the Sustainability Committee, which is an important internal committee. In addition to the role of chairing the committee, the Sustainability Committee Chairperson attends board meetings, and the HMC and Investment Consultative Committee, and then makes reports to the Board of Directors at these meetings. In this way, the Chairperson is responsible for sustainability management in light of the impact on our environment and society. We have also appointed an ESG officer to all organizations in companies and functions and have put in place a framework for contributing to the realization of a sustainable society through our main business. In addition, by regularly seeking dialogue with stakeholders inside and outside the company, including the Advisory Board, we grasp society's expectations and demands of us and utilize them in the promotion of sustainability. We will continue to contribute to solving social issues by responding to the trust and expectations from the stakeholders around us through our main business while valuing local sites in the future. We would then like us to translate this into sustainable growth though a reinvented Sampo-yoshi approach, which is our aim under the Brand-new Deal 2020. Fumihiko Kobayashi Member of the Board Senior Managing Executive Officer Chief Administrative Officer 6 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Policy & Basic Approach The ITOCHU Group Basic Policy on Promotion of Sustainability ITOCHU Group, conducting business globally under the spirit of Sampo-yoshi , the management philosophy of merchants in the Ohmi province of Japan (present-day Shiga Prefecture) which is our Corporate Mission, considers that addressing global environmental and social issues is one of the top priority issues in its management policy. We contribute to the realization of a sustainable society based on the ITOCHU Group Code of Ethic Conduct, in order to achieve the goals of The ITOCHU Group Corporate Guideline of Conduct, I am One with Infinite Missions. (1) Identification of Material Issues and Promotion of Businesses that Address the Social Issues As a member of the international community, we will identify and assess material issues where we can create the most social and environmental value for that can enhance the sustainable growth of both society and our business. (2) Establishment of Mutual Trust with Society We will take necessary measures to ensure that we disclose accurate and clear information and maintain a communicative relationship with our stakeholders. In doing so, we aim to be receptive and responsive to the expectations and demands of society. (3) Strengthening Supply Chain and Business Investment Management to Lead to Sustainable Use of Natural Resources with Respect for Human Rights and Consideration for the Environment While engaging in business activities, we respect the legal systems of each country and international rules, and strive to prevent the occurrence of environmental pollution and/or human rights and labor issues that threaten our lives. In addition, we give due consideration to the mitigation of and adaption to climate change, the preservation of the global environment, such as through the conservation of biodiversity and ecosystems, and human rights issues. We endeavor to understand how natural resources are utilized (such as air, water, land, food, minerals, fossil fuels, animals, and plants) and what consideration is given to human rights and labor issues, both in the businesses where we invest and in the supply chains related to the products we handle. We request our business partners to understand and implement our concept of sustainability, and aim to build a sustainable value chain. (4) Education and Awareness of Employees to Promote Sustainability We believe that the promotion of sustainability starts with each and every employee. Therefore, we will take necessary measures to educate our employees on the material sustainability issues we have identified and nurture a sustainability mindset among the workforce. Every employee is expected to adhere to this policy by executing respective action plans drafted in alignment to this policy. April 2020 Fumihiko Kobayashi Member of the Board Senior Managing Executive Officer Chief Administrative Officer 7 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Structure and System Promoting Sustainability at ITOCHU Corporation We established the Basic Policy on Promotion of Sustainability (P7) to set ITOCHU Corporation's initiatives to further sustainability in accordance with our corporate mission and the dynamic environment in which we operate. Our implementation of the policy is organized and systematic. In the course of implementation, ITOCHU Corporation determines the critical issues with priority need for a solution, then inserts the material issues into Sustainability Action Plans (P14-22). These plans guide operations in our trading and business investments as we carry out the policies in the mid-term management plan, thus helping to solve the aforementioned issues. Sustainability Promotion Flow 8 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Structure for Promoting Sustainability The Sustainability Management Department plans and formulates company-wide action to further sustainability at ITOCHU Corporation, which the Sustainability Chairperson served by the Chief Administrative Officer finalizes. Meanwhile, the ESG Officers and Managers in each unit carry out sustainability actions. The Sustainability Committee, one of the company's key committees, holds deliberations and makes decisions concerning policy formulation and important matters. In addition to a role in heading the Sustainability Committee, the committee's chair joins meetings of the Board of Directors, the HMC and the Investment Consultative Committee, and also engages in decision-making based on the company's impact on the environment and society by reporting regularly to the Board of Directors to brief them on our promotion of sustainability. We furthermore engage in dialog with stakeholders within and outside the company. One example of this is our regularly convened advisory board. This dialog provides an understanding of what society expects of and desires from the company, which we can then apply to our initiatives at advancing sustainability. Sustainability Promotion Framework (FYE 2021) FYE 2020 Sustainability Committee Chair: CAO. Members: General Manager of the Corporate Planning & Administration Division, General Manager of the Corporate Communications Division, General Manager of the Human Resources & General Affairs Division, General Manager of the Legal Members Division, General Manager of the Sustainability Management Department, General Manager of the Investor Relations Department, General Managers of the Planning & Administration Departments of each Division Company, Corporate Auditors 1. Revision of ITOCHU Corporate Mission 2. Formulation of the Corporate Ethical Code of Conduct, Revision of policies in line with Primary Purview revision to the corporate mission, Sustainability action plan review, ISO14001 environmental management review, TCFD progress and disclosure contents, SCOPE3 calculation results and next term issues 9 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Initiatives: Critical Issues (Material Issues) In April 2018, ITOCHU put forth material sustainability issues that incorporate an ESG perspective.Addressing these issues through its main business will help ITOCHU accomplish its FYE 2019-2021 Medium-Term Management Plan's goal of achieving ongoing growth through ITOCHU Mission, the spirit of Sampo-yoshi . ITOCHU's sustainability initiatives, which aim to fulfill our responsibilities for the society of today and the future, also contribute to the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)* adopted by the United Nations in 2015. * Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs): Targets for sustainable development to achieve by 2030, adopted in September 2015 by member states of the United Nations Identification and Review Process for Material Issues (P12) Risks and Opportunities Pertaining to Each Material Issue (P13) Sustainability Action Plans (P14-22) Material Sustainability Issues Evolve Businesses through Technological Innovation We create new value by proactively exploring new technologies as we adapt to a transforming industrial establishment by venturing beyond the framework of our existing business. Address Climate Change (Contribute to Realization of Low-Carbon Society) As we endeavor to adapt to climate change's impact on business, we further business activities that contribute to a low-carbon society and work to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. 10 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Cultivate a Motivating Workplace Environment We provide a setting where employees are proud and motivated, and where we can leverage diversity so they can fully exhibit their capabilities. Respect Human Rights While showing respect and consideration for human rights in our operations, we bring stability to our business and contribute to the development of local communities. Contribute to Healthier and More Enriched Lifestyles With the intention of raising quality of life for all people, we help make healthy, bountiful living possible. Ensure Stable Procurement and Supply With aspirations for a recycling-oriented society, we give consideration to biodiversity and other important aspects of the environment to engage in effective use and steady procurement and supply of resources in line with their demand in each country. Maintain Rigorous Governance Structures We ensure proper and efficient execution of operations through the Board of Directors' independent, objective and highly effective oversight of management and highly transparent decision-making. 11 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Initiatives: Identification and Review Process for Material Issues Since ITOCHU Corporation first identified material issues in 2013, we have conducted regular reviews based on trends in the international community and the expectations of stakeholders. In fiscal 2019, when the latest midterm management plan kicked off, we identified seven new critical issues based on the recent adoption of the SDGs, the Paris Agreement on climate change coming into effect and other social developments and changes affecting business. 12 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Initiatives: Risks and Opportunities Pertaining to Each Material Issue Material Issues Risks Opportunities Obsolescence of existing business Creation of new markets; provision of models accompanying the rise of new Evolve businesses innovative services technologies such as IoT and AI through Optimization of human resources and Labor shortages in developed technological logistics by utilizing new technology; countries; flight of excellent talent innovation enhanced competitiveness by from businesses that are slow to reforming how we work streamline Transition risk Reduction in demand for fossil fuels Increase in renewable energy and Address climate due to business restrictions on other business opportunities which will change (contribute greenhouse gas emissions contribute to alleviating climate to realization of a Physical risk change low-carbon Retention and acquisition of customers Damage to business due to the society) by strengthening supply structures increase in abnormal weather (e.g., that can adapt to abnormal weather droughts, flooding, typhoons and hurricanes) Providing a motivating workplace Failure to handle the issue properly Cultivate a environment raises worker could lower worker productivity, cause motivating productivity, improves health and excellent talent to leave, erase workplace motivation, retains excellent talent, business opportunities, and add to environment and enhances adaptability to change health-related expenses and new business opportunities Human rights problems occurring in Co-existence with local communities more geographically expansive stabilizes business and retains business activities could delay excellent talent Respect human operations or pose a continuity risk Consideration for human rights in the rights Insufficient provision of social supply chain and improved working infrastructure services could erode environments will build a safer and trust in the company steadier product supply network Safety and health issues affecting Advancing food safety/reliability and consumers and service users could health will boost demand Contribute to erode trust in the company Growth in individual consumption and healthier and more Changes in government policy could the spread of the internet will expand enriched lifestyles impact business by destabilizing services in information, finance and markets or social insurance systems distribution Impact from a backlash accompanying Higher demand for resources due to the outbreak of environmental population growth and higher living Ensure stable problems or worsening relations with standards in emerging countries procurement and local communities A steady, environmentally-friendly supply A price-cutting war in consumer goods supply of resources and materials wins could structurally batter the entire client trust and creates new business industry Establishing robust governance will Business continuity risks and Maintain rigorous raise decision-making transparency, unanticipated losses arising from governance enable proper adaptation to change, dysfunctional corporate governance or structures and lay the foundation for steady internal controls growth 13 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Initiatives: Sustainability Action Plans As a concrete initiative to address the material issues we have identified, we embed these issues into the Sustainability Action Plan for each business sector. Each company deduces the risks and opportunities associated with critical sustainability issues in each business sector, formulates a Sustainability Action Plan that stipulates the approach and success indicators to achieve their mediumand long-term commitments, and holds semi-annual review meetings for each unit affected by the plan. This implementation of the PDCA cycle advances sustainability. In addition, each unit—headquarters administrative divisions, domestic branches and offices, overseas locations, etc.—formulates a Sustainability Action Plan according to its business and function, the goal being to further entrench the foundations supporting business activities. After the Materiality is identified, we reflect it in sustainability action plans in each business area as specific measures for contributing to the solution of social issues. We promote sustainability by defining the Commitment, which shows how we achieve mediumand long-term growth and provide value to society, and specific approach and performance indicators for achieving the Commitment. Narrow Down by Materiality Evolve Businesses through Technological Innovation Risks Opportunities Obsolescence of existing business models resulting from Creation of new markets and provision of innovative the emergence of new technologies, such as IoT and AI. services. Labor shortage in developed countries, loss of excellent Utilizing new technologies for optimizing human human resources in businesses in which efficiency resources and logistics, increasing competitiveness by improvement is delayed. And others. promoting work style reform. And others. SDGs Issues to Business Co Commitment Specific Approach Performance Indicators Degree of Progress Targets Address Area We will build a production IT Visualize the supply chains of We were aiming to start operation in June 2019. infrastructure that will be a Introduce the production IT the overall Group to reduce However, the installation work and system training State-of-thecommon platform of the infrastructure to the main bases costs, improve quality, and took time. Therefore, we actually started operation art supply chain and strive to of the Group and contribute to reduce lead time, thereby in January 2020. IPA Hong Kong has started technologies improve added value and the improvement of Product, developing a supply system utilizing this with business that utilizes the (IoT) promote sustainable Lifecycle and Management. that can cater to market production background of IPA Vietnam. We plan to industrialization. needs. roll this out in other areas in sequence. Textile We will utilize nextCompany We sold 60 million RFID tags in FYE 2020. We gave generation technologies, Make use of AI and State-of-theImprove production and sales proposals to improve operational efficiency (e.g., such as Radio Frequency disseminate the use of RFID art efficiency by making use of AI, supply chain optimization and an improvement in IDentification (RFID) tags, tags, thereby improving technologies and in addition, accelerate the the accuracy of understanding inventory). We have to contribute to improved production and operating (IC tag, RFID, dissemination of RFID tags in started examining a partnership with an overseas efficiency, not only in the efficiency in the supply chain, and EC the clothing industry, in an effort company concerning the tag material to introduce apparel industry but also in traceability, and sales businesses) to increase the trading volume. eco-friendly goods that do not require garbage the associated logistics capabilities. separation. industry. We are working to improve productivity and to We will improve productivity optimize business. For example, we are We will aim to improve and optimize operations by Promotion of further proactively introducing RPA in the group productivity and efficiency introducing and utilizing new business processing reincluding in subsidiaries and associated by utilizing RPA and AI technologies in the distribution engineering utilizing RPA and companies. proactively. field in which labor shortages AI. Overall foodWe are promoting the optimization of distribution Food We will aim to create are becoming more serious. Promotion of the related centers and the computerization of paper Company innovative services and We will create unique new development of new businesses information to save labor. In addition, we are Nextnew business by value by combining the wide products and new services working to reduce delivery vehicles by generation integrating resources and ranging product lineup, through the food wholesale continuously optimizing delivery routes. business new technologies of the functions and expertise of our business developed by the We are providing marketing tools that improve Development ITOCHU Group. group based on retail customer ITOCHU Group. the convenience of consumers to retail customers needs. through our group food wholesale company. Continuing from the previous fiscal year, we have Business increased new overseas VC investments (e.g., in incubation new technology and healthcare fields). We have We will try to create new ICT & through Seeking chance to invest in and made over ten investments. We are currently industries with acquiring Financial venture make partnerships with Realization of new service and working with these companies to develop new cutting-edge innovations Business investment, startups, in order to develop business developments. businesses. In particular, this fiscal year, we plan to and business models such Company focused on new businesses. develop fintech-related services. This will as IoT, AI, and FinTech. FinTech, IoT, contribute to developing new solutions and AI and etc. increasing profits, by improving operational efficiency of retailers and e-commerce operators. We are currently promoting a digital strategy in Increase contact with consumers FamilyMart the subsidiary. We released the by promoting the retail business FamiPay smartphone app with barcode payment in in our efforts to understand Aim to develop new July 2019. We have achieved labor savings in We will aim to create consumer behaviors, and businesses and cultivate new FamilyMart stores. For example, register service Consumer innovative services and new combine the wide range of customers by taking full time has been reduced to one third of what it was The 8th related business by integrating products, functions, and advantage of the business before. business assets and new technologies expertise of the Group to create foundations possessed by the In addition, we have already promoted inbound of the ITOCHU Group. unique new value that will be ITOCHU Group. business and released a capital and business profitable for consumers and alliance with a startup that has independently communal society. developed a humanoid AI agent with advanced recognition technology. 14 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Address Climate Change (Contribute to Realization of Low-Carbon Society) Risks Opportunities Transition risk Reduction in demand for fossil fuels due to business Increase in renewable energy and other business restrictions on greenhouse gas emissions opportunities which will contribute to alleviating climate change Physical risk Retention and acquisition of customers by strengthening Damage to business due to the increase in abnormal supply structures that can adapt to abnormal weather weather (e.g., droughts, flooding, typhoons and hurricanes) SDGs Issues to Co Business Area Commitment Specific Approach Performance Indicators Degree of Progress Targets Address We will develop power plants with a good balance between renewable We achieved a renewable energy rate of 12.5% energy power generation Pursue opportunities to FYE 2031: Target to achieve a through capital alliances with Winch Energy, which is a Overall power and conventional power invest aggressively in renewable energy ratio more company in the U.K. that is involved in small-scale Machinery generation generation, thereby renewable energy power than 20% (equity interest solar power generation and distribution systems in Company business contributing to the generation through analyses basis) and reflect this to the non-electrified areas such as Africa, and VPP Japan, development of countries of countries and regions. future strategy. which is a company involved in the solar distribution and regions in a power business in Japan. sustainable manner that is optimized for each. 1) We have been participating in a small electric truck demonstration experiment since January 2019 in Japan. We will achieve the ecoContribute to spread of ecoExpand sales of eco-friendly 2) We are deepening efforts with two companies into friendly mobility society friendly vehicles by products in response to the which we invested in FYE 2019 in China where electric by strengthening Sales of increasing business of ecoexpanded lineup of EVs, HVs, vehicles are spreading rapidly Dishangtie Car Rental, businesses of electric Machinery passenger cars friendly and high-efficiency vehicles with a reduced an electric commercial vehicle rental and maintenance vehicles (EVs), hybrid Company and commercial products, such as EVs, HVs, environmental impact, and service, and Zhicheauto Technology (Singulato Motors), vehicles (HVs), vehicles vehicles vehicles with a reduced similar vehicles from an emerging electric vehicle manufacture. with a reduced environmental impact, and automakers as our business 3) We have invested in a ride sharing service called Via environmental impact, related parts. partners. (2019). This is a convenient and cost-effective means and those related. Taking of transportation. At the same time, it also contributes counterto alleviating urban congestion and reducing CO2 measures emissions. against climate We are working to start an overseas demonstration change project to culture Euglena together with euglena Co., Continue to be involved in Ltd. This project will help promote Carbon dioxide the development of Capture and Utilization (CCU) technologies. technologies that This project has potential to be applied over existing contribute to the reduction Contribution to the thermal power plants and manufacturing plants that of greenhouse gases development of a low-carbon emit carbon dioxide and is expected to be rolled out We will realize stable emissions, including society by committing to to a wide range of industries. energy supply as our technologies for carbon technologies that help We have properly reviewed our asset portfolio to see social mission and dioxide capture and reduce greenhouse gases if it is duly in line with our policy announced in responsibility while fully storage (CCS) and carbon emissions. February 2019 (1) not to acquire any new thermal Mining business considering its dioxide capture and Development of an optimal coal mining interest and (2) regarding the existing Metals & Environmental environmental impact. utilization (CCU). asset portfolio by fully thermal coal mining business, we will continue to Minerals business We will contribute to Aim to develop an considering social review it and contribute to the development of a Company Material-related reducing greenhouse appropriate portfolio of requirements, including sustainable society while responding to the social business gases through coal assets by fully those related to the shift to a demands of stable supply of energy to domestic and businesses related to considering its low-carbon society. overseas customers. lighter-weight vehicles environmental impact. Implementation and As a result the review, following on from the sale of and Electric Vehicles Strengthen initiatives in expansion of businesses that our interests in the Rolleston thermal coal mine in the (EVs). businesses that contribute contribute to developing previous fiscal year, we have concluded this year an to the development of lighter-weight vehicles and agreement for acquiring the interests in a new coking lighter-weight vehicles and shifting to EVs. coal mine (Longview coking coal mine) in December shift to EVs (aluminum, 2019. copper, and other The amount of transactions for aluminum businesses). castings/die-cast materials for vehicles has increased by 10% in FYE 2020 over FYE 2019, contributing to the development of light-weight vehicles. Taking Development and Partnering with experienced Pursuing opportunities to take counterproduction of natural Energy & Oil & Gas LNG operators with high part in LNG projects (i.e. LNG measures resources with We are holding concrete discussions with regards to Chemicals (Liquefied Natural technical strength in the or natural gas emits less against consideration in the participation in new LNG projects. Company Gas) Projects development and production greenhouse gases than the climate reduction of greenhouse of natural resources. other fossil fuels). change gases. We will continue to stably supply the storage We will continue to sell batteries that are the storage batteries equipped Efforts to key to the efficient and with optimal optimally optimal utilization of Storage battery charging/discharging Number of storage batteries and contiEnergy & renewable energy. related power and software based on machine sold * Because of new commitment, review will be nuously Chemicals We will aim to environmental learning (AI) and we will Use of recycled and reused conducted from the next fiscal year. supply Company strengthen our storage solutions establish a recycling and batteries renewable battery business chain and establish a circular reuse business with energy model through the repurposed batteries from battery recycling EV. business in particular. Utilization as a source of renewable energy for We will examine and processed food manufacturing We will utilize green energy We are currently building biogas power plants at two Food promote measures that plants by generating biogas Fresh food field in our processed food plants in the Philippines. These are scheduled to be Company contribute to tackling power using pineapple business. completed in the first half of FYE 2021. Taking climate change. leftovers generated in the countermanufacturing process of the measures Dole processed food business. against climate We plan to expand the use Consider investment, change of sustainable byproducts participation, etc. in the slag General Establish continuous, stable We expect a 65% increase year-on-year in the Cement substitute (slag) as a substitute business and focus efforts on Products business between amount we handle to developing countries. material such as material for the cement creating demand, especially in & Realty Steelworks as the supplier We are currently in discussions concerning investment slag which is vital for developing countries, with the Company of slag and Users. and participation in the slag business. construction and civil aim of establishing engineering. continuous, stable business. 15 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Cultivate a Motivating Workplace Environment Risks Opportunities Improvement of labor productivity and health and Decline in labor productivity, loss of excellent human motivation, securing of excellent human resources, resources, missed business opportunities, increase in enhanced capability of responding to changes and health-related expenses, and other events that would business opportunities, and other events that will result result from failure to take appropriate measures, and from the creation of a workplace that provides job others. satisfaction, and others. SDGs Issues to Business Co Commitment Specific Approach Performance Indicators Degree of Progress Targets Address Area <ITOCHU Corporation> <ITOCHU Corporation> FYE 2021: Reduce the We have reduced annual average overtime hours by annual average overtime 11% compared to before the introduction of the Promote the morning focused working hours by at least 10% morning-focused working system (achieved in FYE system. compared to the period 2018). Improving Conduct regular monitoring of prior to the introduction of We have 5% of employees leaving the building after 8 operating employees' work situations. the morning-focused p.m. (FYE 2019). efficiency We will promote a Promote work automation with IT working system. We have 67% of employees acquiring paid leave (FYE and well-balanced working tools, including the robotic process FYE 2021: Percentage of 2019). addressing automation (RPA), as well as mobile Human style and reduce the employees who leave the We plan to complete approximately 100 scenarios in the issue of Headwork. Resources total number of office building at 20:00 or FYE 2019 for RPA. We will also introduce a data longquarters Promote projects for improving the Affairs working hours, aiming later at 5% or fewer. analysis tool (HANABI). We are currently running 151 working operating efficiency at each to improve employee FYE 2021: Paid leave scenarios. (As of February 2020) hours organization. acquisition rate at 70% or In FYE 2019, we plan to implement BPR (business engagement. through higher. improvement) at the organization level in three work style <ITOCHU Group> Rate of positive responses divisions (Fresh Food Division, Automobile, reform to the employee Construction Machinery & Industrial Machinery Division Efficient way of working, appropriate working hours management, and engagement item in the and Apparel Division). educational and awareness-raising engagement survey: 70% The positive answer rate to the Employee activities at the ITOCHU Group. or higher. Engagement item from the FYE 2019 Engagement Survey was 76%. *We did not conduct a survey in FYE 2020. The latest data is for FYE 2019. Keep the percentage of employees who We will improve the receive regular medical checkups at health of employees Percentage of employees 100%. Regular medical checkup rate: 100% in FYE 2020. to create an who receive regular Establish well-equipped in-house Rate of improvement in the health index (e.g., BMI) environment that will medical checkups: 100%. clinics and a system for supporting compared to FYE 2011: -2% in FYE 2019. enable individual FYE 2021: Improve health each employee in receiving Support for working while receiving cancer care: Job employees to better personalized medical care. indicators (such as BMI) turnover due to cancer and long-term illnesses demonstrate their compared to FYE 2017 Promote measures for helping continues to be 0%. Improving Human values. capabilities. We will employees create a balance between Rate of those found to have a high level of stress in the HeadFYE 2021: Percentage of the health of Resources build a system that cancer treatment and work. stress check: 2.9% in FYE 2020. quarters employees who leave work employees Affairs helps employees with Offer healthy dishes in the employee Health management web tools for employees due to cancer or long-term cancer or long-term cafeteria. utilization: We are continuing to run a program for illness at 0%. illness to create a Promote the program for supporting those at a high risk for lifestyle-related diseases among FYE 2021: Rate of balance between smoking cessation treatment young employees and we expanded the scope to employees found to have a treatment and work, expenses. include those who are subject to specific health high level of stress in the thereby fostering a Utilize health management web tools guidance (a total of 115 participants in FYE 2020). We stress check at 5% or for employees and continue to provide held a company-wide walking event. culture of mutual lower. special programs for employees at a support. high risk for lifestyle-related diseases. The positive answer rate to the Education and FYE 2021: Annual E&D Training item from the FYE 2019 Engagement Survey expenses exceeding one was 71%. *We did not conduct a survey in FYE 2020. billion yen. The latest data is for FYE 2019. Continue to develop and provide Rate of positive responses We have been continually reviewing and developing We will develop to the education and training programs at all jobs levels. training programs (e.g., the trial introduction of nexttraining programs on training item in the Continue and enhance overseas generation related training). a global basis that engagement survey: 60% deployment of interns and language We are running a trial to provide video content as part Sustainable respond to the or higher. trainees. of career vision training with an eye on a learning development Human changing times and FYE 2021: Percentage of environment that meets the diverse needs of our HeadOffer diverse career path options and of Resources business needs. We career-track employees employees. quarters experience in diverse works through who acquire business-level employees' Affairs will also utilize regular rotation. Below is the Outlook Current as of February 20 English skills in their first capabilities training programs to Foster career awareness among in FYE 2020: eight years at the continuously produce employees by enhancing personnel company at 100%. excellent human assessment, career vision training, Annual E&D expenses forecast ⇒ Over approximately FYE 2021: Percentage of resources. career counselling systems and other 1.2 billion yen career-track employees programs/systems. Acquisition rate of business level English skills for who are deployed overseas career-track employees in up to their eighth year since in their first eight years at joining the company ⇒ 100% the company at 80% or Overseas dispatch rate for career-track employees in up higher. to their eighth year since joining the company ⇒ 80% Continue fair and equitable recruitment We will prohibit all and promotion. types of Create a work climate of mutual discrimination, respect and support. The percentage of female career-track employees FYE 2021: Percentage of including those based Reasonable accommodations among all career-track employees is 9.7% (as of female career-track Creating an on age, gender and concerning the work environment of January 2020). employees among all environment nationality, and people with disabilities. The percentage of female career-track employees career-track employees: that allows respect human rights. Respond to LGBT considerations and among those in leadership positions is over 8.1% (as of 10%. provide employee training on LGBT. January 2020). diverse Human We will create an FYE 2021: Percentage of HeadEnhance on-site day-care centers and Proportion of our workforce with disabilities: 2.16% as human Resources environment that will female career-track quarters nursing care support services. of February 2020 (insufficient by one person) resources to Affairs permit the active employees among Enhance individual support for employees in leadership We have been applying to make IHGS applicable as a exercise participation of employees provided in accordance with positions at 10%. special subsidiary in our group since February 2020. We their employees whose achieved the required number of hires as of February their life stage and career. FYE 2021: Proportion of potential work hours are limited 2020 in the three companies of ITOCHU, Uneedus and Promote flexible ways of working by our workforce with due to childcare, making use of mobile work. IHGS. We will continue to promote the employment of disabilities at 2.3%. nursing care, diseases Support the active participation of those with disabilities over our entire group. or similar senior human resources over 65 years circumstances. old. 16 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Respect Human Rights Risks Opportunities Stabilization of business or securing of excellent human Business delay or business continuity risk resulting from resources resulting from harmonious coexistence with the occurrence of a human rights problem in business local communities. activities that expands (geographically). Establishment of safe, stable supply system for product Decline in credibility that may result from defects in the enabled by the consideration of human rights and social infrastructure services we provide. And others. improvement of work environment in the supply chain. And others. SDGs Issues to Business Co Commitment Specific Approach Performance Indicators Degree of Progress Targets Address Area We will promote Make Group-wide efforts to We implemented this in 50 companies in Southwest Establishing a information-sharing in the review the social and FYE 2024: Establish and Asia (e.g., Vietnam and Indonesia) compared to the 80 supply chain overall Group and establish environmental safety of the visualize the supply chain of companies that was our target in FYE 2020. reflecting a safe, secure supply Textile Supply chain supply chain and make the overall Group, from Separately, we conducted a fact-finding investigation consideration chain, thereby helping Company management improvements as necessary, material procurement to sales, questionnaire on the status of compliance with the for human customers with risk thereby promoting the to ensure a responsible Labor Standards Act and Industrial Safety and Health rights and the reduction and contributing establishment of a safe, secure procurement policy. Act for foreign technical intern trainees in 211 sewing environment to sustainable economic commodity supply system. plants in Japan. development. Water Field We own a water supply service business in the U.K. We will contribute to and Spain and a seawater desalination business in improving the hygiene Australia and Oman. We are continuing to work to Expand water and environment environment, the expand our seawater desalination and water projects to promote the Improving development of economic supply/sewerage business. Water and appropriate use and treatment Expand and diversify the water and Machinery activities, and the environmental of water and the effective investment portfolio in the hygiene Company protection of the global Environment Field projects utilization of resources, and water and environment field. infrastructures environment through the reduce the environmental We operate four waste incineration and power appropriate treatment and impact. generation business projects in the U.K. In addition to effective use of water and waste. this, we entered into a financing contract for a publicprivate partnership (PPP) waste disposal power generation project in Belgrade, Serbia in September 2019. We are aiming for operation in 2022. Set rules on due diligence related to social and business We are continuing operations to check the core Establishing a environmental safety for subjects in the guidelines on social responsibility using supply chain We will contribute to suppliers and business FYE 2020: Aim to implement the company-wide ESG checklist in all development reflecting Overall electric improving the quality of life Machinery investment destinations based the due diligence described on projects where we are investing for the first time. We consideration power and of all stakeholders in the Company on the distinctive the left in all new development are conducting due diligence on individual development for human plant projects supply chain and business characteristics of each projects. projects to check their social and environmental safety rights and the investment destinations. business, implement due based on the unique characteristics of each business environment diligence, and strengthen prior to investment. monitoring continuously. We held internal EHS (Environment, Health and Safety) training courses for supervisors and company Sustainable We will promote employees belonging to sections engaged in resource mine sustainable development development. The attendance rate of those subject to development of natural resources by this training was 100%. that reflects Ensure the thorough Implementation of annual fully committing to EHS We checked the proper compliance to the EHS consideration application of the EHS internal seminars to ensure (environment, health, guideline by one new project and eight existing of the risks in guidelines. our employees are fully aware Metals & occupational safety) and projects in our mining business, and also by one occupational Mining Contribute to local of the EHS guidelines. Minerals harmonious coexistence another resource-related project. safety and business communities through Donations to medical care, Company with local communities in We carried out activities that contribute to the local health and activities for improving education and build areas which we operate. community as part of each project we invest in. environmental medical care, education and infrastructure in local We will improve local As a special initiative, our Australian subsidiary, risks, and that infrastructure. communities. infrastructure such as ITOCHU Minerals & Energy of Australia Pty. Ltd., contributes to medical care and together with other local group companies, local education. contributed A$200,000 in total to the Australian Red communities Cross Society as support to recover from the damage caused by the Bushfires. Be compliant with HSE Establishment (Health, Safety and We are appropriately complying with the HSE of an energy Contributing in the Environment) standards in Implementation of projects in management standards of the government and resources development of local the respective government compliance with the laws and management body in each country. development Energy & Exploration & society by advancing and the ones set by regulations of the respective We are managing the number of incidents, their system that Chemicals Production of exploration & production internationally-recognized government and severity and content monthly in accordance with ingoes well Company Oil & Gas projects that accommodate administrative body. internationally-recognized house regulations. (There have been no serious with local social and environmental Reduction of HSE issues that administrative body. operational incidents as of the end of January 2020 in society and concern. involve serious damage to this fiscal year.) environment human beings and/or environment. We will promote procurement compliant with supplierspecific codes of conduct in coffee bean producing countries. Coffee beans: Promotion of We are currently giving guidance to producers in each We will strengthen the procurement compliant with producing area country to meet the certification handling of oil certified by the supplier-specific codes of standards. The aim of this is to expand transactions We will develop a RSPO a third-party conduct in our bases in for certified coffee beans (e.g., those of the procurement structure certification organization for producing areas in Rainforest Alliance and C.A.F.E Practice). compliant with third-party palm oil. cooperation with suppliers. We have published our procurement policy with our Provisions field body certification and We will support the Palm oil: Promotion of started target of switching all the palm oil we procure supplier-specific codes of establishment of a promotion progress information to sustainable palm oil supplied from supply chains Establishing a conduct. and distribution system in disclosure upon also clarifying compliant with RSPO/MSPO/ISPO by FYE 2026. We supply chain reflecting Japan for MSPO/ISPO in the KPI indicators by are promoting the construction of procurement and Food cooperation with domestic publishing our procurement supply structures in light of industry trends and the consideration Company industrial associations. The policy. situation in suppliers. for human rights and the aim of this is to encourage environment the use of certified oil systems in producing countries. We will cultivate new producing Aim for the start of the areas. We will do this to commercial production and We will contribute to expand employment and export of pineapple processed increased employment and improve the living environment foods in FYE 2022 by We are promoting the expansion of a pineapple farm Fresh food field an improved living through diversification of cultivating pineapples in Sierra and the construction of a pineapple processed food environment by fostering producing areas in light of Leone as the cultivation of a manufacturing plant in Sierra Leone. local industries. weather risks and through the producing area followed by the development of local industries development program in the in our Dole business. Philippines. Rebuilding of our Tokyo We will strive to contribute Submit the necessary headquarters to the community through applications and acquire the We appropriately communicated with stakeholders in Urban Communicate appropriately by participating the realization of necessary permissions (e.g., the examination of the redevelopment and conducted development Headwith stakeholders and acquire in the Jingu prosperous complex urban plan proposal, execution negotiations to obtain the necessary permissions. We in the Jingu quarters permissions in the Gaien District development focused on permission application and plan to submit the application and acquire the Gaien district redevelopment study process. City Area sports, culture and redevelopment execution permissions from FYE 2021 to FYE 2024. Redevelopment communication. permission). Project 17 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Contribute to Healthier and More Enriched Lifestyles Risks Opportunities Decline in credibility that would result from the Increase in demand for food safety and security and occurrence of a problem related to the safety or health health improvement. of consumers and service users. Expansion of information, financial and logistics services Impact on business of destabilization of the market or resulting from an increase in consumer spending or social security system based on policy change. And penetration of the Internet. And others. others. SDGs Issues to Performance Co Business Area Commitment Specific Approach Degree of Progress Targets Address Indicators Currently operating at National Cancer Center and We aim to improve quality of Promote sales of advanced Edogawa Hospital. More than 300 patients are Sales of Cuttinglife by providing cutting-edge medical devices, such as MRIIncrease the penetration treated including intractable cancer (ex. pancreatic Edge medical medical devices and advanced guided radiation therapy of advanced medical cancer). Since the technology is promising, Machinery devices and medical services in the field of systems, and the business of devices in Japan, such as Edogawa Hospital is now upgrading the system, Company provision of medical care, where supporting the operation of MRI-guided radiation which expected to operate in December 2020. With medical services technologies are innovated designated regional cancer therapy systems. joint research with the National Cancer Center, we rapidly. care hospitals. are on the way to establish the standard procedure to cure intractable cancers. We started selling a non-absorptive liquid to protect against oral mucositis (a liquid that controls and relieves the pain of oral mucositis caused by chemotherapy or radiotherapy when treating diseases such as cancer) in group Contributing to the Aiming to obtain approvals companies (from May 2018 in Japan, from July improvement of people’s in Asia and North America 2019 in China and scheduled for sale in the health and working Actively promoting to support for new pharmaceutical future in Korea). Energy & environment through the development and and other products of We started full-scale sales with FDA approval in Pharmaceutical North America of a pain reliever through group Promoting Chemicals accelerating the development marketing of new which we are engaged in products companies (from March 2018). good health Company of pharmaceuticals and other pharmaceutical and other supporting the We started the sale in China of a percutaneous among people products in fields with products. development, and to absorption 5-HT3 receptor antagonist significant needs including launch them into the (therapeutic medication for nausea and vomiting cancer-related fields. market. during cancer treatment) (from March 2019). This drug has been newly listed as a treatment choice in the Guidelines for the Treatment of Nausea and Vomiting During Cancer Treatment (published by the Chinese Society of Clinical Oncology in June 2019). With the interest to maintain and promote health Realization of new Support continuing to grow in company employees, the services and business pharmaceutical We will provide value-added number of persons subject to health checkup development relating to development services for pharmaceuticals data management is steadily increasing. We ICT & medical data projects and medical sites, and will expect this to reach 750,000 persons by the end Financial We will optimize healthcare Expansion of existing Business of of FYE 2020. contribute to improvement of business (number of Business providing utilizing medical data. We have carried out investments including, SaaS people's Quality Of Life (QOL) people subject to health Company health care for dispensing pharmacies, dentistry-related by utilizing cutting-edge ICT checkup data management data, genomic data and pharmaceutical data. We tools. management to reach 1 solutions for will contribute to improve the quality of life with million by the end of FYE individuals highly efficient operations by utilizing the 2021) aforementioned data. Increase the number of Promotion of the persons with international We will select and concentrate appropriate appointment The number of people who have acquired the certifications/qualifications Supplying Overall foodon suppliers who are capable of the auditors in each assistant auditor increased by one in FYE 2020. We Food related to audit the Food safe, secure related of manufacturing and sales division under the plan to increase this by two people in FYE 2021. Company Safety Management System food businesses supplying safe, secure food guidance of the ITOCHU We expect the total number of qualified persons (FSMS) to enhance the stably. food safety management over our entire group to reach nine. capability of human resources organization. for selecting suppliers. We will contribute to realize Maintenance Continue to enhance the value ICT & ICT safe secure, and highly We have newly located seven sourcing companies of industrial, of ICT solutions with Financial infrastructure convenient social Increase the number of which provide ICT solutions and RPA to reinforce logistics, and maximizing new Business construction infrastructure through procurement partners. information security this fiscal year (e.g., in transportation product/service sourcing Company business providing various ICT systems management field). infrastructure functions. solutions. We have started new efforts in retail finance business in the Philippines and the P2P lending business in Indonesia since the previous fiscal year. We have improved the number of customers and loan balance, which are also our KPI in our other We work on expanding and existing businesses. ICT & creating the retail financial Increase the number of Providing Domestic and Increase the number of Growth Rate of Outstanding Lendings: Financial market and providing financial customers and loan balance financial overseas retail customers and loan (Changes from end of December 2018 to end of Business services to individuals to by expanding and creating the services finance business balance. December 2019) Company contribute to enriching retail financial market. people's lives. UAF: 107% EasyBuy: 106% FRF: 114% ACF: 722% *Operations initiated in FYE 2019 PDP: 481% *Operations initiated in FYE 2019 Submit a plan proposal that gives our specific We started discussions with the relevant Energy use Headenergy plan in the stakeholders to spread and promote district heating that takes quarters redevelopment to the and cooling to neighboring areas. into Tokyo Metropolitan We will promote efforts toward Communicate appropriately Government. consideration District heating environmentally friendly with neighboring stakeholders local and cooling regional energy use. in the Jingu Gaien district. Maintain the stable communities operations of district and the Energy & We have started discussions with the relevant heating and cooling in the environment Chemicals stakeholders to spread and promote district heating Jingu Gaien district and Company and cooling to neighboring areas. promote the spread of it to neighboring areas. 18 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Ensure Stable Procurement and Supply Risks Opportunities Impact of opposition movement resulting from the Increase in resource demand attributed to an increase occurrence of an environmental problem and worsening in population and improvement of living standard in relationship with local communities. emerging countries. Structural exhaustion of the overall industry caused by Winning customer trust or creating new businesses with the occurrence of price competition, mainly in the a stable supply of environmentally friendly resources consumer-related sector. And others. and materials. And others. SDGs Issues to Co Business Area Commitment Specific Approach Performance Indicators Degree of Progress Targets Address Environmentally We will accelerate initiatives for friendly the recycled fiber business, not Work aggressively on the Commercialize the recycled We strengthened the supply chain from raw materials only to create new businesses recycled fiber business fiber business as soon as materials to products with a focus on sustainable Textile (sustainable but also to help solve the global and lead the industry in possible. Increase the ratio of raw materials. We launched the RENU project and Company materials) such problem of apparel waste and promoting the use of sustainable materials to are currently expanding the marketing of recycled as recycled reduce petroleum-derived sustainable materials. materials we trade. polyester globally. Stable supply fibers materials. of industrial resources and Acquisition of superior For the purpose of acquiring superior interests materials We will contribute to the stable Acquire equity interests in resource projects to pass on that will lead to the next generation, we have operation of various industries superior projects to secure Metals & to the future generations, in decided to invest in the Longview coking coal by maintaining and developing resources to form the Minerals Mining business addition to maintaining and mine in the U.S. owned by North Central reliable supply chains for basis for the steady Company expanding our existing Resources, LLC. essential raw materials and supply of raw materials portfolio of highly resilient This coal mine will produce high-quality coking fuels. and fuels. mining projects. coal at strong cost competitiveness. Raise awareness of an Provision of ethical, sustainable We will contribute to increasing FYE 2021 : Take initiatives We have not entered into a contract with a new commodities lifestyle through brand Brand the visibility of a sustainable with new brands. Have a brand. However, we have realized cases using the that help Textile business, thereby marketing lifestyle by taking advantage of sustainable lifestyle fabric of FOOD TEXTILE that reuses ingredients achieve a Company promoting awarenessbusiness our strengths as a marketing understood and instilled more scheduled to be discarded as dyes in our main sustainable raising not only in the company. widely. brand of CONVERSE shoes. lifestyle overall industry but also among consumers. Efforts leading Energy & Plastic-related We will supply recycled Establishment of a recycling to solutions to We will aim to establish a * Because of new commitment, review will be Chemicals environmental resin in collaboration with program and sales of recycled social recycling and reuse model. conducted from the next fiscal year. Company response brand owners. resin. problems Wood products & materials: We are continuing Continue to request to encourage and review suppliers. We Wood We deal in sustainable forest suppliers who have yet established a path to achieving ahead of Using General FYE 2026: Aim to achieve a products & resources to reduce the impact to obtain certifications to schedule a rate of 100% for certified or under sustainable Products rate of 100% for certified or materials on the environment and prevent obtain them. high-level management wood products & forest & Realty under high-level management Pulp the increase of greenhouse Conduct sustainability materials that we handle in FYE 2021. resources Company materials that we handle. Woodchips gases. surveys of suppliers and Pulp and woodchips: We achieved a rate of visit them. 100% for certified or under high-level management materials that we handle. We shall use our best efforts to establish measures to identify We will establish a We aim to procure raw Realization of General any suppliers developing on traceability system to materials with traceability and We are developing a traceability system using sustainable Products High Conservation Value (HCV) Natural Rubber make uncertain raw sustainability ensured in blockchains. We plan to introduce this around the supply of & Realty areas, High Carbon Stock (HCS) material procurement natural rubber processing second quarter of FYE 2021. natural rubber Company areas and peatland, in order to supply chain tranceparet. business. avoid procuring rubber from them. Make Group-wide efforts We implemented this in 50 companies in to review the social and Establishing a We will promote informationSouthwest Asia (e.g., Vietnam and Indonesia) environmental safety of FYE 2024: Establish and supply chain sharing in the overall Group and compared to the 80 companies that was our the supply chain and visualize the supply chain of reflecting establish a safe, secure supply target in FYE 2020. Separately, we conducted a Textile Supply chain make improvements as the overall Group, from consideration chain, thereby helping fact-finding investigation questionnaire on the Company management necessary, thereby material procurement to sales, for human customers with risk reduction status of compliance with the Labor Standards promoting the to ensure a responsible rights and the and contributing to sustainable Act and Industrial Safety and Health Act for establishment of a safe, procurement policy. environment economic development. foreign technical intern trainees in 211 sewing secure commodity supply plants in Japan. system. We held internal EHS (Environment, Health and Safety) training courses for supervisors and Sustainable company employees belonging to sections mine engaged in resource development. The development We will promote sustainable attendance rate of those subject to this training that reflects development of natural was 100%. Ensure the thorough Implementation of annual consideration resources by fully committing We checked the proper compliance to the EHS application of the EHS internal seminars to ensure of the risks in to EHS (environment, health, guideline by one new project and eight existing guidelines. our employees are fully Metals & occupational safety) and projects in our mining business, and also by one occupational Contribute to local aware of the EHS guidelines. Minerals Mining business harmonious coexistence with another resource-related project. safety and communities through Donations to medical care, Company local communities in areas We carried out activities that contribute to the health and which we operate. activities for improving education and build local community as part of each project we environmental medical care, education infrastructure in local We will improve local invest in. risks, and that and infrastructure. communities. infrastructure such as medical As a special initiative, our Australian subsidiary, contributes to care and education. ITOCHU Minerals & Energy of Australia Pty. Ltd., local together with other local group companies, communities contributed A$200,000 in total to the Australian Red Cross Society as support to recover from the damage caused by the Bushfires. 19 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance SDGs Issues to Business Co Commitment Specific Approach Performance Indicators Degree of Progress Targets Address Area We will promote procurement We are currently giving guidance to producers in compliant with supplier-specific Coffee beans: Promotion of each producing area country to meet the codes of conduct in coffee bean procurement compliant with certification standards. The aim of this is to producing countries. supplier-specific codes of We will develop a expand transactions for certified coffee beans We will strengthen the handling of oil conduct in our bases in procurement structure (e.g., those of the Rainforest Alliance and certified by the RSPO a third-party producing areas in C.A.F.E Practice). Provisions compliant with thirdcertification organization for palm oil. cooperation with suppliers. We have published our procurement policy with field party body certification We will support the establishment of Palm oil: Promotion of our started target of switching all the palm oil and supplier-specific a promotion and distribution system progress information Establishing a we procure to sustainable palm oil supplied from codes of conduct. in Japan for MSPO/ISPO in disclosure upon also supply chain supply chains compliant with RSPO/MSPO/ISPO cooperation with domestic industrial clarifying the KPI indicators reflecting by FYE 2026. We are promoting the construction Food associations. The aim of this is to by publishing our consideration of procurement and supply structures in light of Company encourage the use of certified oil procurement policy. for human industry trends and the situation in suppliers. systems in producing countries. rights and the environment Aim for the start of the We will cultivate new producing areas. commercial production and We will contribute to We will do this to expand employment export of pineapple processed increased employment We are promoting the expansion of a pineapple and improve the living environment foods in FYE 2022 by Fresh food and an improved living farm and the construction of a pineapple through diversification of producing cultivating pineapples in Sierra field environment by processed food manufacturing plant in Sierra areas in light of weather risks and Leone as the cultivation of a fostering local Leone. through the development of local producing area followed by the industries. industries in our Dole business. development program in the Philippines. 20 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Maintain Rigorous Governance Structures Risks Opportunities Improvement of transparency in decision-making, Occurrence of business continuity risk or unexpected appropriate response to changes and establishment of a loss resulting from the malfunction of corporate stable basis of growth enabled by the establishment of governance or internal control, and others. a firm governance system, and others. SDGs Issues to Business Performance Co Commitment Specific Approach Degree of Progress Targets Address Area Indicators Registered with the Whistleblowing Compliance Management System (self-declaration of conformity) on April 10, 2019. We monitored all ITOCHU Corporation for bribery and corruption in July and August 2019. We confirmed the application status under the Public Officer and Foreign Public Officer Guidelines, Business Partner Guidelines and Continuous direct Investment Guidelines based on certificates. We found no communication with major problems as a result of that. Recognizing attitude of employees through faceWe conducted compliance attitude survey on 57,781 We will make employees employees identifying issues to-face training programs employees in ITOCHU Corporation and group companies in more aware that ensuring and ensuring action plans to whose contents shall be August and September 2019. The number of employees Ensuring Headsubject to this survey increased by approximately 14,000 Compliance compliance at any time is tackle the issues through updated along with compliance quarters compared to the previous survey (FYE 2018). The response our contribution to the periodic compliance attitude monitoring the measures rate was 94.9%. This exceeded the response rate for the company and society. survey and direct according to risks, previous survey (93.4%). communications. expectations from society We provided e-learning on dealing with bribery and and issues on site which corruption and organized crime for ITOCHU Corporation will change with the time. employees (January 31 to February 29, 2020). The situation concerning the implementation of training tours in FYE 2020 is as follows. For ITOCHU Corporation : Implemented 53 times with 2,198 attendees For ITOCHU group companies (implemented in 84 companies): Implemented 195 times with 10,715 attendees (1) The diversity of the Board of Directors (always a one Appoint several outside third or higher percentage of outside Directors; currently directors, who have a high four out of 10 Directors) and the ratio of women (ratio in level of independence that We will implement highly the previous fiscal year + 10%; currently two out of 10 fulfills our independence effective supervision over Directors) have improved. criteria and are expected the management from an to contribute to the independent and objective (2) We have increased the number of independent company management standpoint and ensure the with a high level of Continue to implement outside members of the Board of Directors and outside appropriate and efficient knowledge in their measures to strengthen Audit & Supervisory Board Members in the Nomination execution of business respective fields. the supervising function of Committee to a majority (four out of seven members; Corporate operations by improving Maintain a highly the Board of Directors, +7.1% compared to the previous year). (Four out of governance the transparency of our transparent and objective through an annual eight Directors: 50% → Four out of seven Directors: decision-making, aiming directors' and officers' evaluation of the Board of 57.1%) Maintaining to our sustainable growth remuneration system, Directors. and as well as the mediumwhich can increase their We have almost completed the strengthening of reinforcing a and long-term motivation to contribute to governance in structural terms with the implementation our mediumand longof (1) and (2). From the next fiscal year onward, we will governance Headimprovement of our term improvement of our system for quarters corporate value. monitor the implementation of our Policy on the company's performance achieving and the improvement of Governance of its Listed Subsidiaries formulated in this sustainable our corporate value. fiscal year and also deal with listing problems involving growth ITOCHU and our subsidiaries. Maintain a firm We reviewed the progress situation for the action plans in Conduct regular reviews of the first half of 2019 with each department responsible for governance system in the risk management systems risk management. The Global Risk Management Division mediumand long-term We will build a system for that have been established, assembled and made a report to the Internal Control by establishing a PDCA group risk management including internal Committee in October 2019 to the effect that the risk cycle, including and maintain it to manage committees and risk management structure is functioning. This includes the Risk development and the risk of loss and ensure management departments, response to events that occurred during the applicable management implementation of action the appropriateness of our various rules and period. It obtained approval for the report from the plans by the departments committee. corporate group's regulations, reporting and responsible for risk We reviewed the progress of the second half of FYE 2020 operations. monitoring systems, as well management, and and the action plans of FYE 2021 at the meeting of Internal as the effectiveness of such monitoring and reviews by Control Committee in April 2020 and obtained approval from systems. internal committees. the committee. 21 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals) Goal 1.End poverty in all its forms everywhere Goal 2.End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture Goal 3.Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages Goal 4.Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all Goal 5.Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls Goal 6.Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all Goal 7.Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all Goal 8.Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all Goal 9.Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization and foster innovation Goal 10.Reduce inequality within and among countries Goal 11.Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable Goal 12.Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns Goal 13.Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts Goal 14.Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine resources for sustainable development Goal 15.Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably manage forests, combat desertification, and halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss Goal 16.Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, provide access to justice for all and build effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels Goal 17.Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the Global Partnership for Sustainable Development 22 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Initiatives: Sustainability Advisory Board FYE 2020 Sustainability Advisory Board Overview The Sustainability Advisory Board convened at Tokyo headquarters on December 6 to hold a dialog on sustainability issues between the ITOCHU Corporation management and outside stakeholders. The Sustainability Advisory Board was established to engage outside stakeholders in a dialog to determine whether the direction we are taking with regards to sustainability is aligned with the needs of society as ITOCHU Corporation's business grows more diverse and widespread, and then to apply the insights to promoting sustainability. In FYE 2020, we welcomed three experts on the latest trends in the international community concerning circular economy to address the theme of Sustainable Business Direction in a Circular Economy from different perspectives of industry, academia and government. In a frank exchange of ideas, they offered candid advice based on the business' impact on society and trends at other companies. One of the comments received referred to the expectation of the Japanese society to have a leading general trading company like ITOCHU to build a new business style promoting coexistence with society. We value the opinions of the experts and all the participants and hope to reflect them in our efforts to further advance sustainability on a company-wide basis. Sustainable Business Direction in a Circular Economy Sustainability Advisory Board Members (Job Titles at the Time) Mr. Eiji Hosoda Professor of Business Administration and Information Science, Chubu University, Professor Emeritus, Keio University Ms. Mami Fukuchi Associate Professor of Graduate School of Interdisciplinary Information Studies, The University of Tokyo Mr. Hidemi Tomita Director, Lloyd's Register Japan K.K. ITOCHU Members (Job Titles at the Time) Fumihiko Kobayashi Member of the Board, Senior Managing Executive Officer, Chief Administrative Officer Noriya Hashimoto General Manager, Planning & Administration Department, Textile Company FYE 2020 Tatsuya Hirano General Manager, Planning & Administration Department, Machinery Company Yoshihiko Ogura General Manager, Planning & Administration Department, Metals & Minerals Company Isao Nakao General Manager, Planning & Administration Department, Energy & Chemicals Company Kuniaki Abe General Manager, Planning & Administration Department, Food Company Tsutomu Yamauchi General Manager, Planning & Administration Department, General Products & Realty Company Tadayoshi Yamaguchi General Manager, Planning & Administration Department, ICT & Financial Business Company Tetsuya Mukohata Manager, Planning & Administration Section, The 8th Company Yoshihito Tabe General Manager, Sustainability Management Department (served as Moderator) 23 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Climate Change Sustainability Advisory Board Members (Job Titles at the Time) Mr. Kenichi Suganuma Ambassador Plenipotentiary and Extraordinary (in charge of climate FYE 2019 negotiations), Ministry of Foreign Affairs Mr. Tsuyoshi Mizuguchi Professor of Economics, Takasaki City University of Economics Mr. Hidemi Tomita Director, Lloyd's Register Japan K.K. Review of Material Sustainability Issues (Materiality) External Environment Related to Sustainability and Promotion of Sustainability by ITOCHU FYE 2018 Sustainability Advisory Board Members (Job Titles at the Time) Ms. Mariko Kawaguchi Senior Researcher, Daiwa Institute of Research Holdings Ltd. Mr. Takeshi Shimotaya Managing Director, Sustainavision Ltd. Mr. Hidemi Tomita Director, Lloyd's Register Japan K.K. 24 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Initiatives: Sustainability Awareness Activities at ITOCHU While pursuing sustainable activities, ITOCHU raises awareness within the Company so as to further ITOCHU Group employees' understanding and to apply solutions to social issues in our business in a manner that conforms to the latest global trends. Raising Awareness with ITOCHU Monthly ITOCHU Monthly, our in-house magazine issued every month in three languages (Japanese, English and Chinese) presents information, terminology and initiatives relating to sustainability. There is also an annual feature on sustainability to further embed sustainable practices at the company. Sustainabilty Test and Employee Questionnaire The online Sustainability Test and Employee Questionnaire are conducted every year for all ITOCHU Corporation executives and employees worldwide to further spread sustainability in the company and gauge our awareness of the subject. Theme Participation FYE 2019 ESG – Climate Change Response, Business & Human Rights 99.9% FYE 2018 ITOCHU's Further Growth – ESG Investment 99.5% FYE 2017 CSR in the New Era for the Sogo Shosha 99.8% 25 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Sustainability Seminars We have been holding in-house sustainability seminars on a continuous basis since 2007 to bring in outside insights and ideas on various sustainability issues. Recent Seminars For the sustainability seminar on Business and Human Rights on December 13, we invited Japan NGO Center for International Cooperation (JANIC) Secretary-General Hideki Wakabayashi and Lloyd's Register Japan K.K. Director Hidemi Tomita. During the first session, Mr. Wakabayashi gave a keynote address in which he shared discussions at the UN Forum on Business and Human Rights that convened in Geneva at the end of November 2018. In the second session, Messrs. Wakabayashi and Tomita joined a lively panel discussion guided by questions on issues people face in business settings to consider how trading houses operating worldwide should handle human rights issues. The Panel Discussion Holding the seminar provided a fine opportunity to reexamine the responsibilities our company should uphold in each of our businesses. FYE 2019 Business and Human Rights (in the Supply Chain) FYE 2018 Business and Human Rights (Development) FYE 2017 What Companies and Consumers Can Do to Create a Sustainable Society FYE 2016 Global Initiatives and Innovations to Implement Bold Global Warming Countermeasures FYE 2015 Running a Business to Solve Global Issues 26 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Initiatives: The United Nations Global Compact Involvement in the United Nations Global Compact In April 2009, ITOCHU Corporation joined the United Nations Global Compact, a global initiative to achieve sustainable growth for the international community. ITOCHU will fulfill our corporate mission of Sampo-yoshi in accordance with the United Nations Global Compact's 10 principles covering human rights, labor, the environment and anticorruption. United Nations Global Compact (https://www.unglobalcompact.org/) The Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally Human Rights proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Labour Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Principle 7 Businesses are asked to support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Environment Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including Anti-Corruption extortion and bribery. Work with Global Compact Network Japan ITOCHU Corporation is the corporate director of Global Compact Network Japan (GCNJ), the local network for the United Nations Global Compact in Japan. Our proactive participation in this work also includes sending employees to provide assistance with their activities. The GCNJ learns from other companies' practices and academics, and also consists of subcommittees for deliberations and exchanging ideas on specific topics concerning approaches and initiatives for sustainability. In FYE 2020, ITOCHU participated in the following subcommittees. ESG Subcommittee Environmental Management Subcommittee Supply Chain Subcommittee 27 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Other Sources of Reference When advancing sustainability, we refer to the following kinds of international guidelines and principles, such as the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) adopted by the United Nations in September 2015. United Nations Global Compact (participant) GRI Guidelines UN Declaration of Human Rights International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights Keidanren: Charter of Corporate Behavior Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)* Japan Foreign Trade Council: Shosha's Corporate Environmental Code of Conduct, Supply Chain CSR Action Guidelines Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples CDP Basic Principles on the Use of Force and Firearms by Law Enforcement Officials OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises ISO 26000 * Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs): Following the 2015 deadline for the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), the SDGs set goals for sustainable development by 2030. The 17 goals address issues such as poverty, starvation, energy, climate change and social equality. 28 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Stakeholder Relations Policy & Basic Approach In our diverse range of corporate activities conducted worldwide, ITOCHU Group place strong emphasis on dialogues with various stakeholders. We provide information about the ITOCHU Group activities, and we value the opinions of our stakeholders, both expectations and concerns. For our sustainable growth, we reflect measures in our business activities to further advance sustainability on a company-wide basis. * Besides those noted above, the list of our major stakeholders includes many other parties. Stakeholders Main Methods of Dialogue Provision of information through the Annual Report and official website Suppliers, Notification of Sustainability Action Guidelines for Supply Chains Customers, and Quality control and Sustainability Surveys on supply chains Consumers Contact for inquiries General meeting of shareholders Shareholders, Investors meeting on business results investors, and Provision of information through the Annual Report and official website financial institutions Response to investigations and ratings performed by socially responsible investors Debt IR Participation in the government, the ministries related committees and councils Political organization, Activity through the trade association(Japan Business Federation, Japan Foreign Trade trade association Council) Social contribution activities and volunteer activities Local communities, Stakeholder dialogue NGOs, and NPOs Dialogue with residents of areas around project sites Regular communication with NGOs and NPOs Provision of information via the intranet and in-house magazines Communication via training sessions and seminars Provision of career counseling Establishment of a 24-hour employee consultation desk system Employees Implementation of employee awareness surveys Labor-management meetings (including management meetings and settlement of accountings meetings) General employee meetings at each company 29 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Reference Data FYE 2020: The Expense of Trade Association and Social Contribution (Unit: 1 million yen) Trade association 63 Social contribution (donation) 109 (108) Economic association 151 Political association 30 Other association 114 Total 358 30 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance E Environment 31 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Environmental Policy Policy and Basic Concept ITOCHU Group Environmental Policy Global environmental concerns such as climate change pose a critical threat to the sustainability of earth. Given the global nature of our operations, it is a top management priority for us to address these concerns and contribute to building a sustainable society. We will do so by committing to make continuous improvements to our environmental management system, reducing the environmental impacts of our businesses throughout their lifecycles, and engaging in business activities that make positive contributions to the environment. (1) Compliance with Laws and Regulations We shall comply with international declarations, agreements, and treaties, as well as with the laws and regulations of the countries and regions in which we operate. We shall also comply with any other agreements that we have consented to. (2) Response to Climate Change We shall reduce greenhouse gas emissions and increase the efficiency of energy use within our own operations, as well as externally provide products and services that contribute to the mitigation and adaptation to climate change. (3) Environmental Pollution Prevention We shall prevent and reduce environmental pollution caused by chemical substances and oils, reduce emissions of air pollutants, and reduce and properly process hazardous waste and wastewater. (4) Promotion of Resource Circulation We shall contribute to the formation of a circular society by promoting the sustainable use of resources (such as fossil fuels, minerals, food, animals and plants), resource conservation measures, and waste reduction and recycling across our business investments and the supply chain of our products and services. (5) Conservation and Effective Use of Water Resources We shall reduce water consumption through efficient water use and recycling, as well as take necessary measures to appropriately treat effluents. (6) Biodiversity Conservation We shall recognize the value of the benefits that we receive from the natural ecosystem, minimize our impact on biodiversity, and contribute to its conservation. (7) Transparency We shall proactively disclose environmental information and maintain a communicative relationship with our stakeholders. April 2020 Fumihiko Kobayashi Member of the Board Senior Managing Executive Officer Chief Administrative Officer 32 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Environmental Management Policy and Basic Concept We strive initiatives to conserve the global environment to be a top management priority for us. This is under recognition that the business activities ITOCHU performs in Japan and overseas (e.g., the provision of various products and services, the development of resources, and business investment) are closely connected to global environmental problems. We believe that sustainable corporate growth cannot be achieved without consideration for global environmental problems. Therefore, we established the Global Environment Department in 1990 ahead of other trading companies. We then formulated ITOCHU's Activity Guidelines on the Environment in 1993 (revised to the ITOCHU Environmental Policy in 1997). We are ensuring compatibility of both offense and defense — offense to promote environment conserving business and defense to take a precautionary approach to environmental risks — based on this policy. The aim of this is to fulfill our corporate mission of Sampo-yoshi. We are also engaged in global corporate management and activities with a constant awareness of global environmental problems. This comes from a perspective of wondering what we can leave to the next generation in addition to contributing to the good of the current generation. We reorganized and integrated our conventional environmental management structure into a structure to promote sustainability in line with the revision to this policy in April 2018. We have built and are maintaining and operating an efficient environmental management system in accordance with the ISO14001 standards. Please find the ITOCHU Group Environmental Policy at P32. Targets Targets and Achievements by Item in FYE 2020 We set environmental goals we will tackle in the medium term for environmental management. Upon that, we set concrete targets and review achievements based on those every fiscal year. Item FYE 2020 Environmental Target Review Content Implemented in FYE 2020 We performed advance environmental risk To ensure thorough company-wide assessment with the ESG Checklist for utilization of advance environmental Investments in all investment projects. (The risk assessments and the ESG assessment items also include the energy Checklist for Investments when consumption and CO2 emissions situation.) investing. To strengthen risk The 33 check items conform to the core ○ management awareness over the subjects of ISO26000 (Guidance on social entire supply chain with responsibility). We gave feedback on ESG environmental risk assessments by aspects to the departments making the Prevention of product and to ensure their applications for all investment projects. (We environmental thorough company-wide utilization. gave comments on 99 projects in FYE pollution and 2020.) compliance We conducted internal audits on 49 with laws and To promote initiatives to improve departments (including in the form of a selfregulations the management level by checking check for 12 departments). We checked the the environmental management ○ environmental management system system, compliance and operation, compliance and environmental environmental performance performance management situation. We situation through internal audits. then gave advice. To select group companies and then We visited and surveyed 2 group companies perform visits and surveys on their ○ and gave them a variety of advice. We environmental management implemented improvements on-site. situation. 33 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Item FYE 2020 Environmental Target Review Content Implemented in FYE 2020 To expand the scope of things to be We collected and disclosed information from understood (e.g., energy emissions) 30 overseas branches (including local in overseas local subsidiaries and ○ Promotion of subsidiaries), 220 group companies in Japan major Japanese and overseas and 282 overseas group companies. environmental subsidiaries. conservation activities To set and review targets according We planned, implemented and reviewed the to the Sustainability Action Plan. respective environmental conservation ○ (To promote at least one target in activities in all company divisions and each company and branch.) branches. To provide cooperation to local companies and governments for Branches held events and volunteer Coexistence environmental conservation ○ activities in cooperation with local with society activities. (To provide cooperation companies and governments. in at least one case in each branch.) To give and promote learning with We gave basic education about seminars, tours, basic ESG sustainability (May to September / 3,280 education and education for ○ participants) and education for personnel personnel with specific duties for with specific duties (June to December / ITOCHU and group company 410 participants). Promotion of employees. awareness activities To give and promote learning with We gave e-learning Promoting Global workshops on the Waste Sustainability in ITOCHU Group 2019 for Management and Public Cleansing ○ expatriates and some national staff Law and Soil Contamination (December 2019 to February 2020 / 1,051 Countermeasures Act for ITOCHU trainees). and group company employees. * ○︓Implemented △︓Partially implemented ×︓Not implemented Structures and Systems ITOCHU was the first trading company to introduce an environmental management system (EMS) based on ISO14001 in 1997 to strive for continuous improvement. This system seeks to comply with environmental related laws and regulations, to take a precautionary approach to environmental risks (including those relating to climate change) and to promote environment conserving businesses. Specifically, we recognize that our business activities can have an impact on the global environment and so are looking to take a precautionary approach to environmental risks. To that end, we have built a mechanism to assess in advance the impact in regards to new investments in particular together with the products we handle. It is a system in which we formulate targets for items in terms of both offense and defense every year. These items relate to a precautionary approach to environmental risks, environment conserving businesses, saving energy, saving resources, CO2 emissions reduction and other climate change related risks. We then assess and analyze the progress situation. Finally, we move through the PDCA cycle to reliably achieve our targets. Through this, we operate and manage our targets. 34 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Environmental Management Structure We have reorganized and integrated our environmental management structure into a structure to promote sustainability since April 2018. This has led to the establishment of a new structure to promote sustainability. You can find this from P9. Group companies subject to the environmental management system of ITOCHU Corporation: ITOCHU Automobile Corporation, ITOCHU Metals Corporation, and ITOCHU Taiwan Corporation Number of companies in ITOCHU Group that have acquired ISO14001 certification: 79 out of 554 companies (14% of the entire group). Number of business sites in ITOCHU Group that have acquired ISO14001 certification: 696 out of 3,819 business sites identified (18% of the entire group). External Audits We undergo an ISO14001 certification review every year by the BSI Group Japan K.K. (BSI). In FYE 2020, we underwent a maintenance review. (We undergo a maintenance review in the first and second years and then a renewal review in the third year; this cycle then repeats). This review led to the maintenance of our certification. Internal Audits We conduct internal sustainability audits every year based on ISO14001. In FYE 2020, we audited all 49 departments (including in the form of a self-check for 12 departments). Members of the Sustainability Management Department constitute the audit team and conduct them with emphasis on compliance audits. The implementation of internal sustainability audits over half a year leads to a precautionary approach to environmental risks. 35 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Environmental Accounting Environmental Conservation Costs The environmental conservation costs in all offices in Japan of ITOCHU in FYE 2020 are as follows. (Unit: 1,000 yen) Classification Amount Costs inside business areas 1,269,592 Up/downstream costs 9,912 Management activity costs 126,871 Research and development costs 500 Social activity costs 4,854 Costs to address environmental damage 13,221 Total 1,424,950 Summarized based on the Environmental Accounting Guidelines 2005 Edition from the Ministry of the Environment. Scope of Calculation: All domestic branches Target period: April 1, 2019 to March 31, 2020 Environmental Conservation and Economic Effects The environmental conservation effect and economic effect of our paper and electricity consumption and the volume of waste we discard in ITOCHU in FYE 2020 is as follows. Environmental Economic Effects Conservation Effects (Unit:1,000JPY) Paper Usage 3,798,000sheets 5,393 Electricity Usage 256,000kWh 21,494 Waste Emissions -87t -434 Water Usage 3,296m3 1,538 Environmental conservation and economic effects are calculated by subtracting actual values for the current fiscal year from those for the previous fiscal year. Scope of Calculation: Paper and Water Usage Tokyo Headquarters building, Electricity Usage, Waste Emissions All of domestic branches. Understanding the Situation of Our Environmental Obligations We do not limit ourselves to just supporting statutory requirements in regards to the environmental risks in the tangible fixed assets (e.g., land and buildings) of ITOCHU alone and our group companies — in particular, asbestos, PCB and soil contamination; we also look to understand the situation through surveys voluntarily and then aim to respond in a way that is helpful to prompt management policy decisions and judgments. We again promoted the sharing of relevant information through various training programs (P38), such as an Environmental and Social Risk Response Seminar, in FYE 2021. 36 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Initiatives Reduction of Environmental Risks in the Supply Chain We recognize that the business activities over our entire group can have an impact on the global environment. Accordingly, we are working on activities aimed at taking a precautionary approach to environmental risks for group employees. This is addition to the environmental risk assessments for the products handled by ITOCHU. Environmental Risk Assessments for the Products We Handle ITOCHU deals in a wide variety of products on a global scale. Therefore, we believe it is vital that we assess the impact on the global environment of each product, our environmental related laws and regulation compliance situation, and our relationships with stakeholders. Accordingly, we conduct our own environmental impact assessments on all our products. We use LCA* analytical techniques from the procurement of raw materials concerning the applicable product to their manufacturing process, use and disposal. These analysis assessment items include those related to climate change (e.g., the decrease in tropical rainforests, desertification and global warming) to assess such related risks. If the results of these assessments show that the impact on the global environment will be greater than a specific score, we formulate various regulations and procedure manuals with the applicable product being subject to priority management. * Life Cycle Assessment (LCA): This is the technique to assess the impact of one product on the environment in all stages of its lifecycle — from raw materials to manufacture, transportation, use, and disposal or reuse. Investigations into the Actual Conditions in Group Companies We have continued to visit and investigate group companies since 2001. The aim of this is to prevent environmental pollution by these group companies. We analyze about 200 companies with a relatively high impact and burden on the global environment from among our group companies. We then conduct investigations into the actual conditions on approximately 10 companies a year. We have investigated a total of 285 offices over the past 19 years up to the end of FYE 2020. We assess companies in these investigations by investigating their factory and warehouse facilities, their situation of drainage to rivers, and their compliance with environmental laws and regulations in addition to holding a question and answer session with their management. Environmental Risk Assessments on New Investment Projects We assess in advance the impact on society and the environment by and conditions of corporate governance of business investment projects in Japan and overseas engaged in by ITOCHU and our Japanese subsidiaries. We do this with the ESG Checklist for Investment consisting of 33 items (The assessment items include the energy consumption and CO2 emissions situation related to climate change risks). During FYE 2020, there were 99 applications of ESG Checklist. We make requests to external specialist organizations to conduct investigations in advance for projects requiring a professional point of view. The project is then only undertaken upon confirming that there are no problems in the results of those investigations. Inquiries from Inside and Outside the Company and Our Response to Them In FYE 2020, we received a total of 69 inquiries from outside parties, including 6 from government authorities, 16 from companies (Business partners: 4, media: 3, finance: 8, others: 1), 6 from industry associations, 12 from NGOs, and requests for ISO14001 certification from 29 business partners. There were no environmental related accidents, troubles or lawsuits in our company. Meanwhile, the contents of consultations from in the company and group companies were responded appropriately for such cases related Waste Management and Public Cleansing Law and Soil Contamination Countermeasures Act. 37 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance ITOCHU Europe Green Finance Framework As the regional headquarters of ITOCHU’s operation in Europe, ITOCHU Europe Plc (ITOCHU Europe) published its Green Finance Framework in March 2019 and raised its first green loan of EUR150Million from Mizuho Bank and ING Bank through ITOCHU Treasury Centre Europe Plc, ITOCHU's group finance vehicle for Europe and the Middle East. This is the first green finance procured by any of the Japanese trading houses (so-called Sogoshosha ). ITOCHU Europe Green Finance Framework was supported by ING, which acted as a Green Structuring Advisor, and was independently reviewed by Sustainalytics. The ITOCHU Europe Green Finance Framework highlights how the activities of ITOCHU Europe are supporting two of the SDGs, namely Goal 7: affordable and clean energy and Goal 12: responsible consumption and production. These consist of material sustainability issues identified by ITOCHU at group level. ITOCHU Europe, together with ITOCHU group companies in the region, aims to achieve growth by expanding our sustainable business in such ways as developing and introducing new technology for environmentally friendly materials, deploying sophisticated technology to save energy, and investing in energy efficient and/or renewable energy projects. ITOCHU Europe's Sustainability (https://www.itochu.com/uk/en/sustainability/) ITOCHU Europe Green Finance Framework (https://www.itochu.com/uk/en/sustainability/__icsFiles/afieldfile/ 2020/08/13/ITOCHUEurope_GreenFinanceFramework202007clean.pdf) Sustainalytics second-party opinion (https://www.itochu.com/uk/en/sustainability/__icsFiles/afieldfile/2019/05/ 30/ItochuEUROPEGreenBondFrameworkSecondPartyOpinion_29052019.pdf) Environmental Education and Awareness We provide various educational programs to encourage employees to conduct environmental conservation activities. In addition, we hold environmental law and ordinance seminars and global environmental problem awareness seminars for group employees. Through these initiatives, we are striving to improve environmental awareness over the entire ITOCHU Group. Seminars and Training Sessions We proactively hold seminars and training sessions. The aim of these is to thoroughly inform ITOCHU Group employees about environmental related law and ordinance requirements and to raise their compliance and environmental awareness. List of Environmental Seminars and Training Programs Held in FYE 2020 No. of Title Dates Main Targets Participants Group ESG Managers April 2019 Group ESG managers 51 Conference Basic Education about May to September 2019 Employees and group company 3,280 Sustainability Total of 49 times employees Education for Personnel June to December 2019 Employees and group company 410 with Specific Duties Total of 26 times employees December 2019 to e-learning Expatriates and some national staff 1,051 February 2020 Sustainability Seminar Please check Sustainability Awareness Activities at ITOCHU (P25-26) for details. 38 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Climate Change Action Plan SDGs Issues to Materiality Business Area Commitment Specific Approach Performance Indicators Degree of Progress Targets Address Machinery Company We will develop power plants We achieved a renewable energy rate of with a good balance between 12.5% through capital alliances with renewable energy power Pursue opportunities to FYE 2031: Target to achieve Winch Energy, which is a company in the generation and conventional Overall power invest aggressively in a renewable energy ratio U.K. that is involved in small-scale solar power generation, thereby generation renewable energy power more than 20% (equity power generation and distribution systems contributing to the business generation through analyses interest basis) and reflect in non-electrified areas such as Africa, and development of countries and of countries and regions. this to the future strategy. VPP Japan, which is a company involved in regions in a sustainable the solar distribution power business in manner that is optimized for Japan. each. Address climate 1) We have been participating in a small change Taking electric truck demonstration experiment (contribute to countermeasures since January 2019 in Japan. realization of against climate 2) We are deepening efforts with two low-carbon change companies into which we invested in FYE Contribute to spread of ecoExpand sales of eco-friendly society) We will achieve the eco2019 in China where electric vehicles are friendly vehicles by products in response to the friendly mobility society by spreading rapidly Dishangtie Car Rental, Sales of increasing business of ecoexpanded lineup of EVs, strengthening businesses of an electric commercial vehicle rental and passenger cars friendly and high-efficiency HVs, vehicles with a reduced electric vehicles (EVs), hybrid maintenance service, and Zhicheauto and commercial products, such as EVs, HVs, environmental impact, and vehicles (HVs), vehicles with a Technology (Singulato Motors), an vehicles vehicles with a reduced similar vehicles from reduced environmental emerging electric vehicle manufacture. environmental impact, and automakers as our business impact, and those related. 3) We have invested in a ride sharing related parts. partners. service called Via (2019). This is a convenient and cost-effective means of transportation. At the same time, it also contributes to alleviating urban congestion and reducing CO2 emissions. Metals & Minerals Company We are working to start an overseas demonstration project to culture Euglena together with euglena Co., Ltd. This project will help promote Carbon dioxide Capture and Utilization (CCU) technologies. Continue to be involved in This project has potential to be applied the development of over existing thermal power plants and technologies that Contribution to the manufacturing plants that emit carbon contribute to the reduction development of a lowdioxide and is expected to be rolled out of greenhouse gases carbon society by to a wide range of industries. emissions, including committing to technologies We have properly reviewed our asset technologies for carbon that help reduce portfolio to see if it is duly in line with We will realize stable energy dioxide capture and greenhouse gases our policy announced in February 2019 supply as our social mission Mining storage (CCS) and carbon emissions. (1) not to acquire any new thermal coal Address climate and responsibility while fully business dioxide capture and Development of an optimal mining interest and (2) regarding the change Taking considering its Environmental utilization (CCU). asset portfolio by fully existing thermal coal mining business, (contribute to countermeasures environmental impact. business Aim to develop an considering social we will continue to review it and realization of against climate We will contribute to Materialappropriate portfolio of requirements, including contribute to the development of a low-carbon change reducing greenhouse gases related coal assets by fully those related to the shift sustainable society while responding to society) through businesses related business considering its to a low-carbon society. the social demands of stable supply of to lighter-weight vehicles environmental impact. Implementation and energy to domestic and overseas and Electric Vehicles (EVs). Strengthen initiatives in expansion of businesses customers. businesses that contribute that contribute to As a result the review, following on from to the development of developing lighter-weight the sale of our interests in the Rolleston lighter-weight vehicles and vehicles and shifting to thermal coal mine in the previous fiscal shift to EVs (aluminum, EVs. year, we have concluded this year an copper, and other agreement for acquiring the interests in businesses). a new coking coal mine (Longview coking coal mine) in December 2019. The amount of transactions for aluminum castings/die-cast materials for vehicles has increased by 10% in FYE 2020 over FYE 2019, contributing to the development of light-weight vehicles. Energy & Chemicals Company Partnering with experienced Pursuing opportunities to Taking Oil & Gas LNG Development and production operators with high take part in LNG projects We are holding concrete discussions with countermeasures (Liquefied of natural resources with technical strength in the (i.e. LNG or natural gas regards to participation in new LNG against climate Natural Gas) consideration in the reduction development and production emits less greenhouse gases projects. change Projects of greenhouse gases. of natural resources. than the other fossil fuels). Address climate We will continue to stably change supply the storage batteries We will continue to sell (contribute to that are the key to the storage batteries equipped realization of Efforts to efficient and optimal with optimal Storage battery low-carbon optimally and utilization of renewable charging/discharging Number of storage related power society) continuously energy. software based on machine batteries sold * Because of new commitment, review will and supply We will aim to strengthen learning (AI) and we will Use of recycled and reused be conducted from the next fiscal year. environmental renewable our storage battery business establish a recycling and batteries solutions energy chain and establish a circular reuse business with model through the battery repurposed batteries from recycling business in EV. particular. Food Company Utilization as a source of renewable energy for Address climate processed food change Taking manufacturing plants by We are currently building biogas power We will examine and promote We will utilize green energy (contribute to countermeasures generating biogas power plants at two plants in the Philippines. Fresh food field measures that contribute to in our processed food realization of against climate using pineapple leftovers These are scheduled to be completed in tackling climate change. business. low-carbon change generated in the the first half of FYE 2021. society) manufacturing process of the Dole processed food business. General Products & Realty Company Consider investment, Address climate We plan to expand the use of participation, etc. in the slag We expect a 65% increase year-on-year change Taking Cement sustainable byproducts (slag) Establish continuous, stable business and focus efforts in the amount we handle to developing (contribute to countermeasures substitute as a substitute material for business between on creating demand, countries. realization of against climate material such as the cement which is vital for Steelworks as the supplier especially in developing We are currently in discussions low-carbon change slag construction and civil of slag and Users. countries, with the aim of concerning investment and participation society) engineering. establishing continuous, in the slag business. stable business. 39 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Policy and Basic Concept Climate change is one of the most urgent global environmental issues and is a matter of human existence. Given the global nature of our operations, it is a top management priority for us to address these issues such as climate change. As stipulated in item (2) of our Environmental Policy, we shall reduce greenhouse gas emissions and increase the efficiency of energy use within our own operations, as well as externally provide products and services that contribute to the mitigation and adaptation to climate change. And as such, ITOCHU will fulfil its social responsibility by promoting responses to climate change. Recommendations by the Taskforce on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) in June 2017 encourage companies to effectively disclose climate-related financial information with consistency, comparability, reliability and clarity to promote appropriate investment decisions by investors. This comes from the observation that climate change related risks and opportunities will increase in the future. We will utilize these recommendations as indicators to verify our response to climate change. These recommendations include those that are still being debated and those that require a long-term response. Nevertheless, it is our policy to continue making disclosures about our initiatives. Main Climate Change Related Risks and Opportunities Risk Opportunity Transition Risk Reduction in demand for fossil fuels due to business Increase in renewable energy and other business restrictions on greenhouse gas emissions opportunities which will contribute to alleviating climate change Physical Risk Retention and acquisition of customers by Damage to business due to the increase in strengthening supply structures that can adapt to abnormal weather (e.g., droughts, flooding, abnormal weather typhoons and hurricanes) About the TCFD The TFCD stands for the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures. It was established by the Financial Stability Board (FSB) at the request of the G20 to examine how to disclose climate-related information and how financial institutions should deal with this. The TCFD published its final report in June 2017. With that report, it made recommendations for the way information should be disclosed. The aim of this is to encourage companies to efficiently disclose climate-related financial information with consistency, comparability, credibility and clarity. ITOCHU considers climate change problems as one of the important challenges facing the world. Therefore, we signed up to support the information disclosure recommendations compiled by the TCFD in May 2019. We are utilizing these recommendations as one of the considerations of our business strategies and portfolio restructuring in light of the degree of relative priority with regards to businesses that need to address these recommendations from within our entire company. Moreover, we are utilizing the scenario analysis in the recommendations of the TCFD. We will also continue to enhance our information disclosure in line with these recommendations. Governance The Sustainability Management Department plans and formulates company-wide action, including measures to tackle climate change, to further sustainability at ITOCHU Corporation, which the Sustainability Chairperson served by the Chief Administrative Officer, finalizes. Meanwhile, the ESG Officers and Managers in each unit carry out sustainability actions. The Sustainability Committee, one of the company's key committees, holds deliberations and makes decisions concerning policy formulation and important matters. In addition to a role in heading the Sustainability Committee, the committee's chair joins meetings of the Board of Directors, the HMC and the Investment Consultative Committee, and also engages in decision-making based on the company's impact on the environment and society by reporting regularly to the Board of Directors to brief them on our promotion of sustainability. We furthermore engage in dialog with stakeholders within and outside the company. One example of this is our regularly convened advisory board. This dialog provides an understanding of what society expects of and desires from the company, which we can then apply to our initiatives at advancing sustainability. 40 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Strategy ITOCHU considers the climate change problems as one of the important challenges facing the world. Accordingly, we are examining the transition and physical risks concerning climate change. We then utilize scenario analysis of the TCFD recommendations as a tool when examining our business strategies and portfolio reorganization. We analyze scenarios in the following steps. (1) Scenario selection (2) Identification of ITOCHU's businesses conducting scenario analysis (3) Analysis of the scenarios (Business environment analysis, policies and initiatives in each scenario) Scenario Analysis (1) Scenario Selection We established the two scenarios below with reference to the International Energy Agency (IEA) and Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) when examining scenario analysis. Scenario 4℃ ＜2℃ The policies of countries, such as the Intended Nationally Determined Contributions (INDC) The average temperature rise is kept below 2℃ established in accordance with the Paris until the end of this century. Bold policies and Agreement, are implemented. Nevertheless, technological innovation are promoted. This is a Image of society the average temperature at the end of this society in which social changes due to the century rises by 4℃. This is a society in which transition to a de-carbonized society are highly there is a high likelihood climate change (e.g., likely to impact business. a rise in temperature) will impact business. Transition Stated Policies Scenario (IEA WEO2019) Sustainable Development Scenario (IEA WEO2019) aspects Reference Technology Scenario (IEA ETP2017) 2℃ Scenario (IEA ETP2017) Reference scenarios Physical RCP8.5 (IPCC AR5) RCP2.6 (IPCC AR5) aspects Risks and Risks and opportunities in terms of physical Risks and opportunities in terms of transition opportunities aspects will be more likely to surface aspects will be more likely to surface * The IEA WEO 2019 Sustainable Development Scenario is the following scenario: The world works to keep the rise in temperature to less than 2℃ – if possible, 1.5℃. At the same time, this is a scenario in which the targets of everyone being able to use energy and improving air pollution are achieved. 41 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance (2) Identification of ITOCHU's Businesses Conducting Scenario Analysis We have worked to identify the following businesses from all the businesses promoted by ITOCHU. The potential impact on these businesses is large from either transition or physical risks concerning climate change. Moreover, these businesses have a high level of importance in terms of financial affairs. Identification of Businesses with a Large Identification of Businesses with a Large Transition Risk Impact Physical Risk Impact When identifying businesses with a large transition risk impact, we organized them according to the level of potential impact on transition risks and importance in terms of financial affairs. We analyzed the coal business and power generation business in the previous fiscal year. Following on from that, we selected the oil and gas upstream development business and conducted scenario analysis on it in this fiscal year. In addition, when identifying businesses with a large physical risk impact, we organized them according to the level of potential impact on physical risks and importance in terms of financial affairs. We selected the Dole business and pulp business as new businesses subject to scenario analysis in this fiscal year. The aforementioned five businesses are found in four non-financial sectors (energy, transportation, materials and buildings, and agriculture, food and forest products) that will potentially be greatly impacted by climate change as designated by the TCFD. (3) Analysis of the Scenarios (Business Environment Analysis, Policies and Initiatives in Each Scenario) When analyzing scenarios, we identify risks and opportunities in terms of procurement, business operation and demand for each business not only for the short term but also the medium and long term from 2030. We organize and assess the factors with a high level of importance. We identify the high-impact variables in terms of transition and physical aspects for the factors with a high level of importance. Next, we use a financial model reflecting the conditions to analyze the scenarios. We measure the potential impact of climate change in regards to the analysis relating to the level of impact in terms of financial affairs. At the same time, we analyze the level of impact in terms of financial affairs including the effects from measures against risks and for opportunities. Results of Scenario Analysis The following gives our business environment awareness and our initiatives to 2030. This takes into account climate change related measures from the results of the analysis on the coal business, power generation business, oil and gas upstream development business, Dole business and pulp business for which we analyzed with the scenarios. We recognized the business environment in both the ＜2℃ and 4℃ scenarios with a base in which reduction initiatives in each country are achieved. Upon that, we formulate initiatives for businesses to set the stage for each scenario and improve our business resilience. 42 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Coal Business Business Environment under the 4℃ Scenario Business Environment under the 2℃ Scenario Under the 2℃ scenario, use of fossil fuels will be reduced as a result of technological innovation and changes in regulatory trends, but demand for high-grade coal, which has a relatively lower environmental impact, will remain at a certain level. Policy and Initiatives We will not acquire new thermal coal mining interest. Regarding the existing thermal coal mining projects, we will continue to review it and contribute to the development of a sustainable society while responding to the social demands of stable supply of energy to domestic and overseas customers. We will continue to be involved in development of technologies to contribute to reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, including carbon capture and storage (CCS) and carbon capture and utilization (CCU). Power Generation Business Business Environment under the 4℃ Scenario Business Environment under the 2℃ Scenario Under both the 2℃ and the 4℃ scenarios, we will maintain at least the current level of income. Under the 2℃ scenario, we can maintain and grow revenue by increasing the number of new renewable energy plants. Policy and Initiatives We aim to achieve a renewable energy ratio more than 20% (equity interest basis) by FYE 2031 and will reflect this to the future strategy. We will not develop any new coal-fired power generation business, in part to contribute to the development of a sustainable society. Oil and Gas Upstream Development Business Business Environment under the 4℃ Scenario Business Environment under the 2℃ Scenario Demand for crude oil is expected to shrink across the world under the 2℃ scenario. Nevertheless, we will be able to increase revenue by capturing the opportunities of the global increase in demand for LNG and the increase in demand for new energies (e.g., biofuels). Policy and Initiatives We will carefully examine an expansion of our crude oil assets. We will aim to stabilize business by participating in excellent projects. We will then examine investment opportunities in gas projects (e.g., LNG). We will examine a business portfolio that anticipates an increase in demand in the new energies field (e.g., the capture of biofuel and hydrogen related business opportunities). 43 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Dole Business Business Environment under the 4℃ Scenario Business Environment under the 2℃ Scenario We expect climate change (the impact on the amount of harvest per unit area due to the increase in the average temperature) to have the impact of reducing revenue under both the 4℃ and 2℃ scenarios. Nevertheless, we will be able to increase revenue by dispersing risks with diversification of production areas (e.g., Sierra Leone) and by striving to improve our cultivation technologies and cultivation efficiency. Policy and Initiatives We will diversify production areas (expand production in Sierra Leone). We will increase the yield by researching and selecting varieties and by improving production methods (e.g., by improving seedling cultivation methods). We will contribute to a low-carbon society through the promotion of biogas power generation utilizing pineapple dregs and solar power generation utilizing factory rooftops. We will aim to further improve the Dole brand and product superiority with the support of highly environmentally-conscious consumers. We will implement irrigation as necessary. We will examine production optimization by using drones and other ICT (e.g., early identification of agricultural chemical application points, yield prediction, and timely and accurate fertilization with monitoring). Pulp Business Business Environment under the 4℃ Scenario Business Environment under the 2℃ Scenario We will increase revenue due to an increase in pulp production output in some afforestation areas where production output is expected to expand under the 4℃ scenario. Nevertheless, our analysis shows that our revenue will decrease due to the impact of the reduction in production output in afforestation areas overall with the rise in the average global temperature. We will maintain production output at a certain level in afforestation areas with the suppression in the rise of the average temperature under the 2℃ scenario. If the carbon prices are introduced in pulp manufacturing factories using biomass energy, we will be able to curtail costs. In addition, we will be able to increase profit by increasing revenue with an increase in our pulp production output in afforestation areas where production output is expected to expand. Policy and Initiatives We will examine a selection of varieties to respond to climate change. We will conduct on-site monitoring to examine measures before the impact of climate change becomes significant. Moreover, we started work in FYE 2020 on organizing climate-related risks and opportunities in our apparel and ICT businesses – businesses which may potentially be affected by transition and physical risks concerning climate change – from the perspective of raising awareness of climate change and promoting our response to it on a company-wide basis. We have identified risk and opportunity factors with a high level of importance in the medium to long term. We plan to work on further analysis toward the next fiscal year. 44 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Apparel Business Currently, we assume the following will be the risks with a high level of importance: a reduction in the production output of raw materials (e.g., cotton) and an increase in costs due to a rise in emission prices. On the other hand, we assume that we can have expectations for the provision of products responding to climate change (e.g., lowcarbon products) in terms of opportunities. ICT Business Currently, we assume the following will be the risks with a high level of importance: an increase in costs due to rising emission prices, an increase in power prices because of the introduction of a high carbon tax, an increase in information system facility damage from natural disasters (e.g., typhoons and floods) and a strengthening of CO2 emission regulations in countries and regions accompanying climate change. On the other hand, we assume that we can have expectations for an expansion in the development and spread of energy-saving and highly efficient IT and data analysis technologies and an expansion in investment and lending that will contribute to a suppression of CO2 emissions in terms of opportunities. Future Plans In the future, we will conduct analysis from both transition and physical aspects to confirm the impact of climate change on all the businesses of our company. We will then further identify and organize fields where there will be a significant impact. We plan to examine specific measure policies in the future based on the degree of relative priority for businesses for which a response is required from over the whole of ITOCHU – including our eighth company newly established with our existing seven companies. Risk Management Please see P199 for risk management relating to company-wide business including climate change. Metrics and Targets ITOCHU sets target values for a reduction in our electricity consumption. The targets are as below. ITOCHU has set a target of reducing our energy consumption by at least 1% on average annually. We are working to reduce our GHG emissions. Target for the Year FYE 2020 Results Single Year Target Ended March 2021 Reduction of 2.3% Electricity Consumption of Tokyo compared with FYE and Osaka Headquarters, 2019 levels Reduction of 30% Reduction of at least Branches in Japan and Other compared with FYE 1% annually branches and business facilities Reduction of 44% 2011 levels in Japan compared with FYE 2011 levels In overall power generation business, we aim to achieve a renewable energy ratio more than 20% (equity interest basis) by FYE 2031 and will reflect this to the future strategy. (FYE 2020: Renewable energy ratio 13%) 45 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Initiatives Among the environmental conservation costs disclosed in the environmental accounting (P36), associated with climate change are as follows︓ Administrative costs of the power generator installed in the Tokyo Headquarters 1,770 thousand yen Research and development expenses for climate change risk aversion (donation to Division of Climate System Research, Atmosphere and Ocean Research Institute, the University of Tokyo) 500 thousand yen Initiatives in Business tackling Climate Change Renewable Energy Related Business ITOCHU is working to solve social challenges. We are achieving this through business investment in power generation assets utilizing the geothermal, wind power and other renewable energies, and storage batteries business that are expected to grow as a necessary supporter of energy supply in the future. Please see P76-84 for details on those businesses. Carbon Dioxide Capture and Storage (CCS) We recognize that CCS is an essential technology to aim for low carbonization. Therefore, we have participated in investment in Japan CCS Co., Ltd., which is conducting demonstration experiments in Tomakomai, to pursue the possibilities of practical application of CCS. (The cumulative volume of CO2 injected as of the end of June 2020 is approximately 300,000 tons). Toward Sustainable Plantation Operation in Response to Climate Change We acquired the Asian fruits and vegetables business and processed foods business, which supplies canned food and beverages around the world, from Dole Food Company in the U.S. in April 2013. Since this acquisition, typhoons, drought, and damage from disease and harmful insects have struck the Philippines – the largest production base of major products. The production volume of bananas was 440,000 tons in FYE 2017; this was a 40% decrease compared with before the acquisition. We looked to restore and expand this production volume. To that end, we introduced irrigation facilities for bananas. We also aggregated and expanded farmland and took measures against damage from disease and harmful insects. In addition, we invested in facilities for plantations and reviewed cultivation methods for pineapples to improve productivity. We are also promoting the diversification of production areas to prepare for the risk of unpredictable weather. Furthermore, we have improved management (e.g., the selection and concentration of businesses and products, and the disposal of unprofitable businesses). In the future, we will aim to become the largest agricultural produce integrator in Asia. We will achieve this by developing a structure to increase production to 800,000 tons of bananas and 1 million tons of Banana Field pineapples in the Philippines. We believe that people, the environment and society are important resources for the survival and development of the company. Accordingly, DOLE again focused initiatives on activities to contribute to local societies in the Philippines, Thailand, Japan, South Korea, China, North America and other countries in FYE 2019. For example, we spent approximately 2.5 million dollars to donate textbooks, desks, chairs and PCs to schools in various areas, construct and maintain school buildings, provide scholarships, and supply educational opportunities for children with disabilities. We also provided daily necessities and medical assistance to areas affected by natural disasters, donated blood, held hygiene education and provided food assistance to work on maintaining and promoting health. 46 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Utilization of Solar Power Generation in a Joint Venture with Teys in Australia Teys Australia Condamine introduced 1,034 solar panels in 2015. This has made it possible to generate approximately 506,000 kWh of power annually. Accordingly, approximately 50% of the power used in this facility comes from renewable energy. The introduction of solar power generation has reduced CO2 emissions by approximately 395 tons. Consequently, a reduction in CO2 emissions of approximately 49% has been realized compared with before the introduction of solar power generation. We also procure beef to be slaughtered and processed from Teys – our joint investment partner in Australia. This firm has formed sustainable operations. It extracts methane gas generated in the slaughter process and reuses it as heat for its factory. Initiatives for the Tokyo Metropolitan Government Program to Prevent Global Warming ITOCHU submitted a plan to the Tokyo Metropolitan Government to reduce the CO2 emissions in our Tokyo Headquarters by approximately 15% from the reference value (average value from FYE 2003 to FYE 2005) over five years from FYE 2016 to FYE 2020 based on the Ordinance on Environmental Preservation. Our emissions in FYE 2019 were 6,168 t-CO2. This is an approximately 42% reduction compared to the reference value. The documents we have submitted to the Tokyo Metropolitan Government so far are as follows. Greenhouse Gas Emission Reduction Plan for FYE 2016 to FYE 2020 (Submitted in November 2016) (Japanese Only) (https://www.itochu.co.jp/en/files/ondanka-201611.pdf) Greenhouse Gas Emission Reduction Plan for FYE 2016 to FYE 2020 (Submitted in November 2017) (Japanese Only) (https://www.itochu.co.jp/en/files/ondanka-201711.pdf) Greenhouse Gas Emission Reduction Plan for FYE 2016 to FYE 2020 (Submitted in November 2018) (Japanese Only) (https://www.itochu.co.jp/en/csr/pdf/ondanka-201811.pdf) Greenhouse Gas Emission Reduction Plan for FYE 2016 to FYE 2020 (Submitted in November 2019) (Japanese Only) (https://www.itochu.co.jp/en/csr/pdf/ondanka-201911.pdf) * In addition to the Tokyo Headquarters, the adjacent commercial facility of Itochu Garden is also subject to the Greenhouse Gas Emission Reduction Plans submitted to the Tokyo Metropolitan Government. Cooperation with Stakeholders Participation in TCFD Consortium In May 2019, ITOCHU Corporation announced its support for the TCFD, which encourages companies to disclose financial information related to climate change. We also participated in the TCFD Consortium established on May 27, 2019 by Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry (METI), Ministry of the Environment (MOE), and the Financial Services Agency (FSA) as a body for promoting discussion and deliberation among companies and financial institutions supporting the TCFD mission. By participating in this Consortium, we will engage in the appropriate disclosure of ITOCHU business opportunities and risks associated with climate change. Initiative Participation (Activities Through Business and Industry Groups) We are participating in the Global Environment Subcommittee of the Committee on Environment and Safety — an environment and energy related committee of the Japan Business Federation (Keidanren). We are working to realize an environmental policy compatible with the economy (e.g., through promotion of voluntary action plans, and measures for global warming, waste and recycling and environmental risks). We are also participating in the Global Environment Committee of the Japan Foreign Trade Council. We are striving to build a low-carbon society, construct a recycling-orientated society, and to support environmental related laws and regulations. If we decide the direction regarding such as climate change in various industry groups we participate, we express an opinion in line with our Basic Policy on Sustainability in the decision process, and when it is different from our policy, we will strive to be in line with our policy. 47 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Participation in COOL CHOICE ITOCHU participates in the Ministry of the Environment-led COOL CHOICE climate change campaign aimed at realizing a low-carbon society. We are striving to adjust our air conditioning in the summer and winter and to switch off unnecessary electricity. We also conduct environmental conservation activities from the things that all employees can do in their daily lives. For example, we encourage separation of waste in offices and promote recycling. Performance Data Energy Consumption Scope of Aggregation ○:in scope of aggregation GHG Energy Consumption Electricity Consumption Emission Greenhouse Energy Gases Other Energy Target for a CO2 Fuel GHG Than CO2 Consumption Electricity Consumption Reduction in Emissions Per Consumption Emissions from Energy in the Consumption Attributable Our MWh of from Consumption Japanese of ITOCHU to Business Electricity Electricity Business (6.5 Gases) Bases of Group Facilities Consumption Consumption Facilities ITOCHU Tokyo headquarters ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ Osaka headquarters ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ All five domestic branches (Hokkaido, Branches in Japan Tohoku, Chubu, ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ Chugoku & Shikoku, and Kyushu) The number of offices including Other domestic branches branches: and business FYE 2016: 8, ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ facilities in FYE 2017: 8, Japan*1 FYE 2018: 6, FYE 2019: 8, FYE 2020: 7 Number of target companies: Group FYE 2016: 70, companies in FYE 2017: 65, ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ Japan*2 FYE 2018: 208, FYE 2019: 220, FYE 2020: 238 Numbers of overseas offices: FYE 2016: 16, Overseas offices FYE 2017: 16, ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ FYE 2018: 15, FYE 2019: 30, FYE 2020: 29 Number of target companies: Overseas FYE 2016: 44, group FYE 2017: 46, ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ companies*2 FYE 2018: 299, FYE 2019: 282, FYE 2020: 286 Companies expected to be sold within the next five years held for investment management purposes are not included in the scope of the data. Exclusion Moreover, the CO2 emissions of non-manufacturing site offices with 10 or fewer employees are quantitatively insignificant. Accordingly, they are not included in the scope of the data. *1 The other business facilities cover business facilities owned or leased by ITOCHU (except facilities for residences). *2 The group companies in Japan and overseas cover consolidated subsidiaries directly invested in by ITOCHU (as of March 31, 2017) for FYE 2016 to FYE 2017. All consolidated subsidiaries are covered since FYE 2018 (coverage 100%). 48 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Energy Consumption Energy Consumption in the Japanese Bases of ITOCHU FYE FYE FYE FYE FYE 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Purchased and consumed non-renewable fuel 805 765 610 525 691 (Unit:MWh) Purchased non-renewable power (Unit:MWh) 25,955 30,282 29,558 29,306 28,747 Other purchased non-renewable energy (e.g., 11,286 8,299 8,206 7,605 7,385 steam, heat and cooling water) (Unit:MWh) Generated renewable energy (solar power 87 58 58 51 54 generation) (Unit:MWh) Energy consumption cost total (Unit:million yen) 580 564 576 404 537 Energy Consumption Attributable to Business Facilities (Unit:GJ) FYE 2016 FYE 2017 FYE 2018 FYE 2019 FYE 2020 Tokyo headquarters 129,084 134,076 130,977 127,824 126,135 * The figures for the Tokyo Headquarters are calculated based on the Tokyo Metropolitan Ordinance on Environmental Preservation. Electricity Consumption Our electricity consumption and CO2 emissions attributable to business facilities in FYE 2016 to FYE 2020 are as follows. We have been introducing energy saving facilities (e.g., air conditioner inverters and desktop LED stands). At the same time, all employees are switching off unnecessary lighting and office machines. We also started a trial of a morning-focused working system for regular employees working in headquarters and branch offices in Japan from October 2013. The formal introduction of this in May 2014 has led to a reduction in our electricity consumption. (Unit:Thousand kWh) FYE FYE FYE FYE FYE 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Tokyo headquarters 9,169 9,331 9,200 9,178 9,055 Osaka headquarters 442 434 409 396 384 Branches in Japan 326 291 292 295 285 Other branches and business facilities in Japan 1,300 1,270 1,184 1,145 1,034 Total of domestic bases of ITOCHU corporation❖ 11,237 11,326 11,084 11,014 10,759 Group companies in Japan 484,755 471,432 798,054 878,025 1,204,830 Overseas offices 3,424 3,087 2,224 2,118 2,098 Overseas group companies 147,665 143,485 500,777 590,175 447,462 Grand total of ITOCHU Group◆ 647,081 629,329 1,312,139 1,481,382 1,665,148 * This data has been calculated based on the Ordinance on Environmental Preservation for the Tokyo Headquarters and based on the Act on the Rational Use of Energy for the Osaka Headquarters, branches in Japan, other branches and business facilities. However, companies expected to be sold within the next five years held for investment management purposes are not included in the scope of the data. Moreover, the CO2 emissions of non-manufacturing site offices with 10 or fewer employees are quantitatively insignificant. Accordingly, they are not included in the scope of the data. 49 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance CO2 Emissions Per MWh of Electricity Consumption (Unit:t-CO2/MWh) FYE 2017 FYE 2018 FYE 2019 FYE 2020 Grand total of ITOCHU group 0.524 0.506 0.524 0.502 Solar Power Generation ITOCHU has installed solar panels on the roof of our Tokyo Headquarters and the roof of the adjacent ITOCHU Garden (ex CI PLAZA). These panels started generating power in March 2010. The power generation capacity of the solar panels installed is a total of 100 kW. This is equivalent to the power for 30 regular houses (calculated at approximately 3.0 kW per house). All the clean energy generated is used in our Tokyo Headquarters. This is equivalent to an amount of power used in lighting 3.5 floors in our Tokyo Headquarters (during instantaneous maximum power generation). Fuel Consumption of the ITOCHU Group Fuel consumption of the entire Group is as follows. FYE 2018 FYE 2019 FYE 2020 Kerosene (Unit: kL) 4,001 4,468 2,609 Light oil (Unit: kL) 35,577 39,362 41,790 Gasoline (Unit: kL) 10,774 12,598 12,759 Heavy oil A (Unit: kL) 25,699 18,289 20,432 Heavy oil B and C (Unit: kL) 11,711 16,551 25,942 Coal (Unit: t) 341,192 333,176 315,148 Liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) (Unit: t) 6,321 6,614 11,966 Liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) (Unit: 1,000 m3) 2,454 496 472 Petroleum gas Liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) (Unit: kL) – – 186 Petroleum hydrocarbon gas (Unit: 1,000 m3) 2,247 1,860 340 Liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) (Unit: t) 1,645 3,161 5,698 Combustible natural gas Other combustible natural gas (Unit: 1,000 m3) 5,762 14,565 14,115 Town gas (Unit: 1,000 m3) 204,481 33,552 26,692 Town gas etc. Other gas (Unit: 1,000 m3) 0.017 158 242 50 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions GHG Emissions Attributable to Business Facilities (Unit:t-CO2e) FYE 2020 Scope 1 Scope 2 Total of all Japanese bases in ITOCHU❖ 151 6,740 (Unit:t-CO2e) FYE 2020 Scope 1 Scope 2 ITOCHU Group◆ 1,202,508 835,916 (Unit:t-CO2e) FYE 2016 FYE 2017 FYE 2018 FYE 2019 FYE 2020 Tokyo headquarters 6,229 6,459 6,307 6,168 6,089 Osaka headquarters 235 221 208 172 135 Branches in Japan 208 180 175 170 176 Other branches and business facilities 664 641 582 550 491 in Japan Total of domestic bases of ITOCHU 7,336 7,501 7,273 7,060 6,891 corporation❖ Intensity figures per employee (Total of domestic bases of ITOCHU 1.714 1.737 1.660 1.622 1.596 corporation) Intensity figures per one square meter of all floor space (Total of 0.063 0.064 0.063 0.061 0.068 domestic bases of ITOCHU corporation) Group companies in Japan 369,775 340,559 1,280,241 1,174,507 1,526,279 Overseas offices 1,907 2,238 1,674 2,769 1,523 Overseas group companies 102,372 98,427 628,021 800,263 503,731 Grand total of ITOCHU Group◆ 481,389 448,725 1,917,209 1,984,599 2,038,424 * The data has been calculated based on the Tokyo Metropolitan Ordinance on Environmental Preservation for the Tokyo Headquarters and based on the Act on the Rational Use of Energy and the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures for the Osaka Headquarters, branches in Japan, other branches and business facilities and group companies in Japan. (We have calculated this data by employing the basic emissions coefficients of the power companies.) * From FYE 2020, the data has been calculated based on the CO2 conversion coefficient according to the data of 2017 by country of the International Energy Agency (IEA) for overseas offices and overseas group companies. The data before FYE 2019 has been calculated based on the average of the CO2 conversion coefficient between 2010 and 2012. * The denominators of Intensity figures per one square meter of all floor space are as follows: FYE 2016 116,585m2, FYE 2017 116,528m2, FYE 2018 115,905m2,FYE 2019 115,842m2, FYE 2020 101,545 m2 * From the FYE 2019 data, 6.5 gases, which are greenhouse gases other than CO2 from energy consumption, are also included. 6.5 gases from group companies that emit more than 3,000 t-CO2e per year are aggregated and disclosed. * The calculation of GHG uses the GHG protocol developed by WRI (World Resources Institute) and WBCSD (World Business Council for Sustainable Development). 51 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Greenhouse Gases Other Than CO2 from Energy Consumption (6.5 Gases) Scope1 Emission (Only 6.5 Gases) Data for each GHG (Unit:t-CO2e) FYE 2019 FYE 2020 Total 6.5 gases (t-CO2e) 52,393 44,225 non-energy consumption carbon dioxide (CO2) 0 0 methane (CH4) 0 1,459 dinitrogen monoxide (N2O) 17,932 18,439 Breakdown hydrofluorocarbon (HFCs) 34,461 24,327 perfluorocarbon (PFCs) 0 0 sulfur hexafluoride (SF6) 0 0 nitrogen trifluoride (NF3) 0 0 * 6.5 gases from group companies that emit more than 3,000 t-CO2e per year are aggregated and disclosed. * Greenhouse gas emissions other than CO2 have several tens to several tens of thousands of times of greenhouse effect compared to CO2, and t-CO2e is used as a unit for expressing that greenhouse effect equivalent to CO2. * In addition to the above 6.5 gases, Group companies emit 8,967 t-CO2e as HCFCs, etc. Initiatives Toward Environmental Distribution ITOCHU is engaged in green distribution to reduce our environmental impact. This is to comply with the Act on the Rational Use of Energy (Energy Conservation Law). Carbon Dioxide Emissions from Distribution The carbon dioxide emissions generated due to contracted transport as shippers of ITOCHU is as follows. CO2 Emissions Attributable to Distribution◆ 52 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Energy Saving Measures for Distribution We have established a company-wide common energy saving measures policy as below in regards to energy saving measures for distribution. On top of that, we have formulated concrete measures for each division company. Transportation Method Selection Promotion of the use of railroads and domestic shipping Use of transportation with the freight of multiple shippers on one vehicle and mixed loading Selection of appropriate vehicle types Measures to Improve Transportation Efficiency Increase in the size of vehicles Optimal transportation routes Improvement in the loading ratio Cooperation with Freight Transportation Review of transportation plans and frequency Operators and Recipients of Freight Concrete Measures (1) Transportation Method Selection We will survey and analyze the conditions of long-distance truck transportation. We will then consider a change to the transportation method from business that can be switched to railroad and domestic shipping transportation that has a relatively low environmental impact. (2) Measures to Improve Transportation Efficiency We will survey the conditions of transportation. We will then consider the selection of appropriate vehicle types and the selection of appropriate transportation routes to further improve loading efficiency and to reduce the energy consumption rate. (3) Cooperation with Freight Transportation Operators and Recipients of Freight We have decided to check the initiatives toward environmental distribution with internal criterion concerning the appointment of distribution companies. We recommend the appointment of certified companies. We are building a cooperative system together with our suppliers in addition to distribution companies to realize (1) and (2) above. Independent Assurance Independent Assurance Report (P216): The data below marked with a ❖ is independently assured through KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd. This assurance conforms to the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 and 3410 of the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (IAASB). ❖: Total electricity consumption and total CO2 emissions attributable to the domestic bases of ITOCHU corporation (business facilities of the Tokyo Headquarters, the Osaka Headquarters, branches in Japan, domestic branches and other business facilities), and the waste volume, waste non-recycled, waste recycled, recycling rate, water consumption, gray water production volume and wastewater volume for the Tokyo Headquarters. Independent Assurance Report (P216): The data below marked with a ◆ is independently assured through KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd. This assurance conforms to the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 and 3410 of the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (IAASB). ◆: Total electricity consumption and GHG emissions attributable to ITOCHU Group in total, and CO2 emissions attributable to distribution of ITOCHU Corporation. 53 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Prevention of Pollution and Resource Circulation Action Plan Risks Opportunities Negative impacts on the natural environment including those Increased resource demand due to population growth and related to resource circulation enhanced living standards in emerging economies Deterioration of relations with local communities and Creation of customer trust and new business opportunities subsequent loss of social license to operate through stable and sustainable supply chain practices Industry exhaustion due to increased price competition SDGs Issues to Materiality Business Area Commitment Specific Approach Performance Indicators Degree of Progress Targets Address Textile Company We will accelerate initiatives for We strengthened the supply chain Environmentally the recycled fiber business, not Commercialize the recycled from raw materials to products Ensure Stable supply Work aggressively on the recycled friendly materials only to create new businesses but fiber business as soon as with a focus on sustainable raw stable of industrial fiber business and lead the (sustainable also to help solve the global possible. Increase the ratio of materials. We launched the RENU procurement resources and industry in promoting the use of materials) such as problem of apparel waste and sustainable materials to project and are currently and supply materials sustainable materials. recycled fibers reduce petroleum-derived materials we trade. expanding the marketing of materials. recycled polyester globally. Machinery Company Environment Field We operate four waste We will contribute to improving incineration and power generation the hygiene environment, the Expand environment projects to business projects in the U.K. In Respect Improving development of economic promote the appropriate use and Expand and diversify the Environmental addition to this, we entered into a human hygiene activities, and the protection of treatment of the effective investment portfolio in the financing contract for a publicprojects rights infrastructures the global environment through utilization of resources, and environment field. private partnership (PPP) waste the appropriate treatment and reduce the environmental impact. disposal power generation project effective use of waste. in Belgrade, Serbia in September 2019. We are aiming for operation in 2022. Energy & Chemicals Company Ensure Efforts leading Plastic-related Establishment of a recycling * Because of new commitment, stable to solutions to We will aim to establish a We will supply recycled resin in environmental program and sales of recycled review will be conducted from the procurement social recycling and reuse model. collaboration with brand owners. response resin. next fiscal year. and supply problems Policy and Basic Concept Prevention of Pollution ITOCHU's Environmental Policy states in item (3) that within its business activities, ITOCHU shall prevent and reduce environmental pollution caused by chemical substances and oils, reduce emissions of air pollutants, and reduce and properly process hazardous waste and wastewater. In addition, as stipulated in item (1) of our Environmental Policy, ITOCHU will fulfil its responsibility by enacting the following statement: We shall comply with international declarations, agreements, and treaties, as well as with the laws and regulations of the countries and regions in which we operate. We shall also comply with any other agreements that we have consented to. Resource Circulation As per item (4) of our Environmental Policy, ITOCHU contributes to the formation of a circular society by promoting the sustainable use of resources (such as fossil fuels, minerals, food, animals and plants), resource conservation measures, and waste reduction and recycling across our business investments and the supply chain of our products and services. On April 2018, we announced material ESG (environment, society, and governance) issues that must be managed for the sustainability of the business and society. Among them, the topic of stable procurement and supply stood out as one of our most important issues. We therefore aim to realize a circular society by incorporating environmental considerations, including biodiversity, making effective use of natural resources, and stably procuring and supplying resources in line with the demands of each country. 54 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Ensuring Legal Compliance by the Chemicals Division The chemicals and synthetic resins handled in the Chemicals Division and the products made with these are used in every aspect of our lives. This means that they are extremely useful. On the other hand, many of these chemicals are toxic or dangerous in nature. Therefore, they are regulated by a great many related laws and regulations in various settings (e.g., manufacture, sales, transportation and storage). These chemicals are connected to serious problems concerning public health and environmental conservation. Accordingly, the laws and regulations on the trading of chemicals are diverse and extremely strict. The penalties for violating these laws and ordinances are also very heavy. Many chemicals require permission to be handled as products. However, if this permission is revoked as a result of violating laws and ordinances, it could seriously affect the business of the Chemicals Division. There is an international trend to minimize risks at the level of the entire supply chain of chemicals. Against this background, both advanced nations and developing nations have started to introduce new regulations and to make large-scale revisions to existing regulations. Consequently, the regulatory environment in the handling of chemicals is expected to become ever stricter in the future. With awareness of the above, we recognize the importance of compliance with laws and ordinances in addition to knowledge of products and the industry as a company that handles chemicals. Our basic policy is that each individual should engage in business in accordance with the requirements of laws and ordinances upon correctly understanding the laws and regulations concerning the products that they are in charge of handling. Targets ITOCHU has set the following three items as environmental targets for pollution prevention and resource circulation and is promoting initiatives to this effect. (1) Prevention of environmental pollution and compliance with laws and regulations: We will perform advance environmental risk assessments according to the ESG Checklist for Investments for all investment projects. We strive to improve the management level by checking the environmental management system, compliance and environmental performance situation through internal audits. We will select group companies and then visit them to survey their environmental management situation. (2) Promotion of awareness activities: We will hold workshops and promote learning on the Waste Management and Public Cleansing Law and the Soil Contamination Countermeasures Act for ITOCHU and group company employees. We will set target values and then review results based on them. (3) Resource conservation, promotion of resource circulation, and understanding of results ITOCHU will set numerical targets for the reduction of the waste we discard, the promotion of recycling, and the reduction of our paper and water consumption even in our office activities in addition to considering the environment when performing our business activities. We will also gradually expand the scope of environmental performance data we collect from group companies in Japan and overseas offices to understand the actual situation and utilize that in our future environmental conservation activities. In our Tokyo Headquarter building, we are implementing resource saving measures. Targets and indicators we track to manage our performance are noted in the table below. ITOCHU sets numerical targets for the reduction of the waste we discard, the promotion of recycling, and the reduction of our paper consumption. Target for the Fiscal Year FYE 2020 (Results) Single Year Target Ending March 31, 2021 Volume of waste discarded Reduction of 27% Reduction of 10% Reduction of 20% compared by our Tokyo Headquarters compared to FYE 2011 compared to FYE 2011 to FYE 2011 Recycling rate in our Tokyo 94% 90% 90% Headquarters Paper consumption in our Reduction of 26% Reduction of 3% Reduction of 3% compared Tokyo Headquarters compared to FYE 2011 compared to FYE 2011 to FYE 2011 55 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Structures and Systems Due Diligence Regarding Pollution Prevention and Resource Circulation in Business Investment Projects We assess in advance the impact on the market, society and the environment by business investment projects in Japan and overseas engaged in by ITOCHU and our Japanese subsidiaries. We do this with the ESG Checklist for Investment, which includes assessment criteria to evaluate performance on pollution prevention and resource circulation among potential investments. We make requests to external specialist organizations to conduct investigations in advance for projects requiring a professional point of view. The project is then only undertaken upon confirming that there are no problems in the results of those investigations. ITOCHU considers ensuring stable procurement and supply to be a material issue. We work to effectively utilize and to ensure stable procurement and supply of resources according to demand in each country with consideration for the environment (e.g., biodiversity). In doing this, we are aiming for a recycling-oriented society. Compliance with Laws and Regulations in the Divisions Handling Chemical Substances At ITOCHU, the Chemicals Division has cross-functional oversight of our management of chemical substances. This includes oversight of the sales departments that handle chemical substances, which sit within the Chemicals Division, as well as relevant subsidiaries that handle chemical substances. In addition, the Chemicals Division has oversight of any sales divisions and subsidiaries outside of their direct control if chemical substances are used. We strive to comply with laws and regulations through a management method based on a combination of thorough inquiries to specialized external consulting organizations and the use of a centralized management system to track environmental legal compliance. The management system was developed internally in 2016 and allows us to confirm and record applicable laws and measures at the chemical substance level for each product. We also provide training and educational opportunities to relevant sales staffs, supplemented by e-learning materials and handbooks that summarize the main points of relevant laws. The external consulting organization that we currently employ for chemical substance management is Techno Hill Co., Ltd. (Headquartered in Chuo-ku, Tokyo; Representative Director: Kazuyuki Suzuki). Techno Hill has comprehensive knowledge regarding the field of chemical substances and provides us with informed advice on management systems, applicable laws and regulations for each product, and general trends movements in the industry. Management Structure for Emergency Response and Accident Response ITOCHU responds as below in accordance with our accident and emergency response regulations. If an accident occurs during the handling or storage of toxic or hazardous substances, we respond as follows in line with the Pharmaceutical Key Toxic and Hazardous Substance Risk Prevention Procedures Manual. We will make reports as necessary according to the emergency contact network in the above manual. In addition, we will take prompt action to limit the risks caused by toxic and hazardous substances. In the event of splashing, leaking, outflow, seepage or penetration underground, we will immediately notify the health care center, police station or fire department to that effect when there is a fear of a risk to the health of an unspecified or large number of people. At the same time, we will take measures to prevent risks to health. 56 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Initiatives Acquisition of ISO22301 Certification Aiming for a Safe, Secure and Resistant-to-Disaster Tank Terminal Nagoya Chemport, which is managed and operated by Chemical Logitec Co., Ltd., plays an important part in the supply chain that includes Nagoya and its environs. Its main business is to receive, store and dispense liquid chemicals at Nagoya Port No. 9. The company spent two years educating and training its employees, enhancing its facilities and developing its structures with the aim of ensuring a safe, secure and resistant-to-disaster chemport. This has been done in preparation for the Nankai Trough Earthquake predicted to strike in the future based on lessons learned from the Great East Japan Earthquake that occurred on March 11, 2011. As a result of these initiatives, the site acquired initial ISO22301:2012 certification on May 1, 2014; it was then re-certified on June 15, 2017. Tank Terminal ISO22301 is a management standard to minimize the impact on stakeholders, including customers, and elevate the abilities of organizations to continue providing services by promptly recovering from disasters and accidents that interrupt and hinder business. Nagoya Chemport broke ground to become the first company to acquire this certification in the chemical tank industry in Japan and among ITOCHU Group companies. We are continuing to review issues inside and outside the organization and working to improve them. In FYE 2016, we provided safety measures training with a scenario of accidents occurring when there are few people to deal with them (e.g., at night and on holidays) in the presence of shippers. We also held night training again in FYE 2018 following on from FYE 2017 to check whether there were any problems with the support for that. We are continuing to work on ensuring safety in the event of a disaster with respect for human life as our number one priority. In addition, we repeatedly hold education and training for organizations and strive on a daily basis to respond to the trust placed in us by our customers. Food Recycling ITOCHU makes regular reports on the amount of food we discard and the amount we recycle in Japan to comply with the Food Recycling Law. We are striving to suppress the generation of waste and to promote recycling (e.g. conversion into feed) in line with the reference rate (recycling rate target). Food Recycling Rate FYE FYE FYE FYE 2017 2018 2019 2020 Waste volume generated (Unit: t) 828.2 1,816.9 869.0 992.8 Quantity recycled Amount of recycling (Unit: t) 544.9 620.6 454.9 744.4 Waste volume (Unit: t) 283.3 1,196.3 414.1 248.4 Target (recycling rate target by individual food Reference rate 75.8% 76.8% 77.8% 78.8% related operator) Percentage recycled Recycling rate 70.6% 34.2% 52.3% 75.1% * In FYE 2018, 1,001.0 tons were discarded due to a warehouse fire. * FYE 2021 recycling rate target: 79.8% 57 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Number One Trader in the World for the Cement Substitute of Blast Furnace Slag Blast furnace slag is a by-product of the steelmaking process. Mixing and using it with cement as a cement substitute makes it possible to save natural resources (e.g., limestone – the raw material of cement). It is an environmentally friendly product that can reduce the CO2 generated during manufacturing by about 40%* compared with when making concrete only with cement. It is highly durable against seawater and the steel material in it is less likely to suffer corrosion over a long period of time. Therefore, it is widely used in large civil engineering projects at ports. We have been selling blast furnace slag produced in Japan and overseas in around 10 countries since about 20 years ago. We handle of volume of blast furnace slag that makes us the number one trader in the world Structure Made with Blast Furnace Slag for it. In the future, we will build continuous and stable distribution channels and consider investing and participating in the slag business. * Calculated at a 55:45 ratio for cement and blast furnace slag Project to Reduce Our Environmental Burden with the Introduction of Side Shrink Wrap Packaging ITOCHU PLASTICS INC. (CIPS) is supporting the introduction of side shrink wrap film in all stores operated by FamilyMart Co., Ltd., its domestic area franchise company locations stores (collectively FamilyMart ) as an initiative to reduce our environmental burden. Side shrink wrap film covers only the area where the lids and containers meet for boxed lunch, sushi and noodle products. FamilyMart completed the introduction of side shrink wrap packaging across Japan in February 2015. The change from full shrink wrap packaging — which involves entire containers being packaged in wrapping — to side shrink wrap packaging makes it easier to open products, makes it easier to see their contents and offers a strong barrier performance. In addition to this, it reduces Bento Box with Side Shrink Packaging garbage, the plastic raw materials used in the packaging and also CO2. This greatly contributes to a reduction in our environmental burden. * FYE 2020 results (comparison with conventional wrap film): Approximately 533 ton reduction in plastic raw materials and an approximately 1,904 ton reduction in CO2. The corporate philosophy of CIPS is as follows: Providing lifestyle comfort and convenience with chemical and plastic materials. A corporate culture of integrity propelling us forward, together. ITOCHU Plastics. CIPS is promoting corporate activities, including support for the introduction of shrink wrap film, that aim to balance a better global environment and economic growth. The firm is striving to conserve the environment and to contribute to the realization of a sustainable society. 58 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Cooperation with Stakeholders Compliance with the Containers and Packaging Recycling Law ITOCHU understands our own manufacturing and import volume of containers and packaging every year to recycle containers and packaging. We then pay a recycling fee to the Japan Containers and Packaging Recycling Association. The aim of this is to contribute to promoting the formation of a recycling-orientated society as a specified business operator prescribed by the Containers and Packaging Recycling Law. The recycling fee we pay every year is as below. (Unit:Yen) Recycling Fee Glass Bottles Paper Plastic Fiscal / PET Containers Containers Total Year Contribution Other Bottles and and Colorless Brown Fee Colors Packaging Packaging Recycling 704,782 29,327 1,057,941 1,792,050 FYE 2018 Contribution 9,344 102 9,446 Total amount 714,126 29,429 1,057,941 1,801,496 Recycling 814,414 708 18,306 631,798 1,465,226 FYE 2017 Contribution 0 68 168 47,052 47,288 Total amount 814,414 776 18,474 678,850 1,512,514 Recycling 770,179 158,548 30,825 292,375 1,251,927 FYE 2016 Contribution 0 0 315 13,395 13,710 Total amount 770,179 158,548 31,140 305,770 1,265,637 Initiative Participation (Activities Through Business and Industry Groups) We are participating in the Global Environment Subcommittee of the Committee on Environment and Safety – an environment and energy related committee of the Japan Business Federation (Keidanren). We are working to realize an environmental policy compatible with the economy (e.g., through promotion of voluntary action plans, and measures for global warming, waste and recycling and environmental risks including water management). We are also participating in the Global Environment Committee of the Japan Foreign Trade Council. We are striving to build a low-carbon society, construct a recycling-orientated society, and to support environmental related laws and regulations. Performance Data Paper Consumption The table below gives our paper consumption for FYE 2016 to FYE 2019 (This is for the Tokyo Headquarters in FYE 2016 and for the total of all ITOCHU bases in Japan from FYE 2017 to FYE 2019). Our Tokyo Headquarters has set a target of reducing its paper consumption by 3% compared with FYE 2011 levels. We are working on reducing our paper consumption by going paperless and ending the use of unnecessary paper. (Unit: Thousand sheets (A4 equivalent)) FYE 2016 FYE 2017 FYE 2018 FYE 2019 FYE 2020 Copy paper consumption 31,896 34,940 32,949 30,711 26,913 59 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Waste Volume The table below gives the waste volume generated in the Tokyo Headquarters, group companies in Japan, overseas offices and overseas group companies from FYE 2016 to FYE 2019. ITOCHU promotes the separation of garbage. Our Tokyo Headquarters has set a single year target of reducing its waste volume by 10% compared with FYE 2011 levels. We are working to reduce our waste volume through initiatives such as 2-in-1 and double-sided printing. The Tokyo Headquarters won the Minato Ward Waste Reducing Business Operator Commendation in FYE 2015. FYE 2016 FYE 2017 FYE 2018 FYE 2019 FYE 2020 Waste volume (Unit: t) 711 674 698 680 767 Tokyo Waste non-recycled 36 38 43 48 44 headquarters building❖ Waste recycled 675 636 655 632 723 Recycling rate (Unit: %) 95 94.3 93.8 92.9 94.3 Group companies in Waste volume (Unit: t) 23,470 21,947 177,526 4,707,364 16,024,632 Japan Overseas Waste volume (Unit: t) 9 33 5 17 9 offices Overseas group Waste volume (Unit: t) 14,569 10,016 141,392 3,118,634 803,643 companies * The waste volume of the Tokyo Headquarters includes the amount sold as valuables. * Due to the increase in the number of companies subject to aggregation, the figure for FYE 2019 has increased significantly compared to FYE 2018. Waste Recycling Rate FYE 2020 Waste volume (Unit: t) 16,829,051 Waste non-recycled (Unit: t) 12,706,490 Grand total of ITOCHU Group Waste recycled (Unit: t) 4,122,557 Recycling rate (Unit: %) 24 Hazardous Waste (Unit: t) FYE 2020 Grand total of ITOCHU Group Hazardous waste 749 60 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Emissions of NOx, SOx, and VOC (Unit: t) FYE 2018 FYE 2019 FYE 2020 NOx (Nitrogen Oxides) 13,838 13,392 12,278 SOx (Sulfur Oxides) 6,174 6,412 6,928 Grand total of ITOCHU Group VOC (Volatile Organic 500 524 520 Compounds) Scope of Aggregation ○:in scope of aggregation Emissions of Waste Paper NOx, SOx, Volume Consumption and VOC Tokyo ○ ○ ○ headquarters Osaka － ○ － headquarters All five domestic branches (Hokkaido, Tohoku, Chubu, Branches in Japan － ○ － Chugoku & Shikoku, and Kyushu) Other branches and The number of offices including domestic branches: FYE business facilities in 2016: 8, FYE 2017: 8, FYE 2018: 6, FYE 2019: 8, FYE － ○ － Japan*1 2020: 7 Group companies Number of target companies: FYE 2016: 70, FYE 2017: ○ ○ － in Japan*2 65, FYE 2018: 208, FYE 2019: 220, FYE2020: 238 Numbers of overseas offices: FYE 2016: 16, FYE 2017: Overseas offices ○ ○ － 16, FYE 2018: 15, FYE 2019: 30, FYE2020: 29 Overseas group Number of target companies: FYE 2016: 44, FYE 2017: ○ ○ － companies*2 46, FYE 2018: 299, FYE 2019: 282, FYE2020: 286 Companies expected to be sold within the next five years held for investment management purposes are not Exclusion included in the scope of the data. Moreover, the CO2 emissions of non-manufacturing site offices with 10 or fewer employees are quantitatively insignificant. Accordingly, they are not included in the scope of the data. *1 The other business facilities cover business facilities owned or leased by ITOCHU (except facilities for residences). *2 The group companies in Japan and overseas cover consolidated subsidiaries directly invested in by ITOCHU (as of March 31, 2017) for FYE 2016 to FYE 2017. All consolidated subsidiaries are covered since FYE 2018 (coverage 100%). Independent Assurance Independent Assurance Report (P216): The data below marked with a ❖ is independently assured through KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd. This assurance conforms to the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 and 3410 of the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (IAASB). ❖: Total electricity consumption and total CO2 emissions attributable to the domestic bases of ITOCHU corporation (business facilities of the Tokyo Headquarters, the Osaka Headquarters, branches in Japan, domestic branches and other business facilities), and the waste volume, waste non-recycled, waste recycled, recycling rate, water consumption, gray water production volume and wastewater volume for the Tokyo Headquarters. 61 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance E-learning Concerning Compliance with Chemicals-related Laws and Regulations Legal Compliance Status There were no major violations (e.g., license suspensions) Results of E-learning on Laws and Regulations Related to Chemical Substances We hold chemicals related law and regulation e-learning every year Chemicals Division alone (participants: 130 / period: October 1 to 31, 2019) We also give information on the same e-learning to the Chemicals Division related Group companies, each division company in ITOCHU other than the Energy & Chemicals Company and also its related Group companies Handbook on Chemical-related Regulations The first edition was issued in 2012, and a revised edition was released in 2016 and is currently being distributed. There are 32 laws and regulations covered in this handbook, each of which outlines important aspects of compliance requirements. The purpose of this handbook is to educate our employees, especially new recruits and sales personnel, on the laws and regulations specific to the chemical industry. 62 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Water Resources Conservation Action Plan SDGs Issues to Materiality Business area Commitment Specific approach Performance indicators Degree of Progress Targets address Machinery Company Water Field We will contribute to improving Expand water and environment the hygiene environment, the We own a water supply service Improving projects to promote the Respect Water and development of economic Expand and diversify the business in the U.K. and Spain and water and appropriate use and treatment of human environmental activities, and the protection of investment portfolio in the a seawater desalination business hygiene water and the effective utilization in Australia and Oman. We are rights projects the global environment through water and environment field. infrastructures of resources, and reduce the the appropriate treatment and continuing to work to expand our environmental impact. seawater desalination and water effective use of water. supply/sewerage business. Policy and Basic Concept We understand that water stress and shortages of potable water supply are an increasing global concern. About 97.5% of earth's water resources come from the ocean, leaving less than 0.01% to be potable water. Potable water resources are also at risk of decrease given the exacerbation of natural conditions due to climate change. Nonetheless, the demand for water supply will increase along with the growing global population, mainly around emerging economies, putting a lot of strain on existing water supply. Water resources are however critical to the sustained execution of ITOCHU Corporation's vast range of global business activities. Item (5) of our Environmental Policy states that We shall reduce water consumption through efficient water use and recycling, as well as be take necessary measures to appropriately treat effluents. In order to adapt to the changing environment and contribute to the sustainability of water supplies around the world, we are committed to limiting our water consumption to what is necessary, recycling and reusing water, improving efficiency, and reducing water consumption. Given these global circumstances, ITOCHU Corporation has identified its water-related business as a material area. As such, we are committed to enhancing our global capability regarding our seawater desalination business and our water supply and sewerage concession businesses, which we have been engaging in since 2014. We believe that these initiatives will allow us to contribute to solving water stress and shortage issues around the world. Targets ITOCHU sets numerical targets for the reduction of water consumption. ITOCHU develops water and hygiene infrastructure, and appropriately treats and effectively utilizes water and waste. Through this, our water resource related business contributes to improving the hygiene environment, developing economic activities and conserving the global environment. We are promoting the appropriate use and treatment of water, and the effective utilization of resources through expansion of our water and environmental business. In this way, we are working to reduce our environmental impact. In our Tokyo Headquarter building, we are implementing resource saving measures to recycle water through creation of reclaimed water. This allows us to improve our water consumption efficiency in the office. Targets and indicators we track to manage our performance are noted in the table below. Target for the Fiscal FYE 2019 (Results) Single Year Target Year Ending March 31, 2021 Water consumption in our Tokyo Reduction of 22.1% Reduction of 10% Reduction of 15% Headquarters (water supply) compared to FYE 2011 compared to FYE 2011 compared to FYE 2011 63 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Structures and Systems We assess in advance the impact on the market, society and the environment by business investment projects in Japan and overseas engaged in by ITOCHU and our Japanese subsidiaries. We do this with the ESG Checklist for Investment. (The assessment items include water usage situation.) We make requests to external specialist organizations to conduct investigations in advance for projects requiring a professional point of view. The project is then only undertaken upon confirming that there are no problems in the results of those investigations. ITOCHU considers ensuring stable procurement and supply to be a material issue . We are committed to improving the efficiency of our water consumption and taking necessary measures depending on the abundance of water supply in certain regions. By committing to giving these due considerations, we aim to contribute to the global water crisis. We manage water resource risks by using the World Resources Institute's (WRI) Aqueduct for manufacturing bases affiliated with our group. Initiatives Understanding Water Risks at Manufacturing Bases ITOCHU uses the Aqueduct tool developed by the World Resources Institute (WRI) to identify areas with high water stress levels at manufacturing bases affiliated with our group. With this, we have quantified the water stress levels at all our manufacturing bases in Japan and overseas and have identified areas with a high level of water stress. Water usage at sites identified as extremely high risk is at P68. Overall Water Risk Number of Sites Low risk (0-1) 26 Low to medium risk (1-2) 82 Medium to high risk (2-3) 8 High risk (3-4) 21 Extremely high risk (4-5) 2 Total 139 Water Related Business ITOCHU considers our water related business to be a priority field. We are deploying seawater desalination business, water treatment business and concession agreement business, which we have been working on since 2014, on a global basis. This is to contribute to solving water problems around the world. 64 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance List of Water-related Businesses Business Content of Initiatives We invested in the Bristol Water Group in the UK in 2012. This made us the first Japanese company to participate in the UK water services business. The Bristol Water Group provides Water supply water services — from water source management to clean water treatment, water supply and sewer and distribution, billing and collection, and customer services — to approximately 1.2 million people. services concession We invested in CANARAGUA CONCESIONES S.A. in 2014. This is a company which provides agreement water supply and sewer services in the Canary Islands of Spain. This made us the first business Japanese company to participate in the Spanish water services business. CANARGUA CONESIONES S.A. currently provides water supply and sewer services to a total of 1.3 million people under a concession agreement with the local government. We have invested and are participating in a seawater desalination project in Victoria, Australia. This facility is capable of satisfying the water demands of approximately 30% of the population of Melbourne, Victoria. It is a project that has been supporting the stable supply of water to Melbourne since 2012. Seawater We have invested and are participating as the largest shareholder in a seawater desalination desalination project with a daily volume of 281,000 m3. The Oman Power and Water Procurement business Company (OPWP), which is under the umbrella of the Oman government, is promoting this project in Barka in the northern part of the country. This is the largest seawater desalination project in Oman. It involves the construction of reverse osmosis membrane (RO membrane) seawater desalination facilities and surrounding facilities. These will be operated for 20 years. The project has started commercial operation in June 2018. Seawater We started delivering multiple seawater desalination plants to Saudi Arabia in the 1970s. desalination Upon entering the 21st century, we established ACWA Power Sasakura (now: Sasakura plant, and Middle East Company) with local capital in the country together with Sasakura. We also osmosis advanced into the seawater desalination plant rehabilitation business. We established a joint membrane venture company called the Arabian Japanese Membrane Company, LLC with local capital manufacturing from Saudi Arabia and Toyobo in August 2010. This company manufactures and sells reverse and sales osmosis membrane elements for seawater desalination. Examples of Initiatives Stable Supply of Drinking Water Connecting to Life Largest Seawater Desalination Project in Oman The demand for water in Oman in the Middle East is expected to grow by approximately 6% a year in the future. The shortage of drinking water has become a challenge together with the increase in the population and urbanization. The Barka Desalination Company in which we are participating entered into a seawater desalination business agreement for a daily volume of 281,000 m3 in Barka in the northern part of Oman toward the stable supply of water in that country in March 2016. This is a public-private partnership project promoted by the Oman government. We have constructed reverse osmosis membrane (RO membrane) seawater desalination facilities and surrounding Seawater Desalination Plant (During facilities. These will be operated for 20 years. The facilities started Construction) commercial operation in June 2018. This is the largest seawater desalination project in Oman with total operating expenses of approximately 300 million dollars. The demand for water is growing due to the increase in the worldwide population, economic growth and global warming. In response to this, we consider the water business to be a priority field. Accordingly, we are working to increase our seawater desalination and water supply and drainage businesses. We will continue to promote business that contributes to the effective utilization of water resources in regions around the world in the future. 65 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Effective Utilization of Water Resources Gray water production facilities have been installed in the Tokyo Headquarters since the time when its construction was completed in 1980. These facilities use kitchen wastewater, rainwater, spring water, and non-fecal wastewater from washbasins and office kitchenettes as raw water. This processed gray water is then used for the flushing water of toilets to effectively utilize water resources. Changes occur every year in the volume of gray water that can be secured from rainfall. Therefore, when there is not much rainfall, tap water is increasingly used. For that reason, we are striving to save tap water by newly installing equipment to save on the water when washing hands in washbasins in toilets and equipment to automatically save on the water flushed in toilets. Cooperation with Stakeholders Initiative Participation (Activities Through Business and Industry Groups) We are participating in the Global Environment Subcommittee of the Committee on Environment and Safety, an environment and energy related committee of the Japan Business Federation (Keidanren). We are working to realize an environmental policy compatible with the economy (e.g., through promotion of voluntary action plans, and measures for global warming, waste and recycling and environmental risks including water management). We are also participating in the Global Environment Committee of the Japan Foreign Trade Council. We are striving to build a low-carbon society, construct a recycling-orientated society, and to support environmental related laws and regulations. Participation in the CDP (Water Security) We participate in the CDP, an NGO with the largest database in the world related to environmental information (e.g., water security management of companies). We do this as part of our work to proactively disseminate information about our initiatives on ESG for various stakeholders around the world. We have been answering the written inquiries of CDP Water Security since FYE 2014. 66 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Performance Data Water Consumption and Wastewater Discharge The table below gives the water consumption, gray water production volume and wastewater discharge in the Tokyo Headquarters as well as the wastewater discharge in group companies, overseas offices and overseas group companies from FYE 2016 to FYE 2019. Our Tokyo Headquarters has set a target of reducing its water consumption by 10% compared with FYE 2011 levels. We are reducing our water consumption by introducing devices to save water by using gray water for the water used to flush toilets. (Unit:m3) FYE 2016 FYE 2017 FYE 2018 FYE 2019 FYE 2020 City water usage by the Tokyo 46,922 52,248 43,039 46,573 42,223 headquarters❖ Gray water usage by the Tokyo 35,729 30,736 33,830 31,225 34,446 headquarters❖ Wastewater discharge by the 62,857 63,446 58,129 58,779 59,833 Tokyo headquarters❖ Wastewater discharge by group 981,549 846,700 14,628,762 51,913,278 59,210,778 companies in Japan* Wastewater discharge by 5,932 5,722 5,863 5,366 5,225 overseas offices* Wastewater discharge by 205,394 207,267 11,831,598 34,380,149 16,394,403 Overseas group companies* * If we do not know the wastewater discharge, we have calculated it assuming that it is the same as the volume of tap water consumption * Due to the increase in the number of companies subject to aggregation, the figure for FYE 2019 has increased significantly compared to FYE 2018. Usage Amount by Intake Source (Unit:m3) FYE 2018 FYE 2019 FYE 2020 Supplied water usage, industrial water 12,951,719 9,559,683 10,597,620 Groundwater withdrawal (recycled) 0 0 30,158,408 Groundwater withdrawal (non-recycled) 17,118,206 92,899,470 93,675,043 Grand total of ITOCHU Group 43,919,437 31,739,550 26,318,495 Water taken from rivers, lakes, rainwater Water taken from seawater 0 4,339,200 10,268,731 Others (produced water, etc.) 0 0 11,370 Total 73,989,363 138,537,904 171,029,667 67 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Discharge Amount by Discharge Destination (Unit:m3) FYE 2019 FYE 2020 Water discharged to treatment facility (e.g. sewage) 57,669,021 3,728,982 Water discharged to groundwater 9,243,455 5,730,762 Grand total of ITOCHU Group 12,991,648 60,080,592 Water discharged to rivers, lakes Water discharged to sea 6,453,448 6,129,903 Total 86,357,572 75,670,239 Water Consumption in Water-stressed Areas The amount of water used at sites with extemely high water stress (4-5) identified using the Aqueduct tool developed by WRI (World Resources Institute) (P64) is as follows. FYE 2019 FYE 2020 Number of sites 0 2 Water consumption (m3) 0 18,837 Scope of Aggregation ○:in scope of aggregation Water Consumption and Wastewater Discharge Tokyo headquarters ○ Osaka headquarters － All five domestic branches (Hokkaido, Tohoku, Chubu, Chugoku & Shikoku, Branches in Japan － and Kyushu) Other branches and The number of offices including domestic branches: FYE 2016: 8, FYE business facilities in 2017: 8, FYE 2018: 6, FYE 2019: 8, FYE 2020: 7 － Japan*1 Group companies in Number of target companies: FYE 2016: 70, FYE 2017: 65, FYE 2018: ○ Japan*2 208, FYE 2019: 220, FYE2020: 238 Numbers of overseas offices: FYE 2016: 16, FYE 2017: 16, FYE 2018: 15, Overseas offices ○ FYE 2019: 30, FYE2020: 29 Overseas group Number of target companies: FYE 2016: 44, FYE 2017: 46, FYE 2018: ○ companies*2 299, FYE 2019: 282, FYE2020: 286 Companies expected to be sold within the next five years held for investment management purposes are not included in the scope of the data. Moreover, the CO2 emissions of non-manufacturing site offices with Exclusion 10 or fewer employees are quantitatively insignificant. Accordingly, they are not included in the scope of the data. *1 The other business facilities cover business facilities owned or leased by ITOCHU (except facilities for residences). *2 The group companies in Japan and overseas cover consolidated subsidiaries directly invested in by ITOCHU (as of March 31, 2017) for FYE 2016 to FYE 2017. All consolidated subsidiaries are covered since FYE 2018 (coverage 100%). 68 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Independent Assurance Independent Assurance Report (P216): The data below marked with a ❖ is independently assured through KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd. This assurance conforms to the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 and 3410 of the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (IAASB). ❖: Total electricity consumption and total CO2 emissions attributable to the domestic bases of ITOCHU corporation (business facilities of the Tokyo Headquarters, the Osaka Headquarters, branches in Japan, domestic branches and other business facilities), and the waste volume, waste non-recycled, waste recycled, recycling rate, water consumption, gray water production volume and wastewater volume for the Tokyo Headquarters. Environmental Costs Related to Water Among the environmental conservation costs disclosed in the environmental accounting (P36), associated with water are as follows︓ Cost for water pollution prevention, wastewater treatment cost, grey water production cost, monitoring measurement cost and management cost 10,170 thousand yen Research and development expenses for water risk aversion (donation to Division of Climate System Research, Atmosphere and Ocean Research Institute, the University of Tokyo) 500 thousand yen 69 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Approaches to Conservation of Biodiversity Policy and Basic Concept The Aichi Targets for 2020 were determined at the 10th meeting of the Conference of the Parties (COP10) to the Convention on Biological Diversity that was held in Nagoya, Aichi Prefecture in 2010. With this serving as an impetus, the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), the Paris Agreement and other international agreements deeply important to biodiversity were also reached after that. Given the global nature of our operations, it is a top management priority for us to address global environment problems. In order to promote conservation of biodiversity as indicated in our Environmental Policy, we have established the Biodiversity Declaration. As such, we will contribute to building a sustainable society. Biodiversity Declaration Target: To Realize a Sustainable Society by Building a Society in Harmony with Nature We will promote actions for biodiversity conservation more than ever before and will aim to further deepen them with our Biodiversity Declaration to make an international contribution. We will strive to prevent environmental pollution with consideration for the conservation of natural ecosystems and biodiversity when promoting our business activities from a global perspective. We will emphasize harmony between the workings of nature and our business activities. We will achieve this by promoting management integrated with the environment that incorporates extensive environmental activities (e.g., carbon reduction, resource recycling and biodiversity conservation) into our business activities. We will voluntarily and steadily take actions conducive to biodiversity and then disclose information and engage in dialogue. We will work on business activities that take into consideration local ecosystems while utilizing the natural capital of each region. We will endeavor to further promote initiatives on nature conservation and biodiversity while linking up and cooperating with related organizations in Japan and overseas. We will foster a culture toward creating a society that cultivates biodiversity and improve awareness of this both inside and outside our company. 70 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Targets FYE 2020 FYE 2021 Targets FYE 2020 Results SDGs Action Plans Action Plans 1. We launched the Project for Protecting Green Turtles, an Endangered Species in FYE 2019. We gave green turtle conservation tours participated in by employees and their families for the second time on Chichijima in the Ogasawara Archipelago 1. Promote the again in FYE 2020. The aim of this was also to Project for foster the environmental conservation awareness Protecting of our employees. Since FYE 2017, we have Green Turtles, continued to support a survey monitoring the An Endangered 1. Promote the Implementation number of green turtle spawns and a postSpecies. Project for and follow-up on hatching survey conducted by the Ogasawara 2. Continue Protecting social contribution Marine Center of Everlasting Nature of Asia supporting the Green Turtles, programs aimed certified NPO that is working on marine project to An at environmental conservation in the Asian region. The survey 14. reintroduce Endangered conservation results suggest that the number of green turtles in 15. [Basic Activity manatees into Species. Ogasawara is continuing to increase. Guidelines 2 the wild of the 2. Promote other 2. We continued to support a project to reintroduce Environmental new concept environmental manatees into the wild of the new concept Field Conservation] Field Museum conservation Museum ecosystem conservation program in the ecosystem projects. tropical forests of the Amazon. After capture and conservation rearing, 28 manatees (cumulative total) were program in the released into a semi-captive lake. Furthermore, 27 tropical forests manatees were released into the Amazon River. of the Amazon. This project provided more than 870 local residents with learning opportunities. In particular, it encouraged local fishermen to understand the importance of manatee conservation and got them to participate in this project. Structures and Systems We have established items to assess what impact investment projects will have on the natural environment in the ESG Checklist for Investment — a checklist that must be submitted when entering into new business investment projects. We check whether or not there will be an impact on ecosystems attributable to the applicable project and whether or not there will be an impact on the natural environment (e.g., depletion of resources). If an impact is recognized, we perform risk management in advance of executing the project. For example, upon risk analysis, we make requests to external specialist organizations for additional due diligence if necessary. Initiatives Consideration for Biodiversity in the Pulp Manufacturing Business For more information see Wood, Wood Products, Papermaking Raw Material, and Paper Products Celulose NipoBrasileira S.A.(P156). Guidelines for Mine Closure In our mineral resource development business, we have prepared a guideline for mine closure based on international standards*. In addition to land reclamation, mine closure plans should be designed so that there is as little negative impact and maximum profit as possible on the local society and economy. To achieve that, such proper measures should be taken as to prepare funds for closure, ensure the safety of waterways constructed at the time of the mine's operation, and to prevent contaminations with chemicals being used. Towards future mining closure, we have cooperated with partners, assessed the environmental impact and formulate mine closure plans as stipulated by the countries where projects are, and put the system in order to check the implemented process of the plan. * EHS Guidelines (Mining) of the International Finance Corporation (IFC) 71 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Support for a Biodiversity Conservation Program in the Amazon ITOCHU has supported the Field Museum Concept since FYE 2017. This is a biodiversity conservation program in the tropical rainforest of the Amazon being advanced by the Wildlife Research Center of Kyoto University together with the National Institute of Amazonian Research in Brazil for environmental conservation and biodiversity. The Amazon is an area equivalent to more than half of the tropical rainforests on the earth — it is also known as a treasure trove of ecosystems. However, rapid economic development and local residents cutting down the forest due to their lack of environmental education has led to the gradual loss of this precious ecosystem over the last few years. The Wildlife Research Center of Kyoto University is working together with the National Institute of Amazonian Research to conduct Amazon Rainforest: World's Largest Rainforest — Said to Supply One Third research and dissemination activities to maintain the precious of the Oxygen on the Earth ecosystem of the Amazon. Japan and Brazil have been working together to conduct research and develop facilities for conservation using the advanced technologies that are the specialty of Japan. We supported the construction of the Field Station. This is a base for the natural observation and research of the diverse creatures and ecosystem of the Amazon in the Cuieiras region at a branch of the Amazon River. This facility was developed through industry, government and academia collaboration. In addition to a multipurpose building with a facility where visitors gather for seminars and research presentations (visitor center), there is also an accommodation building. The opening ceremony for this facility was held in May 2018. The station has made the long-term monitoring of animals and plants possible in an excellent region where a submerged forest and terra firme (solid ground) both The logo of Manatee Homecoming exist. This has seen it attract attention both in Brazil and elsewhere Project around the world. In the future, advanced research will be conducted on the Amazon's tropical rainforest in the medium-to-long term. At the same time, environmental educational activities will be further simulated. It is hoped that this will lead to the conservation of the biodiversity in the Amazon. In addition to research on the Amazon's aquatic life (river dolphins and manatees) and upper reaches of the tropical rainforest that were difficult to study until now, many plans are being considered for the future. In addition, for the purpose of saving the vulnerable species of the Amazon manatee, ITOCHU supports a program to reintroduce the Amazon manatee into the wild. The number of manatees being protected due to injuries associated with poaching is increasing. On the other hand, autonomous reintroduction into the wild is difficult. Accordingly, there was a pressing need to establish a project to reintroduce manatees into the wild. This project was aiming to reintroduce into the wild nine or more manatees and to semi-reintroduce into the wild 20 or more manatees during the period of the project over three years from FYE 2017. In reality, it has reintroduced into the wild 27 manatees and semi-reintroduced 28 manatees. Completed Field Station Endangered Species of the Amazon Manatee 72 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Project for Protecting Green Turtles, an Endangered Species For the purpose of conserving biodiversity, ITOCHU Corporation support activities for protecting green turtles, designated as an endangered species. Green turtles lay their eggs in Japan on the sandy beaches of Ogasawara Islands. People's lives are deeply connected to the natural environment surrounding green turtles. For instance, coastal development has reduced the availability of sandy beaches used as spawning grounds, the green turtles are caught as bycatch and eat refuse on the coast, mistaking it for food. The probability that a green turtle will reach maturity over a period of around 40 years is between 0.2% and 0.3% (the survival rate of young naturally hatched turtles). In order to cultivate an awareness of the environment on the part of employees, from July 23 to 28, 2019, ITOCHU conducted a Green Turtle Protection Tour on Chichijima in the Ogasawara archipelago, the largest green turtle breeding ground in Japan. Ten ITOCHU employees and family members took part in the tour. Through ongoing support of activities to protect green turtles in the future, ITOCHU will contribute to the protection of marine and coastal ecosystems and halting of biodiversity loss, which make up part of the sustainable development goals (SDGs) adopted by the United Nations. Green Turtles, an Endangered Species Green Turtle Protection Tour in Ogasawara in the Ogasawara archipelago Tropical Forest Regeneration and Ecosystem Conservation Activities on Borneo Borneo is a tropical forest region spanning three countries — Malaysia, Indonesia and Brunei. Its area is approximately double that of Japan. This makes it the third largest island in the world. Borneo, which is called a treasure trove of biodiversity, is developing. This has led to damage to the tropical forest to the extent that conservation of the ecosystem is not possible with natural regeneration alone. The WWF, a worldwide nature protection organization, is collaborating with the Forest Department in the local Sabah State to conduct an activity to regenerate a forest of approximately 2,400 hectares. This is taking place in North Ulu Segama, Sabah State in Malaysia in the northeastern part of Borneo — a forest regeneration area that has continued to be protected by the ITOCHU Group since 2009. The ITOCHU Group has supported the regeneration of 967 hectares of this land. The afforestation work was completed in 2014 and all on-site work, including maintenance and management work, was finished in January 2016. This is the largest area in which afforestation activities are supported by a regular company. This land is also home to the endangered species of the orangutan. The regeneration of this forest will also lead to the protection of many creatures living here in addition to this orangutan. Afforestation with Tour Participants Endangered Species of the Orangutan 73 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Hunting World's Borneo Support Activity Hunting World, a luxury brand deployed by ITOCHU, has been using a logo with the motif of a young elephant without its tusks since the foundation of the brand in 1965. While serving as a symbol of freedom and revival, it also represents the challenge of looking toward the future in terms of the protection of endangered species. It contains the founder's love and respect for nature. Hunting World Japan, which sells Hunting World goods in Japan, has been supporting a biodiversity conservation activity being promoted by an NPO called the Borneo Conservation Trust (BCT) since 2008 to support the realization of coexistence with nature as called for by the founder. The company plans and sells charity goods and then provides 1% of those proceeds to the BCT. This helps with the funds to purchase land for a green corridor and the costs to rescue Borneo elephants that have gone astray in plantations. The company also independently acquired four acres of land in the green corridor project zone with its assistance funds up to that point in the fall of 2011 to create the Hunting World Kyosei no Mori (Symbiotic Forest of Hunting World). These donations have also helped with the funds to establish the Borneo Elephant Sanctuary. This is the first facility in the Wildlife Rescue Center that has been promoted by BCT Japan, which supports the BCT, since September 2013. * Green corridor: This is an activity to conserve biodiversity. The land between forest protection zones and forest reserves are purchased back. Divided forests are then connected to create a movement route for animals. Endangered Species of the Borneo Kinabatangan River in Northeastern Elephant (We provide support for the Borneo: Target Area of the Green construction of facilities to temporarily Corridor (The plan is to secure 20,000 protect, treat and acclimatize Borneo ha of land overall) elephants until they return to the wild) Cooperation with Stakeholders Initiative Participation (Activities Through Business and Industry Groups) We participate in the Japan Business Federation (Keidanren). We support nature conservation projects in developing areas mainly in the Asia-Pacific region and in Japan through the Keidanren Committee on Nature Conservation that was established in 1992 when the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development (Earth Summit) was held in Rio de Janeiro in Brazil. The Keidanren Committee on Nature Conservation has been working to build an environment in which the business community strives to conserve nature. This has included exchanges with NGOs, the holding of seminars and symposia, and the announcement of the Declaration of Nature Conservation by Keidanren, the Declaration of Biodiversity by Keidanren and the action guidelines for them (revised in October 2018). In addition, in recent years, the committee has also undertaken a tree-planting activity in the Tsunami Memorial Park Nakanohama (Miyako, Iwate Prefecture) that was affected by a tsunami as reconstruction support for Tohoku through the restoration of nature. In addition, we have declared our approval of the Keidanren's Biodiversity Initiative announced on June 11, 2020. 74 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Cooperation with External Organizations toward Sustainable Palm Oil ITOCHU joined the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) in 2006. We have set a target of handling only RSPO certified palm oil or palm oil equivalent to that by 2025. We are working on the procurement and supply of sustainable palm oil through cooperation and collaboration with other member companies. We are also participating in the Sustainable Palm Oil Transparency Toolkit (SPOTT). This is a project by the Zoological Society of London (ZSL) that assesses major palm oil related companies in terms of more than 50 indicators based on data released to the public. We disclose information to stakeholders relating to the palm oil industry through two-way communication. Participation in the CDP We participate in the CDP. This is an NGO with the largest database in the world related to environmental information (e.g., climate change measures of companies). We do this as part of our work to proactively disseminate information about our initiatives on ESG for various stakeholders around the world. We have been answering the written inquiries of CDP Forests to assess forest management in the supply chain of companies since FYE 2014. Aside from our business activities, the ITOCHU Group also conducts activities to conserve biodiversity through activities to contribute to society. Performance Data Performance Data on Biodiversity Amazonian Manatee Reintroduction Performance Indicators Three-year (FYE 2017FYE 2017 FYE 2018 FYE 2019 Theme Activities 2019) Performance FYE 2017 Results Performance FYE 2018 Results Performance FYE 2019 Results Performance Indicators Indicators Indicators Indicators Launch of establishment of lake for Release of 20 return of Release of or more manatees to a Began meeting for Conduct health manatees manatees into semi-captive setting up a lake in checks of 17 into a semiConducted health checks Release five semi-captive environment in Manacapuru. manatees. Released 14 Return to captive lake of 24 manatees. manatees into lake. Manacapuru. Conducted health Release eight manatees into the Released 12 manatees the lake to semi-captive (Manacapuru) Establishment Health check of checks of 12 manatees. manatees into lake where they into the lake where they keep them in a environment or a preserve of a lake and 13 manatees Released nine manatees the lake to remain in a semiremain in a semi-captive semi-wild established in preserve for living in the into the lake to keep keep them in a captive state. state. state. return to a semi-captive them in a semi-wild semi-wild a river (Rio semi-captive lake. state. state. Cuieiras). environment. Release of 6 manatees in semi-captive lake. Released 10 manatees Conducted a health into the Amazon River. check on a manatee Recaptured one manatee that was recaptured that had been released after being released into the Amazon River and into the Amazon River confirmed that both the and conducted health Release of 10 Release of 3 or Release of Release five checks on it. Confirmed Release five or more more length of its body and Released 12 Return to the manatees into manatees into through the health manatees into manatees into manatees into its weight had increased manatees into the wild the Amazon and that the manatee the Amazon checks that the the Amazon the Amazon the Amazon Amazon River. River. River. recaptured manatee had River. River. River. had adapted to the grown in both body natural environment length and weight and after being released into the river. that it had adapted to the natural environment Released five manatees smoothly after its release into the Amazon River. into the River. Provide at least Asked more than 200 Raised awareness for 100 local local residents to join us Provide 100 Provide 100 biodiversity Raising Raised awareness for residents with when we released the local residents local residents preservation through biodiversity preservation awareness of learning manatees. Through the with learning with learning an environmental Providing through an biodiversity opportunities protection of manatees, opportunities. environmental education opportunities. education program environmental every year. we raised their and a ceremony for conservation Have local Have local training for program and a ceremony among local Have local awareness of the fishermen fishermen releasing manatees at for releasing manatees at local residents fishermen importance of understand the understand the which 350 and 500 residents – which 301 and 370 local and raising understand the preserving biodiversity. importance of residents participated, importance of local residents through a importance of Encouraged local protection of protection of participated, their respectively. project for protecting fishermen to understand manatees, manatees, respectively. environmental Two local fishermen took returning manatees, the importance of aiming to have aiming to have Two local fishermen awareness part in this project, manatees to aiming to have protecting manatees two of them continuing their practice two of them took part in this the wild. two of them and had two of them participate in participate in project, continuing from the previous year. participate in participate in this this project. this project. their practice from this project. project. the previous year. 75 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance ITOCHU's Clean-tech Business We engage in environmental clean-tech businesses that are projected have sustainable growth from a business perspective and are projected to contribute to society's shift toward decarbonization and circular economy. In doing so we employ a mid-to-long-term perspective in our business outlook and aim to leverage the latest technology available. 1. Renewable Energy (P76-77) 2. Ammonia Fuel (P78) 3. Energy-from-Waste (P78-79) 4. Energy Storage Systems (ESS) (P79-80) 5. Water Infrastructure (P80-81) 6. Green Buildings (P81-82) 7. Other Clean-tech Areas (P82-84) 1. Renewable Energy ITOCHU is involved in various aspects of power generation projects, aiming to optimize and maximize power generation efficiency. These include construction and refurbishment projects for all types of power plants worldwide, Independent Power Producer (IPP) businesses, as well as the operation and maintenance of power plants. Within the business activities introduced above, we are proactively promoting power generation methods that leverage renewable energy sources such as geothermal, wind, solar, and biomass. We are aiming for a renewable energy ratio of over 20% (equity interest basis) by FYE 2031 from 12.5% in FYE 2020 within our overall power generation business. ITOCHU will continue to proactively promote power generation businesses that utilizes renewable energy in and outside of Japan. This will allow us to contribute to global sustainability agreements that aim to create a decarbonized economy to mitigate climate-related impacts. Renewable Energy Generation (Equity Interest Basis) Target for Renewable Ratio of Total Generation Breakdown of ITOCHU's Total Generation in FYE 2020 and Breakdown Target for FYE 2031 FYE 2020 FYE 2020 FYE 2031 (Target) Generation Capacity on Ratio (%) Ratio (%) Equity Interest Basis (MW) Wind 185 Solar/PV Power 83 Geothermal 83 12.5% 20%< Biomass 20 Renewable Energy (Total) 369 Natural gas 1,621 Coal-fired power 955 87% 80%> Thermal Power (Total) 2,576 Grand Total 2,945 100% 100% For a list of our renewable energy-related businesses please visit P84. We have announced a policy to not engage in new coal-fired power plant developments or the acquisition of interests in coal-fired power plants*. * Policy statement regarding our involvement in coal-fired power generation (https://www.itochu.co.jp/en/csr/news/2019/190214.html) 76 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Renewable Energy Highlights Wind Power ITOCHU has continued involvement in wind power (offshore and onshore) from the late 1990s. Currently, ITOCHU has interests in six power plants in Japan, the United States, and Germany, some of which are currently under development. Butendiek Offshore Wind Farm in the North Sea of Germany The demand for renewable energy is increasing. Against this backdrop, we have signed a strategic business and capital alliance with the CITIC Group to cooperate in a top-scale offshore wind farm (288MW) operating in the North Sea of Germany. The wind farm supplies power to approximately 370,000 standard German households, contributing to the transition to a low-carbon society. The Butendiek Offshore Wind Farm Solar Power/PV Power ITOCHU is involved in six large-scale solar power plants in Japan, the United States, and in Spain. ITOCHU also has a capital alliance with VPP Japan, owning roof-top solar panels worth approximately 10MW. We aim to increase this to 100MW by FYE 2022. Supplying Clean Energy with the Power of Sunlight Saga-Ouchi Solar Power Plant – ITOCHU's Fourth Solar Power Plant in Japan – The commercial operation of the Saga-Ouchi Solar Power Plant (power generation output: approximately 17,000 kilowatts) began in April 2018. Located in Ouchi, Karatsu, at the date of construction, this power plant was the largest mega solar (large solar power plant) in Saga Prefecture – the fourth mega solar we operate in Japan following those in Ehime, Oita and Okayama. The plant is projected to operate for 20 years under the cooperation of ITOCHU and Kyudenko Corporation. The estimated amount of annual power generation for this plant is approximately 24 million kilowatt-hours, equivalent to the annual power consumption of approximately 4,200 standard households, while at the Saga-Ouchi Solar Power Plant same time contributing to the CO2 emissions reduction of approximately 11,000 tons per year. Geothermal Power ITOCHU has interests in an IPP project for Indonesia's Sarulla Geothermal Power Plant, one of the largest of its kind in the world. The financial closure of the $1.17bn project was announced in May 2014, being co-financed by the Japan Bank for International Cooperation (JBIC), the Asian Development Bank (ADB), and other commercial banks. This the first of its kind aimed at the IPP of a geothermal power plant. Biomass ITOCHU aims to contribute to the sustainable supply of biomass fuel by streamlining financing processes and leveraging construction and operation knowledge regarding such power plants. 77 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance 2. Ammonia Fuel With international momentum towards the transition to a decarbonized society on the increase since the Paris Agreement came into effect in 2016, the International Maritime Organization (IMO) adopted a strategy for the reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions within the shipping industry in 2018. This strategy sets targets to reduce CO2 emissions per transport work as an average across international shipping – by at least 40% by 2030 (compared to 2008 levels), by 50% by 2050, and to phase them out entirely (zero-emissions) during this century. In order to achieve these goals, the early adoption of ammonia as a suitable zero emission, alternative fuel for marine fuel in ships is one of the key elements. Also, the early development of zero-emission ships is anticipated with ammonia a prime candidate for a suitable zero-emission, alternative fuel is another key elements as well. Developing Ships Equipped with a Main Engine Using Ammonia as Its Main Fuel ITOCHU Corporation announced today that it has come to an agreement with Imabari Shipbuilding Co., Ltd. , MAN Energy Solutions, Mitsui E&S Machinery Co., Ltd., ClassNK, ITOCHU ENEX Co. Ltd. on jointly developing ships equipped with a main engine using ammonia as its main fuel (hereinafter “Ammonia-fueled Engine”). The purpose of the joint agreement is not limited to the development of ships equipped with an Ammonia-fueled Engine, but also extends to the question of owning and operating the ships, supplying ammonia fuel and developing ammonia supply facilities. The consortium intends to promote initiatives to reduce GHGs with the cooperation of domestic and overseas companies, as well as the relevant government agencies. Developing an Infrastructure to Support the Use of Ammonia as an Additional Source of Marine Fuel for Vessels ITOCHU ENEX Co. Ltd., ITOCHU Corporation and Vopak Terminals Singapore Pte Ltd signed a non-binding memorandum of understanding to jointly study the feasibility of developing an infrastructure on 8 June 2020, to support the use of ammonia as an additional source of marine fuel for vessels in Singapore. The purpose of the joint agreement is not limited to the development of establishment of supply chain of ammonia marine fuel in Singapore but also key element of the integrated project with development of zero-emission ship by ITOCHU and ITOCHU ENEX with other partners. ITOCHU group intends to promote initiatives to reduce GHGs with the cooperation of domestic and overseas companies, as well as the relevant government agencies. 3. Energy-from-Waste ITOCHU has been expanding its involvement in the waste management business around the world to contribute to address the global waste management challenges and to realize a sustainable community. The energy-from-waste entails properly managing and incinerating municipal waste collected from homes and retail facilities, and utilizing the thermal heat to generate clean energy. Directing garbage straight into landfill sites without being incinerated or properly treated produces greenhouse gases comprised mainly of methane and causes leaching of toxic substances that pollutes soil and water sources. Therefore, it helps ease greenhouse gases emissions significantly by reducing the amount of landfill waste, maintains and improves public health, and produces a stable clean energy using their daily waste as a resource . We will continue to contribute to the realization of a low-carbon society and circular economy. Energy-from-Waste Projects in the United Kingdom We are involved as a developer, investor, and operator in 4 energy-from-waste projects for local governments in the UK. In aggregate, these projects treat around 1.3 million tons of municipal waste annually, accounting for roughly for 15% of the UK's waste incineration market and generating enough electricity to power 160,000 British households. 78 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Energy-from-Waste Public-Private Partnership Project in the Republic of Serbia We are developing and executing a similar waste management and resource recovery PPP project alongside the city of Belgrade, the Republic of Serbia in Central Europe. The project will address one of the biggest environmental and social problems in Serbia—closing and remediating the existing landfill at the Vinča Dumpsite, an environmental catastrophe on the bank of the Danube River. It will also build and operate an energy-from-waste facility to treat municipal waste generated in Belgrade, and utilize the thermal heat to generate clean energy. In September 2019, we achieved financial close for around EUR 300 million loan facility in project financing from the International Finance Vinča Dumpsite, Belgrade, Republic of Corporation, a member of the World Bank Group, the European Bank Serbia. Continued to receive municipal for Reconstruction and Development, and the Development Bank of waste from the capital for more than 40 Austria. We are now moving forward with the construction of new waste years, and now requires emergency management facilities that including energy-from-waste facility, action. demolition waste recycling unit and engineered landfill with biogas recovery and water treatment unit, which it will operate for 25 years following their completion. The methane gas that until now has been a factor in environmental degradation will be captured and used, alongside the waste itself, as a source of energy to generate heat and electricity. The project will greatly reduce the amount of buried waste while supplying enough electricity to power 30,000 homes in Belgrade and providing heat in winter. Over a period of 25 years, the clean, fossil fuel-free power from project will reduce CO2 emissions approximately 4 million tons, while the reduction in landfill waste will realize an additional greenhouse gas emission reduction equivalent to approximately 3 million tons CO2. Construction site for energy-from-waste Furthermore, the contaminated water that previously drained into the facility, Belgrade, Republic of Serbia. Danube will be purified at a leachate treatment facility before being discharged. This helps to solve environmental and social problems in and around Belgrade. This business forms the core of Serbia's environmental and waste management policy going forward. We at ITOCHU hope that it will serve as a starting point for deep-reaching change in Serbia's waste management systems, the ways that citizens think about waste, and recycling initiatives. ITOCHU aims to expand its involvement in the waste management business around the world to contribute to creating a sustainable community and to help reduce the burden on the environment. 4. Energy Storage Systems (ESS) ITOCHU aims to promote de-carbonization and reduce environmental footprint by selling energy storage systems (ESS) that enhance and optimize the sustainable supply of renewable energy. As a demonstration of our commitment, we have set a clear sales target for ESS: 50 billion JPY by FYE 2030. Subsequently, by FYE 2031 we aim to reach a cumulative energy storage of 5,850,000kwh, which is approximately 22 times that of our baseline FYE 2020 performance. Moving forward, we plan to strengthen our global energy procurement and sales network outreach. We also plan to expand our presence in foreign markets (especially in growing markets such as the United States and Australia), as well as our presence in application areas such as industrial use, ESS for large-scale commercial power supply, and the reuse and recycling of car batteries. ITOCHU believes that the culmination of these efforts will enhance our social impacts as well as elevate our corporate value proposition. 79 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Sales and Cumulative Energy Capacity of Our ESS products In cooperation with NF Corporation, ITOCHU Corp. developed Smart Star, a unique ESS approximately 30,000 units as of March 2019. With Smart Star being one of our main product lines, we have shown a steady increase in sales and cumulative energy capacity of the ESS products we have sold. Annual Sales of ESS (1m JPY) Cumulative Capacity of ESS Units Sold (kwh) Other Initiatives The Launch of Next-generation ESS Products Using AI Technology ITOCHU signed a capital partnership with UK company Moixa Energy Holdings Ltd., NF Corporation and TRENDE Inc. to create a next-generation ESS that utilizes AI technology. This project has allowed for us to build upon the high performance of our Smart Star L during power-outages, and further enhance it by employing an AI system that analyzes weather forecasts, fluctuations in power consumption rates, and fluctuations in solar power generation to optimize its control mechanisms and maximize efficiency. For more details please visit https://www.smartstar.jp/ (Japanese only). External View of the Smart Star Capital and Business Alliance with Sunnova Energy Corporation to Promote the Service and Capabilities of Energy Storage Systems in the United States ITOCHU has made an equity investment in Sunnova Energy Corporation, the leading privately-held residential solar power and storage services provider in the United States. ITOCHU's investment in Sunnova, and the two company's proposed strategic partnership, furthers both company's support of solar plus storage services and products that can be deployed at scale. As more utilities seek to decrease net metering credits offered to customers in the United States, ITOCHU believes that ESS demand will increase for households that need to store solar-powered energy generated and for households that require energy savings in the event of a short or long-term grid outage. Against this backdrop, Sunnova and ITOCHU intend to collaborate on the development of ESS solutions suitable for the U.S. market. Together, we intend to leverage GridShare Client, the AI software of Moixa Energy Holdings Ltd. (U.K.) in which ITOCHU owns an equity stake, for Sunnova's solar systems. 5. Water Infrastructure ITOCHU identifies water-related businesses as a strategic priority. This is due to our understanding that such demands will increase given global climate change trends projecting drastic changes in rainfall as well as changes in demography especially in emerging economies. We globally engage in water-related businesses such as seawater desalination, water treatment, and contracting projects, aiming to contribute solutions to the increasing water problems around the world. 80 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Contracting Projects for Water Supply and Distribution in Europe In 2012, ITOCHU acquired an equity position in the Bristol Water Group (U.K.), making us the first Japanese company to participate in water service businesses in the U.K. The Bristol Water Group provides comprehensive water services from water source management to clean water treatment, water supply and distribution, billing and collection, and customer services to approximately 1.2 million people. In 2014, ITOCHU acquired an equity position in CANARAGUA CONCESIONES S.A. (Spain), making us the first Japanese company to participate in water service businesses in Spain as well. CANARAGUA CONCESIONES S.A. provides water supply and distribution services to a total of 1.3 million people in the Canary Islands under a concession agreement with the local government. Seawater Desalination We have invested and are participating in a seawater desalination project in Victoria, Australia. This facility is capable of satisfying the water demands of approximately 30% of the population of Melbourne, Victoria, supporting the stable supply of water in the area since 2012. We have invested and are participating as the largest shareholder in a seawater desalination project with the Oman Power and Water Procurement Company (OPWP), which is under the umbrella of the Oman government. The project, situated in Barka, a northern region of the country, is the largest seawater desalinization project in the country, subject to a daily volume of 281,000 m3. The facilities involved use reverse osmosis membrane (RO membrane) to desalinate the water and are projected to operate for 20 years. The plant has started commercial operation in June 2018. Other Initiatives The Development and Sales of Seawater Desalinization Plants and Reverse Osmosis Membranes Stable Supply of Life-sustaining Water – Seawater Desalinization Business Largest in Oman – We have invested and are participating as the largest shareholder in a seawater desalination project with the Oman Power and Water Procurement Company (OPWP), which is under the umbrella of the Oman government. The project, situated in Barka, a northern region of the country, is the largest seawater desalinization project in the country, subject to a daily volume of 281,000 m3. The facilities involved use reverse osmosis membrane (RO membrane) to desalinate the water and are projected to operate for 20 years. The plant has started commercial operation in June 2018. Seawater Desalinization Plant 6. Green Buildings ITOCHU's construction and real estate group and its subsidiaries are committed to providing real estate and distribution services, especially in housing and commercial facilities as well as distribution facilities and housing complexes, that are sustainable and relevant to everyday life. We aim to do so by being involved throughout the value chain, from the development to the operation and management of real estate products to streamline and optimize the solutions where we can, utilizing smart city concepts and emerging technologies such as IoT (Internet of Things). 81 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Real Estate Business in Japan ITOCHU engages in real estate primarily through its subsidiaries. Advance Residence Investment Corporation, a listed residential real estate investment trust (REIT) that is a subsidiary to ITOCHU, identifies sustainability as a top priority and is well regarded for its performance. For example, it participates in GRESB, a sustainability rating framework for real estate investors, and has 15 real estate assets with DBJ Green Building certifications, which accounts to 25.3% in surface area, and 5.6% in number of units among its entire portfolio. At ITOCHU Advance Logistics Investment Corporation, a listed REIT focused on logistics assets, we own 5 assets with DBJ Green Building certifications, which accounts to 65.5% in surface area, and 55.6% in number of units among its entire portfolio. Overseas Housing Complex Business ITOCHU is involved in housing complexes throughout Asia, from the development, management, and operation of assets. In Indonesia, we are involved in the Karawang International Industrial City (KIIC) project, which covers a surface area of 1,400ha with residents from more than 150 companies. The KIIC is equipped with infrastructures to ensure its stability, such as an industrial water plant, effluents water plant, and an emergency backup water reserve. Furthermore, we have taken measures to ensure the safety and security of the residents by implementing 24-hour security, maintaining a cooperate and communicative relationship with the local police authorities, securing emergency lines to request fire and medical related assistance. We have also considered an environmental sustainability perspective in the design of the KIIC by implementing smart street lights*, the first of its kind in Indonesia's housing complexes. * Smart street lights: An IoT solution that maximizes the efficiency and efficacy of LED its brightness adjustments. To date approximately 1,200 have been installed in KIIC. 7. Other Clean-tech Businesses (Links) Renewables Investment in Wind Power Generation Plants in Nebraska and Minnesota (https://www.itochu.co.jp/en/news/press/2020/200317_2.html) Establishment of a joint venture company for the Operation of Mutsu Ogawara Onshore Wind Farm Project in Aomori (https://www.itochu.co.jp/en/news/press/2019/191216.html) Alternative Fuels Start of an Overseas Demonstration Project to Culture Euglena (https://www.itochu.co.jp/en/news/press/2019/191127.html) Conclusion of a Memorandum with euglena Co., Ltd. for the Start of an Overseas Demonstration Project to Culture Euglena (https://www.itochu.co.jp/en/news/press/2019/190619.html) Power Management Initiative for Distributed Solar Power Supply Projects in Japan and Asia (https://www.itochu.co.jp/en/news/press/2019/190328.html) Expansion of Energy Storage Systems in North America, Australia and Europe :Investment in Eguana Technologies Inc. (https://www.itochu.co.jp/en/news/press/2020/200316.html) Strategic Investment in Winch Energy Limited Promoting Development of Non-Electrified Regions (https://www.itochu.co.jp/en/news/press/2020/200210.html) Establishment of joint venture for energy storage system (https://www.itochu.co.jp/ja/news/press/2019/191125.html) (Japanese only) Capital and Business Alliance with Automotive Battery Reuse and Recycling Company (https://www.itochu.co.jp/en/news/press/2019/191028.html) 82 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Fuel Economy Next-Generation Mobility Business in China Capital Contribution to Singulato, an EV Manufacturer, and DST, a Company Providing Rental and Maintenance Service for Commercial EVs (https://www.itochu.co.jp/en/news/press/2018/180829.html) Family Mart began demonstration tests using electric trucks (https://www.family.co.jp/company/news_releases/2018/20181217_01.html) (Japanese only) At the end of January 2019, Family Mart began demonstration tests using electric trucks. – The first 2 rooms and 2 temperature zones (chilled food / rice delivery) installed in an electric commercial vehicle with a high-power rapid charger – With the aim of contributing to a low-carbon society, Family Mart Co., Ltd., one of ITOCHU's subsidiaries, will introduce electric trucks. The trucks are the first commercial vehicles of its kind to employ 2 rooms and 2 temperature zones (chilled food / rice delivery) and also the first to install a rapid chargeable compatible with CHAdeMO Ver 1.2*. The trucks will be deployed for a test run spanning 2 years from January 2019 and will serve deliveries 3 times a day in designated regions of Tokyo, Saitama, and Ibaraki prefecture. Results from the test run will inform decisions on wider deployment of electric trucks in Family Mart's operations. * CHAdeMO is the brand name of the EV quick charging method and the international standard for quick charging. Ver 1.2 is the latest standard for quick charging up to 150 kW. Water Infrastructure & Distribution Equity Position in the UK's Bristol Water (https://www.itochu.co.jp/en/news/press/2012/120511.html) Equity Position in CANARAGUA CONCESIONES S.A. in Spain (https://www.itochu.co.jp/en/news/press/2014/140226.html) Water Treatment & Purification PPP Desalination Project in Victoria, Australia (https://www.itochu.co.jp/en/news/press/2009/090803.html) Acquisition of Recycled Wastewater Treatment Facility in Australia (https://www.itochu.co.jp/en/news/press/2015/151221.html) Start of Commercial Operation of Oman's Largest Seawater Desalination Plant in Barka (https://www.itochu.co.jp/en/news/press/2018/181031.html) 83 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance List of Renewable Energy Related Efforts (Power Generation Capacity Basis) Name of Business Operator Greenhouse Gas Details of Effort Country Generating Capacity / Size / Investment Project Reduction Figures CPV Keenan Ⅱ Wind Power Approx. 400,000 USA 152MW Generation Project tons / year Wind Power Generation Business Cotton Plains Approx. 560,000 Wind and Solar Pear USA 217MW tons / year Generation Business Offshore Wind Power Butendiek Offshore Wind Approx. 750,000 Germany 288MW Generation Business Power Generation Project tons / year Incineration treatment of ST&W Waste Management 260,000 tons / year of general Project / South Tyne & Wear Estimated 62,000 England waste Scale of power Energy Recovery Holdings tons / year generation: Equivalent power Limited consumption of 31,000 homes Incineration treatment of Cornwall Waste Management 240,000 tons / year of general Estimated 60,000 Project / Cornwall Energy England waste Scale of power tons / year Recovery Holdings Limited generation: Equivalent power consumption of 21,000 homes Incineration treatment of Merseyside Waste 460,000 tons / year of general Management Project / Estimated 130,000 Waste Management England waste Scale of power Merseyside Energy Recovery tons / year Projects generation: Equivalent power Holdings Limited consumption of 63,000 homes Incineration treatment of West London Waste 350,000 tons / year of general Management Project / West Estimated 83,000 England waste Scale of power London Energy Recovery tons / year generation: Equivalent power Holdings Limited consumption of 50,000 homes Incineration treatment of 340,000 tons / year of general Serbia Waste Management waste Scale of power Estimated 120,000 Project / Beo Cista Energija Serbia generation: Equivalent power tons / year (Under Construction) consumption of 30,000 homes (planned) Geothermal Power About 1,350,000 Sarulla Operations Ltd Indonesia 330MW Generation tons/year Oita Hiyoshibaru photovoltaic Estimated 32,000 power plant Japan 44.8MW tons/year large-scale solar power plant Shin-Okayama photovoltaic Estimated 26,000 power plant Japan 37MW tons/year large-scale solar power plant Photovoltaic Power Generation Saijo Komatsu photovoltaic Estimated 17,000 power plant Japan 26.2MW tons/year large-scale solar power plant Saga-Ouchi photovoltaic Estimated 11,000 power plant Japan 21MW tons/year large-scale solar power plant Biomass Power 49.9MW (Planned start of Estimated 136,000 Ichihara Biomass Power Plant Japan Generation operation Oct. 2020) tons/year 84 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance S Society 85 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Labor Practices: Employment and Benefits Action Plan Risks Opportunities Improvement of labor productivity and health and motivation, Decline in labor productivity, loss of excellent human securing of excellent human resources, enhanced capability of resources, missed business opportunities, increase in healthresponding to changes and business opportunities, and other related expenses, and other events that would result from events that will result from the creation of a workplace that failure to take appropriate measures, and others. provides job satisfaction, and others. SDGs Issues to Business Performance Indicators Co Commitment Specific Approach Degree of Progress Targets Address Area (Non-consolidated) <ITOCHU Corporation> <ITOCHU Corporation> FYE 2021: Reduce the We have reduced annual average overtime hours by 11% Promote the morning focused annual average overtime compared to before the introduction of the morningworking system. hours by at least 10% focused working system (achieved in FYE 2018). Conduct regular monitoring of compared to the period prior We have 5% of employees leaving the building after 8 We will to the introduction of the employees' work situations. p.m. (FYE 2019). promote a morning-focused working Improving well-balanced Promote work automation with IT We have 67% of employees acquiring paid leave (FYE tools, including the robotic process system. 2019). operating working style efficiency and and reduce automation (RPA), as well as mobile FYE 2021: Percentage of We plan to complete approximately 100 scenarios in FYE Human employees who leave the addressing the Headthe total work. 2019 for RPA. We will also introduce a data analysis tool Resources issue of longquarters number of Promote projects for improving the office building at 20:00 or (HANABI). We are currently running 151 scenarios. (As of Affairs working hours working later at 5% or fewer. operating efficiency at each February 2020) through work hours, aiming FYE 2021: Paid leave style reform to improve organization. In FYE 2019, we plan to implement BPR (business acquisition rate at 70% or employee improvement) at the organization level in three divisions engagement. <ITOCHU Group> higher. (Fresh Food Division, Automobile, Construction Machinery Efficient way of working, appropriate Rate of positive responses to & Industrial Machinery Division and Apparel Division). the employee engagement working hours management, and The positive answer rate to the Employee Engagement item in the engagement educational and awareness-raising item from the FYE 2019 Engagement Survey was 76%. activities at the ITOCHU Group. survey: 70% or higher. *We did not conduct a survey in FYE 2020. The latest data is for FYE 2019. Policy and Basic Concept In running a global business in a wide range of domains, consolidated group companies join together to operate as the ITOCHU Group. ITOCHU has more than 120,000 consolidated employees as of the end of FYE 2020. ITOCHU is implementing various initiatives that aim to optimize labor standards and create a working environment where our diverse body of employees can reach their full potential. Some of our notable initiatives include: the introduction of a work style reform such as through morning shift systems and Dress-down Days, the establishment of various systems to support employees with caring duties, and the promotion of social activities among employees at our recreational facilities. Structures and Systems ITOCHU provides support to ITOCHU Group companies regardless of their area or field of operation to ensure that a management system is set in place to provide an optimal working environment for employees, at minimum complying with local laws and regulations. ITOCHU Group companies have reporting lines aligning to each division company at ITOCHU in accordance with their business areas, and each division company is responsible for following up on necessary measures to support its subsidiaries. Risk Assessment for Labor Practices in Business Investments and Financing Projects When assessing potential investment and financing projects, in addition to economic aspects, ITOCHU uses an ESG checklist to identify and assess key ESG (environmental, social, governance) concerns relevant to the project, which includes topics related to labor practices – e.g. working conditions, occupational health and safety and stakeholder dialogue. We also monitor the progress and performance of our existing investment and financing projects and take necessary measures to make improvements. For further details, please refer to the ESG Risk Assessment for New Business Investment Projects (P152). 86 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Ensuring Compliance to Labor Standards At ITOCHU, it is mandatory for employees upon recruitment to complete training on working conditions, which includes issues related to salary, working hours and holidays, occupational safety and health, benefits, and prohibited actions and behaviors. Additionally, we are taking necessary measures to align the labor standards of our group subsidiaries to that of ITOCHU – these measures aim to elevate the baseline labor standards of our subsidiaries. We also provide our subsidiaries with support regarding the enhancement and optimization of working environments. Our labor standard expectations are published on the intranet in Japanese and English, which are the common working languages of the ITOCHU Group, with aim to facilitate their implementation. Employee Engagement ITOCHU Corporation believes that raising the level of motivation, satisfaction and engagement (the degree to which employees with a strong desire to contribute to ITOCHU can capitalize on their own abilities optimally at their own initiative) of employees will improve the corporate value. In the survey conducted in FYE 2019, the results exceeded those of the previous survey (conducted in FYE 2015) especially for the question ITOCHU shows care and concern for its employees . The positive answers were 10 points higher than the average of Japanese companies that conducted the survey (over 60 large companies). Above all, the level of engagement remained high, which has allowed us to conclude that many employees are proud of working for ITOCHU Corporation and engage in work with strong motivation to contribute to the company and with the aim of achieving better-than-expected results on a voluntary basis. Promotion of Working-Style Reforms ITOCHU Corporation believes that employees are its greatest asset, and that the full exertion of each individual employee's capabilities will lead to an improvement in corporate value. Based on this belief, ITOCHU has pursued a range of initiatives to develop environments where all employees can utilize their respective characteristics and concentrate on work at ease. The morning-focused working style, which we introduced in October 2013 as a measure for working-style reforms, has greatly influenced the government and many companies. More than six years after its introduction, it continues to give the results steadily as the core element of the company's workingstyle reforms. In June 2017 we implemented a Dress-down Days initiative to as a new approach to our work style reform to establish a non-confining work environment where each and every employee is encouraged to demonstrate their individual strengths. In August 2017, we introduced initiatives to support balancing cancer care and work to create a workplace in which all employees, regardless of whether they suffer from cancer or long-term illness, can continue to work without concern toward their fullest potential all the while maintaining motivation and finding meaning in their work. As the leading company in working-style reforms and Health and Productivity Management, ITOCHU will continue to implement a range of initiatives in a pioneering manner to establish an environment where employees find it worthwhile to work for the company. 87 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Working Hours Management / Morning-Focused Work Not only do we comply with legislation like the 36 Agreement, but we are focusing on work-style reform aimed at reducing total number of hours worked. ITOCHU has long sought to reduce overtime work from a perspective of managing employee health and promoting effective operations. To achieve a more effective working style, we reconsidered the way of thinking that assumes employee will work overtime and determined that a shift in employee awareness was needed. So in October 2013 we introduced a morning-focused work system intended to help shift work habits from night-focused to morningfocused. This progressive approach has impacted not just the industrial world, but the political and business establishment as well. It has grown into a large movement that is changing the way Japanese people work. More than six years after its introduction, the approach continues to produce steady results and is the core element in our work-style reforms. ITOCHU believes its initiatives as a pioneer in work-style reform will both empower individual employees to change their approach to work, and promote balanced operational reforms. In this way, the Company is striving to achieve a work environment that enhances operational effectiveness, helps maintain and improve employee health, support the activities of employees who face time constraints from raising children or caring for family members in poor health and allows a more diverse set of employees to make full use of their capabilities. Outline of Initiatives Night work (10 p.m. 5 a.m.) is prohibited. Working between 8 p.m. and 10 p.m. is prohibited in principle. However, work after 8 p.m. may be allowed in special circumstances after prior approval if it is unavoidable. We pay increased wages at the same rate as for night work to encourage employees to work earlier in the morning (5 a.m. 8 a.m.)(employees subject to time management: 150%; employees not subject to time management: 25%). We also provide light meals to employees who begin work before 8 a.m. to aid in managing their health. Morning-Focused Work System Diagram Providing light meals to employees Effects of Initiatives Prior to First Year after Five Years after Introduction Introduction Introduction 8:00 p.m. or later Approx. 30% Approx. 7% Approx. 5％ Left bldg. (10:00 p.m. or later) (Approx. 10％) (Almost 0) (Almost 0) Entered bldg. 8:00 a.m. or before Approx. 20% Approx. 34% Approx. 44% Hours of overtime per person – Approx. 7% decrease Approx. 11% decrease 88 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Dress-down Days On the specific days of the week are designated Dress-down Days, and employees are allowed to dress down even more than they could during the previous Casual Fridays. In lieu of business suits, they can wear what the like as long as it can be considered work clothes suitable for business settings. Employees may even wear jeans and sneakers, and are encouraged to wear outfits that express the freedom characteristic of ITOCHU. This program aims to have employees consider how best to dress down with consideration for their relationships with customers and the people around them. This will develop their ability to think flexibly and foster a workplace environment that facilitates the creation of new ideas. The following key measures were implemented in FYE 2018 to increase employee awareness of the program and encourage its spread. We have implemented the following as representative measures since its introduction in FYE 2018 to educate and enlighten employees. FYE 2018 A program in which personal stylists give 10 or so employees a complete makeover and get them to try new styles. The program is conducted three times a year (summer, autumn/winter and spring) in cooperation of Isetan Shinjuku Store of Isetan Mitsukoshi Ltd. Internal company events that invite employees to wear a specific item ( Jeans Day and Sneakers Day , etc.) and which involve related events on the same day. These could be sales, lectures by stylists on dressing well, etc. in cooperation with ITOCHU Group/associated companies. FYE 2019 We have established a new permanent concept space called the D+ Lounge just for Dress-down Days on the second floor of the Tokyo Headquarters. This space offers events relating to personal appearance every month to refine the power of expression of our employees. These events include personal color diagnoses, stylist consultations, shoe shining, first-class shaving experiences and make-up lectures for working women. FYE 2020 We have established Dress-down Every Day to enable employees to think about what clothes to wear to work in response to the time, place and occasion (TPO) and the weather every day only in the summer (May to August). Every day during this period is a Dress-down Days regardless of the day of the week. We hold posture correction events with stretching in the D+Lounge and sales events for employees with the cooperation of ITOCHU’s group companies and business partners. FYE 2021 We have further evolved this initiative as Dress-down Days four days a week from Tuesday to Friday. * Applies to both full-time and part-time employees. Balancing Work with Childcare and Nursing Care ITOCHU Corporation goes above and beyond the requirements of the law to arrange programs available to both male and female employees that help them balance work with their childcare and nursing care obligations. This allows employees to continue making full use of their skills during their careers at the company, while resting assured they can handle stages of life where they must take care of children or elderly family members at home. Over 50 male employees have been taking childcare leave a year since FYE 2016, so the use of this system has become established. Meanwhile, in FYE 2017 we trialed a telecommuting program for employees raising children or providing nursing care at home. This was followed in FYE 2018 by the official introduction of a telecommuting program which employees who meet certain conditions can take advantage of. Eligible employees include those with time constraints due to childcare or nursing care obligations, as well as those who face difficulty making the commute to work due to pregnancy, illness or other such reasons. We continue to hold nursing care seminars every year in light of the fact the importance of preparing for nursing care has also become a social problem. At the same time, we introduced a service to provide nursing care information online in FYE 2018. We then introduced a onestop nursing care assistance service to meet the needs of those seeking advice in April 2019. 89 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Support Programs for Balancing Work with Childcare & Nursing Care Support for Childcare Support for Nursing Care 90 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Use of Childcare & Nursing Care Programs Use of Childcare & Nursing Care Programs★ (Unit: people) FYE 2018 FYE 2019 FYE 2020 Men Women Total Men Women Total Men Women Total Childcare leave 57 76 133 52 100 152 59 109 168 Leave to nurse sick 65 123 188 66 124 190 74 139 213 children Shorter working 0 79 79 1 84 85 0 97 97 Childcare hours for childcare Special parental 12 36 48 14 42 56 6 47 53 leave Percentage of employees 97% 97% 98% returning to work* Nursing care leave 1 0 1 1 0 1 1 0 1 Special nursing 2 4 6 0 8 8 3 10 13 care leave Nursing Care Leave for nursing 17 36 53 16 44 60 29 42 71 care Shorter working hours for nursing 0 10 10 0 4 4 0 2 2 care Family Support Leave 122 108 230 130 95 225 96 96 192 * The percentage of employees returning to work after childcare leave is calculated according to the following formula︓ the number of employees returning to work after childcare leave during the current or the following fiscal year/the number of employees who finished taking childcare leave during the current fiscal year. ★Data assured by KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd, an external assurance provider based on the international standard ISAE 3000. (P216) ITOCHU Kids Day for Visiting Mom & Dad at Work Since 2014, we have regularly invited employees' elementary-age children to ITOCHU Kids Day for Visiting Mom & Dad at Work. The children get business cards made especially for the event, which they exchange with employees at their parents' workplaces. They also attend a mock meeting in the executive meeting room and eat lunch in the employee cafeteria. These activities provide the children with a deeper understanding of the company where their parents work. The response from employees has been very positive for instilling an interest in what the children's parents do at their job and for sparking a desire to work at ITOCHU in the future. As we consider this an incredibly meaningful event for building family bonds and teaching children about ITOCHU, we plan to continue holding it. Children exchange business cards with the President COO 91 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Employee Benefits ITOCHU Corporation employs a variety of welfare facilities and schemes to stimulate communication between employees and provide opportunities for exchange. Stimulating communication helps foster a sense of belonging and job satisfaction in individual employees. It also helps to invigorate the organization as a whole. Employee Cafeteria The employee cafeteria at the Tokyo Headquarters underwent large-scale renovations in May 2013 that transformed it into a brighter and a more comfortable meeting place. Since then we have taken further steps to make the cafeteria a more attractive space for employees. These include introducing a Wellness Cafeteria menu created under the supervision of Kagawa Nutrition University* which aims to help employees improve their health. We have also revised our menus and altered the layout of the room based on employee feedback. Nearly 1,600 people use the employee cafeteria every day. This special cafeteria can also be used to share meals with customers, and operates as a pub at night. It has a regular Happy Hour, during which alcoholic beverages are available for free or at a discount. This boosts communication between people from both inside and outside the company. In 2017, the menu was fully revised and the cafeteria underwent major renovations once again. This has made it a great place for employees to interact over meals. * Kagawa Nutrition University is a pioneering force in nutrition education. The menu it helped create focuses on daily specials with healthy dishes that fulfill different nutritional requirements. These include an energy value of around 600 kcal, salt content of 3 g or less, and vegetable servings of 140 g or more. * Can be used by both full-time and part-time employees Cooldown Rooms In June 2012, ITOCHU Corporation introduced Cooldown Rooms on the first floor and first basement floor of its Tokyo Headquarters. These rooms seek to help beat the summer heat by keeping visitors comfortable inside the building and giving employees a comfortable place to work. To help fight global warming and save electricity in summer when demand for power is high, ITOCHU stipulates that air conditioners in the building not be set lower than 28 degrees Celsius. However, the Cooldown Rooms have lower ceilings than other rooms and can be cooled more efficiently. Cool air is supplied at 15 degrees Celsius to keep room temperature below 20 degrees. This makes them great spaces for visitors to the building and employees returning from sales activities to cool down on hot summer days. We also established a permanent history exhibition corner called ITOCHU History so that many people can learn about the founding principles of our company while effectively utilizing the Cooldown Rooms. * Can be used by both full-time and part-time employees Shower Lounge and Shower Room In the summer of 2016, ITOCHU installed a shower lounge on the third floor of our Tokyo Headquarters, and a shower room on the second basement floor. Their goal is to help create a workplace environment that encourages job satisfaction. The seeds of this idea were accounts from employees who often found airport shower rooms crowded when returning from business trips on early morning flights. Many reported using external facilities (such as gyms and saunas) on their way to work. In response to this feedback, ITOCHU established shower facilities at Headquarters so that employees returning from business trips can be more comfortable as they begin work. The facilities are equipped with overhead shower heads, which warm the body quickly in winter, and amenities like towels, hair driers, shampoo, and conditioner. The facilities have been well received, with employees reporting they are able to work in comfort. In response to employee requests, the facilities now stay open longer and can also be used by employees who exercise to improve their health. They are also open to employees of affiliate companies. * Can be used by both full-time and part-time employees 92 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance The Hiyoshi Dormitory In March 2018, ITOCHU Corporation opened the Hiyoshi Dormitory in the Kohoku ward of Yokohama, Kanagawa prefecture. The dormitory has approx. 360 units to house unmarried employees. It brings together unmarried male employees who had been scattered across four locations in the Tokyo Metropolitan area. The design concept for the dormitory is under the same roof, as opposed to positioning it as a mere welfare facility. Accordingly, it is equipped with a variety of common areas designed to bring residents together and deepen communication across boundaries like age and department. These include a dining room with shared kitchen, a multi-purpose meeting room, a large bathroom with a sauna, and communication spaces on each floor (including study areas and an open terrace). It also incorporates measures that take into account Health and Productivity Management. The cafeteria provides breakfasts and dinners that take into account a nutritional balance from the viewpoint of policies such as health and productivity management. We have also partnered with a local fitness club to give residents opportunities to exercise. As a rule, smoking is prohibited throughout the dormitory, including private rooms, and is only allowed in designated smoking areas. We also provide a program that utilizes a smartphone app to assist those who wish to quit smoking. Through initiatives like these, we hope to create an environment that encourages employees to voluntarily reform their work-style and improve their health. This dormitory is designed to function as a secondary office for the Tokyo Headquarters and is vital to our business continuity plan (BCP) for disasters. It uses the same Internet environment as our offices and we have installed emergency generator equipment. We have also stocked the dormitory with food, water, emergency supplies and other items. * Intended only for full-time employees SOGO-KAI Associations SOGO-KAI associations are groups where fellow employees can assemble to enjoy the same sports or cultural activities. Spreading out from Tokyo and Osaka, there are more than thirty such associations active within the company nationwide. They boast a combined membership of more than 1,200 employees. The associations are not limited to current ITOCHU Corporation employees. Many former employees and Group company employees also take part. These associations use sports and cultural activities to promote exchange and communication across different generations and organizations. * Both full-time and part-time employees can join Employment and Benefits Data Employee Status★ (as of March 31 for each respective year) Non-consolidated Consolidated Avg. Annual Temporary Employees Men Women Avg. Age Employees Salary Staff (Yen) 2020 4,261 3,267 994 42 15,657,603 128,146 46,567 2019 4,285 3,283 1,002 42 15,207,832 119,796 38,721 2018 4,285 3,284 1,001 42 14,609,151 102,086 29,976 93 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Employees by Operating Segment★ (as of March 31, 2020) (Unit: people) General ICT & Metals & Energy & Products Textile Machinery Food Financial The 8th Others Total Minerals Chemicals & Business Realty Non385 456 170 327 440 262 193 43 1,001 3,277 consolidated Consolidated 7,869 13,842 501 12,688 38,494 17,530 20,392 13,999 2,831 128,146 Overseas Bloc Employees by Region★ (as of March 31, 2020) (Unit: people) North Latin Middle Asia & Europe Africa East Asia CIS America America East Oceania National Staff 131 141 233 60 124 630 624 82 Rotational 55 29 48 14 21 78 108 16 Staff Overseas 14 5 8 3 3 15 23 1 Trainees TOTAL 2,466 * Employees assigned to overseas subsidiaries and overseas branches/offices * Regarding range of tallied data, figures not labeled as Consolidated are placed under Non-consolidated. * Overseas bloc employees by region counts employees who are assigned to overseas subsidiaries or overseas branches/offices. Turnover — Non-Consolidated Employees*★ FYE 2017 FYE 2018 FYE 2019 FYE 2020 Voluntary resignation rate 1.2% 1.6% 1.7% 1.6% Avg. Years Employed 16.9 17.3 17.5 17.8 * Positions: career-track, clerical, special Turnover rate is calculated according to the following formula. voluntary resignations ÷ employees at end of fiscal year ITOCHU Corporation has a long average number of years employed of 17 years and only around 2% of employees voluntarily resign. It is a company where many employees choose to stay for the long-term. ★Data assured by KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd, an external assurance provider based on the international standard ISAE 3000. (P216) 94 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Labor Practices: Labor Union Policy and Basic Concept ITOCHU Corporation hopes to achieve an environment in which employees can leverage their individual talents and concentrate on their work without worry. To this end, we maintain a system of rich employee benefits and employee welfare facilities. Our original employee welfare measures include a morning-focused work style, health management, support for living with cancer and dress-down day. These have met with praise both inside and outside the company, and have contributed to increased employee motivation. ITOCHU has established a labor union with which we hold constructive discussions to improve the working conditions as well as economic status of its constituents. * See Employee Benefits (P92-93) for details on the primary employee benefits that have been introduced and expanded in recent years (for both full-time and part-time employees). Targets We are aiming for a 70% or higher rate of positive responses to the employee engagement items on our engagement survey. FYE 2021: Reduce the annual average overtime hours by at least 10% compared to the period prior to the introduction of the morning-focused working system. FYE 2021: Paid leave acquisition rate at 70% or higher. FYE 2021: use stress checks to keep rate of high stress individuals below 5%. Structures and Systems ITOCHU Corporation has had a labor union since its founding. The objective of the Labor Union is to improve labor conditions and other economic concerns of its members. The Labor Union carries out all required operations to fulfill this objective. (Article 3, Rules of the ITOCHU Labor Union) Headquarters: General meeting of delegates and officers at headquarters Branch: Six branches (Tokyo, Osaka, Nagoya, Tohoku, Hokuriku and Kyushu) 95 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance The company is prohibited from taking any of the following actions: 1. Providing disadvantageous treatment to a worker because the worker is a union member, or on similar grounds Example: Discharging or transferring a worker because the worker has gone on strike as a union member, or on similar grounds 2. Refusing to bargain collectively without justifiable cause Example: Refusing to come to the bargaining table or sending someone without authority as a representative to attend a collective bargaining session as a representative 3. Interfering with or providing financial assistance for the organization or operation of a labor union Ratio of ITOCHU Labor Union members as of April 1, 2020 Example: Interfering with or interrupting the union's events or providing financial support for union operational expenses 4. Providing disadvantageous treatment, such as dismissal, to a worker in response to an allegation made by the worker to the Labor Relations Commission Example: Providing treatment, such as dismissal or wage reduction, to a worker in response to an allegation made by the worker to the Labor Relations Commission, or to a similar action by the worker Initiatives Together With ITOCHU Labor Activities by the Headquarters of the Labor Union in FYE 2020 Union in FYE 2020 April 2019 to April 2019 to March 2020 Health Committee March 2020 General Meeting of Officers (monthly) (twice a week) June Account settlement meeting April, June General Meeting of Delegates Labor-management Meeting attended by three topSeptember 2019, committee for time July ranking officers from each March 2020 management branch Management meeting with July, Overseas Life Fact-Finding November 2019, the Division Company December Investigation January 2020 President Labor Union event at Tokyo September Labor-management Disney Land February 2020 committee for salary October to Influenza Vaccination Expense December Subsidy 96 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Comments from the ITOCHU Labor Union President My name is Masato Ikehata. I joined ITOCHU in 2003 and I will now serve as the ITOCHU Labor Union President in FYE 2021. FYE 2021 has been marked by the beginning of upheaval. This includes the spread of coronavirus infections around the world and a large drop in crude oil prices. The global economy has rapidly entered a recession. There has also been a huge impact on the trading company industry. Masato Ikehata In addition, our daily lives have been changing in a major way (e.g., self-restraint on President, going out and telecommuting). Inevitably, changes in our work styles are required. ITOCHU Labor Under such circumstances, I imagine the responsibilities and expected roles that Union should be performed by the ITOCHU Labor Union will also change. I, together with all the officers at the headquarters, will perform my duties with a sense of crisis. I have organized the missions, action guidelines and vision of the labor union below, so please read about them. Missions of the Union (= the Meaning of the Existence of the Union and the Values at the Basis of Our Activities): To protect our members and To build a good company Action Guidelines (= the Key Phrases We Value in Our Daily Work): Stay Ahead: Proactively adopt advanced concepts and work styles to constantly strengthen the organization Speak Up: Strengthen the ability to speak up and inform everyone about the activities of the union to gain a correct understanding Be Reliable: Build a relationship of trust with union members and use that as the basis to perform activities with a sense of unity Vision (= Ideal Future State): We are aiming to achieve a virtuous cycle of corporate management by improving the labor environment and the economic status of our members. ((1) An improvement in the labor environment thanks to the activities of the union accelerates the virtuous cycle of (2) active participation by union members, (3) improved company performance, (4) improved employee treatment, (5) improved morale and then back to (2) again) We will aim to achieve treatment and an environment suitable for a top trading company both in name and substance under the two missions of the union to protect union members and to build a good company. Under that aim, we hold negotiations and discussions with the company. 97 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Dialogs with the Labor Union ITOCHU Corporation discusses a wide range of issues with the ITOCHU Labor Union in order to achieve our corporate mission Sampo-yoshi. We held a total of six sessions of settlement of accountings meetings with the CFO, management meetings with the the Division Company President settlement of accountings meetings with the CFO and other collective bargaining and labor-management committee meetings in FYE 2020. Recurrent, active discussion between labor and management makes both cognizant of the challenges facing the company and keeps them on the same page. This builds a healthy relationship that enables them to consider and implement measures for improvement. Dialogs with the President ITOCHU proactively establishes opportunities for the President and employees to engage in direct two-way dialogue. The President visited approximately 30 Japanese and overseas branches, local subsidiaries and group companies where opportunities for dialogue with the President are usually limited to hold dialogue meetings in FYE 2020. The President personally conveyed the management policy and his passion toward the realization of that directly to employees in these dialogue meetings. At the same time, the employees were also able to directly express their own opinions and ask questions to the President. Therefore, these were valuable opportunities to deepen two-way communication. The content of these meetings is wide-ranging even including private matters in addition to the management policy. Accordingly, these are always extremely lively meetings. Dialogs with the Division Company President ITOCHU proactively establishes opportunities for the company president and corporate officers to engage in dialogue with employees. Normally, all the employees under the control of an organization are gathered together once every half a year. The top management of that organization then speaks in their own words about the company-wide management policy, organization targets and strategies toward target achievement. It is possible for employees to give their opinions and ask questions at these dialogue meetings. These are valuable opportunities for all employees, including the top management, to think about what we should personally do to further grow the organizations to which we belong. 98 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Labor Practices: Diversity Action Plan SDGs Issues to Business Performance Indicators Co Commitment Specific Approach Degree of Progress Targets Address Area (Non-consolidated) Continue fair and equitable recruitment The percentage of female career-track and promotion. employees among all career-track Create a work climate of mutual respect employees is 9.7% (as of January 2020). and support. The percentage of female career-track We will prohibit all types FYE 2021: Percentage of of discrimination, Reasonable accommodations concerning employees among those in leadership female career-track including those based on the work environment of people with positions is over 8.1% (as of January employees among all careerage, gender and disabilities. 2020). track employees: 10%. Creating an nationality, and respect Respond to LGBT considerations and Proportion of our workforce with environment that human rights. We will FYE 2021: Percentage of Human provide employee training on LGBT. disabilities: 2.16% as of February 2020 allows diverse Headcreate an environment female career-track Resources Enhance on-site day-care centers and (insufficient by one person) human resources quarters that will permit the employees among Affairs We have been applying to make IHGS to exercise their active participation of nursing care support services. employees in leadership potential employees whose work Enhance individual support for applicable as a special subsidiary in our positions at 10%. hours are limited due to employees provided in accordance with group since February 2020. We achieved childcare, nursing care, FYE 2021: Proportion of our their life stage and career. the required number of hires as of diseases or similar workforce with disabilities at Promote flexible ways of working by February 2020 in the three companies of circumstances. 2.3%. making use of mobile work. ITOCHU, Uneedus and IHGS. We will Support the active participation of senior continue to promote the employment of human resources over 65 years old. those with disabilities over our entire group. Policy and Basic Concept Amid intensifying global competition, ITOCHU Corporation believes that organizational diversity is essential if we are to provide direct answers to the diverse needs of the market and continuously create new business and added value. ITOCHU Corporation respects human rights and prohibits all forms of discrimination, including that based on race, religion, age, gender and nationality. ITOCHU Corporation uses diversity seminars and organization manager training to publicize the tools available to employees and to raise awareness about the importance of communication. We do this so that they do not fall victim to power harassment* or sexual harassment (including unfairly disadvantaging, engaging in hateful speech against or otherwise harassing employees who are sexual minorities). Another reason is so that pregnant employees and those who are doing their best to balance work while raising children or providing nursing care at home can feel their contributions to the workplace are worthwhile. With regard to employees facing the constraints imposed by child-rearing or caring for a family member at home, superiors encourage them to make good use of the tools provided by the company to strike an appropriate worklife balance, while the company makes it known that it is also important to review the work duties, responsibilities and work arrangements for the workplace as a whole. Additionally, the company makes thorough initiatives to provide a workplace environment where discriminatory remarks about sexual orientation/gender identity and comments premised on subconscious gender stereotypes are not tolerated. Employees also have access to consultation services. * Acts toward a co-worker in the same workplace that utilize the perpetrator's superior position or advantageous interpersonal relationships (or other aspects of the workplace), thereby causing psychological or physical distress, or degrading the workplace environment, in a way that goes beyond the appropriate bounds of work duties. 99 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Targets ITOCHU Corporation is working on the following targets that were set in line with our diversity policy. Issues to Address Provide an environment where diverse talent can thrive. Commitment Respect human rights and prohibit discrimination of any type, including age, gender, nationality and disability. Provide an environment where employees can thrive even if their working hours are limited for reasons such as child-rearing, nursing care or illness. Specific Approaches Continue fair hiring and promotion practices Create a workplace culture supportive of mutual respect Rational consideration toward the working environment for disabled persons Adapt to the needs of LGBT employees and provide employee training on the subject Improve company daycare and nursing care support services Improve individualized support for employees' life stages and careers Promote flexible work arrangements through telecommuting Support to senior citizen employees above the age of 65 so they can thrive Success Indicators FYE 2021: Share of women among career-track employees above 10% FYE 2021: Share of women in supervisory positions above 10% FYE 2021: Share of disabled employees at 2.3% Women in Career-Track & Managerial Positions (as of March 31 for each respective year) Year 2018 2019 2020 FYE 2021 Goal % of Women Managers 6.8% 7.6% 8.1% Over 10.0% Women/All Managers 173/2,558 195/2,555 209/2,566 % of Career-Track Women 9.0% 9.4% 9.7% Over 10.0% Career-Track Women/Total 313/3,461 327/3,463 335/3,462 100 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Support for Diverse Talent ITOCHU Corporation formulated a Plan for Promotion of Human Resource Diversification in December 2003 that furthered the diversification of our talent, entrenched that diversification and helped these employees succeed. We will continue to build an appealing company and corporate culture by providing an environment where each and every employee can exploit their unique traits to thrive and by working to strengthen our individual and organizational capabilities. ITOCHU Corporation HR Diversity Initiatives Support for Female Employees Our support for women gets the greatest amount of focus in our initiatives to diversify human resources. By implementing the Plan for Promotion of Human Resource Diversification, ITOCHU Corporation has hired more women to meet our target, while we also provide programs to support work-life balance beyond the level required by law. At present, while these programs serve as a safety net, we provide attentive individual support that is tailored to each person's stage of life and career through Gen Ko Tsu Reform. Meanwhile, to create models of successful women and provide them with rewarding work—with our focus being on developing future managerial candidates—we conduct training that fosters career awareness among young career-track women and raise awareness among organization managers through their training programs. (See below for our action plan stipulating specific targets and initiatives moving forward.) Action Plan Based on the Act of Promotion of Women's Participation and Advancement in the Workplace and the Act on Advancement of Measures to Support Raising Next-Generation Children (https://www.itochu.co.jp/en/csr/pdf/action_plan.pdf) Gen Ko Tsu Reform 101 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Fostering Career Awareness Among Career-Track Women Measures to Support Career-Track Women 102 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Share of Women in Career-Track/Managerial/Executive Positions★ (as of March 31 for each Respective Year) (Unit: people) Career-Track Managerial Executives & Directors Total Women Share Total Women Share Total Women Share 2020 3,462 335 9.7% 2,566 209 8.1% 45 4 8.9% 2019 3,463 327 9.4% 2,555 195 7.6% 44 2 4.5% 2018 3,461 313 9.0% 2,558 173 6.8% 45 2 4.4% ★Data assured by KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd, an external assurance provider based on the international standard ISAE 3000. (P216) Clerical Career Support ITOCHU Corporation has been running the Career Workshop for Clerical Staff for top-grade clerical employees since FYE 2016. This is training aiming to improve skills to cultivate a mindset as a model of core personnel responsible for administration work and to demonstrate leadership in the workplace through company-wide role assignment. This training sees the participation of 10 to 20 employees from the target group all over the company every year. These employees prepare action plans relating to organizational issues and experience mentoring and other missions and roles over approximately one year. Social Inclusion Support for Disabled Persons To provide the handicapped possessing physical, mental or other disabilities with a workplace that is motivating and rewarding, we established ITOCHU Uneedus Co., Ltd., our first special subsidiary, in Yokohama, Kanagawa Prefecture in 1987. The disabled person employment rate in ITOCHU is 2.21% as of March 2020. We are promoting an expansion in the range of work and recruitment of disabled persons in anticipation of an increase in the statutory employment rate in the future. Initiatives by ITOCHU Uneedus Co., Ltd. ITOCHU Uneedus Co., Ltd. provides services including dry cleaning, photo and document printing, mail delivery, laundry and cleaning. The company's motto is about stringent quality control and friendly service. All drycleaning processes are performed by mixed teams of disabled and non-disabled persons. To expand business as well as to create a more welcoming workplace environment for staff dealing with an array of disabilities, Left: New Offices of ITOCHU Uneedus Co., Ltd. in November 2015 the company relocated to new offices (Tsuzuki Ward, Yokohama) in Yokohama's Tsuzuki Ward with 140% more floor space Right: Work in the Cleaning Department (http://www.uneedus.co.jp/ (Japanese only)) and the latest equipment. Since marking our 30th year in business in 2017, we have continued striving to proactively support social inclusion for disabled persons and help create a society where they can experience the joy of making a contribution through work. 103 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Employment of Disabled Persons Employment of Disabled Persons★ (as of March 1 for each Respective Year) Percentage of Disabled Employees (%) 2020 2.21 2019 2.17 2018 2.04 * The figures of employment ratio of people with disabilities in 2018 and 2019 are the combined total of ITOCHU Corporation and the certified special-purpose subsidiary, ITOCHU Uneedus Co., Ltd. The employment rate was calculated with ITOCHU Human Resources & General Affairs Services Inc. also added to group applicability (special case of an affiliated company) for 2020. ★Data assured by KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd, an external assurance provider based on the international standard ISAE 3000. (P216) Support for Middle-aged and Older Employees' Success ITOCHU has long been proactively promoting activity support of middle-aged and older employees. We employ all those who so desire under the Employment Extension System after they reach retirement age at 60 years old in light of the point of view of the decreasing birthrate and aging population in Japan and activity support for diverse personnel. This means we are developing an environment in which middle-aged and older employees can continue to work utilizing the wealth of knowledge and experience they possess even after they have reached the retirement age. We also hold training such as life planning seminars for employees at the age of 58 years old and future course selection briefings for employees at the age of 59 years old. Therefore, we are supporting work styles and money plans after the extension of the employment of employees. We will do yet more to create an environment where middle-aged and older employees can continue performing motivating, rewarding work more than ever. Initiatives Conducted Overseas In South Africa, where the ITOCHU Group's Integrated Auto Service (IAS) is located, the Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment (B-BBEE) program has been introduced to improve the status of people who have unjustly suffered discriminated and other disadvantages during the apartheid era. The B-BBEE program assesses a company's contribution to resolving these issues based on a scorecard with evaluation criteria set by the South African Government, which include elements such as ownership, management control, employment equality, skills development, priority procurement, business development, and socio-economic development. The IAS has received a Level 4 certification issued by Metanoia Ratings in 2019, with a score of 80.01 out of 100. 104 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Accolades for ITOCHU Corporation ITOCHU Corporation's initiatives in Creating Environments that Bring Out the Best in Employees have won much praise. We won the Excellence Award (Family-Friendly Enterprises Category) at the Minister Prize in Equal Employment/Work-Life Balance organized by the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare in FYE 2018. 2017 Award for Excellence from the Minister of Health, Labour and Welfare for New Diversity Management Excellent Equal Platinum Kurumin Authorization Selection 100 Opportunity/Work and Family-Life Balance Companies ( Family-friendly Companies Category) Companies making excellent A project for selecting excellent A program recognizing initiatives to provide employees with companies that provide diverse companies that promote support at work as well as with human resources with exemplary programs with an childcare receive approval to display opportunities and an environment equal emphasis on work and the Platinum Kurumin Authorization for exercising their potential. childcare/nursing care. (Selected mark. (Received in 2016 / Ministry (Selected in March 2016 / in November 2017 / Ministry of of Health, Labour and Welfare) Ministry of Economy, Trade and Health, Labour and Welfare) Industry) * Related data: Employee Status (P93) Share of Women in Career-Track/Managerial/Executive Positions (P103) Number of Hires by Gender (P132) 105 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Employee Training Action Plan SDGs Issues to Business Performance Indicators Co Commitment Specific Approach Degree of Progress Targets Address Area (Non-consolidated) The positive answer rate to the Education and Training Continue to develop and item from the FYE 2019 Engagement Survey was 71%. FYE 2021: Annual E&D *We did not conduct a survey in FYE 2020. The latest provide training programs at expenses exceeding one data is for FYE 2019. all jobs levels. billion yen. Continue and enhance We have been continually reviewing and developing Rate of positive responses to overseas deployment of training programs (e.g., the trial introduction of nextthe education and training interns and language generation related training). item in the engagement We will develop training trainees. We are running a trial to provide video content as part survey: 60% or higher. programs on a global basis of career vision training with an eye on a learning Sustainable Offer diverse career path FYE 2021: Percentage of that respond to the changing environment that meets the diverse needs of our development Human options and experience in Headtimes and business needs. We career-track employees who of Resources diverse works through employees. quarters will also utilize training acquire business-level employees' Affairs programs to continuously regular rotation. English skills in their first capabilities Below is the Outlook Current as of February 20 produce excellent human Foster career awareness eight years at the company resources. in FYE 2020: among employees by at 100%. enhancing personnel Annual E&D expenses forecast ⇒ Over approximately FYE 2021: Percentage of assessment, career vision 1.2 billion yen career-track employees who training, career counselling Acquisition rate of business level English skills for are deployed overseas in systems and other career-track employees in up to their eighth year since their first eight years at the programs/systems. joining the company ⇒ 100% company at 80% or higher. Overseas dispatch rate for career-track employees in up to their eighth year since joining the company ⇒ 80% Policy and Basic Concept ITOCHU Corporation's employee training is focused on providing practical work experience through on-the-job (OJT) training. This is supplemented by initiatives to foster a desire to grow through appraisals, assessments and feedback, as well as employees' acquisition of knowledge and skills through the training. We also provide growth opportunities tailored to employees' individual situations and careers. After becoming industry professionals who can thrive in any field, we train them into Global Management Talent who will lead our worldwide business in the future. Human resource development is based on this philosophy. We will accomplish infinite missions by inheriting the intentions contained in the spirit of Sampo-yoshi (In Japanese, yoshi means good , and sampo means three sides, and these three sides consist of (1) the seller ( urite ), (2) the buyer ( kaite ) and (3) society ( seken ). Sampo-yoshi is therefore: good for the seller, good for the buyer and good for society). 106 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Targets Based on our employee training policy, ITOCHU Corporation works to achieve the following goals. Issues to Address Sustained employee skill development Commitment We develop training programs on a global basis. We do this with a market-orientated way of thinking toward the development of marketing professionals who are able to continually transform business in line with needs while inheriting our corporate mission. We then utilize these training programs to continually produce talented people. Specific Approaches Continuously develop and implement training programs at all levels Continue and augment overseas practical training assignments and language immersion assignments Provide various career paths and work experience through regular rotations Foster career awareness in individual employee through personnel assessments, career vision training and an enhanced career counseling program Success Indicators FYE 2021: annual E&D spending over 1 billion yen Positive response rate of 60% or higher to education & training items on the engagement survey FYE 2021: 100% of career-track employees gain business level English skills after 8 years with the company FYE 2021: At least 80% of career-track employees take overseas assignments by eighth year with the company Structures and Systems ITOCHU Corporation has been implementing a globally-minded personnel strategy since FYE 2008 with the goal of maximizing the value of our worldwide work force and optimizing this group of employees as a whole. Specifically, in FYE 2011 we established leadership standards, we created a database of organizational leaders worldwide,* and we constructed the Talent Management Process to hire, develop, utilize and promote excellent talent who will expand overseas revenues worldwide by coordinating with division companies and overseas blocs. We also reflect the philosophy and values we have inherited over the 160 years since the foundation of our company in our recruitment standards and evaluation and training systems. With this, we are recruiting and training people who match the values of ITOCHU on a global basis. * We created the ITOCHU Global Classification (IGC), global standards based on positions and duties for positions at all levels worldwide, in FYE 2010, which we use to place, promote and train personnel regardless of nationality. Talent Management Process * Relevant data: Overseas Bloc Employees by Region (P94) 107 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Training System The ITOCHU Corporation training system consists of company-wide training, along with line training for specific companies and administrative divisions that is tailored to the nature of their industry, specialties and so on. There is a wide range of training opportunities at various levels, not only for Headquarters employees, but also for those at certain overseas bloc companies and Group companies. Overseas blocs arrange their own training systems to teach the skills and expertise required for their business and markets. In combination with the ITOCHU Corporation training system, they develop management talent capable of global success. 108 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Training Results Time/Cost Allotted for Employee Skills Development Training FYE 2017 FYE 2018 FYE 2019 FYE 2020 Total annual training time (hours) 200,195 217,734 160,510 168,425 FYE 2017 FYE 2018 FYE 2019 FYE 2020 Average training/development hours per 46.72 50.81 37.46 39.58 regular employee (hours)* Average training/development cost per 359,000 334,000 302,000 269,000 regular employee (yen) * Calculation method: total annual training hours / employees at end of fiscal year Attendance in Major Training Training FYE 2017 FYE 2018 FYE 2019 FYE 2020 Administrative Intern System 115 121 96 110 Global Development Program 128 134 141 154 Organization Manager Workshop 417 403 405 337 Short-Term Business School Dispatch 51 39 31 37 Junior Chinese/Special Language Dispatch 52 61 39 10 Chinese Lessons 469 614 237 158 Career Vision Support Training (total) 2,108 2,075 1,885 1,940 Key Points for Better Training First, in FYE 2014 we created a training scheme for talent capable of shouldering administrative responsibilities at Group companies. Specifically, in FYE 2015, we started a training program to learn about accounting work efficiently in a short period of time through practice to strengthen the acquisition of basic knowledge on business management and risk management techniques. This is mandatory training for young employees. Additionally, we have a replete lineup of Group company employee trainings so that domestic Group company employees can upgrade their skills and expand their networks within the Group. Furthermore, we conduct trainings in the Global Development Program and the Short-Term Business School Dispatch to develop global Training in the Global Development Program management talents with an overseas perspective. Meanwhile, we were among the first to offer a short-term overseas dispatch system in 1999. This program is designed to improve the English language skills of young employees at the headquarters and foster a global mindset. Chinese and other special language programs dispatch employees to emerging markets such as China and etc.. These are the core programs for our initiatives to foster specialists in each market. For our training with an emphasis on practical on-the-job skills, we conduct Career Vision Support Training to develop industry professionals with diverse values, along with independent training programs that are based on each company or Headquarters administrative division's talent strategy and tailored for various objectives. Most recently, we have also been promoting the development of people capable of driving business into the next generation. We do this by providing our employees with opportunities for training and lectures aimed at studying cutting edge business model cases and acquiring IT expertise according to our Mid-term Management Plan. 109 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Talent Synergy with CP & CITIC In January 2015, ITOCHU Corporation formed a strategic business and capital tie-up with Charoen Pokphand Group Company Limited (CPG) and CITIC Limited (CITIC), which are some of the leading conglomerates in Asia and China, respectively. Thereafter, in January 2016, the three-company group signed a memorandum to strengthen talent synergies as the foundation for producing mediumto long-term business synergies and raising enterprise value. According to the memorandum, the goal for the future is to build a robust network of talent between the three companies and construct a foundation that will support their strategic partnership. This will be accomplished by The 4th Three Companies' Combined dispatching and exchanging talent between the three companies from Training Program (Tokyo) (July 2019) the short-term to the long-term, dispatching trainees to join training programs at other companies, and conducting new joint training. In FYE 2016, the three companies held their first joint training in Tokyo. We held this combined training seminar for the second time in Beijing, where CITIC is based, in FYE 2018 and for the third time in Thailand (Khao Yai and Bangkok), where CPG is based, in FYE 2019. In FYE2020, we held this training for the fourth time in Tokyo. We select employees who match the business themes established in advance from the three companies. The participants come to fully understand each other's management policies, values, history and main business. They then thoroughly discuss the creation of business synergy. With this, the aim is to build a solid personnel network as partners. The three firms are also steadily accepting trainees into their existing programs through shortto -long-term talent dispatch and exchange arrangements. In addition, the strategic business and capital tie-up was accompanied by the FYE 2016 startup of a project to develop 1,000 Chinese-speaking employees, who account for one-third of all career-track employees. The project has made progress in laying a solid linguistic foundation. By the end of FYE 2018, we reached our goal of 1,000 people. We continue developing those employees even after that. The total number of trainees as of the end of FYE 2020 was 1,231. We will continue to build the foundations to further promote the expansion of business in China and the rest of Asia in the future. ITOCHU Morning Activity Seminar In September 2016, we began conducting early-morning training sessions and presentations as one measure to encourage shifts beginning in the early morning. The themes of these seminars are focused on the next generation of business and health. We held these seminars a total of 7 times with the participation of 3,162 people in FYE 2020. We received comments from the participants like the following: I was able to hear stimulating stories before work, so I felt very positive. We plan to hold these seminars on a periodic basis in the future. An ITOCHU Morning Activity Seminar Morning Activity Seminar Results Major Seminars Date Title Speaker PhD, Yutaka Matsuo, Professor of Graduate Future of Artificial Intelligence: Beyond May 2019 School of Engineering at the University of Deep Learning Tokyo Ideal Leaders for the Future: Styles and August 2019 Readiness Necessary for Leaders to Create Ryuji Nakatake, CEO at Teambox Inc. Leaders 110 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance HR Appraisal & Assessment System The HR Appraisal & Assessment System is a core part of the human resources organization that helps employees fully demonstrate their capabilities in a motivated and rewarding manner. It covers all ITOCHU Corporation employees. One part of the system is Management By Objectives (MBO), by which we assign individual employees with targets that match up with the management plan, then confirm execution. This approach helps us carry out business strategies. We have also created the Competency Assessment. This provides a comprehensive view of an individual employee's competencies, expertise, past career, aspirations and suitability, which we then use to plan assignments and transfers. In order for these components of the HR Appraisal & Assessment System to function, we believe it critically important that superiors conduct fair and impartial evaluations and meet with their subordinates to provide feedback. 360° feedback* and assessor training enlighten superiors so that they will encourage employees to develop and grow. * Multifaceted observation: A system by which feedback from observations by the organization managers themselves and subordinates are used to review everyday personnel management that the organization manager typically does not notice, followed, if necessary, by initiatives to make improvements or upgrade capabilities. We make sure to apply this approach every year. Overall Picture of the Personnel Evaluation Systems Management By Objectives (MBO) Flow Competency Assessment Flow 111 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Career Support Career Counseling The Career Counseling Center provides wide-ranging counseling and support services for the diverse careers of all employees, from new hires all the way up to organization managers. All the center's counselors are nationally certified career consultants. They discuss a broad array of topics with visitors to address their individual circumstances, including relationships with superiors, subordinates and other colleagues, how to go about one's work, one's future and so on. In addition, as a part of our employee training, we arrange for all young employees to undergo career counseling when they reach certain milestones in their ITOCHU careers. The center meanwhile serves experienced hires and middle-aged and older employees seeking to work beyond retirement age. There are over 500 consultation visits to the center each year. Here, visitors are provided complete confidentiality so they can feel at ease conversing with a counselor. The center's aim is for employees to develop an awareness about how to shape their career. Formal Introduction of the Challenge Career System We have introduced the Challenge Career System as a measure to increase the mobility of personnel for careertrack employees working in Japan (excluding organization mangers). With the system, employees can check a list of job openings announced on the company intranet, then inform their superior of their desire for a transfer. With the superior's approval, the system will try to match the employee with the desired division and, if successful, may make a transfer between Division Companies or Headquarters administrative divisions. The aim of this system is to strengthen organizational capabilities by motivating employees and fostering their career awareness with the provision of career selection opportunities. Five people transferred in FYE 2020 following on from six people in FYE 2019. Challenge Career System Process Promotion of Rotation We have formulated rotation guidelines for young career-track employees. The aim of this is to stimulate the personnel in the next generation who will support management in the future. We have determined the training and transfer policy for each organization under the premise that participants will have finished their basic education by their second year in the company and that they will have experience of at least three positions, including positions overseas, by their eighth year in the company as a general rule. In addition, organization managers explain this training policy to young career-track employees and then hold career meetings to exchange opinions with them. With this, we have developed an environment in which it is possible for young employees to tackle the work in front of them with a view to the future. We have also created a mechanism for other organization members and employees in clerical positions so that they can achieve diverse careers by reviewing their transfer requests and rotation results every year. ITOCHU Internship ITOCHU provides an internship to students which allows them to tackle various challenging issues based on past business cases. We do this so that they can think about their careers in terms of working in a general trading company. ITOCHU Website for students (Japanese only) (https://career.itochu.co.jp/student/information/seminar.html) 112 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Occupational Safety and Health Management Action Plan SDGs Issues to Business Performance Indicators Co Commitment Specific Approach Degree of Progress Targets Address Area (Non-consolidated) Keep the percentage of employees who Percentage of employees Regular medical checkup rate: 100% in FYE 2020. We will improve the receive regular medical checkups at 100%. who receive regular medical Rate of improvement in the health index (e.g., health of employees to Establish well-equipped in-house clinics and checkups: 100%. create an environment BMI) compared to FYE 2011: -2% in FYE 2019. a system for supporting each employee in FYE 2021: Improve health that will enable Support for working while receiving cancer care: receiving personalized medical care. indicators (such as BMI) individual employees to Job turnover due to cancer and long-term Promote measures for helping employees compared to FYE 2017 better demonstrate illnesses continues to be 0%. Improving their capabilities. We create a balance between cancer treatment values. Human Rate of those found to have a high level of stress the health Headwill build a system that and work. FYE 2021: Percentage of Resources in the stress check: 2.9% in FYE 2020. of quarters helps employees with Offer healthy dishes in the employee employees who leave work Affairs Health management web tools for employees employees cancer or long-term cafeteria. due to cancer or long-term illness to create a utilization: We are continuing to run a program for Promote the program for supporting illness at 0%. balance between those at a high risk for lifestyle-related diseases treatment and work, smoking cessation treatment expenses. FYE 2021: Rate of among young employees and we expanded the thereby fostering a Utilize health management web tools for employees found to have a scope to include those who are subject to specific culture of mutual employees and continue to provide special high level of stress in the health guidance (a total of 115 participants in FYE support. programs for employees at a high risk for stress check at 5% or 2020). We held a company-wide walking event. lifestyle-related diseases lower. SDGs Issues to Business Performance Materiality Commitment Specific Approach Degree of Progress Targets Address Area Indicators Metals & Minerals Company We held internal EHS (Environment, Health and Safety) training courses for supervisors and company employees We will promote belonging to sections engaged in resource development. Sustainable mine sustainable development Implementation of The attendance rate of those subject to this training was development that of natural resources by Ensure the thorough annual internal 100%. reflects fully committing to EHS application of the EHS seminars to ensure our We checked the proper compliance to the EHS guideline consideration of (environment, health, guidelines. Ensure the risks in employees are fully by one new project and eight existing projects in our occupational safety) and Contribute to local stable occupational Mining aware of the EHS mining business, and also by one another resourceharmonious coexistence communities through procurement safety and health business guidelines. related project. and with local communities in activities for improving and supply areas which we operate. Donations to medical We carried out activities that contribute to the local environmental medical care, care, education and community as part of each project we invest in. risks, and that We will improve local education and contributes to build infrastructure in As a special initiative, our Australian subsidiary, ITOCHU infrastructure such as infrastructure. local communities local communities. Minerals & Energy of Australia Pty. Ltd., together with medical care and other local group companies, contributed A$200,000 in education. total to the Australian Red Cross Society as support to recover from the damage caused by the Bushfires. Policy and Basic Concept Occupational Safety and Health Management for Our Employees ITOCHU Corporation considers people to be its greatest asset. Ensuring that every employee can reach their full potential leads to increased corporate value. Based on this way of thought, we promote various policies aimed at realizing an environment in which all employees can leverage their unique talents and have the peace of mind to focus on their work. The cornerstone for achieving our Guideline of Conduct, I am One with Infinite Missions, is reinforcing employee health while developing employee ability. Based on this idea, we have codified our company policy towards health management in the ITOCHU Health Charter (enacted June 2016). We hope this will help every employee reach their maximum potential. ITOCHU Corporation recognizes the diversity of its employees with regard to gender, age, nationality, race, religion and existence of handicaps. We have defined our health charter as follows in order to achieve our vision as One with Infinite Missions, and perpetually improve corporate value. 1. Taking Responsibility for Employee Health ITOCHU will take responsibility for the good health of each employee by actively supporting initiatives they take to maintain or improve their health. 2. Contributing to Society by Maintaining Good Health ITOCHU will develop soundly over the long term based on an understanding that the good health of its employees is the foundation of the happiness of the employees themselves as well as their families, customers and wider society. 113 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance 3. A Legacy for Future Generations ITOCHU will carry out its infinite variety of missions as a company in which healthy employees who are fulfilled both spiritually and physically unleash their individual strengths. Going forward we will pioneer various initiatives that lead the way toward work-style reform and health management. And we will build an environment that allows employees to find meaning in their work. Occupational Safety and Health Management along the Supply Chain Beyond our employees, ITOCHU Corporation also implements comprehensive measures to ensure the occupational safety and health of the stakeholders within our supply chain, including the companies we invest in and contractors. In 2013, we established ITOCHU Corporation's Sustainability Action Guidelines for Supply Chains to communicate our expectations for partners along the supply chain. The Guidelines covers key safety and health related issues such as Management of working hours , Management of health and safety , and Management of employee health . We believe it is important to gain the understanding and cooperation of all of our suppliers and contractors regarding our procurement-related policies. In keeping with this belief, in FYE 2014 we followed up on the Guidelines with approximately 4,000 suppliers with whom we have continuing relationships, in order to raise awareness and understanding of our expectations. In January 2015, we have made it a mandatory procedure to inform all new suppliers and contractors of the Guidelines. We anticipate that these activities will lead to an enhanced understanding among our business partners regarding our approach to sustainability. Safety and Health Related Risk Assessments for Investment Projects ITOCHU Corporation considers ESG (Environmental, Social, and Governance related) aspects to be crucial in assessing potential risks for investment projects. In addition to financial risks and opportunities, our due diligence and risk assessment process for prospective investments therefore includes the use of a comprehensive ESG Checklist, which covers seven core subjects aligned with the ISO26000, as well as 33 sub-issues. One of the core subjects concerns Labor Practices, which includes sub-topics covering safety and health-related issues, such as labor standards, occupational safety and health, and stakeholder engagement to enhance health and safety practices. Our assessment of safety and health related risks for investment projects does not simply end at the initial investment. We conduct continuous management assessments and ensure that we monitor companies in our portfolio, ultimately to contribute to as much enhancement of business practices among investees as possible. For more information, please see ESG Risk Assessment for New Business Investment Projects (P152). Combatting Global Health Issues ITOCHU Corporation has operations worldwide, with about 800 employees stationed overseas. As such, global health issues including HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, and malaria, which are widely recognized as three of the deadliest infectious diseases today, are a major concern to our business, and we have implemented various initiatives in response. With regards to our employees and their families, we conduct detailed preparatory seminars regarding safety and medical practices prior to overseas dispatch, including information on said global health issues. We also provide employees stationed abroad and their families with mandatory vaccinations aligned to the recommendations published by local governments. Vaccinations are administered by our Health Administration Center or a nearby travel clinic. Once dispatched, our employees and their families have access to specialized health care service companies that we partner with, which can provide information on local hospitals, details on how to avoid infection, and emergency treatment of illnesses. In terms of community involvement, we have strived to enhance partnerships that can maximize our contribution to combatting global health issues. Since 2017, we are supporting Friends of the Global Fund, Japan (FGFJ) (http://fgfj.jcie.or.jp/en/) through our membership in the Japan Center for International Exchange (JCIE), which is responsible for the operation of FGFJ. We also work with Dole Philippines, one of our subsidiaries, to combat global health issues including HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, and malaria, in the local communities. We will continue to expand initiatives in this area to fulfill our social responsibility as a global company. 114 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Targets Based on our policies regarding the management of occupational safety and health, ITOCHU Corporation aims to achieve zero workplace accidents and death incidents for FYE 2021 as well, and will work toward the following underlying targets. Issues to Address Strengthening employee health Commitment We will promote the health of each employee and establish an environment in which they can more fully display their individual abilities. We will foment a climate of mutual support by establishing a support system that helps employees with cancer and long-term illnesses balance work and treatment. Specific Approaches Continue 100% participation in medical checkups Maintain complete in-house infirmaries and a support structure for dedicated medical care for each employee Promote support measures for those living with cancer Offer a healthy menu in the employee cafeteria Promote programs to help people stop smoking Utilize health management web tools for employees and continue to provide special programs for employees at a high risk for lifestyle-related diseases Success Indicators 100% participation in medical checkups. FYE 2021: improve health indices (such as BMI) compared to FYE 2017. FYE 2021: 0% job separation rate due to cancer or long-term illness. FYE 2021: use stress checks to keep rate of high stress individuals below 5%. Structures and Systems ITOCHU Corporation considers employees to be assets. One of the company's vital responsibilities is to ensure health and safety in the workplace so that employees can reach their full potential. We have built a robust system led by the President & Chief Operating Officer, not just for incidents, accidents, disasters and other emergencies, but also health management. This ensures that both ITOCHU Corporation employees working around the world and their families stay healthy and safe. To implement our corporate mission of being Sampo-yoshi, ITOCHU Corporation also discusses occupational health and safety with the ITOCHU Labor Union, which counts approximately 80% of employees as members. (see Labor Union (P95-98) ). Recurrent, active discussion between labor and management makes both cognizant of the challenges facing the company and keeps them on the same page. This builds a healthy relationship that enables them to consider and implement measures for improvement. See P120 for the number employees who have undergone training on health and safety standards. 115 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Overview of Itochu Corporation's Occupational Health and Safety Management Organization We have a standard management and escalation procedure for all matters regarding occupational safety and health, both domestic and abroad. For each of our Companies, Headquarters, and Overseas Blocs, we have appointed an Occupational Health and Safety Officer, who is responsible for overseeing the execution of relevant initiatives. These Officers also serve as contact points to which workplace incidents and death incidents are reported to within their related divisions. Managers are also expected to relay and escalate these reports to the head office's Human Resources and General Affairs Division. The Health Committee, chaired by the head of the Health Administrative Center and Human Resources and General Affairs Division, meets once a month to review and deliberate on important matters related to health. In case of emergencies that require immediate attention, relevant personnel are gathered to share insights on the issue at hand and escalate matters accordingly to the Health Committee. Emergencies can include health issues such as infection outbreaks, concerns raised by occupational physicians and risks associated with excessive working hours and working environments. With regards to Health Management related initiatives and concerns, we hold a monthly Health Management Council to share progress and any concerns or risks regarding occupational health and safety. Any critical issues identified in the Health Committee or the Health Management Council are escalated via the Human Resources and General Affairs Division to the Chief Administrative Officer (CAO), who holds the highest level of responsibility regarding health and safety. The CAO is responsible for reporting highly important issues to the Board of Directors and the Chairman & CEO. Matters that are not urgent are reported to the Board of Directors once a year, through the same reporting process. In addition, we submit reports relating on health management and labor health and safety to the Board of Directors every year. OHSAS18001 Certification Rate of ITOCHU Facilities OHSAS18001 (Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series) is a framework that certifies facilities with management systems that fulfill strict requirements for health and safety that address risks appropriately and enable continuous performance enhancement. The certification requires comprehensive elements such as a health and safety management policy, targets and action plans, the evaluation of initiatives implemented, and a process to reflect evaluation results for further improvement of the entire process. As of March 2019, among the 502 subsidiaries under ITOCHU Corporation, one company (0.2%) has acquired the OHSAS18001 certification. 116 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Operation of the EHS Guidelines The Metals & Minerals Company has established and is operating Environment, Health and Occupational Safety (EHS) Guidelines for its metal and mineral, coal and uranium mining businesses. EHS guidelines supports us to work on sustainable mining development leading to the stable supply of resources. It is our obligation to avoid and reduce the EHS risks such as environmental pollution, health hazards of workers and operational accidents caused by our business activities (e.g., exploration, development and production). To that end, we have prepared EHS guidelines as technical reference documents summarizing the EHS issues and recommendations for risk management. For throughout implementation of the guidelines, we also utilize checklists available in Japanese and English. EHS Guidelines apply to new investments, as well as projects in which we are already participating. We communicate intensively with our partners for consultation and improvement on resource development with greater consideration for the environment and safety. In FYE 2019, we performed checks on one new project and five existing projects in non-OECD countries. We then set items requiring follow-up. We have prepared guidelines in line with global standards such as the International Finance Corporation (IFC) and standardized processes with checklists. Meanwhile, we continuously review the processes so that we can operate the guidelines flexibly to suit the individual risks of each project. First of all, it is important that organization members have an awareness of EHS compliance. Accordingly, we aim to thoroughly spread information by conducting awareness activities using concrete examples every year. We held internal training courses for supervisors and company employees belonging to sections engaged in resource development in FYE 2019. The attendance rate of those subject to this training was 100%. Health Administration Center The Health Administration Center serves as the clinic for our headquarters in Tokyo and employs a total of 20 medical specialists, as well as x-ray technicians and pharmacists. For more than 30 years public health nurses have acted as border-less medical concierges who provide individual health guidance customized to the situation of every employee, both in Japan and overseas. This is based on close cooperation with medical specialists for various lifestyle-related diseases. In this way, the center supports ITOCHU Corporation health management through individual health management for each employee. Specifically, in addition to the specialized disease management mentioned above, the office provides general practice medicine (internal medicine, orthopedic surgery, dentistry), checkups (regular medical checkups, half-day complete checkups, and medical checkups for employees traveling overseas or returning from abroad on a temporary or permanent basis), various vaccinations, and examinations. It also offers medical counseling and provides information. In FYE 2020, almost 100% of our workers in Japan received regular medical checkups. Mental Health Concerning mental health, we have set up a stress management room in the company and offer counseling by a clinical psychologist. Employees can also seek counseling from a company physician or see a psychiatrist in-house. Our Health Insurance Union has set up a health consultation website called Health & Mind Online that enables employees to seek consultations by phone or over the net. On December 1, 2015, the Industrial Safety and Health Act was revised to require businesses to conduct employee stress checks once per year. ITOCHU Corporation's Health Administration Center took the lead in trialing stress checks a year early in October 2015. These were then introduced on a full-scale basis in FYE 2017. Safety Measures for Employees on Travel or Stationed Overseas ITOCHU Corporation operates worldwide with roughly 800 employees stationed overseas. The company also sends as many as ten thousand people on overseas business travel and works to offer health management to overseas staff. Since close communication between overseas locations and Japan is vital to overseas security management, we have stationed overseas safety specialists at our headquarters. They regularly exchange information about politics, economics, public safety and other factors with personnel and general affairs representatives assigned to each of the eight blocs worldwide. Staff meet through public security seminars, etc. They then disseminate appropriate measures throughout the company. We have also established a system to cover regions where information is more difficult to obtain through contracts with international security consultant firms. 117 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Measures to Address Medical Issues and Prevent Infectious Diseases Prior to being dispatched, all employees stationed abroad are required to undergo mandatory vaccination in line with governmental recommendations for each international region/country. ITOCHU's Health Administration Center provides employees with vaccination services – in case specific vaccinations are not available, we direct our employees to nearby clinics that specialize in vaccinations. All vaccination costs are also covered by the company. Moreover, we provide both the employees and their families with thorough preparatory seminars on health and safety matters regarding the countries they are assigned to. Global health issues such as HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, and malaria are especially crucial for certain countries. Therefore, we ensure that the preparatory seminars cover these issues, and also provide follow-up seminars following their return to Japan. Once our employees and their families arrive in their assigned countries, we provide medical support in various ways, such as partnering with a specialized health care service company (International SOS (https://www. internationalsos.com/)), to provide information on any potential issues that may occur, information on how to address and manage health emergencies, and support during emergencies, such as those that require emergency transportation. Basic Health Management Support Concierge without Borders: This is a service that we provide to employees and their families to support them in addressing chronic conditions. Employees and their families can reach out via e-mail or phone call to occupational health nurses supported by specialized physicians, and receive advice on health-related issues as necessary. Introduction of Local Medical Facilities: We are able to introduce reliable local medical facilities in the countries we operate in, where employees can receive necessary medical services. Routine Health Checkups: In addition to pre-dispatch comprehensive medical examinations, we provide employees and their families with annual health checkups. These checkups can either be conducted upon shortterm return to Japan, or in the countries where they are stationed in – including surrounding countries. SECOM Furusato Care Service: We provide support for our employees' elderly family members living in Japan. Our support covers a medical care system run by SECOM, which can be accessed year-round, at any time of day. The service allows for elderly family members to receive phone-based health support from a specialized nurse center. Health-Related Emergency Support International SOS: This is a service that we provide employees and their families to support them in addressing acute medical conditions. The service provides access to a multi-language call-center where users can inquire about any local issues regarding safety, including terrorism, social disturbances, and medical concerns. Additionally, if our employees or their family members encounter any emergency such as injuries or acute medical conditions, they can access International SOS to request relevant support, which includes arrangements for appropriate transportation, accompanying doctors and nurses, as well as access to medical institutions that are equipped to address the emergency. JOMF Kids' Net: This is a service that we provide employees and their families to address child-related medical issues abroad. The service can be accessed via international phone call to receive advice from pediatricians in Japan. Addressing Health and Disease Related Issues in Local Communities ITOCHU Corporation engages in community investment in the Philippines to address global health concerns. This is conducted mainly through the Mahintana Foundation Inc. (MFI), an NGO that was developed by the Dolefil* SR Division of Dole Philippines, one of ITOCHU's subsidiaries. Along with MFI and local municipalities, ITOCHU has engaged in comprehensive development initiatives for over 40 years, including the creation of industries and labor markets, environmental conservation and reforestation, education, provision for basic needs, enhancement of employee benefits, and health and safety. Specifically regarding health and safety, global health concerns such as HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, and malaria are particularly crucial, and we have implemented the initiatives listed below to prevent outbreaks of infectious diseases among employees and the local community: * Dole Philippines's Pineapple Division 118 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Social Issues Initiatives Vaccinations, education and training for dengue fever prevention, disseminating Infectious diseases insecticide-treated nets (ITNs), extermination of insects, and promotion of vitamin A consumption Promotion of vitamin A consumption, provision for pregnancy support, dental services, Healthcare and education and training on adolescent health issues Regarding malaria, the positive impacts of these prevention initiatives are continuing to spread, with an increasing number of surrounding regions reporting to be free of malaria infections. Occupational Health and Safety Data Safety initiatives in Japan incorporate countermeasures against large-scale disasters like earthquakes. These include creating a business continuity plan, preparing disaster supplies such as drinking water, food, and toilets, conducting emergency drills, and training employees to use our safety confirmation service. We encourage employees to prepare for large-scale disasters by making sure they have a way to contact their families in the event of an emergency, keeping a pair of comfortable walking shoes at work, and being sure they know their way home on foot. Occupational Health and Safety Data (Individual Employees*1) ★ (Unit: people) FYE 2017 FYE 2018 FYE 2019 FYE 2020 Full-time Part-time Full-time Part-time Full-time Part-time Full-time Part-time Employees Employees Employees Employees Employees Employees Employees Employees Number who suffered from occupational accidents (number 5（4） 1（1） 7（5） 1（1） 4（2） 0（0） 9（8） 0（0） which occurred during *2 commute) Number of 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Fatalities OIFR (Occupational Illness 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Frequency *3 Rate) Number who suffered Lost Time 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Incidents *4 (LTI) LTIFR (Lost Time Injury 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Frequency *5 Rate) 119 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance *1 Employees targeted: Full-time employees — career-track employees, clerical employees, those in special positions Part-time employee — contract employees *2 Number who suffered from occupational accidents: The total number of those who suffered from of occupational accidents or non-LTI due to their work and those injured during their commute. *3 OIFR: The rate of incidence of lost-time accidents corresponding to disease per million hours (calculated as the number of people suffering from LTI due to illness divided by the total number of working hours times 1 million) *4 Lost time incidents (LTI) are situations in which a work-related injury or illness causes the victim to be absent from work on the following day. (occupational accidents) *5 LTIFR: The rate of occurrence of incidents that caused employees to miss work per million working hours (calculated as the number of sufferers of LTI divided by the total number of working hours times 1 million) Performance Benchmarking Against Industry Average (Wholesalers and Retailers with Over 100 Employees) 2016 2017 2018 2019 Lost-time incident rate 1.74 1.94 2.08 2.09 * The data above references the Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare's 2019 Research on Work-related Accident Trends Total Number of Participants in Training Related to Health and Safety Standards (Individual Employees)★ FYE 2017 FYE 2018 FYE 2019 FYE 2020 General training covering health and safety standards*1 2,744 3,410 3,543 3,629 Human resources-led training covering health and safety 48 61 48 453 standards*2 *1 Training new recruits (career-track employees and clerical employees), managerial workshops, training for newly appointed section managers, pre-dispatch English and special foreign language training for young employees, evacuation drills at the Tokyo headquarters, and hands-on training for overseas safety measures. *2 Career vision training (including mindfulness classes and mental health management), morning activity seminar. FYE 2020 Number of Employees that Received Our Main Health and Safety-related Training (unit: number of employees) Number of Type of Training Training Details Employee Attendees Employees newly joining ITOCHU are informed on the importance of health for their personal life and their career. The training includes Training new information on mental health and lifestyle-related diseases. 129 recruits Employees are also educated on the company's health and safety management by our occupational physician and our clinical psychologist. 120 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Number of Type of Training Training Details Employee Attendees Managerial This workshop is for all employees in management positions to workshop on educate and train them on building a healthy work environment. 337 building a healthy Training topics include how to manage the mental wellbeing of workplace employees, and how to prevent and address cases of harassment. For newly promoted junior managers, industrial physicians and New manager clinical psychologists provide training on how to guide and manage training on health the health and safety of subordinates through case-studies. The 62 management training also provides guidance on how to maintain one's own health once promoted to their new positions. The training is mainly conducted by our occupational physician, and covers health issues that are likely to occur in relevant countries, as Training in well as crucial differences in medical environments and lifestyles preparation for between Japan and assigned countries. The training also covers overseas necessary preparations that are recommended prior to dispatch, 273 assignments or and information on how to receive health checkups during their junior overseas assignment. We also provide the same training for the family training members of our employees, and provide information on key contact points and resources in case of emergencies. We give hands-on training to learn lessons in preparation for when Hands-on training an emergency arises: what you will feel, think and do if you for overseas safety 32 encounter terrorism, an explosion, shooting or kidnapping in measures addition to what happens. ★Data assured by KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd, an external assurance provider based on the international standard ISAE 3000. (P216) Health Management In FYE 2017 we began to work on health management in earnest. This entailed promoting a range of measures to improve employee health, based on the ITOCHU Health Charter (established in June 2016). These include the introduction of Health MyPage, which allows all employees to manage their health status, individual programs for employees with a high risk of lifestyle-related disease (distributing wearable devices and offering expert advice on health and diet), and better support for those trying to quit smoking (reimbursing medical costs involved in quitting). And in April 2018, we opened a new health-focused integrated dormitory for unmarried employees. In an initiative to increase the health awareness of each employee, we introduced the Health MyPage app in April 2017. This app lets employees view medical checkup results via a PC or smartphone, and permits centralized management of lifestyle data, such as number of steps walked that day, weight, percent body fat and calorie intake. We also launched a personal guidance program for young employees with a high potential risk of lifestylerelated diseases. Participants receive wearable devices which collect data on exercise and sleep, and manage data on diet as well. This enables them to receive daily diet and exercise instructions online from a health coach and national registered dietitian. So far, more than 450 people have taken advantage of the opportunity and made progress under the program. Our Health Insurance Union operates two recreation centers in Japan, and implements initiatives which include cooperating with the Health Administration Center to fully cover the cost of treatment that helps employees stop smoking. Moreover, in August 2017 we began to lead the way in Japan with company initiatives to support balancing cancer care and work from the three perspectives of prevention, treatment, and coexistence. We are striving to create a workplace in which all employees, regardless of whether they suffer from cancer or long-term illness, can continue to work without concern toward their fullest potential, all the while maintaining motivation and finding meaning in their work. 121 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Policies for Living with Cancer In August 2017, we began to implement measures to support balancing cancer treatment and work in accordance with the ideas behind the ITOCHU Health Charter enacted in June 2016. It is said that, today, one in two Japanese will develop cancer at some time in their life. Every year, 850,000 individuals are diagnosed with cancer, with working-age adults accounting for 30%. Cancer typically requires a certain period of intensive treatment, followed by careful, long-term follow-up care. At ITOCHU, some employees continue to work while fighting cancer, and some have succumbed to the struggle. We believe that providing a work environment where employees may continue to work without fear, and without giving in to cancer, leads to positive work on the part of the employees and energizes the organization. So we have decided to keep the following three perspectives in mind as we implement this measure. Establish an environment in which employees can seek counsel and share information without concern Strengthen the system that the entire organization uses to support prevention, early detection, and treatment of cancer Establish internal systems and programs which permit employees to continue to work and play active roles while they receive treatment We are newly promoting the following policies as support to balance cancer care and work from the three perspectives of prevention, treatment and coexistence. This is in addition to developing a support structure for long-term illnesses that includes the health management structure we have enhanced up to now, high-cost medical expense subsidies, and a flexible work and holiday system. Cooperate with National Cancer Center Prevention: To improve the rate of early detection, we have added special cancer examinations under the supervision of cancer specialists to our regular medical checkup. Treatment: If an exam comes back positive, we refer the employee to the National Cancer Center for detailed examination. If cancer is detected, we immediately coordinate with specialists from the National Cancer Center to arranged state-of-the-art treatment. Establish a system that offers support for balancing work with cancer treatment (See the figure below.) Assign a coordinator who supports balancing work with cancer treatment, and foster a system and climate in which other employees, including the head of the organization, can help the employee with cancer to balance treatment and work. After receiving the initial report, formulate a plan to support balancing treatment and work which follows a prescribed flow that is dictated by the individual patient's condition. Create a handbook explaining how to support balancing treatment and work, and establish a leave system that allows such support to be provided. We assess the content of work-life balance support plans as individual performance goals (management by objectives) under the purpose of assisting the implementation of these plans. Enhance financial support for advanced cancer treatment The company purchases a blanket policy to provide financial support to employees who receive advanced medical treatment not covered by insurance. Expanded scholarships and job search support for the bereaved family Increase the amount of scholarship money paid to bereaved children through graduate school by roughly two to three times what it had been previously. If a bereaved child or spouse desires to work for the ITOCHU Group, every initiative will be made to find a place for them within the Group. By promoting these measures, we hope to create a workplace in which all employees, regardless of whether they suffer from disease, can continue to work as much as they like without concern, and reach their fullest potential. We aim to build a working environment where employees are able to maintain their motivation while finding a sense of worth in their work. 122 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance ITOCHU Corporation Support System for Balancing Work and Cancer Treatment * Career consultation desk provided by qualified counselor Application to Group Companies Due to our consolidated management, our initiatives with regards to occupational health and safety, and safety management, cover not only our employees (including contract employees) but also those of our group companies. Specifically, Group companies also conduct things like stress checks, safety initiatives in Japan, information on safety measures overseas, collaboration with overseas security and medical service companies, and seminars prior to overseas assignments. Group companies are increasingly adopting a morning-focused work style, and the group overall is striving to reduce the total number of working hours and promote employee health. In addition, we are working to strengthen the labor management of the overall ITOCHU Group by regularly conducting workshops that hone the knowledge and expertise of our personnel, and assessments of labor and human resources. Details of Personnel and Labor Support Provided to Group Companies in FYE 2020 1. Labor management case study workshops These workshops focus on case studies that highlight possible labor management cases including mental health problems and working hours management. Participants gain specialized knowledge and learn how to handle these types of problems. FYE 2020, 25 participants from 17 companies (January and Feburuary) 2. Labor management case study workshops (special edition) In these workshops, lectures explain key points that are likely to cause problems for human resources and labor management and propose solutions to these problems. In FYE 2020, the workshop's theme was Equal Pay , and gathered 104 participants from 61 companies. 3. ITOCHU Group Human Resources and General Affairs Liaison Council This council aims to allow those in charge of human resources and general affairs from our Group companies to exchange information and strengthen relationships. Activities include discussing the latest trends in human resources and general affairs, sharing information about ITOCHU Corporation measures and support situation, and updating one another about the content of revisions to laws. FYE 2020, 151 employees participated from 94 companies. 4. Human resources and labor management assessments These are health assessments aimed at checking whether rules, systems, and management related to overall personnel and labor affairs are operated in an appropriate manner. These include labor contracts, internal rules, occupational health and safety, and time management. We conducted assessment of 10 companies in FYE 2020. 5. ITOCHU Group Human Resources and Labor Management Portal Site We established a new portal site in May 2018 to share the regulations and expertise of ITOCHU with group companies. The aim of this site is to strengthen the human resources and labor management in group companies. By the end of FYE 2020, 61 companies had registered to use this. 123 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Ensuring Safety in Uranium Exploration Uranium exploration is one of our business areas that requires careful attention to ensure the safety of employees and surrounding communities. Our engagement in uranium exploration occurs through JCU (Japan-Canada Uranium ), in which we have a one-third share ownership. JCU currently owns interest in 13 uranium assets in Canada, where it conducts uranium exploration. Only one of these assets has completed the prefeasibility study, with the rest being suspended or still requiring more exploration work. Thorough prefeasibility and feasibility studies are crucial for us to understand the quantity of potential resources and economic value of each site, as well as technical and safety-related parameters and concerns. If JCU and its JV partners determine to proceed to development and production in the future, our policy is to continuously conduct meticulous measurements of radiation levels and implement necessary measures to limit radiation exposure among employees and surrounding communities to a minimal level. Likewise, it will also be our policy to minimize any risk of emitting low level radioactive waste. Peaceful Usage of Nuclear Fuel If JCU and its JV partners determine to proceed to uranium development and production, our policy is to strictly limit any usage of sold uranium concentrates to peaceful usage. The sole objective of our uranium exploration business is to contribute to the enhanced power generation for civilian use. Our minimum commitment to achieve this policy will be to meet any local or international regulations regarding security trade control. Furthermore, we will implement a chain of custody monitoring structures to ensure peaceful use among our direct customers as well as any customers involved in further resale. Radiation Hazard Assessments All JCU business activities related to uranium exploration are ensured to meet local laws that align with the International Atomic Energy Agency's (IAEA) guidelines for uranium development and production regulations. This includes our commitment to meeting IAEA recommendations and requirements, as well as Canadian local regulations regarding implementation of radiation hazard assessments and management to ensure its appropriate execution. Management of Radiation Exposure to Employees and Communities If JCU and its JV partners determine to proceed to uranium development and production, ur first and foremost priority across all activities regarding uranium concentrates will be health, safety, security, and environment (HSSE). It is therefore fundamental for us to implement necessary measures to ensure the safety of employees and the community – especially those in close proximity to the site. This includes our commitment to meeting IAEA recommendations and requirements as well as Canadian local regulations regarding measurement of radiation exposure among all personnel at relevant facilities, cumulative radiation dosage management for employees, and thorough monitoring. Regarding JCU's uranium exploration activities, throughout the past three years (2016-2018) we have not identified any cases of radiation levels that exceed natural levels in relation to employees and the community. Management of Radioactive Operational Waste All uranium exploration projects we are involved in via JCU aim for the development and production of natural uranium concentrates. Therefore, any radioactive operational waste occurring from the mine and the refining facility will predominantly be limited to having naturally-induced low level radioactive wastes. We will commit to meeting IAEA recommendations and requirements as well as Canadian local regulations regarding the appropriate management and disposal of these radioactive wastes. Throughout the past three years (2016-2018), we have not generated any high-level, mid-level, or low-level radioactive operational waste. 124 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance External Appraisal/Assessment In FYE 2016 ITOCHU Corporation obtained the highest rank in the Development Bank of Japan (DBJ) Health Management Rating System for the first time as a general trading company. We were also selected as a Health and Productivity Stock for two years in a row in 2016 and 2017 in the health and productivity management program jointly sponsored by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry and the Tokyo Stock Exchange. We succeeded in these areas thanks to positioning work-style reforms and Health and Productivity Management as important management strategies. We introduced a morning-focused working system ahead of other companies, and cooperated with industrial physicians and the Health Insurance Union to promoted aggressive measures for improving health throughout company. In FYE 2018 ITOCHU received the Minister of Health, Labour and Welfare Prize during the 2017 Award for Companies Promoting Cancer Control in the Action Plan for Promotion of Cancer Control, which is sponsored by the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare. The award was granted in recognition of our Support Measures for Balancing Cancer Care and Work, which began in FYE 2018. We also won an award of excellence, during the Tokyo Metropolitan Government awards commending companies that implement excellent initiatives to help cancer patients balance cancer treatment and work. Our Balancing Cancer Care and Work Support System was acknowledged in FYE 2019. We received the Award of Excellence in the Corporate Human Resources category at the Nihon no Jinjibu HR Awards 2018. The Nihon no Jinjibu HR Awards are awards that honor innovators in fields such as human resources, personnel development and labor management. We also received the Gold Award at the 1st gan-ally-bu Awards. The gan-ally-bu Awards are awards aiming for workplaces and a society where it is possible to work actively while receiving cancer care. Tokyo Metropolitan Award for Companies Government award Promoting Cancer Control in commending companies which Health and Productivity Stock the Action Plan for Promotion implement superior initiatives 2016-2017 of Cancer Control, sponsored to help cancer patients by the Ministry of Health, balance cancer treatment and Labour and Welfare work Selects companies engaged in This program recognizes This program recognizes strategically carrying out initiatives companies that are proactive in companies that implement with regard to employee health taking cancer control measures superior initiative to help from a management perspective and which are engaged in employees with cancer balance (Selected February 2017 / Ministry comprehensive, advanced cancer treatment with work. (Selected in of Economy, Trade and Industry control measures. (Selected in February 2018 / Tokyo (METI) and the Tokyo Stock February 2018 / Ministry of Metropolitan Government) Exchange (TSE)) Health, Labour and Welfare) * First general trading company to be selected two years in a row 125 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Nihon no Jinjibu HR Awards 2018 The Best Practice Enterprise Award of Excellence in the 1st gan-ally-bu Awards Corporate Human Resources Category These awards are held once a year This is an award system that These awards were established to to select just one company in each honors innovators in fields such realize workplaces and a society prefecture as The Best Practice as human resources, personnel where it is possible for cancer Enterprise that is working development and labor patients to work actively while proactively to reduce long working management. (November 2018) receiving care. They were hours as a part of the overwork established by the gan-ally-bu elimination campaign. (November private sector project working on 2017 / Tokyo Labor Bureau) the problem of cancer and employment in which employees work while receiving cancer care. (October 2018) 126 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Respect and Consideration for Human Rights Action Plan Risks Opportunities Business delay or business continuity risk resulting from Stabilization of business or securing of excellent human resources the occurrence of a human rights problem in business resulting from harmonious coexistence with local communities. activities that expands (geographically). Establishment of safe, stable supply system for product enabled Decline in credibility that may result from defects in the by the consideration of human rights and improvement of work social infrastructure services we provide. And others. environment in the supply chain. And others. MateriSDGs Issues to Business Performance Commitment Specific Approach Degree of Progress ality Targets Address Area Indicators Textile Company We will promote informationMake Group-wide efforts to We implemented this in 50 companies in Southwest Establishing a FYE 2024: Establish and sharing in the overall Group review the social and Asia (e.g., Vietnam and Indonesia) compared to the supply chain visualize the supply chain Respect and establish a safe, secure environmental safety of the 80 companies that was our target in FYE 2020. reflecting of the overall Group, from Supply chain supply chain, thereby helping supply chain and make Separately, we conducted a fact-finding investigation human consideration management customers with risk reduction improvements as necessary, material procurement to questionnaire on the status of compliance with the rights for human sales, to ensure a and contributing to thereby promoting the Labor Standards Act and Industrial Safety and rights and the responsible procurement sustainable economic establishment of a safe, secure Health Act for foreign technical intern trainees in 211 environment policy. development. commodity supply system. sewing plants in Japan. Machinery Company Water Field We own a water supply service business in the U.K. and Spain and a seawater desalination business in We will contribute to Australia and Oman. We are continuing to work to improving the hygiene Expand water and environment expand our seawater desalination and water environment, the development projects to promote the supply/sewerage business. Improving Expand and diversify the Water and of economic activities, and the appropriate use and treatment water and investment portfolio in the Environment Field environmental protection of the global of water and the effective hygiene water and environment projects environment through the utilization of resources, and We operate four waste incineration and power infrastructures field. appropriate treatment and reduce the environmental generation business projects in the U.K. In effective use of water and impact. Respect waste. addition to this, we entered into a financing human contract for a public-private partnership (PPP) rights waste disposal power generation project in Belgrade, Serbia in September 2019. We are aiming for operation in 2022. Set rules on due diligence We are continuing operations to check the core Establishing a related to social and business subjects in the guidelines on social responsibility supply chain We will contribute to environmental safety for FYE 2020: Aim to Overall using the company-wide ESG checklist in all reflecting improving the quality of life of suppliers and business implement the due electric power development projects where we are investing for the consideration all stakeholders in the supply investment destinations based diligence described on the and plant first time. We are conducting due diligence on for human chain and business investment on the distinctive characteristics left in all new projects individual development projects to check their social rights and the destinations. of each business, implement due development projects. and environmental safety based on the unique environment diligence, and strengthen characteristics of each business prior to investment. monitoring continuously. Metals & Minerals Company We held internal EHS (Environment, Health and Safety) training courses for supervisors and Sustainable company employees belonging to sections engaged We will promote sustainable mine in resource development. The attendance rate of development development of natural those subject to this training was 100%. Implementation of that reflects resources by fully Ensure the thorough annual internal seminars We checked the proper compliance to the EHS consideration committing to EHS application of the EHS to ensure our employees guideline by one new project and eight existing of the risks in (environment, health, Respect guidelines. are fully aware of the projects in our mining business, and also by one occupational Mining occupational safety) and human safety and business harmonious coexistence with Contribute to local EHS guidelines. another resource-related project. rights health and local communities in areas communities through activities Donations to medical We carried out activities that contribute to the local environmental for improving medical care, care, education and community as part of each project we invest in. which we operate. risks, and that education and infrastructure. build infrastructure in As a special initiative, our Australian subsidiary, We will improve local contributes to local communities. ITOCHU Minerals & Energy of Australia Pty. Ltd., infrastructure such as local together with other local group companies, communities medical care and education. contributed A$200,000 in total to the Australian Red Cross Society as support to recover from the damage caused by the Bushfires. Energy & Chemicals Company Be compliant with HSE (Health, Safety and Environment) standards Establishment in the respective We are appropriately complying with the HSE of an energy government and the management standards of the government and Contributing in the resources Implementation of projects in ones set by management body in each country. development of local society Respect development Exploration & compliance with the laws and by advancing exploration & internationallyWe are managing the number of incidents, their human system that Production of regulations of the respective production projects that recognized severity and content monthly in accordance with rights goes well with Oil & Gas government and internationallyaccommodate social and administrative body. in-house regulations. (There have been no serious local society recognized administrative body. environmental concern. Reduction of HSE issues operational incidents as of the end of January 2020 and environment that involve serious in this fiscal year.) damage to human beings and/or environment. Food Company We will promote procurement compliant with supplier-specific codes of conduct in coffee bean Coffee beans: Promotion producing countries. of procurement We are currently giving guidance to producers in We will strengthen the compliant with suppliereach producing area country to meet the handling of oil certified by the specific codes of conduct certification standards. The aim of this is to expand RSPO a third-party in our bases in transactions for certified coffee beans (e.g., those We will develop a procurement certification organization for producing areas in of the Rainforest Alliance and C.A.F.E Practice). structure compliant with thirdcooperation with Provisions palm oil. We have published our procurement policy with our party body certification and field We will support the suppliers. started target of switching all the palm oil we supplier-specific codes of conduct. establishment of a promotion Palm oil: Promotion of procure to sustainable palm oil supplied from Establishing a and distribution system in progress information supply chains compliant with RSPO/MSPO/ISPO by supply chain disclosure upon also FYE 2026. We are promoting the construction of Respect Japan for MSPO/ISPO in reflecting cooperation with domestic clarifying the KPI procurement and supply structures in light of human consideration indicators by publishing industry trends and the situation in suppliers. for human industrial associations. The aim rights of this is to encourage the use our procurement policy. rights and the environment of certified oil systems in producing countries. We will cultivate new producing Aim for the start of the areas. We will do this to expand commercial production employment and improve the and export of pineapple We will contribute to increased processed foods in FYE living environment through We are promoting the expansion of a pineapple farm Fresh food employment and an improved 2022 by cultivating diversification of producing and the construction of a pineapple processed food field living environment by pineapples in Sierra Leone manufacturing plant in Sierra Leone. areas in light of weather risks fostering local industries. as the cultivation of a and through the development of local industries in our Dole producing area followed business. by the development program in the Philippines. 127 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Policy and Basic Concept Human Rights Policy of the ITOCHU Group The ITOCHU Group has adopted the ITOCHU Group Human Rights Policy (hereinafter the Policy ), drafted based on our Corporate Mission, Code of Ethical Conduct, and The Basic Policy on Promotion of Sustainability. This Policy iterates our commitment to respect the human rights of our stakeholders and address negative impacts that may arise from our business activities. 1. Policy Scope and Our Expectations Toward Business Partners This Policy applies to all worldwide executives and employees of the ITOCHU Group, including contractors and temporary employees. The ITOCHU Group also expects business partners and other relevant stakeholders to comply with this Policy. 2. Endorsement of International Agreement The ITOCHU Group supports international agreements on human rights, including the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labour Organization's Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, and the United Nations Global Compact, which we have been a signatory to since 2009. We will also implement measures aligning to the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. 3. Legal Compliance and Respect for Internationally Recognized Human Rights The ITOCHU Group will comply with the laws and regulations in the respective countries and regions where we perform our business activities in addition to Japan. If there is a contradiction between internationally recognized human rights and the laws and ordinances of a country or region, we will pursue a method to maximize respect for international human rights principles. 4. Management Approach The ITOCHU Group will build structures to realize this Policy. The Sustainability Officer will bear the responsibility to oversee the compliance and implementation situation of this Policy. 5. Human Rights Due Diligence Based on the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, the ITOCHU Group will implement human rights due diligence in order to identify, prevent and mitigate negative impacts on human rights and fulfill our commitment to accountability. 6. Remedy and Rectification If the business activities of the ITOCHU Group induce a negative impact on human rights or if involvement in such becomes clear, we will strive to remedy and rectify that through appropriate procedures and dialogue. 7. Dialogue and Consultations The ITOCHU Group will leverage external human rights expertise in its implementation of human rights due diligence and will engage in dialogues and consultations with our stakeholders – especially those potentially subject to adverse impacts from our business activities. 8. Education and Awareness The ITOCHU Group will provide appropriate education to all executives and employees (including contractors and temporary employees) and strive to raise human rights awareness in order to incorporate and implement this Policy in our business activities. 9. Communication on this Policy and Our Relevant Initiatives This Policy will be approved by senior executive in charge of sustainability and be reported to our Board of Directors and we will widely publish it to the public. We will also report on our human rights initiatives based on this Policy on the ITOCHU website and in our ESG Report. April 2020 Fumihiko Kobayashi Member of the Board Senior Managing Executive Officer Chief Administrative Officer 128 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Individual Policy Respect and consideration for human rights is an important issue for ITOCHU as we deploy our business activities in various regions around the world. ITOCHU also asks all our stakeholders to approve, understand and put into practice the human rights policy of ITOCHU in addition to education for employees to respond to this important issue. Response to Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking ITOCHU is committed to initiatives to ensure that there is no modern slavery or human trafficking in our supply chain and business activities. We are participating in the United Nations Global Compact. Together with this, we are reflecting the concept of the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights in our business activities. The existing principles of ITOCHU contain initiatives to ensure that modern slavery and human trafficking do not occur in our sales activities and supply chain across the world. * Reference︓Status of Initiatives at ITOCHU Europe PLC. (Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement) (https://www.itochu.com/uk/en/sustainability/#ModernSlavery) Consideration for Foreigners If foreign workers, interns and trainees are accepted in our supply chain, we pay full attention so that we comply with the labor related laws and ordinances in the country concerned and so that we do not commit acts contrary to the purpose of that acceptance system. We do this from the point of view of respect for human rights and relief because such people are liable to become the target of illegal acts due to their low social and economic status. Respect for the Rights of Children ITOCHU supports the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child and Children's Rights and Business Principles. We respect the four pillars of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child a child's right to life, development, protection and participation. ITOCHU has adopted the development of the next generation as one part of our Basic Activity Guidelines on Social Contribution. We perform activities to support the healthy development of the young people who will be responsible for the next generation. Related activities can be found at Growth of Future Generations (https://www.itochu.co.jp/en/csr/social/future/index.html) . Security Company Appointment Concept The United Nations adopted the Code of Conduct for Law Enforcement Officials in December 1979. This aims to ensure that member states thoroughly implement and promote the appropriate roles of law enforcement officials (e.g., the police and military authorities) and respect and protect the dignity of humans while carrying out their duties. ITOCHU supports the Basic Principles on the Use of Force and Firearms by Law Enforcement Officials in which the United Nations has established the principles on the use of firearms by law enforcement officials under the above code of conduct. We select security companies according to the content of that. Respect for the Rights of Indigenous People We recognize that indigenous people have their own culture and history when we conduct business activities in regions where indigenous people live as part of our commitment to respect human rights. We respect and take into consideration the rights of indigenous people established in the laws of the countries and regions where we perform our business activities and international agreements (e.g., the Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples and the International Labour Organization (ILO) Convention 169). When examining new business investment projects, we also strictly enforce prior checks concerning the impact on the rights of indigenous people by that business. 129 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Structures and Systems ITOCHU promotes the formulation and implementation of action plans with respect and consideration for human rights serving as one of our key issues. Under the sustainability promotion structure, the person responsible for this issue is the Sustainability Officer while the Sustainability Management Department serves as the secretariat. The secretariat performs a review every year together with the persons responsible for ESG in each division. This content is deliberated on and reported to the Sustainability Committee. Important matters are also discussed and reported to the Board of Directors. * Reference︓Sustainability Promotion Structure Chart (P9) Human Rights Due Diligence Initiatives The ITOCHU Group is fulfilling our responsibility to respect human rights based on the Human Rights Policy of the ITOCHU Group we formulated in April 2019. Specifically, we identify and evaluate the negative impact from the corporate activities of the ITOCHU Group on human rights that may affect society. We then work to prevent and mitigate that through appropriate means. In addition, we disclose information on the progress and results of our action. In FYE 2021, we started building human rights due diligence process in our Food Company that greatly contributes to maintaining a safe and stable lifeline for consumers. New Business Investment Projects For more details, please refer to ESG Risk Assessment for New Business Investment Projects (P152) . Existing Business When entering into business with new suppliers, ITOCHU informs all applicable suppliers in advance of the Sustainability Action Guidelines for Supply Chains. If a matter in violation of the purpose of this policy is confirmed, we seek corrective measures from that supplier. At the same time, if it is judged that correction is difficult even though we have made continuous requests for correction, we deal with this under a stance of reviewing our business with that supplier. We also perform due diligence with the seven core subjects of ISO26000 serving as the mandatory survey items (including modern slavery and human trafficking) when making new investments with major suppliers. We conduct additional due diligence with external specialist organizations for investment projects requiring a professional point of view. Supply Chain Management For more information see Sustainability in the Value Chain (P150-151). Risk Assessments We conduct risk assessment on human rights including modern slavery and human trafficking. We do this through group company fact-finding surveys in which we visit sites together with external experts as appropriate. This is in addition to our supplier surveys in due diligence. We have also established policies and responses for procurement by product in regards to products with a significant impact on society and the global environment. This is an attempt to reduce the risks in our supply chain. * Reference︓Human Rights Audits in the Poultry Industry in Thailand (P151) 130 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Consultation Desk Employee Consultation Desk We have established an employee consultation desk called 7830 (Nayami Zero) to respond to worries and consultations from each individual employee. We have also posted the HR Help Guide Book on the Intranet and have widely informed employees about the consultation desk. This means we have established a structure in which it is possible for employees to consult with us. HR Help Guide Book on the Intranet Career Counseling Center ITOCHU established our Career Counseling Center ahead of other companies. This office accepts workplace culture, human relations, treatment and harassment related consultations in addition to consultations on the careers of individuals by telephone, fax, e-mail and the post. Full-time office employees deal with these consultations. Hotline In addition to a direct hotline to those responsible for compliance in each division, we have also established multiple desks to receive reports not only from our employees but also from the group companies and those who have contracts with ITOCHU both in Japan and overseas as ITOCHU Hotline System. These include external desks to receive reports by specialized operators and by external lawyers.. Our hotline system prohibits unfavorable treatment (e.g., retaliation) against internal information reporters. It also accepts information reporters to make reports anonymously. Flow of Report 131 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Consultation Desk for the General Public (including Stakeholders) ITOCHU Corporation has established a system to accept opinions, proposals, and grievances and to accept inquiries from the general public and all our stakeholders, as described below. Inquiries https://www.itochu.co.jp/en/inquiry/index.html Initiatives Implementation of Fair Recruitment Human resources are the greatest management resources for ITOCHU a general trading company deploying a variety of businesses around the world. ITOCHU conducts activities to recruit those newly graduating from universities and graduate schools every year. The table below gives our recruitment record over the last three years. Number of Hires by Gender★ (Unit: persons) New-graduates Mid-career Total Male Female Total Male Female Total FYE 2021* 84 36 120 FYE 2020 98 31 129 4 6 10 139 FYE 2019 103 35 138 11 4 15 153 * The figures as of April 1st, 2020 We also offer internships (work experience workshop) every year separate to our recruitment activities. The aim of these internships is to provide support to university and graduate school students in forming their careers. We provide opportunities to deepen knowledge about the business of trading companies and about working in a trading company. ITOCHU recruits employees chiefly on the basis of their personal character. We recruit employees fairly and impartially without concern for their age, gender, nationality or otherwise. We have provided human rights education with lecturers from the Tokyo Metropolitan Human Rights Promotion Center and have also reflected that content in our interviewer education. We have also established a watchdog system in which employees are selected and notified to serve as watchdogs to establish a fair recruitment screening system. 132 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Training We raise awareness about the relationship between our corporate activities and human rights in our various internal training programs. We develop the mind to respect human rights that should be possessed as an ITOCHU person in our new employee training. For example, we hold training to acquire consideration for nationality, age and gender (including sexual minorities such as LGBTs) from the basic concept of human rights and points of concern. We raise the problem of sexual harassment (including discriminatory behavior and harassment toward sexual orientation and gender identity) and abuse of authority in internal training aimed at organizational heads. We provide education and instruction for measures when harassment has actually occurred and when we have received reports of such. We strive to create an environment that does not allow harassment on a daily basis. Through these initiatives, we are aiming for a thorough understanding toward human rights. We are also striving to raise awareness in various regions by looking at consideration for human rights in our supply chain in pre-overseas assignment training. There were 720 participants in our human rights training in FYE 2020. FYE 2020 Human Rights Training Record (Unit: persons) No. of Participants New employee training 129 Organization Manager Workshop 337 Training for newly appointed section managers 62 Pre-overseas appointment training 254 In addition to the above training, we made business and human rights one of the themes in our sustainability elearning in FYE 2020. Please see the Spreading Sustainability at Itochu page (P25-26) for more details. Sustainability Seminars We have continued to hold internal seminars since FYE 2008 on human rights issues. The aim of this is to adopt insight and opinions from those outside the company. We made business and human rights (in the supply chain) a theme in FYE 2019. We conducted awareness activities for business and human rights. The purpose of these was to learn about the latest trends concerning corporate activities and human rights problems and to make use of that in our business as a general trading company which deploys various businesses across the world and which plays an important role in the supply chain. Seminar Details (P26). Various Publications We are endeavoring to raise awareness of human rights. The aim of this is to ensure that human rights violations do not occur in the workplace. We are doing this through various publications that we distribute to all our employees. We convey our basic concept on respect for human rights through the ITOCHU Group corporate code of ethical conduct and Human Rights Policy of the ITOCHU Group to all our employees. We call on our employees not to induce human rights violations in business in our compliance handbook. We do this by establishing pages on respect for human rights and harassment with concrete examples. We have prepared a handbook on communication with our suppliers. We deploy a check mechanism in which those in charge of surveys can understand the actual state of the management of human rights and labor practices in important suppliers more clearly and so that they can then offer advice on making improvements. At the same time, we utilize this in keeping our employees informed. 133 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Countermeasures Against Harassment ITOCHU is raising awareness on the importance of making systems well-known and engaging in communication through organizational head training. We are doing this so that pregnant employees and employees persevering with their work while being engaged in childcare and nursing care can also contribute to their workplaces with a sense of their work being worthwhile. This is without employees in the workplace being subjected to abuse of authority or sexual harassment (including disadvantaging and harassing employees who are applicable to sexual minorities). Superiors encourage employees with restrictions due to balancing their work with childcare or nursing care to make use of the related systems appropriately. In addition to this, we are also ensuring employees are fully informed about the importance of reviewing work content, work division and work styles over the entire workplace. Furthermore, we have thoroughly established a workplace environment which does not allow discriminatory remarks relating to sexual orientation or gender identification and remarks made under unconscious assumptions of gender segregation. We have also established a desk to receive consultations from employees. The following are clearly defined as prohibited acts in human rights violations under the work regulations: discrimination relating to work by race, gender, religion, creed, nationality, body, illness, age or any other irrational reason; sexual harassment (including discriminatory behavior and harassment relating to sexual orientation and gender identity); and workplace bullying. The regulations stipulate disciplinary action to be taken against such behavior. Foreign Technical Intern Trainee Survey on Working Environment ITOCHU Modepal, a subsidiary to ITOCHU under the Textile Company, conducted a survey on its domestic production contractors, which constitutes of 211 sewing factories. The survey inquired whether or not the contractors were employing foreign technical intern trainees, and if the contractor answered affirmatively, continued to ask how it manages legal compliance to labor standards and health and safety standards specifically regarding the foreign trainees. The latest survey results showed that there are no cases of non-compliance to relevant laws and regulations. Seminar on Sustainability Promotion In order to facilitate the survey and enhance its results, ITOCHU's head and Foreign Technical Intern Trainees office sustainability management department held a seminar for sales representatives and production managers prior to sending out the questionnaire. The seminar, entitled Sustainability Promotion and Foreign Technical Intern Trainees , aimed to enhance participants' understandings of human rights risks and how to mitigate them. ITOCHU will continue to make Group-wide initiatives in identifying risks along the value chain that can potentially lead to human rights violations, and strive to uphold its commitment to respecting human rights. Cooperation with Stakeholders Participation in Workshops on Human Rights Issues Business and Human Rights Training: Effective Stakeholder Engagement Supply Chain Labor and Human Rights Audit (Practical) Training (Lloyds's Register Japan) Caux Round Table Human Rights Education Subcommittee (GCNJ) 134 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Responsibilities to Customers Action Plan Risks Opportunities Decline in credibility that would result from the occurrence of a problem Increase in demand for food safety and security and related to the safety or health of consumers and service users. health improvement. SDGs Issues to Performance Materiality Business Area Commitment Specific Approach Degree of Progress Targets Address Indicators Machinery Company Promote sales of We aim to improve advanced medical Currently operating at National Cancer Center and Edogawa quality of life by devices, such as MRIHospital. More than 300 patients are treated including Contribute providing cutting-edge Increase the penetration Promoting Sales of Cutting-Edge guided radiation intractable cancer (ex. pancreatic cancer). Since the to healthier medical devices and of advanced medical good health medical devices and therapy systems, and technology is promising, Edogawa Hospital is now upgrading and more advanced medical devices in Japan, such among provision of medical the business of the system, which expected to operate in December 2020. enriched services in the field of as MRI-guided radiation people services supporting the With joint research with the National Cancer Center, we are lifestyles medical care, where therapy systems. operation of on the way to establish the standard procedure to cure technologies are designated regional intractable cancers. innovated rapidly. cancer care hospitals. Energy & Chemicals Company We started selling a non-absorptive liquid to protect against oral mucositis (a liquid that controls and relieves the pain of oral mucositis caused by chemotherapy or radiotherapy Contributing to the when treating diseases such as cancer) in group companies Aiming to obtain improvement of people’s approvals in Asia and (from May 2018 in Japan, from July 2019 in China and health and working scheduled for sale in the future in Korea). Actively promoting to North America for new Contribute environment through Promoting support the pharmaceutical and We started full-scale sales with FDA approval in North to healthier accelerating the good health Pharmaceutical development and other products of which America of a pain reliever through group companies (from and more development of among products marketing of new we are engaged in March 2018). enriched pharmaceuticals and people pharmaceutical and supporting the We started the sale in China of a percutaneous absorption lifestyles other products in fields other products. development, and to 5-HT3 receptor antagonist (therapeutic medication for with significant needs launch them into the nausea and vomiting during cancer treatment) (from March including cancer-related market. 2019). This drug has been newly listed as a treatment fields. choice in the Guidelines for the Treatment of Nausea and Vomiting During Cancer Treatment (published by the Chinese Society of Clinical Oncology in June 2019). Food Company Increase the number of persons with Promotion of the international We will select and appropriate appointment Contribute certifications/ concentrate on suppliers of the auditors in each The number of people who have acquired the assistant to healthier Supplying qualifications related Overall food-related who are capable of sales division under the auditor increased by one in FYE 2020. We plan to increase and more safe, secure to audit the Food businesses manufacturing and guidance of the ITOCHU this by two people in FYE 2021. We expect the total number enriched food Safety Management supplying safe, secure food safety of qualified persons over our entire group to reach nine. lifestyles System (FSMS) to food stably. management enhance the capability organization. of human resources for selecting suppliers. ICT & Financial Business Company Realization of new With the interest to maintain and promote health continuing Support We will provide valueservices and business to grow in company employees, the number of persons pharmaceutical added services for development relating subject to health checkup data management is steadily Contribute development pharmaceuticals and to medical data Promoting increasing. We expect this to reach 750,000 persons by the to healthier projects medical sites, and will We will optimize Expansion of existing good health end of FYE 2020. and more Business of contribute to healthcare utilizing business (number of among We have carried out investments including, SaaS for enriched providing health improvement of people's medical data. people subject to people dispensing pharmacies, dentistry-related data, genomic lifestyles care management Quality Of Life (QOL) by health checkup data utilizing cutting-edge data and pharmaceutical data. We will contribute to solutions for management to reach ICT tools. improve the quality of life with highly efficient operations by individuals 1 million by the end of utilizing the aforementioned data. FYE 2021) Policy and Basic Concept ITOCHU, which engages in multifaceted corporate activities in a wide range of fields in various regions around the world, believes that meeting the expectations of society through our business activities will maintain sustainability and lead to further growth. ITOCHU has limited direct access to consumers in much of our business due to our characteristics as a trading company. Nevertheless, we recognize the importance of quality and safety management. We fulfill our responsibilities to customers by promoting initiatives to ensure this concept penetrates into the value chain. Product Safety ITOCHU complies with our obligations as stipulated in safety related laws and ordinances for the products we handle. We are striving to ensure safety by formulating product safety manuals for each company based on our policy of providing even safer products with greater peace of mind to our customers. We will continue to work on providing safe products with peace of mind in the future. We will do this while promoting internal education, setting up departments responsible for product safety, establishing information transmission routes and reviewing our response in the event a product accident does occur. For related initiatives, please refer to Sustainable Procurement: Policies and Initiatives by Product Type (P154-167) . 135 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Responsible Marketing We engage in responsible advertising and marketing that fully takes into account our social responsibility. We do this under our Corporate Mission Sampo-yoshi , the ITOCHU Group Corporate Guideline of Conduct, I am One with Infinite Missions, and our Code of Ethic Conduct. We accept expectations and requests from society through two-way dialogue with stakeholders. We then put them into practice. Advertising We have unified the visual image of ITOCHU to improve and ensure the penetration of our brand image to customers. Internal regulations have been developed to advertise and perform publicity with the appropriate expressions, content and media. We also give due consideration to slander, discriminatory expressions, exaggerations and false representations, religious and political beliefs, the environment, third party privacy, personal information and intellectual property rights. This is done in accordance with our sustainability policy. We promote appropriate advertising and publicity initiatives by sharing knowledge on advertising and publicity activities through regular meeting for our group companies. Marketing We are thoroughly committed to creating content and expressions that do not cause misunderstanding and which do not infringe upon the rights, credibility and honor of others. This is done under relevant laws and ordinances, our internal regulations, various internal training programs and our company-wide compliance structure. We carry out responsible marketing activities by emphasizing dialogue with the various stakeholders around us in the diverse business activities we deploy on a global scale. Individual Policy Safety of Food Products The Food Company is engaging in food safety management based on the following mission and activity guidelines. Philosophy FOR THE NEXT GENERATION Mission 1. To contribute to the sound development of society while gaining strong trust from consumers 2. To provide health and happiness to people by realizing rich food lifestyles through the stable supply of safe food 3. To contribute to the interests of consumers, business partners, shareholders and employees through fair corporate activities Activity Guidelines The following serve as the concrete activity guidelines to achieve our basic philosophy and mission. We comply with laws and ordinances and the ITOCHU Group corporate mission and code of ethical conduct. We then thoroughly inform all relevant employees in the Food Company about these. Upon doing that, we engage in food safety management and fair business which form the basis of trust from consumers. The Food Safety and Compliance Management Office gives instructions and guidance on the above in the Food Company Group. 136 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Responsible Food Business: Commitments and Policies The ITOCHU Group aims to support people's lives by providing various products and services. In doing so, we aim to ensure the best quality in our offerings by comprehensively managing the entire supply chain of our products and services, from the procurement of raw materials to the retailing of finished products. In keeping with this business approach, our Food Company consists of three divisions: the Provisions Division, the Fresh Food Division, and the Food Products Marketing & Distribution Division. The three divisions are designed to allow us to develop a value chain that caters to consumer needs, is ensured to add top-quality value, and seamlessly connects various processes, from the development of food resources, the supply of raw resources, production and processing, midstream distribution, and retail. Our Food Company synergizes these business aspects throughout the Japanese, Chinese, and greater Asian markets. At the same time, by continuously improving and refining our management and controls around food safety, we aim to become a leading company in the global food industry. ITOCHU Group takes a market-oriented approach, incorporating the needs and expectations of the market and consumers as an integral part of our business model. Our food retailing business, which includes FamilyMart, is no exception. We first and foremost consider the needs of our customers, and based on key insights we draw from market and consumer trends, we build our strategy and approach. This allows us to build a value chain that adds value from the procurement and production of raw materials, to the development and manufacturing of products. As for our food business, we identify the issues noted in the table below as material topics that especially require our careful management to provide safe and reliable food products. It is subsequently our policy to commit to addressing each of these issues. Material Issue Description Management Approach Ensuring the safety of imported food Self-management system for products, processed foods, and fresh food food safety Reducing negative product produces (e.g. managing issues regarding Assessments for supplier's impact of food products on pollution, pesticide residues, abnormal management systems in place customers prions, additives, and genetic to ensure food safety (factory modification) inspections and audits) Management rules for the registration of food labels Responsible advertising, Improvement initiatives Provision of information regarding food marketing, and promotion of regarding checks and allergies and additives. food products verifications of food labels Training certified personnel regarding food labeling Responsible advertising, Provision of information regarding the Internal education programs on the marketing, and promotion prevention of drinking among minors and liquor tax law of alcoholic beverages pregnant women Medical Foods – a service catering to home care patients Cooperation with regional hospitals Access to better nutrition Providing nutritiously balanced and nutritionist organizations solutions to the elderly Improving Access to Better Nutrition As part of its commitment to realize a high-value-adding business, one of our major concerns in the food business area is access to nutrition. In developed countries, aging society is a pervasive issue. Elderly populations with unbalanced nutrition or lack of nutrition are increasing, straining medical budgets as well as caregivers. Furthermore, for conditions such as acute forms of diabetes and liver disease that require home care, there is a widespread need to secure nutrition balances that are healthy, nutritious, and prevent obesity. At one of our subsidiaries, FamilyMart, we sell Medical Foods to home care patients that require dietary limitations due to conditions such as acute diabetes and liver diseases. Through our Medical Foods service, customers including those elderly can gain access to lunch deliveries that aim at the improvement of their nutrition. Furthermore, based on thorough consultation with certified nutritionists, we provide heal support products such as nutritious products that limit calorie and salt intake, health enhancement products that supplement the body with lactic acid bacteria and dietary fibers, and health enhancement products that limit the body's intake of excessive sugar or salt. 137 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Furthermore, we recognize that in developing countries, hunger and malnutrition are socially important issues caused by various elements including poverty. At ITOCHU Group, in order to take action in solving these issues we have implemented various initiatives. For example, we provide financial support to the World Food Programme (WFP) and working with Table for Two (TFT), which aims to alleviate the dietary inequality between developed and developing nations. In this way, we aim to provide high quality, nutritious food solutions to the children of developing countries. Throughout the initiatives introduced above, we provide products and services and engage in community investment activities to support the nutrition and health of people in and out of Japan. We will commit to continuing these initiatives to enhance self-care, reduce medical expenditure, and provide healthy food options to children living in poverty, to contribute to solving issues of access to better nutrition among underprivileged groups. Safety of Pharmaceuticals and Responsible Marketing Pharmaceutical Quality and Safety We contribute to the fulfillment of medical needs by delivering a stable supply of pharmaceutical raw materials and products at the level of quality required of pharmaceuticals. Additionally, we will satisfy latent medical needs by working on clinical development in new drug development to enable treatment of heretofore difficult-to-treat diseases. Our main market is Asia, including Japan, but we will also work on procurement and sales in Europe and the United States. We ensure safety in product supply and clinical development in accordance with Pharmaceuticals and Medical. Devices Act. Pharmaceutical Ads and Labels Final pharmaceutical products are sold only to licensed companies. We do not engage in advertising. We are taking necessary measures to ensure appropriate product labeling throughout the manufacturing and deployment process in legal compliance with the Act on Securing Quality, Efficacy and Safety of Products Including Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices. Structures and Systems Quality Management With the diversification of dietary habits, the globalization of food distribution, and a growing awareness regarding health issues, consumers are increasingly paying attention to the safety and security of their food. At the same time, there have been cases of incidents and problems threatening food safety, such as those regarding Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy (BSE), residual pesticides, and the distribution of foods using unauthorized additives. Our Food Company addresses these concerns and ensures measures are taken to prevent issues by establishing a quality control system overseen by its Food Safety and Compliance Management Office.The Food Quality and Compliance Management Team is responsible for addressing the following issues: 1. Facilitation of the Food Company and their respective domestic and overseas subsidiaries in their initiatives to design a food safety self-management system. 2. Management of the labeling, safety, and trade-related issues of our food products. 3. Provision of education and training to employees regarding food safety. 4. Provision of training to members of our food safety management team in China. 5. Enhancement of the food safety management audits and subsequent corrective guidance for subsidiaries and supplier factories. In addition to the above, the Team is responsible for management of trade and logistics, management of compliance related issues, and CSR/environmental activities. 138 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Supplier Management Audits for our Food Business Due Diligence for New Suppliers When the Food Company conducts business with a new business partner, the Company is required to assess the potential supplier's management level of the manufacturing process, and whether it has received certification from well-recognized institutions such as the ISO22000. In doing so, we use an internal assessment criteria that is designed to evaluate practices around food safety management. Securing the Safety of Food through Regular Audits of Overseas Suppliers ITOCHU established the Food Safety Management Office (now: Food Safety and Compliance Management Office) in the Food Company in FYE 2003. We are taking wide-ranging measures to ensure safety in the food business. As part of this, we have been conducting regular visits and audits of the food processing factories of overseas suppliers for imported food since FYE 2012. The sales department is responsible for appointing an employee, local staff, or group subsidiary employee to perform site visits and audit the safety management system at least once a year. The frequency and timing as well as the specific sites subject to audits are agreed upon with the local factory, with consideration given to specific circumstances Food Audit as the supplier's local laws, management capability, product, and hygiene-related risks associated to the manufacturing process. Auditors are required to reference a Plant Audit Check Sheet that we have originally devised, which incorporates elements of well-known international food safety standards such as Codex HACCP, ISO22000, and FSSC22000. Any points of improvement identified through the checklist are appropriately addressed, and necessary corrective measures are ensured to be communicated. In addition to the above, we set up a new China Food Safety Management Team in Beijing in January 2015. The aim of this is to strengthen the safety management of food imported from China in particular. We have been dispatching a member of our Japanese staff with a wealth of practical experience in factory audits (IRCA* ISO22000 lead auditor) as a trainer. Through this, we have been building a management structure at a comparable level to that required in Japan. In addition to regular audits by Chinese supervisors, we are increasing opportunities for mutual confirmation through follow-up audits to ensure continuous improvement. The systematic implementation of hygiene management according to HACCP is scheduled to begin with the recent revision to the Food Sanitation Act in Japan. We are considering expanding the sites we will visit and audit along the food chain in accordance with the sites subject to management in this system. * International Register of Certificated Auditors For overseas suppliers, our factory audit procedure and results are as follows: Factory Audit Procedure Process Description The responsible sales department and the Food Safety and Compliance Management Office determines the frequency of audits for each factory identified as a manufacturing plant for imported food, in accordance with laws Target and frequency settings and regulations of the relevant country. The decision of the audit frequency considers specific circumstances such as the supplier's local laws, management capability, product, and hygiene-related risks associated to the manufacturing process. The sales department is responsible for appointing an employee, local staff, or group subsidiary employee to perform site visits and audit the safety Conducting the factory audits management system at least once a year based on the frequency setting over 150 plants are currently subject to these site visits. Issuing a findings report and The final report must be created in line with the GFSI/Global Market Program requesting corrective Ver 1 factory audit framework. measures (as per necessary) 139 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Regular Audits to Ensure Food Safety FYE 2018 FYE 2019 FYE 2020 On-site audit performance (number of companies) 186 196 197 Regular audits and follow-up audits in China (number of audits) 54 57 45 Subsidiaries that have ISO22000 or FSSC22000 Certifications Furthermore, we also ensure food-related safety among our direct subsidiaries by implementing a management system that aligns to well-known international frameworks on food safety, such as Codex HACCP, ISO22000, and FSSC22000. Japan Nutrition Co., Ltd. Mirai Shiryo Co., Ltd. Prima Meat Packers, Ltd. Fuji Oil Holdings Inc. Sho-wa Co., Ltd. ITOCHU Sugar Co., Ltd. DOLE ASIA HOLDINGS PTE. LTD. PT. ANEKA TUNA INDONESIA PT. ANEKA COFFEE INDUSTRY Staff Education and Training to Ensure Compliance to Responsible Advertising, Marketing, and Promotion Standards and Food Safety Standards We provide e-learning as an education and training program to ensure responsible advertising, marketing, and promotion of food products, and compliance to food safety standards. We are looking to raise awareness and improve knowledge about responsible marketing, food safety, and compliance with relevant laws and regulations among employees. Furthermore, given the expansion of our food business and the subsequent increase in our auditing scope, we are also invested in training personnel capable of site audits. Food safety and responsible advertising, marketing, and promotion Compliance Main content Internal regulations and manuals ESG All employees in the Food Company (including part-time workers, temporary Those subject to workers, employees seconded from the company and employees seconded to the taking the education company) and training All employees in the Food Management Support Corporation (subsidiary to complement the functions of the Food Company) Performance of Staff Education and Training to Ensure Compliance to Responsible Advertising, Marketing, and Promotion Standards and Food Safety Standards FYE 2018 FYE 2019 FYE 2020 Number of trainees 699 754 771 Attendance rate 99.9% 100% 100% We will continue to provide this education and training with the aim of ensuring that knowledge becomes reliably entrenched. 140 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Participation in Food Safety-Related Initiatives and Organizations At ITOCHU Group, we aim to maintain and enhance our quality management to ensure that we supply safe and reliable processed foods. In doing so, we make sure to cooperate with external parties and are members to industry groups in order to engage in knowledge sharing and collaboratively work toward enhanced solutions. Association for the Safety of Imported Food, Japan (ASIF) (Japanese only) (http://www.asif.or.jp/) A group of concerned companies involved with importing, manufacturing, distribution, and sales formed ASIF in November 1988, beginning to work towards solving imported food safety issues. These activities led to the ASIF receiving permission from the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare in September 1992 to become an incorporated association. ASIF received authorization to become a public interest corporation on April 1st, 2011. ASIF is involved in a wide variety of activities to support food vendors in fulfilling the social responsibility of delivering safe and secure imported foods. In order to promote food safety, the ITOCHU Group collects information on the safety of processed food and perishable food regarding imported food product – e.g. imports, contamination, pesticides, abnormal prions, additives, and genetic modification – from the Association for the Safety of Imported Food of Japan. This information is reflected in our voluntary food safety management system as well as our supplier food safety management system (which includes factory inspections and audit). Japan Food Hygiene Association (Japanese only) (http://www.n-shokuei.jp/) This association was established on November 1st, 1948 as a collaborative initiative between private companies in the food sector and administrative organizations regarding the food hygiene law in order to enhance self-regulation in the market. The establishment of the organization shortly followed the enactment of the food hygiene law in 1947, which was created to prevent any accidents or issues regarding eating and drinking, as well as improve public hygiene in Japan. Ever since its establishment, the association has continued its initiatives to cooperate with organizations throughout Japan, and contribute to the enhancement of food safety and hygiene among private companies. The association participates in a wide range of purpose-led initiatives for public interest, and provides training regarding the self-regulation of food safety management, provides assessments and verifications of certain food products, promotes food sales legal liability insurance, holds seminars and events, issues and promotes food hygiene related books and reports, provides informative guidance to consumers, participated in international cooperation regarding food hygiene, and promotion of relevant research. Based on advice received from the Japan Food Hygiene Association, the ITOCHU Group is taking necessary measures to continuously improve its food safety management system by identifying ways to improve food hygiene and our self-management system. Japan Plant Quarantine Association (Japanese only) (https://www.zenshoku-kyo.or.jp) The Japan Plant Quarantine Association was founded on October 1st, 1986, with approval from the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries, aiming to comprehensively pursue public interests regarding plant quarantines. The Association engages in a variety of initiatives to enhance the safety of Japan's agricultural production and conserve its natural resources For example, the Association conducts promotional activities to disseminate knowledge on plant quarantines to the general public, engages in research regarding plant quarantines, facilitates the establishment of inspection systems, and other various activities to enhance the smoothness of plant quarantine processes. The ITOCHU Group, collects information on appropriate advertising and labeling methods that address food allergies and food additives from the Association for the Safety of Imported Food of Japan. This information is reflected in improvements made to our food label registration management rules, label verification methods, the quality of our inspection management, and trainings for qualified food labelers. 141 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Quality Management in Our Pharmaceutical Business Pharmaceutical undertakings require sector-specific expertise and is therefore primarily handled by designated group companies. We implement quality control to ensure quality in accordance with the Act on Securing Quality, Efficacy and Safety of Products Including Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices. This includes, for example, assessing and confirming the quality of imported materials at our lab before it is sold. Assessing Management Capabilities at Our Pharmaceuticals-related Suppliers and Contributing to Improved QOL Regular Site Visits for Foreign Suppliers Not only do we implement quality control at our lab but we also visit our overseas suppliers regularly and perform inspections to make sure that the manufacturing process conforms to the Pharmaceuticals and Medical. Devices Act. Contribution to Improving QOL in the Pharmaceutical Field We contribute to controlling the rise of medical costs by providing a stable supply of raw materials for generic drugs. We will also invest in companies that develop regenerative medicines and new drugs to alleviate the sideeffects of cancer and work to raise the level of future treatments and improve patient quality of life. Initiatives Initiatives to Support Socially Vulnerable Groups FamilyMart At FamilyMart, one of ITOCHU's subsidiaries in the Food Company, we engage in food retailing that first and foremost values the local community's needs. This means that we highly value the contributions we can make to socially vulnerable groups, and implement measures to address this issue throughout the FamilyMart business such as in the following ways. Responsible Advertising, Marketing, and Promotion of Alcohol At FamilyMart, we are promoting initiatives to prevent sales of alcohol and tobacco products to minors. In July 2017, we upgraded our register system to trigger an audio guidance after scanning alcoholic and tobacco-related products, which requires both the clerk and the customer to recognize a mandatory warning. This has allowed for us to improve upon maintaining and increasing awareness of the issue among our store staff, as well as facilitating the communication between store staff and customers to identify ages. It is also mandatory at FamilyMart to train new staff members on age identification prior to selling any products in the store. Additionally, we conduct biennial trainings for all staffs throughout all FamilyMart stores on the selling of alcohol and tobacco-related products. Furthermore, in order to ensure that our employees comply with these standards, in addition to tracking training records on a staff-by-staff basis, we also require store managers and supervisors to conduct checks on critical elements such as the installation of appropriate labels and signs above what is legally required, the appropriate division of products, and posters that we require be put up to clearly communicate that we conduct age identification and strictly prohibit sales of alcohol and tobacco-related products to minors. Reducing Negative Impact of Food Products In an increasingly ageing society, the demand for medical budgets and caregivers is rapidly increasing, becoming pervasive social issues in Japan. In light of this social issue, FamilyMart proactively sells products and services aimed at supporting the health of its customers, and has combined part of its business with drugstores. These initiatives aim to support the enhancement of healthy diets among customers, increase a self-care mindset among community members, and reduce medical expenditures. 142 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Examples of Health-supporting Products and Services Selling Medical Foods: Medical Foods are products that specifically limit its containment of salt, sugar, and protein, which aims to meet the dietary requirements of people with acute diabetes and liver diseases who are subject to dietary restrictions and home care. FamilyMart provides these products in cooperation with local hospitals and relevant medical institutions. Selling products certified by nutritionists and the Smart Meal Certification: With thorough consultation with certified nutritionists, we have produced products that cater to nutrition needs, which limit calorie and salt, and increase nutrition balance. One of our lunch boxes sold on a reservation basis, known as the Aburi-Salmon Bento became the first convenience store produced food product to be certified as a Smart Meal*, meaning that the lunch box was recognized for having a particularly balanced nutrition. Sales strategy that balanced an on-and-off concept : We sell a variety of food products that as a collective, aim to increase intake of nutrition, such as products that focus on vegetable, lactic acid bacteria, and dietary fibers, and at the same time decrease intake of salt and sugar without compromising on flavor. * This certification scheme is managed by the Healthy Food and Food Environment Consortium, which is composed of 10 academic organizations that specialize in health-related issues such as high blood pressure and diabetes. Food Safety and Reliability At FamilyMart, we aim to provide ready-made meals such as rice-balls, sushi, lunch boxes, deli dishes, salad, and sandwiches that ensure safety and reliability for our customers. In order to achieve this, we have voluntarily enhanced our safety and quality requirements to build upon what is legally required. Throughout each and every process of production, from procurement of raw materials and manufacturing to the logistics and sales of products, we make it mandatory to follow these strict requirements, and have implemented support systems to ensure that this can be sustained. We also especially value the continuous improvement of hygiene management among contracted manufacturing factories for our ready-made meals, and are implemented measures accordingly. Moreover, we are also invested in reducing additives in our food products, and aim to ensure that the safety and reliability of our products is at a high level. Process Initiative Procurement Mandatory food plant inspection (50 items are comprehensively examined) of raw Assessment and approval of raw materials (identification of necessary quality certifications) materials Responsible labeling of fast-food ingredients (including raw materials and country of production) Promoting HACCP implementation among contracted manufacturing factories for our readymade meals Training provision to our suppliers and contractors through the Nationwide Quality Manufacturing Management Conference Quality audits conducted by third parties Inspections conducted by FamilyMart plant managers Reducing the inclusion of additives in our products Ensuring a sales environment that addresses three fundamental requirements: hygiene Logistics management, expiration date management, and temperature management and sales Training for stores based on a hygiene tool Community Engagement for a Brighter Future As a member of the Japan Franchise Association, FamilyMart has been promoting the Safety Station Activity, an activity to help protect the safety of local communities, since 2000. This activity was launched by the National Police Agency, where initiatives, such as anti-crime measures, disaster prevention, safety measures, thorough prohibition against the sale of cigarettes and alcohol to people underage to urge those people to go home at late night, are actively promoted in collaboration with the government, municipalities, and community people. As part of our Safety Station activities, we also provide protection to vulnerable groups such as children, women, and elderly in case of emergencies, and provide guidance and support for youths to build an inclusive community. Furthermore, at our stores we also set up donation boxes as part of an initiative to contribute to the protection and development of future generations, as well as preserving the natural environment for these future generations. 143 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance ITOCHU Sugar (Japanese only) (https://www.itochu-sugar.com/) At ITOCHU Sugar, an ITOCHU group subsidiary, we produce and sell a trademark oligosaccharide product made from domestically procured sugar beets, which contain only about half the amount of calories in normal sugar. This product is effective in maintaining a healthy intestinal environment by enhancing the performance of Bifidobacteria. The health and nutrition benefits of this product have been widely recognized, with the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare certifying it as a Food for Specified Health Uses (FOSHU). FOSHU is a certification system that recognizes foods containing ingredient with functions for health and officially approved to claim its physiological effects on the human body. * Reference︓FOSHU（Food for Specified Health Uses） (https://www.mhlw.go.jp/english/topics/foodsafety/fhc/02.html) Initiatives to Ensure Responsible Labeling The Food Company operates a food label registration management guideline, which provides a detailed framework for us to responsibly label our food products. To ensure compliance to the guidelines, we also provide training to staff that belong to relevant sales divisions and the Food Safety and Compliance Team. The training aims to enhance our staff's understanding of the food label registration management guidelines and their capability to conduct inspections and checks on appropriate food labeling. Given increasing importance for this issue and the increasing size of our food business, we are also aiming to leverage this training to increase the number of food labeling practitioners certified by the Food Labeling Certification Association, a Japanese industry organization. In this way, we maintain the necessary internal capacity to cooperate with specialized third party organizations to ensure compliance to our guidelines as well as legal requirements. At FamilyMart, the responsible labeling of processed foods is especially important as our customers widely vary. For example, we recognize that we must ensure the safety of anyone with food allergies, and prevent the excessive intake of certain substances that can have heavy health consequences. Therefore for products sold at FamilyMart, in addition to the 7 items that are legally required in food labelling, we also make sure to label on the optional 20 items to maximize the safety and reliability of our products. We also set internal requirements on the labeling of information that can help consumers to better understand the food they purchase. Items we additionally require to label include raw ingredients, nutritional substances, and how to preserve the product. With regard to processed food and alcohol, we especially make sure that responsible labeling is thoroughly addressed. For example, we have implemented measures to simplify and clarify the warnings related to alcohol poisoning, alcoholism, and underage drinking. Involvement in Industry Initiatives to Ensure the Safety of Alcohol Consumption It is important to our business that we thoroughly address issues regarding the potential negative impacts of alcoholic products such as alcoholism, alcohol poisoning, and underage drinking. We also recognize that these negative impacts are also especially important with regard to vulnerable groups. Therefore, our subsidiaries that sell alcoholic products are members to industry organizations introduced below, in order to participate in knowledge sharing and be in tune with the latest market trends and best practices. Gyoshuren Cooperative (Japanese only) (http://gyoushuren.com/about/) The Gyroshuren Cooperative is an organization composed of trading companies that represent regions throughout Japan, which engage in alcoholic wholesale. Currently the cooperative consists of about 200 major wholesalers from throughout Japan. ITOCHU SHOKUHIN CO., Ltd., an ITOCHU subsidiary, is a member to this cooperative. 144 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Tokyo Alcohol Retail Cooperative (Japanese only) (http://tosyukyo.or.jp/) Tokyo Alcohol Retail Cooperative is an organization with corporate members that participate in the alcohol business, aims to elevate the level of social responsibility associated to acquiring an alcohol permit. For example, the organization promotes legal compliance, engages in awareness raising of the negative social impacts that must be managed across various product types, leads initiatives to maintain cultural traditions around alcohol, leads initiatives to enhance the current culture around appropriate amounts of alcohol consumption, and supports companies in achieving sustainable business models. Throughout these activities, the Tokyo Alcohol Retail Cooperative contributes to the health and wellbeing of the Japanese population, and promotes market competition that is fair and complies with high standards. The Cooperative highly values harmonious cooperation among member companies, and has supported the sustained management of businesses throughout the industry and has subsequently led the development of the industry in general. Nippon Access, Inc., an ITOCHU subsidiary, is a member to this cooperative. Contributive Initiatives to Alleviate Hunger and Poverty in Developing Countries World Food Programme (WFP) Given the global level at which we operate our food business, hunger and poverty are important social issues that we recognize we have a responsibility to contribute to. One such way that we make our contribution is by being an official contributor to the Japan Association for the World Food Programme. As a contributor, we participate in various initiatives led by WFP. In May 2019, we supported WFP's child hunger eradication campaign called ITOCHU Employees Participating in “Walk the World“. The annual global walk aims to raise awareness and funds, the 2018 Walk the World Event as well as encourage action to end child hunger. This campaign was held in Yokohama and Osaka, and 476 and 61 employees from ITOCHU Group as well as ITOCHU subsidiaries volunteered in each location respectively. Table for Two Table for Two is an international NPO that was founded by an affiliate of the World Economic Forum's Young Global Leaders. The organization aims to right the imbalance between the 1 billion people in the world who suffer from undernutrition, and the 1 billion people in the world who suffer from obesity. The organization does so by implementing a calorie transfer program, where the organization partners with companies, universities, restaurants, and organizations throughout the world to provide more nutritious school meals to the former, and healthier meals to the latter. Table for Two was founded in Japan in October 2007. Owing to ITOCHU's long –standing commitment to social contribution, we were one of the first companies in Japan to partner with Table for Two and implement the calorie transfer program in our employee cafeteria at the Tokyo, Osaka, and Nagoya offices the following April. More specifically, whenever one of our employees chooses a healthier TFT meal from our cafeteria menu, 20JPY is donated per meal. In addition, through a matching gift scheme, the company also donates the same amount of money as the employee, making the total donation 40JPY per meal. The donation contributes to providing nutritious school meals to children in developing countries. 145 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Sustainability in the Value Chain: Action Plan Risks Opportunities Increase in demand for food safety and security and health improvement. Establishment of safe, stable supply system for product enabled by the Decline in credibility that would result from the consideration of human rights and improvement of work environment in occurrence of a problem related to the safety or the supply chain. health of consumers and service users. Winning customer trust or creating new businesses with a stable supply of environmentally friendly resources and materials. And others. SDGs Issues to Business Materiality Commitment Specific Approach Performance Indicators Degree of Progress Targets Address Area Textile Company We implemented this in 50 companies in Respect We will promote Make Group-wide efforts to Southwest Asia (e.g., Vietnam and human Establishing a information-sharing in the review the social and FYE 2024: Establish and Indonesia) compared to the 80 rights supply chain overall Group and establish environmental safety of the visualize the supply chain of companies that was our target in FYE reflecting Supply chain a safe, secure supply chain, supply chain and make the overall Group, from 2020. Separately, we conducted a factEnsure consideration for management thereby helping customers improvements as necessary, material procurement to sales, finding investigation questionnaire on the stable human rights and with risk reduction and thereby promoting the to ensure a responsible status of compliance with the Labor procurement the environment contributing to sustainable establishment of a safe, secure procurement policy. Standards Act and Industrial Safety and and supply economic development. commodity supply system. Health Act for foreign technical intern trainees in 211 sewing plants in Japan. We will contribute to Raise awareness of an ethical, We have not entered into a contract with Provision of FYE 2021 : Take initiatives increasing the visibility of a sustainable lifestyle through a new brand. However, we have realized Ensure stable commodities that Brand with new brands. Have a sustainable lifestyle by brand business, thereby cases using the fabric of FOOD TEXTILE procurement help achieve a marketing sustainable lifestyle taking advantage of our promoting awareness-raising not that reuses ingredients scheduled to be and supply sustainable business understood and instilled more strengths as a marketing only in the overall industry but discarded as dyes in our main brand of lifestyle widely. company. also among consumers. CONVERSE shoes. Food Company Increase the number of persons We will select and Promotion of the appropriate The number of people who have acquired with international Contribute to concentrate on suppliers appointment of the auditors in the assistant auditor increased by one in Overall foodcertifications/qualifications healthier and Supplying safe, who are capable of each sales division under the FYE 2020. We plan to increase this by related related to audit the Food Safety more enriched secure food manufacturing and guidance of the ITOCHU food two people in FYE 2021. We expect the businesses Management System (FSMS) to lifestyles supplying safe, secure food safety management total number of qualified persons over enhance the capability of human stably. organization. our entire group to reach nine. resources for selecting suppliers. We will promote procurement compliant with supplierWe are currently giving guidance to specific codes of conduct in producers in each producing area coffee bean producing country to meet the certification Coffee beans: Promotion of countries. standards. The aim of this is to expand procurement compliant with We will strengthen the transactions for certified coffee beans Respect supplier-specific codes of handling of oil certified by the (e.g., those of the Rainforest Alliance human Establishing a We will develop a conduct in our bases in RSPO a third-party and C.A.F.E Practice). rights supply chain procurement structure producing areas in certification organization for We have published our procurement reflecting Provisions compliant with third-party cooperation with suppliers. palm oil. policy with our started target of Ensure consideration for field body certification and Palm oil: Promotion of stable We will support the switching all the palm oil we procure to human rights and supplier-specific codes of progress information establishment of a promotion sustainable palm oil supplied from procurement the environment conduct. disclosure upon also and distribution system in supply chains compliant with and supply clarifying the KPI indicators Japan for MSPO/ISPO in RSPO/MSPO/ISPO by FYE 2026. We are by publishing our cooperation with domestic promoting the construction of procurement policy. industrial associations. The procurement and supply structures in aim of this is to encourage the light of industry trends and the use of certified oil systems in situation in suppliers. producing countries. General Products & Realty Company Wood products & materials: We are continuing to encourage and review suppliers. We established a path to We deal in sustainable Wood Continue to request suppliers achieving ahead of schedule a rate of products & forest resources to reduce FYE 2026: Aim to achieve a who have yet to obtain 100% for certified or under high-level Using sustainable the impact on the rate of 100% for certified or materials certifications to obtain them. management wood products & forest resources environment and prevent under high-level management Pulp Conduct sustainability surveys materials that we handle in FYE 2021. the increase of greenhouse materials that we handle. Woodchips of suppliers and visit them. Pulp and woodchips: We achieved a gases. rate of 100% for certified or under Ensure stable high-level management materials that procurement we handle. and supply We shall use our best efforts to establish measures to identify any suppliers We aim to procure raw We will establish a traceability We are developing a traceability system Realization of developing on High materials with traceability and Natural system to make uncertain raw using blockchains. We plan to introduce sustainable supply Conservation Value (HCV) sustainability ensured in Rubber material procurement supply this around the second quarter of FYE of natural rubber areas, High Carbon Stock natural rubber processing chain tranceparet. 2021. (HCS) areas and peatland, business. in order to avoid procuring rubber from them. 146 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Sustainability in the Value Chain: Policy and Basic Concept Supply Chains ITOCHU also gives consideration to human rights, labor and the environment in our supply chain and business investments. We do this through sustainability management tailored to each business activity. Through this, we have built a sustainable value chain. This is leading to an improvement in the competiveness and corporate value of the ITOCHU Group. Notifying Suppliers of the Sustainability Action Guidelines for Supply Chains We believe it is important to acquire understanding and cooperation from our suppliers for our procurement policies. Accordingly, we once again notified approximately 4,000 suppliers engaged in ongoing business of the ITOCHU Sustainability Action Guidelines for Supply Chains in FYE 2014. We also stipulated that new suppliers must be notified of these guidelines in advance when engaging in business with us from January 2015. We are promoting on our sustainability policy in this way. Sustainability Action Guidelines for Supply Chains ITOCHU adopted the Sustainability Action Guidelines for Supply Chains to clarify and communicate the sustainability concerns we expect our suppliers to address. We will take necessary measures to communicate and cooperate with our suppliers to ensure responsible management of the following items: 1. Suppliers shall respect the human rights of all of its employees and shall not engage in inhumane treatments, including discrimination, harassment, abuse and corporal punishment. 2. Suppliers shall not engage in forced labor or child labor and must prohibit the employment of children under the minimum working age. 3. Suppliers shall not engage in employment discrimination based on characteristics including but not limited to gender, race, and religion. 4. Suppliers shall comply with statutory minimum wages and aim to exceed living wages. Also, suppliers shall not conduct unjust wage reductions. 5. Suppliers shall respect the freedom of association and right to collective bargaining of its employees and ensure that labor-management discussions on working conditions and environment are held, as appropriate. 6. Suppliers shall comply with statutory working hour restrictions. Suppliers shall also appropriately manage its employees' working hours and provide holidays and paid leaves as necessary. Finally, suppliers shall strictly prohibit excessive overtime work. 7. Suppliers shall take necessary measures to provide a safe, hygienic and healthy working environment to its employees. 8. With regards to its business activities, suppliers shall consider potential and existing impacts on local communities and the environment – such as impacts on nearby biodiverse habitats or pollution of the local ecosystem. Suppliers shall also take necessary measures to reduce its consumption of energy, water and other natural resources, as well as its emissions of greenhouse gases and waste. 9. Suppliers shall comply with all applicable local and international laws and regulations. Suppliers shall also ensure its compliance to fair business practices and anti-corruption. 10. Suppliers shall disclose information on all items listed above in a timely and appropriate manner. 147 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Sustainability in the Value Chain: Structures and Systems Supply Chain Against a backdrop of an expansion in our business areas, ITOCHU's supply chain has become wider and more complex. There is now a further need for risk management concerning human rights, labor and the environment in the procurement of raw materials, producing areas, intermediate distribution and regions of consumption in addition to in the processes directly managed by us. We pay particular attention to the on-site management of suppliers who account for a relatively high share of our purchases. We view our consideration and sense of responsibility for these areas as matters of great importance to be addressed with high priority. ITOCHU has established the Sustainability Action Guidelines for Supply Chains. We strive to prevent the occurrence of problems by conducting investigations and reviews as below. If we discover a problem, we aim for improvement through dialogue with the concerned supplier. Figure of Supply Chain Management Promotion Sustainability Surveys Since FYE 2009, we have set the seven core subjects of ISO26000 as essential survey items to understand the actual conditions of suppliers. Following on from that, each company and applicable group company selects important suppliers based on certain guidelines (e.g., high risk countries, products handled and monetary value handled). The sales representatives of those companies and representatives from overseas subsidiaries and operating companies then visit those suppliers to conduct interviews. They also conduct sustainability surveys in a questionnaire format (sustainability checklist). Sustainability Checklist The Sustainability Checklist is used to conduct supplier surveys on their management of relevant sustainability risks. The Checklist is based on the seven ISO26000 core topics (organizational governance, human rights, labor practices, environment, fair business practices, consumer issues, community involvement and development) and is supplemented by department and product specific issues that we identified as relevant to our business and by extension our suppliers (see table below for our list of supplementary topics. Furthermore, based on opinions provided by external subject matter experts, we have constructed the survey questionnaire to consist of 19 core items centered around human rights and labor and environmental topics particularly associated to high sustainability risks – these items are our priority in supplier engagements. Supply Chain Communication Handbook 148 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Outline of Sustainability Survey High risk countries Applicable Survey Criteria Over a certain amount of money Handling of certain product groups 1. Organizational governance: Establishment of a responsibility-taking structure and internal report system 2. Human rights: Risk assessments of human rights violations in business, abolition of child labor, forced labor, harassment and discrimination, and payment of appropriate wages 3. Labor practices: Working hour management, health and safety management, and worker health Main Questions Common 4. Environment: Waste and drainage treatment, handling of hazardous to All Companies substances, and climate change and biodiversity initiatives 5. Fair operating practices: Prevention of corruption, information management, prevention of intellectual property right infringements and a sustainable procurement policy 6. Consumer issues: Quality control and traceability 7. Community involvement and development: Dialogue with consumers and neighboring residents Department and Product Specific Supplementary Sustainability Items Procured Resource Type Additional Survey Items Implementation of forest conservation measures Paper, wood-chips, timber, timber products Third-party certification Implementation of food safety measures Livestock products (meat) Management of traceability Textile (including raw materials) Management chemical substance Management of traceability Agricultural products (including palm oil) Management of chemical fertilizers and pesticides Management of traceability Seafood Management of fisheries We have also prepared a handbook on communication with suppliers. We are using this to inform our employees of how to communicate with suppliers. At the same time, we have set up a check system that enables those in charge to understand concretely the management situation in terms of the environment, human rights, labor practices and corruption prevention in important suppliers to give advice on making improvements. We will continue to conduct surveys and communicate with suppliers in the future to improve the awareness of our employees and to seek understanding and implementation from our suppliers. 149 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Example Excerpt from the Handbook Forced labor means all labor forced on a person against his or her will. Examples include restrictions on an employee's freedom to leave his or her job until he or she repays a debt to the company or restricting an employee's freedom to leave his or her worksite under contract. Forced labor may be identified by asking employees what their work shifts are like, whether they have break times and whether they are able to eat meals. It may also be ascertained by observing their facial expressions. In a worst-case scenario, people are deprived of the freedom to live their lives; they have to live in a dormitory on the premises of the company's factory and are not allowed to go outside those premises. It is also effective to check whether there are employees who have come to work from areas far away or other countries in a company. Employers must be prohibited from taking the originals of passports, IDs and work permits because this can lead to force labor. Reference It is necessary to check for forced labor in factories in Japan as well as in emerging nations. In recent years, Japan's Technical Intern Training Program (TITP) has been criticized by some from overseas. Accordingly, please also check whether suppliers in Japan employ anyone from overseas and whether there are problems in terms of working hours and wages. FYE 2020 Sustainability Surveys We conducted surveys on a total of 316 companies, including 72 suppliers of overseas offices and group companies, in FYE 2020. We did not discover any serious problems requiring an immediate response from those results. We have also checked the prompt improvement measures and countermeasures taken by our business partners on problems raised as concerns at the time of the survey. We will continue to seek understanding for the concept of ITOCHU from our business partners and to communicate with them in the future. Number of Suppliers Surveyed General ICT & All (Non-tier Metals & Energy & Textile Machinery Food Products Financial 1 Suppliers) Minerals Chemicals Company Company Company & Realty Business Company Company Company Company FYE 2020 316 (72) 50 15 20 39 102 85 5 FYE 2019 343 (101) 49 13 19 39 110 108 5 FYE 2018 333 (98) 46 9 20 45 103 105 5 In addition to the supplier survey based on our Sustainability Checklist as introduced above, our Textile Company conducted a domestic supplier survey in FYE 2019 on their management of technical intern trainees. For more information, please refer to Foreign Technical Intern Trainee Survey on Working Environment (P134). The Sustainability Management Department also visits and surveys important suppliers together with external experts as necessary. 150 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Results of Survey for Department and Product Specific Supplementary Sustainability Items Procured resource type Number of Suppliers Surveyed FYE 2020 Paper, wood-chips, timber, timber products 64 Livestock products (meat) 19 Textile (including raw materials) 6 Agricultural products (including palm oil) 4 Seafood 22 Human Rights Audits in the Poultry Industry in Thailand Inspection of the CPF Saraburi Factory We conducted a human rights audit targeting foreign workers in the Saraburi Factory (a chicken meat processed product factory) of Charoen Pokphand Foods Public Company Limited (CPF) — one of the main suppliers of the Food Company — accompanied by external auditors. Recent years have seen an increase in cases where Japanese companies with Thai firms in their supply chain have been warned by NGO groups about human rights violations of foreign workers in the livestock and fishing industries in Thailand. We checked the factory for human rights risks in our supply chain through this audit. This factory (slaughterhouse and food processing site) employs 3,400 Cambodians — equivalent to approximately 50% of its workers. That makes them an important part of the factory's labor force. We checked a number of items in this audit. These included the extent of signage in Cambodian in facilities in the factory, a check of the evacuation routes, the attendance management situation, and the personal storage situation of passports and work permits. In addition, we also randomly chose some Cambodian employees actually working there and interviewed them about their actual working conditions. This audit did not find any violations of the human rights of foreign workers, and reaffirmed there is sufficient consideration for human rights and the proac-tive approach CPF takes toward sustainability. CPF has developed a safe working environment for its foreign workers. CPF Saraburi Factory Those from CPF Who Interview with a Cambodian Cooperated with the Audit Worker on His Actual Working Conditions All Signs in Cambodian on Fire Advice Not to Over-stack Prevention Facilities Auxiliary Feedstock Supplier CSR Audit Report: CP Foods, Saraburi (https://www.itochu.co.jp/en/csr/pdf/supplier_csr_audit_report_e.pdf) 151 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Regular Visits and Surveys of Food Processing Factories The Food Company has been regularly visiting and surveying the food processing factories of its overseas suppliers since FYE 2012 in regards to imported foods under the initiative of the Food Safety and Compliance Management Office. In FYE 2020, we visited 197 overseas suppliers and deployed preventive measures to ensure safety in food transactions. We established a China Food Safety Management Team in Beijing in January 2015. With this, we have set up a structure to be able to audit our Chinese suppliers. We conducted regular audits and follow-up audits on 45 companies in FYE 2020. Please refer to Responsibilities to Customers (P139-140) to learn about our initiatives in detail Response to Suppliers in Violation of This Policy When we have confirmed a case in which there has been a violation of the intent of this policy, we request corrective action from the applicable supplier. Together with this, we conduct an on-site investigation to give guidance and improvement support as necessary. We made 27 requests for correction to suppliers with an inadequate response to human rights in our surveys in FYE 2020. We are continuing to make requests in this way to non-compliant suppliers. If it is judged that correction is difficult even though we have made continuous requests for correction, we deal with this under a stance of reviewing our business with that supplier. Business Investment Management The business activities of companies in which we invest must recognize and deal with their possible impact on the environment and society. To that end, we strive to understand ESG risks and work on preventative activities. We perform risk assessments on ESG in general through the utilization of a checklist and visits and surveys to formulate the necessary measures. These are continuously reviewed and improved in the framework of our environmental management system. ESG Risk Assessment for New Business Investment Projects It is compulsory in new business investment projects for the division making the application to use the ESG Checklist for Investments to evaluate the project in advance (perform due diligence). The division making the application looks at whether policies and structures have been established from a perspective of ESG. It also looks for the risk of a significant adverse effect on the environment, violation of laws and ordinances, and complaints from stakeholders. This checklist consists of 33 check items. These include elements of the seven core subjects* in ISO26000 — the CSR international guidelines. The division making the application also then refers to review opinions based on risk analysis from relevant functional divisions (management divisions). If there are any concerns, it requests additional due diligence from external specialist organizations for matters requiring a professional point of view. The project is then only undertaken upon confirming that there are no problems in those results. * Organizational governance, human rights, labor practices, the environment, fair operating practices, consumer issues, and community involvement and development Group Company Fact-finding Investigations We have continued to conduct on-site visits and surveys in group companies since 2001 to prevent environmental pollution. We visited and surveyed a total of two companies in FYE 2020. We did this together with external experts upon consideration for the environmental and social risks of each company. We have completed investigations into a total of 285 offices as of the end of March 2019. These investigations inspect the factory and warehouse facilities, the situation of drainage to rivers, the environmental law and regulation compliance situation, labor safety and human rights, and communication with the local community in addition to holding a question and answer session with management. We identify problems or demonstrate preventative measures. We then check to see whether the situation has been corrected. 152 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Visit and Survey Report: DOLE PHILIPPINES Fact-finding Investigation We visited and surveyed DOLE PHILIPPINES, a company which produces banana, pineapple and other fresh fruits and manufactures fruit cans in the Philippines, on January 20 to 23, 2020. We performed a detailed check concerning the environment and labor safety related risk management and legal compliance situation (e.g., soil pollution, waste, chemical substance management and safety measures) based on the findings of external experts well-versed in the local laws and regulations. We confirmed that these matters are being appropriately managed. In addition, we confirmed that the company is proactively working on activities that contribute to society and the environment (e.g., biomass power generation on its premises and donations to local schools). 153 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Sustainability in the Value Chain: Sustainable Procurement: Policies and Initiatives by Product Type Resource Sourcing that Requires Forest Conservation Initiatives ITOCHU handles each of the following commodities, which require careful consideration of forest conservation initiatives. In addition to the Sustainability Action Guidelines for Supply Chains, the following Procurement Policy establishes our approach to protecting and preserving natural forests our commitment to the sustainable use of natural resources. At minimum the Policy is subject to an annual review, with revisions made as necessary. Commodities Relevant to Forest Conservation Timber, timber products, raw materials for papermaking and paper products Natural rubber Palm oil Policy and Management Approach to the Preservation of Natural Forests and the Sustainable Sourcing of Forest Resources Sustainable Procurement Policy on Natural Forests and Forest Resources Organizational Scope ITOCHU Corporation and its group subsidiaries Sustainable Procurement Policy on Natural Forests and Forest Resources 1. We shall aim to make improvements in the transparency and traceability of our supply chain in order to ensure that we can take necessary measures to prevent sourcing activities that can contribute to deforestation. 2. We support the conservation and preservation of High Conservation Value (HCV) areas, High Carbon Stock (HCS) areas, and peat areas. Additionally, we are committed to respecting the Community and Social Considerations (free, prior and informed consent – FPIC), and will continually strive to reduce our impact on the environment. 3. We will not procure from suppliers involved in major environmental and social issues, such as deforestation of areas with high conservation value. 4. We support the standardization of a reliable forest certification systems and will proactively seek opportunities to prioritize certified products when procuring timber, timber products, raw materials for papermaking, and paper products. 5. Regarding natural rubber, raw materials for papermaking, and paper products, which requires extensive water use, at minimum we commit to complying with all applicable wastewater laws and regulations. We will also commit to properly treating wastewater to exceed legal requirements where possible and strive to reduce total water consumption by recycling water resources where possible. 6. In carrying out palm oil-related projects, we will strive to procure from suppliers taking necessary measures to minimize and eliminate chemical substance use, especially those related to paraquat, 1A/1B class insecticides as defined by the World Health Organization (WHO), and chemicals listed in the Stockholm Convention and the Rotterdam Convention. 154 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Items related to forest conservation and the corresponding Sustainable procurement policy on natural forests and forest resources are as follows. Items Related to Forest Conservation Items under the Policy Raw Materials for Timber, Timber Natural Papermaking and Palm Oil Products Rubber Paper Products 1. Zero deforestation and 〇 〇 〇 〇 traceability 2. Protection and preservation of production areas and 〇 〇 〇 〇 consideration for local residents 3. Elimination of suppliers involved in major environmental 〇 〇 〇 〇 and social issues 4. Standardization of forest 〇 〇 certification systems 5. Consideration for wastewater 〇 〇 and water resources 6. Minimization or non-use of 〇 chemical substances In cooperation with our Group companies and suppliers, we will engage in sustainable procurement of forestry resources based on the Sustainability Action Guidelines for Supply Chains and this Policy, especially by taking necessary measures to ensure the traceability of procured items. In order to promote this Policy, each company and corresponding Group companies are required to conduct a sustainability survey on critical suppliers. If any non-compliance with this Policy is identified, we will conduct supplier engagements to resolve the issue and request measures for improvement. If timely improvements are not made by suppliers, we will re-consider any business agreements with them. As for the survey results obtained through the supplier survey, we will regularly disclose information to our stakeholders. We will also promote sustainable use of forest resources to the wider society through appropriate communication with stakeholders, particularly our suppliers and customers. Management Approach Every year, we report and receive approval on our targets and progress made to senior management. We also share suggestions from stakeholders including NGOs, and if any issue is identified, we review our measures and this Policy, as necessary. Regarding palm oil, procurement based on this Policy is carried out by the Oil, Fats & Cacao Department of the Food Division within the Food Company – this department is therefore also responsible for the compliant procurement of palm oil. Regarding timber, timber products, raw materials for papermaking and paper products, our Group ESG Managerprovide training to members who handle these products at least once a year. The training aims to educate them on domestic and international trends and issues related to forest resource development and sustainable forest resource utilization. 155 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Wood, Wood Products, Papermaking Raw Material, and Paper Products ITOCHU is engaged in the procurement, manufacturing, and distribution of materials for pulp and paper products, wood and wood products, and woodchips. In order to ensure the protection of natural forests and sustainable use of forest resources, we aim for 100% use of certified material or material for which advanced management can be verified until 2025. Celulose Nipo-Brasileira S.A. ITOCHU invested in Celulose Nipo-Brasileira, the world's eighth largest manufacturer of commercial hardwood pulp, together with a major Japanese pulp manufacturer and others and sells 1.2 million tons of the company's pulp produced 100% from plantation trees as a worldwide export distributor. Celulose Nipo-Brasileira has obtained Forest Management certification and CoC certification (a certification for management of the processing and distribution processes) from the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) and handles everything up to pulp manufacturing through sustainable plantation-based forest management. The company plants trees on roughly 130,000ha out of the approximately 250,000ha (about the size of Kanagawa Prefecture) of land it owns to produce pulp. The remaining roughly 100,000ha is Vast Plantation of Celulose NipoBrasileira left as permanently protected forest or legally protected forest, and they are working to maintain the ecosystem. They also plant 70,000 saplings of four kinds of trees found in natural forests in the region annually for the purpose of regenerating forests in areas where there have been soil disruptions, landslides or withering of vegetation. These tree planting activities take place on 300ha of land per year. At Macedonia Farm, a natural forest preserve, the company engages in activities to protect endangered birds and ensure that they reproduce, protecting, breeding, and releasing rare wild birds like the mutum (a pheasant-like bird). Metsä Fibre ITOCHU has a stake in Metsä Fibre, a world-class softwood pulp manufacturer based out of Finland. Metsä Fibre boasts an annual pulp production capacity of around 3.2 million tons (including the Äänekoski Plant, which was expanded in August 2017 and has begun new operations). They have tapped ITOCHU as the exclusive distributor for their softwood pulp destined for Asian markets. The company manufactures pulp from 100% traceable forest resources of which 80% have received two certifications, namely the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) and the Program for the Endorsement of Forest Certification Schemes (PEFC). In Finland, pulpwood growth exceeds consumption, which allows for a long-term, stable supply of pulpwood. Additionally, Metsä Fibre New Äänekoski Plant commissioned in generates electricity in the pulp manufacturing process. What is not 2017 used in-house is supplied to neighboring communities, contributing to a reduction of fossil fuel consumption in the area. Through initiatives carried out with excellent partners such as this, we will promote the use of sustainable forest resources and continue to promote further strengthening of our business. Certification of Traceability for Chinese Timber Since 2013, ITOCHU KENZAI has been working to create a system for certifying the traceability of plywood manufactured in China. In 2017, we were audited by Japan Gas Appliances Inspection Association (JIA), a certification body, and we received certification of timber traceability in our main supply chain. The Timber Traceability Certificate ensures traceability and that timber is managed throughout all processes within the supply chain, from the logging areas to the veneer and plywood factories, by obtaining logging permits and other evidence, auditing factories, observing the logging areas, and other means. With this, ITOCHU KENZAI was able to reliably ensure that no timber from illegal logging is used in around 40% of the plywood manufactured in China for which forest certification has not been obtained. Timber Traceability Certificate (https://www.itochu.co.jp/ja/csr/pdf/wood_traceability_certification_2019.pdf) 156 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Sustainability Survey and Supplier Engagement Every year, we conduct a survey of our suppliers and those of our main business companies in relation to our products. We include suppliers that have been deemed low risk according to the guidelines so that we can engage in continuous dialog with a broader scope of suppliers. In addition to the sustainability survey, we work to ascertain the situation through on-site inspections and due diligence at those suppliers that have received suggestions from non-governmental organizations and actively urge them to obtain forest certification or certification by a third party agency. Sarawak, Malaysia A non-governmental organization has pointed out problems with illegal logging and human rights in Sarawak, Malaysia. Every year, we work to ascertain the situation through interview surveys of our supplier, the local government, a timber association, human rights lawyers with the human rights committee, local residents, local non-governmental organizations, forest consultants, and others. We have not found the problems pointed out by the non-governmental organization through these surveys, but to eliminate concern, we have repeatedly requested that the supplier engage in specific initiatives. As a result, in recent years, the supplier has actively worked to obtain Interview with Indigenous Community forest certification, and the number of certified forest areas has in Anap Muput Forest Management increased. Changes have also occurred in the local government in Sarawak, including reinforcement of regulations to eliminate illegal logging and announcement of measures to promote forest certification. Romanian Supplier (Schweighofer) Romanian supplier Schweighofer is one of ITOCHU KENZAI's lumber suppliers and was alleged by a non-governmental organization to be engaged in illegal logging. ITOCHU KENZAI called on the supplier to make efforts to eliminate the concern and referred to advice given by the non-governmental organization to select sites to visit. Every year, ITOCHU KENZAI conducts interview surveys with various stakeholders, including local government agencies, industry groups, forest certification organizations, and local non-governmental organizations, to ascertain the situation. Schweighofer possesses PEFC certification and conducts risk Interview with Romania Water and assessments of its supply chain to make sure that no lumber from Forest Ministry illegal logging finds its way into the supply chain. In 2016 Indufor, an international forestry consulting firm, certified the effectiveness of this risk assessment. In 2017, the company introduced a timber traceability system called Timflow that ensures traceability from all of its timber collecting points to its sawmills for the purpose of eliminating any timber produced by illegal logging from its operations. The following year, they announced an open-door policy to improve communication with non-governmental organizations, allowing representatives from pre-registered non-governmental organizations to visit their sawmills without notice. Through on-site visits, ITOCHU KENZAI was able to verify that timber produced by illegal logging has been eliminated and that initiatives to increase transparency have improved year after year. 157 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Performance Regarding Forest Certification and Legal Compliance ITOCHU evaluates its performance by classifying its timber and timber products into the following four categories based on forest certification and legal compliance. Category (A) signifies the highest level of sustainable procurement compliance, requiring FSC certification and/or PEFC certification – more specifically, it is defined as (A) Timber handled by a certified forest supplier or timber approved by a certification body . Classification Based on FYE FYE FYE Item Legality 2018 2019 2020 (A) Timber handled by a certified forest supplier or timber approved as a management material 43% 36% 64% Forest by a certification body (acquired FSC or PEFC Certified certification) materials or certification advanced system (B) Timber harvested in countries or regions management assessed as Low Risk based on the forest 36% 44% 25% can be certification system confirmed Certification (C) Timber whose legality has been confirmed by of legality documents proving that it was cut in compliance 18% 17% 10% with the laws of the place of origin*1 in a clean timber (D) Materials whose legality has been confirmed N/A method 3% 3% 0% by additional measures *2 *1 Specifically, materials confirmed by an export license, certificate of origin, etc. *2 Specifically, timber that was confirmed to be in compliance with laws by asking suppliers to provide a distribution channel Sustainable Procurement Performance of Raw Materials for Papermaking All raw materials for papermaking such as chips and pulp handled by ITOCHU have acquired FSC or PEFC certification as materials handled by certified forest suppliers or materials approved as management materials by a certification body . Classification Based on FYE FYE FYE Item Legality 2018 2019 2020 Timber handled by a certified Certified materials Chips 100% 100% 100% Forest forest supplier or timber approved or advanced certification as a management material by a management can system certification body (acquired FSC or be confirmed Pulp 100% 100% 100% PEFC certification) Natural Rubber ITOCHU is engaged in the business of processing and trading natural rubber. Natural rubber is mainly produced in Southeast Asian countries such as Thailand and Indonesia, and about 70% of it is used for making tires. While the demand for natural rubber is projected to continue growing, internationally concerns are being raised on deforestation and the human rights violations of indigenous people with regard to procurement activities. In its distribution from raw materials procurers to tire manufacturers, natural rubber passes through the hands of many intermediary businesses (such as collectors and transporters), making environmental and social impacts difficult to manage. This is why increasing the traceability and transparency of natural rubber procurement is an increasingly important issue for ITOCHU. In response, ITOCHU has joined as a founding member of the Global Platform for Sustainable Natural Rubber (GPSNR), which was established in October 2018. We agree on the 12 principles stipulated by GPSNR and cooperate in the development and operation of the Platform's standards. Natural Rubber Procurement Policy (https://www.itochu.co.jp/en/csr/pdf/natural_rubber_policy.pdf) 158 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Participation in the GPSNR In October 2018, ITOCHU joined the new Global Platform for Sustainable Natural Rubber as the only Japanese trading company founding member. This organization was established by car manufacturers, tire manufacturers and natural rubber processing companies involved in the natural rubber industry. Its members work together throughout their supply chain to establish traceability and achieve higher levels of sustainability. Initiatives for Demonstration of Traceability Using Blockchain In February 2019, ITOCHU started a trial of a traceability system using blockchain technology to ensure stable procurement and supply of resources on the supply chain of business investments and products handled, and to ensure transparency in their distribution. The trial test was conducted based on a system designed by ITOCHU Techno-Solutions Co., Ltd. (Headquarters: Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo; President: Satoshi Kikuchi; hereinafter CTC ), which leveraged the natural rubber raw materials supply chain of PT. Aneka Bumi Pratama (HQ: Indonesial, President: Hisashi Yajima; hereafter ABP ), a 100% group subsidiary to ITOCHU. Conceptual Diagram of the Natural Rubber Supply Chain and This Trial Test The content of transactions in the trial are mutually authenticated between the transferees using a smartphone application, and recorded on the blockchain together with the date, time, location information, etc. Ensuring that these data points are gathered makes the distribution of natural rubber up to the processing plant more transparent. In order to encourage and incentivize the cooperation of each business, we will prepare a mechanism allowing to financial compensation for correctly recorded transactions. ITOCHU aims to achieve sustainable growth through the spirit of Sampo-yoshi by working on the progressive innovation of business, which constitutes a fundamental policy of our medium-term management plan. We also anticipate that these initiatives will contribute to the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) of the United Nations by 2030 by innovating leading sustainable procurement practices. 159 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Palm Oil Palm oil has been widely associated to environmental destruction and human rights violations in relation to the development and production of plantations. ITOCHU is extensively engaged in the trade and distribution of palm oil but is not involved in the palm plantation business. Therefore, though we recognize the gravity of social and environmental implication of palm oil, we are engaging in the issue from our position as a distribution player. For example, are a member of the Roundtable on Palm Oil (RSPO) and are working to fulfill our corporate social responsibility by taking responsibility and standing as a bridge between producers and consumers. We are also cooperating in the spread of certified oil other than RSPO, such as MSPO*1 and ISPO*2, in cooperation with industry groups. In addition to having formulated the Sustainable Procurement Policy for Palm Oil, we aim to preserve natural forests and ensure sustainable consumption of forest resources by promoting transparency in the supply chain and strengthening the sustainable palm oil procurement system. *1 Malaysian Sustainable Palm Oil *2 Indonesian Sustainable Palm Oil Sustainable Procurement Policy for Palm Oil (https://www.itochu.co.jp/en/csr/pdf/sustainable_palm_oil_procurement_policy.pdf) Establishing Transparency ITOCHU will inspect its supply chain as a way to fulfil our corporate social responsibility. In doing so, we will identify issues and strive to solve them with the aim to achieve sustainable procurement and supply of palm oil. Our goal is to achieve 100% traceability at the mill level by 2021 and to switch all palm oil procured by the Company to sustainable palm oil*1 by 2025. In particular, we aim to base our procurement on the NDPE principle (No Deforestation, No Peat, No Exploitation)*2. *1 Sustainable palm oil: palm oil supplied from the supply chain according to RSPO and equivalent standards *2 No Deforestation, No Peat, No Exploitation (NDPE): zero deforestation, zero peatland development, zero exploitation Membership to the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) We joined the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) in 2006, and respect the principles and standards set by the RSPO (such as the Principles and Criteria for the Production of Palm Oil) to promote transparency in the supply chain. We are working to strengthen the sustainable palm oil procurement system by expanding transactions with suppliers of raw material that have improved their traceability. We confirm priority items and utilize them in procurement through sustainable procurement surveys, including onsite examinations, and direct engagement with suppliers. In the course of our operations, we regularly review our procurement policy in cooperation with stakeholders such as business partners and experts. Information regarding this matter will be disclosed through the ESG Report, the Sustainability Action Plan, and the Annual Communication of Progress (ACOP). Sustainability Action Plans (P14-22) The Annual Communication of Progress (ACOP) (https://www.rspo.org/members/63/itochu-corporation) Please also refer to the disclosed information below regarding ITOCHU's initiatives. Initiatives for sustainable procurement of palm oil (as of the end of 2019) (https://www.itochu.co.jp/en/csr/pdf/fact_sheet_2020.pdf) Refinery list (as of the end of 2019) (https://www.itochu.co.jp/en/csr/pdf/refinery_list_2020.pdf) Mill list (as of the end of 2019) (https://www.itochu.co.jp/en/csr/pdf/mill_list_2020.pdf) 160 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Performance Data Regarding Sustainable Palm Oil Procurement Our goal is to achieve 100% traceability at the mill level by 2021 and to transition all procured palm oil to sustainable palm oil by 2025. The following table shows the current progress information, actual results and target information. Performance Target Category 2017 2018 2019 2021 2025 Volume of handled palm oil 360,000mt 277,000mt 308,000mt Malaysia Malaysia Malaysia Malaysia Malaysia <Main suplier> Indonesia Indonesia Indonesia Indonesia Indonesia RSPO Members – 9/9 (100%) 10/10 (100%) 100% 100% Suppliers under NDPE policy – 9/9 (100%) 10/10 (100%) 100% 100% <Certified Sustainable Palm Oil> RSPO certified sustainable palm oil 0.30% 1.10% 9.87% <Traceability> Traceable to the mills – 99.80% 99.90% 100% 100% 161 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Dairy Products, Meat, Marine Products, Fiber Raw Materials Dairy Products In terms of the dairy product and supply structure in Japan, the domestic production and supply structure has been established with a focus on Hokkaido. Meanwhile, import opportunities have steadily been increasing. This is due to the formation of the TPP that was established at the end of 2018 and the Japan-EU EPA that is scheduled to commence on February 1, 2019. Currently, Japan imports dairy products from multiple countries and regions – New Zealand, Australia, European countries, North America and South America. The agricultural policies and production structures in each country and region have been reflected in initiatives for the sustainable growth production structure in dairy products. Producer organizations and companies have also started initiatives toward gradually building a sustainable growth production structure. We are striving to grasp the initiatives of major producing areas and major suppliers. We will then work to build close communication and relationships with major suppliers so that it is possible to provide even safer dairy products with greater peace of mind. Ensuring the Safety of Raw Milk The most important initiatives in securing the safety of dairy products are those to ensure the safety of raw milk. The structure for this is as follows. Raw milk is milked from cows and collected by dairy farmers before being brought to dairy product factories. Antibiotic contamination tests are then conducted at the acceptance stage. Only raw milk confirmed to be safe is used. Cheese and butter is individually wrapped in cardboard boxes of 10 kg or 20 kg. Meanwhile, powdered skim milk (not including milk powder) is produced in manufacturing factories mainly in 25 kg paper bags. The manufacturing date is printed on these boxes and bags. This means it is possible to trace products up to their date of production in their manufacturing factory. * The standards for hormones and antibiotics used in raising beef and dairy cows are stipulated by the relevant organizations of each country. Dairy product manufacturers have established voluntary management rules based on those standards. A check is also performed each time to see whether there are any residual substances other than raw milk in the transportation vehicles used when bringing it from farmers to factories. Measures to Ensure the Sustainable Cultivation of Land In New Zealand, which has an important position as a supply base for Japan, dairy cows are basically raised with a focus on grazing. Initiatives are made on a routine basis from the point of view of improving productivity. For example, dairy cows are raised while regularly changing their field so that these fields do not become ruined. The development and distribution of grass-fed* butter and other products has started as a new experiment in New Zealand and elsewhere. * Grass-fed refers to beef and dairy cows raised only by eating grass. Regular butter is made using the milk of cows raised by eating mainly grains. In contrast to this, grass-fed butter is made with the milk of cows raised only by eating grass or only by eating grass above a certain rate. This has the advantage of being less of an economic burden compared to raising cows mainly on grains. The Netherlands is engaged in the overall management of its number of breeding cows as a nation. This is being done in consideration of the impact the phosphate contained in the excreta of dairy cows has on the soil. 162 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Meat The Meat Products Department in the ITOCHU Food Company imports and procures raw meat ingredients (beef, pork and chicken) from various countries around the world. It handles pork in the greatest quantities with raw ingredients primarily being procured from North America and Europe. Meanwhile, it imports beef from Australia and the U.S. We have jointly invested in Teys Australia Condamine Pty Ltd. in the cattle fattening business in Australia together with an Australian beef supplier called Teys and Prima Meat Packers. The following is our basic policy for performing inter-company initiatives when procuring raw meat ingredients from overseas: Production Teys Australia Condamine's Cattle suppliers who do business with ITOCHU should be aware of Fattening Farm environmental aspects at the production stage. They should take into consideration the workers involved in production. Finally, above all, they should construct production operations including traceability that can guarantee safety and peace of mind. ITOCHU regularly visits factories that are our supply sources. We do this under a commitment to responsible meat procurement. We establish good relationships through close communication with overseas suppliers. Ensuring Traceability at HyLife Group Holdings HyLife is capable of supply chain management and coordination inhouse because it performs integrated production that includes pig farms, mixed feed factories and pork processing. The company has utilized this production structure to realize a stable supply of safe, highquality and traceable products with peace of mind. In addition, it is possible to feedback the individual needs of customers to pig farms through such integrated production. The firm has established a specialty program customized for Japan – a program that has received a high appraisal in the market. Currently, it is the number one company in Canada in terms of refrigerated pork exports to Japan. Pork Processing Process Teys Australia Condamine's Global Warming Countermeasures Teys Australia Condamine introduced 1,034 solar panels in 2015. This has made it possible to generate approximately 506,000 kWh of power annually. Accordingly, approximately 50% of the power used in this facility comes from renewable energy. The introduction of solar power generation has reduced CO2 emissions by approximately 395 tons. Consequently, a reduction in CO2 emissions of approximately 49% has been realized compared with before the introduction of solar power generation. We also procure beef to be slaughtered and processed from Teys – our joint investment partner in Australia. This firm has formed sustainable Installed Solar Panels operations. It extracts methane gas generated in the slaughter process and reuses it as heat for its factory. Initiative Participation Companies in wide-ranging lines of businesses – from producers to retailers – are participating in an initiative called the Global Round Table for Sustainable Beef (GRSB) with the aim of sustainable beef production. ITOCHU has built business relationships with multiple companies participating in the GRSB. We are exchanging information with them on the latest trends. 163 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Performance Data of Traceability The major premise for ITOCHU is to be able to thoroughly trace the products we deliver to our customers back to their producers above all else while considering the safety and peace of mind of food as our number one priority. We have a 100% traceback system for all meat (beef, pork, chicken) produced by suppliers (mainly overseas) and handled by ITOCHU allowing us to trace back products up to their production stage. Performance Content 2017 2018 2019 Volume of handled meat (tons)* About 160,000 About 150,000 About 130,000 * Beef, pork and chicken are 100% traceable back to the production stage Animal Welfare The ITOCHU Group raises livestock in a comfortable environment to reduce livestock stress and disease. The following measures have been taken to handle livestock humanely, based on the belief that it will increase productivity and produce safe livestock products. Teys Australia is committed to ensuring that all cattle are treated humanely.As part of our commitment to animal welfare, all Teys Australia processing facilities operate under the Australian Livestock Processing Industry Animal Welfare Certification System (AAWCS). An independently certified animal welfare program that ensures that livestock under our control (from receipt to humane processing) are managed in accordance with best practice animal welfare standards. Teys Australia operates its feedlots in strict compliance with the independently audited National Feedlot Accreditation Scheme. Respecting Animals is a HyLife Core Value and the obligation and responsibility of all employees. HyLife provides optimal environmental conditions for the animals in our care providing climate controlled housing, nutritionally balanced diets and veterinary animal health oversight. All employees receive comprehensive training in the proper care and handling of animals and farms are operated in accordance with the Canadian Code of Practice for the Care & Handling of Pigs and are certified under the Canadian Quality Assurance Program. Marine Products We mainly handle skipjack and yellowfin as marine products. In Indonesia, we operate the PT. Aneka Tuna Indonesia (ATI) canned tuna factory in a joint venture with partners. We have established voluntary management regulations for tuna. We thoroughly stick to our policy of only procuring skipjack and yellowfin that has been appropriately managed by fishing organizations. Targets The acquisition of MSC*1 certification is limited among fishermen for the highly migratory fish of skipjack and yellowfin at present. Under these circumstances, we handle 4,500 tons of MSC raw ingredients per year at present in the trade of skipjack and yellowfin for canned raw material. We are also aiming to encourage fishermen to acquire MSC so that we handle 10,000 tons per year within five years. The rate of pole and line fished*2 products in our canned tuna handling was 7% in FYE 2014. However, this rate exceeded 14% in FYE 2019. We would like to continue maintaining and expanding this rate with the aim of reaching 20%. The usage rate and quantity of pole and line fished raw material in ATI more than doubled from 20% at 8,000 tons in 2013 to 40% at 20,000 tons in 2018. It has become one of the few canned tuna factories in the world that uses pole and line fished raw material. We will continue striving to secure, maintain and expand pole and line fished raw material. *1 The Marine Stewardship Council (MSC) is an international NPO established in 1997 to work on spreading sustainable fishing. Its headquarters are located in London, England. *2 Pole and line fishing is a method of fishing by catching one fish at a time. It is a sustainable fishing method that does not involve the catch of large quantities of fish at one time. It is said that it is an environmentally friendly fishing method because it is also possible to avoid the bycatch of non-targeted fish. 164 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Sustainability Surveys for Marine Resource Suppliers to Ensure Responsible Procurement Practices We regularly visit and survey our suppliers. This is so that we responsibly procure marine resources for all the marine products we handle. We also promote cooperation with various fishing organizations. Every year, those in charge of sales visit and survey 45 suppliers applicable to our internal selection criteria in cooperation with our Food Safety and Compliance Management Office. This is for the regular visits and surveys on our suppliers to responsibly procure marine resources. We also engage in business after confirming that suppliers are appropriate from a viewpoint of ESG. Regarding bonito tuna, which we handle in vast quantities, in September 2017 we established a voluntary management rule called Tuna Handling Management Rules , which prohibits procurement from IUU fishing (concerning illegal fishing: Illegal, Unreported and Unregulated ). We only procure and purchase marine products whose origin is clearly traceable to fisheries that are properly managed by the Western & Central Pacific Fisheries Commission (WCPFC). Certifications and External Stakeholder and Initiative Participation We acquired distributor certification and chain of custody certificate (CoC)*1 certification from the Marine Stewardship Council (MSC) in March 2018. We joined the Organization for the Promotion of Responsible Tuna Fisheries (OPRT) in 2012 in the tuna business. This is an organization that was established for the sustainable use of tuna resources. We are now promoting initiatives that comply with our aforementioned voluntary management regulations. ATI is strengthening its handling of pole and line fished raw material– considered to be the most environmentally friendly skipjack and Pole and Line Fishing yellowfin fishing method. The need for products made with pole and line fished raw material is growing every year in markets with a high interest in sustainability (e.g., the U.K. and Australia) for the canned tuna market as well. It is our policy to strengthen our handling of pole and line fished products manufactured by ATI. ATI joined the Indonesian Association of Pole & Line and Hand Line in 2014. It is offering its cooperation such as by providing data. This data is used in the Fishery Improvement Program (FIP)*2. ATI is also cooperating for the acquisition of MSC in Indonesia. Moreover, it joined an international organization called the International Seafood Sustainability Foundation (ISSF)*3 in 2016. The firm is offering its cooperation such as by providing information in the same way as it does with the Indonesian Association of Pole & Line and Hand Line. *1 Chain of custody certificate (CoC) is certification for processors and distributors. This is to ensure the traceability of MSC certified marine products and other products in the management of processing and distribution processes specified by MSC. *2 The Fishery Improvement Program (FIP) is a project in which small fishermen finding it difficult to acquire MSC certification and market stakeholders cooperate and work together aiming for sustainable fishing under the goal of future MSC acquisition with MSC compliant fishing methods. *3 The International Seafood Sustainability Foundation (ISSF) is an organization running under the aim of sustainable skipjack and yellowfin fishing. It was launched in response to an appeal by major canned tuna operators in 2009. Performance Data Related to Certification FYE 2014 FYE 2020 Target Item Results Results (Next 5 Years) Obtained MSC MSC, COC quantity N/A 7,300 tons 10,000 tons and/or COC certification MSC, COC% 0% 4% 5% Bonito tuna for canned tuna ATI Single Fishing Raw Material Quantity 8,000 tons 25,000 tons 25,000 tons ATI fishing line Single fishing tuna product ratio 7% 17% 20% 165 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Textile Raw Materials In recent years, the trend for sustainability has been gradually penetrating the fashion market. For example, global fashion brands have declared that they will switch to using environmentally friendly materials (e.g., organic cotton, recycled polyester etc.) for the materials they procure as an initiative to develop the labor environment in the supply chain and to deal with the disposal of clothing and other problems. This issue is particularly important to us given that ITOCHU was founded as a textile raw materials trading business, which remains a cornerstone of our company to this day as a part of the Fashion Apparel Division. Therefore, in our textile business we have made it our policy to shift our raw materials portfolio to environmentally friendly resources and build traceability capacity from raw materials procurement to distribution to manufacturers. Our target for this policy will be to make 50% of the textile raw materials that we handle traceable and environmentally friendly by 2025. Organic Cotton Procurement in India Traceability in Organic Cotton Procurement in India Traceability in the Recycled Polyester Business Utilizing the Technologies of JEPLAN When we procure organic cotton in India, we first purchase raw organic cotton that comes with a certificate from a ginning (work to separate the seeds and fibers after harvesting raw cotton) factory in India that has acquired GOTS certification. We deliver that raw organic cotton to spinning factories that have acquired GOTS certification in India or Asia. Finally, we purchase the yarn spun in those spinning factories and sell it to weaving/knitting factories in Japan and overseas. Furthermore, with regards to the traceability of organic cotton, we have implemented measures to leveraging our vast network and experiences to facilitate our cotton farmers in India to shift toward organic farming methods and to support certification acquirements (such as the GOTS certification*) at our cotton mills and ginning factories. Given these initiatives, we have achieved 100% traceability in the organic cotton that we handle among the cotton we have procured during the 3 year transition period. Leveraging this experience, the RENU project started full-scale operation in 2019 and has quickly acquired GRS (Global Recycle Standard) certification for recycled polyester yarn. * GOTS certification: a set of comprehensive standards that certifies products made from organic textile. The standards cover the following items: use of certified raw materials and their traceability, control systems to limit or prohibit designated chemical inputs (dyes and auxiliaries) and accessories, separation and identification systems, environmental management, contamination and residue testing, and social criteria (possible sources of information: interview with management, confidential interviews with workers, personnel documents, physical on-site inspection, unions/stakeholders). 166 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Expansion of Environmentally Friendly Materials The Apparel Division is building a value chain that originates with the raw materials for which we have assumed a leadership role. This is part of our attempt to evolve our businesses — the basic policy in our current mid-term management plan. We have been making efforts for several years to brand, commercialize our original raw material brands of natural fibers such as HAMILTON LAMBS WOOL and ONE Cotton. In October 2018, we agreed to establish a pilot plant for eco-friendly cellulose fiber jointly with the Finnish forest industry leader Metsa Group, and in February 2019, we invested in LYCRA in the United States with Shandong Ruyi Technology Group in China. Furthermore, in the spring of 2019, we launched a project called RENU , which aims to innovate ways to realize a circular economy – the first product under development through this initiative is a recycled polyester material. We will continue to accelerate the pace of our cooperation with global companies toward our increasing use of environmentally friendly materials in the future. At the same time, we will work to acquire certification in the spinning, weaving/knitting and sewing processes and to expand internal cross-company business toward establishing branding and traceability up to commercialization – our medium term target. RENU project aimed at realizing a circular economy ONE Cotton (ONE is an abbreviation for Organic Natural Ethical) (https://www.ito-rium.com/brands/one-cotton.php) Commitment of Protecting Forests through Material Sourcing of MMCF (https://www.itochu.co.jp/en/csr/pdf/commitment_of_protecting_forests_2019.pdf) RENU™ Project (https://renu-project.com/) Performance Data of Organic Cotton Procurement All organic cotton is GOTS certified and traceable. Item FYE 2017 FYE 2018 FYE 2019 FYE 2020 Organic cotton handled (1,000 kg) 449 556 900 460 Percentage of cotton trade 7% 9% 32.2% 18.2% Traceability of organic cotton 100% 100% 100% 100% GOTS certification of organic cotton 100% 100% 100% 100% 167 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance G Governance 168 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Corporate Governance Action Plan Risks Opportunities Improvement of transparency in decision-making, appropriate Occurrence of business continuity risk or unexpected loss response to changes and establishment of a stable basis of resulting from the malfunction of corporate governance or growth enabled by the establishment of a firm governance internal control, and others. system, and others. SDGs Issues to Business Performance Materiality Commitment Specific Approach Degree of Progress Targets Address Area Indicators (1) The diversity of the Board of Directors (always a one Appoint several outside Directors, third or higher percentage of outside Directors; currently We will implement highly who have a high level of four out of 10 Directors) and the ratio of women (ratio in effective supervision over independence that fulfills our the previous fiscal year + 10%; currently two out of 10 Continue to Directors) have improved. the management from an independence criteria and are implement independent and objective expected to contribute to the measures to (2) We have increased the number of independent outside Maintaining and standpoint and ensure the company management with a high strengthen the members of the Board of Directors and outside Audit & reinforcing a appropriate and efficient level of knowledge in their Maintain supervising Supervisory Board Members in the Nomination Committee governance execution of business respective fields. rigorous Corporate function of the to a majority (four out of seven members; +7.1% system for operations by improving Maintain a highly transparent and governance governance Board of compared to the previous year). (Four out of eight achieving the transparency of our objective Directors' and officers' structures Directors, through Directors: 50% → Four out of seven Directors: 57.1%) sustainable decision-making, aiming remuneration system, which can an annual growth to our sustainable growth increase their motivation to We have almost completed the strengthening of evaluation of the as well as the mediumcontribute to our mediumand governance in structural terms with the implementation of Board of and long-term long-term improvement of our (1) and (2). From the next fiscal year onward, we will Directors. improvement of our company's performance and the monitor the implementation of our Policy on the corporate value. improvement of our corporate Governance of its Listed Subsidiaries formulated in this value. fiscal year and also deal with listing problems involving ITOCHU and our subsidiaries. Policy and Basic Concept ITOCHU Group adopts the spirit of Sampo-yoshi (in Japanese, yoshi means good , and sampo means three sides, and these three sides consist of (1) the seller ( urite ), (2) the buyer ( kaite ) and (3) society ( seken ). Sampo-yoshi is therefore urite-yoshi (meaning good for the seller ), kaite-yoshi (meaning good for the buyer ) and seken-yoshi (meaning good for society )) as our corporate mission, which spirit originates from the message of our founder Chubei Itoh I (the merchant based in the former Ohmi Province of Japan (present-day Shiga Prefecture). We sincerely wish to contribute to solving social issues by not purely seeking to maximize our profits but also considering and responding to the expectations and trust of all of our surrounding stakeholders, including our customers, our shareholders and our employees. Sampo-yoshi is the business spirit by which we aims to bring a positive effect into the world and to contribute to sustainable society for all. Furthermore, we adopt I am One with Infinite Missions as our guideline of conduct. These words mean that each individual employee should consider his or her business conduct on his or her own initiative in order to complete our infinite missions aim for better business operations which are good for the seller, good for the buyer, and good for society as well as for a better future. It is the fundamental management policy of ITOCHU Corporation ( ITOCHU or the Company ) to build a fair and good relationship with various stakeholders based on our corporate mission and our guideline of conduct and thus improve our corporate value from a long-term perspective. In accordance with this policy, with the intention to ensure proper and efficient execution by management, we will enhance the transparency of decision-making and establish a corporate governance system in which monitoring and supervision functions are appropriately incorporated. A strong leadership and a transparent decision-making system are pillars of good corporate governance. ITOCHU adopts an organizational structure with the presence of an Audit & Supervisory Board (kansayaku secchi kaisha). In recent years, ITOCHU has gradually shifted to a governance model where executive officers decide and carry out the day to day business under the direction and supervision of the Board of Directors, along with implementing measures to strengthen monitoring. 169 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance In order to separate execution by and monitoring over management, we reduced several executive Directors and the percentage of outside Directors in our Board of Directors was increased to one-third or more from April 2017. We keep this percentage of outside Directors also in FYE 2020 and onwards. Additionally, ITOCHU has established a Governance and Remuneration Committee and a Nomination Committee as advisory committees to the Board of Directors. Each committee is chaired by an outside Director and the majority members of each committee are outside Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members. In appointing outside Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members, ITOCHU places great importance on their independence, and in this connection, ITOCHU has adopted its own independence criteria, augmenting the independence criteria established by the Tokyo Stock Exchange. This highly independent Board of Directors monitors execution by management as well as deliberates the execution of business that is of high quantitative or qualitative importance. The Company believes this arrangement facilitates not only appropriate monitoring over execution by management but also the consideration of important business execution from an external perspective. It is also vital that ITOCHU discloses its financial and non-financial information to the stakeholders as part of good governance. For this purpose, ITOCHU adopts a Basic IR Policy to further promote a multi-party stakeholder dialogue, and uses our best effort to timely and adequately disclose such information. Through the communication with its stakeholders, ITOCHU aims to enhance its corporate value on a long-term basis. Compliance with Corporate Governance Code As of June 2020, ITOCHU complies with all principles set forth in Corporate Governance Code. For details, please refer to Corporate Governance Report (https://www.itochu.co.jp/en/files/CG_e.pdf). Establishment of the Governance and Remuneration Committee and the Nomination Committee as advisory committees to the Board of Directors Establishment of policy and process for appointing executive officers, candidates for Directors and candidates for Audit & Supervisory Board Members Adoption of our own independence criteria regarding the judgement on the independence of outside Directors and outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members Reason for Adopting the Current System The Company, as a company with Audit & Supervisory Board Members, endeavors to strengthen the monitoring/supervising function and ensure the transparency of decision making by having the Audit & Supervisory Board Members (including outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members) fully monitor corporate management. In addition to its corporate governance system primarily based on the monitoring of corporate management by Audit & Supervisory Board Members, the Company appointed outside Directors the percentage of which is one-third or more of the total number of the Directors, and keep this percentage of outside Directors also in FYE 2021 and onwards. And, the Company has already appointed independent outside Directors and established the Governance and Remuneration Committee and the Nomination Committee, as voluntary advisory committees to the Board which are chaired by outside Directors and which comprise of majority outside members, for the purpose of further increasing the effectiveness of the supervision of management by the Board of Directors and strengthening and improving the transparency of decision making. In the process of appointing the outside Directors and outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members, the Company focuses securing independency of the outside Directors and the outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members, and in addition to the independence criteria established by the Tokyo Stock Exchange ITOCHU has adopted its own independence criteria. The Company believes that its current corporate governance system—which is based on the Board of Directors consisting with the independent outside Directors for one-third or more of all Directors, the said voluntary advisory committees to the Board and the Audit & Supervisory Board, more than half of whom are outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members— accords with ITOCHU's Basic Policy stated in this report. 170 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Structures and Systems Corporate Governance 1. As the decision-making body, the Board of Directors, consisting of Directors and Outside Directors, is to decide important matters in accordance with laws and regulations, the Articles of Incorporation, the Board of Directors Regulations, and other internal regulations, and as the supervisory body, the Board of Directors is to supervise the performance of the Directors. 2. Each Director is to carry out such Director's functions and duties as designated by the Board of Directors in accordance with laws and regulations, the Articles of Incorporation, resolutions by the Board of Directors, and internal regulations. 3. ITOCHU is to adopt the Executive Officer System to strengthen the decision-making function and supervisory function of the Board of Directors, and to streamline executive decision-making. Based on the approval of the Board of Directors, executive officers implement their designated duties based on delegation from the Board of Directors and representative Directors. 4. The Audit & Supervisory Board Members are to oversee the performance of the Directors based on the Audit & Supervisory Board Regulations and Auditors' Auditing Standards. Overview of ITOCHU's Corporate Governance and Internal Control System (As of April 1, 2020) *1 HMC＝Headquarters Management Committee CEO＝Chief Executive Officer COO=Chief Operating Officer CSO=Chief Strategy Officer CAO＝Chief Administrative Officer CFO＝Chief Financial Officer CDO・CIO＝Chief Digital & Information Officer ALM＝Asset Liability Management *2 CAO is the chief officer for compliance. Also, each Division Company has a Division Company president. *3 Internal control systems and mechanisms have been implemented at every level of ITOCHU. Only the main internal control organization and committees are described herein. 171 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Board of Directors Overview The Company is a company with the Board of Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Member (the Audit & Supervisory Board). As from 1 April, 2018, Chairman of the Company is Chief Executive Officer and President of the Company is Chief Operating Officer. The Board of Directors, comprising 10 Directors including 4 outside Directors, is chaired by the Chief Executive Officer. The Board of Directors is held, in principle, at least once a month, and it makes decisions on important matters in accordance with laws and regulations, the Articles of Incorporation, the Board of Directors Regulations, and supervises the performance of the Directors. Two of the outside Directors are female, and the average term of overseas assignment period of our internal Directors is 5.7 years (as of 19 June, 2020). Each Director carries out functions and duties as designated by the Board of Directors in accordance with laws and regulations, the Articles of Incorporation, resolutions by the Board of Directors, and the other internal regulations. The Executive Officer System has been adopted to strengthen the decision-making function and supervisory function of the Board of Directors, and to streamline executive decision-making. Based on the decisions made by the Board of Directors, executive officers implement their designated duties delegated by the Board of Directors and representative Directors. As of 19 June, 2020, the Company has 36 executive officers (some of whom concurrently serve as Directors), comprising 34 male executive officers and 2 female executive officers. The HMC (Headquarters Management Committee) and various internal committees have been established for the purpose of contributing to appropriate and flexible decision making on management issues by the President and Chief Operating Officer and the Board of Directors. HMC is, in principle, chaired by the President, and in principle consists of the Chairman, the President, and executive officers appointed by the President. The HMC is a supporting committee to the President and Chief Operating Officer where companywide management policy and important issues are discussed. Corporate Governance System (As of June 19, 2020) Company with the Board of Directors and the Audit & Supervisory Type of system Board Number of Directors (Of which, number of 10(4*) outside Directors) Number of Audit & Supervisory Board Members (Of which, number of outside Audit & 5(3) Supervisory Board Members) Term of office for Directors 1 year (the same for outside Directors) Adoption of an Executive Officer System Yes Headquarters Management Committee (HMC) deliberates on Organization to support CEO decision-making companywide management policy and important issues Advisory committees to the Board of Directors Governance and Remuneration Committee, Nomination Committee * Two of the outside Directors is female, and the average term of overseas assignment period of our internal Directors is 5.7 years. 172 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Members of the Board FYE 2020 Number Number of Governance Current Position and of Attendance and Nomination Name Responsibility in Years at Meetings Remuneration Committee ITOCHU Corporation in of the Board Committee Office of Directors Masahiro Chairman & Chief 15/15 Reelection Male 16 years ○ ○ Okafuji Executive Officer (100%) President & Chief Yoshihisa Operating Officer; 15/15 Reelection Male 4 years ○ ○ Suzuki Chief Digital & (100%) Information Officer Member of the Board, Executive Vice President 5 years Tomofumi 15/15 Reelection Male President, General and 9 – – Yoshida (100%) Products & Realty months Company Member of the Board, Executive Vice President CEO for East Asia Bloc; 11/11 4 years Yuji CEO for Asia & Oceania (100%) Reelection Male and 9 – – Fukuda Bloc; (since his months Executive Advisory appointment) Officer for CP & CITIC Operations Member of the Board, Senior Managing Fumihiko 15/15 Reelection Male Executive Officer 5 years – ○ Kobayashi (100%) Chief Administrative Officer Member of the Board, Tsuyoshi Senior Managing 15/15 Reelection Male 5 years – – Hachimura Executive Officer (100%) Chief Financial Officer Reelection Atsuko 15/15 Outside Female Member of the Board 4 years – ◎ Muraki (100%) Independent Reelection Harufumi 15/15 Outside Male Member of the Board 3 years ○ ○ Mochizuki (100%) Independent Reelection Masatoshi 15/15 Outside Male Member of the Board 2 years ◎ – Kawana (100%) Independent 11/11 Reelection Makiko (100%) Outside Female Member of the Board 1 year ○ – Nakamori (since her Independent appointment) ◎:Chair ○:Member 173 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance History of the Board of Directors P: Division Company President 174 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Policy and Process for Appointing Candidates for Directors In order to effectively supervise management and decide important business matters as the Board of Directors of a general trading company with broad range of business, ITOCHU's Board of Directors consists of, in principle, the Chairman, President, officers in charge of headquarters administrative functions, one appropriate Division Company president, and such several outside Directors that the percentage of outside Directors in our Board of Directors is one-third or more to improve supervisory function of the Board of Directors. In nominating outside Directors, ITOCHU prioritizes candidates with higher independence, based on the criteria for independent Directors prescribed by the Tokyo Stock Exchange, and ITOCHU's Independence Criteria for Outside Directors and Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members, who with his or her experience and knowledge in the relevant category, are expected to contribute to the management of ITOCHU. Proposal on candidates for Directors is created by the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer taking into consideration diversity such as knowledge, experience, gender and international experience, and submitted to the Nomination Committee for further deliberation before the Board of Directors finally nominates the candidates for election at the General Meeting of Shareholders. Independent Reason for Appointment as Outside Director (For Independent Directors, Name Directors Including Reason for Designation as an Independent Director) Ms. Muraki is appointed as an outside Director in the anticipation that she will use her wealth of experience and high-level knowledge she accumulated as a government official and also monitor and supervise the corporate management of ITOCHU from an Atsuko independent perspective. According to the criteria for the independence of ○ Muraki directors/auditors prescribed by the Tokyo Stock Exchange, as well as our own independence criteria, Ms. Muraki qualifies as an independent Director. Accordingly, ITOCHU believes that she is unlikely to have conflicts of interest with general investors, and she has been designated as an independent Director. Mr. Mochizuki is appointed as an outside Director in the anticipation that, based on a wealth of experience and high-level knowledge he accumulated as a government official at the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry (and the former Ministry of International Trade and Industry), his experience as a corporate executive at other Harufumi entities where he concurrently serves, he will monitor and supervise the corporate ○ Mochizuki management of ITOCHU from an independent perspective. According to the criteria for the independence of directors/auditors prescribed by the Tokyo Stock Exchange, as well as our own independence criteria, Mr. Mochizuki qualifies as an independent Director. Accordingly, ITOCHU believes that he is unlikely to have conflicts of interest with general investors, and he has been designated as an independent Director. Mr. Kawana is appointed as an outside Director in the anticipation that, based on his experience as a doctor at Tokyo Women's Medical University Hospital for many years and as an important post such as the Deputy Director of the same hospital as well as his high level of medical knowledge, he will monitor and supervise the corporate Masatoshi ○ management of ITOCHU from an independent perspective. According to the criteria for Kawana the independence of directors/auditors prescribed by the Tokyo Stock Exchange, as well as our own independence criteria, Mr. Kawana qualifies as an independent Director. Accordingly, ITOCHU believes that he is unlikely to have conflicts of interest with general investors, and he has been designated as an independent Director. Ms. Nakamori is appointed as an outside Director in the anticipation that, based on her high level expertise regarding finance and accounting as a certified public accountant as well as her extensive experience as a corporate executive, she will monitor and supervise the corporate management of ITOCHU from an independent perspective. Makiko ○ According to the criteria for the independence of directors/auditors prescribed by the Nakamori Tokyo Stock Exchange, as well as our own independence criteria, Ms. Nakamori qualifies as an independent Director. Accordingly, ITOCHU believes that she is unlikely to have conflicts of interest with general investors, and she has been designated as an independent Director. 175 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Principal Areas of Experience of Outside Directors Principal Specialized Area of Experience Main Career Internal Health Name and Role All Aspects Overseas Finance Human History and Control and and of Assignment and Resources Legal Affairs Medical Qualifications, etc. Management (Global) Accounting and Labor /Compliance Care Atsuko Muraki Vice-Minister of Outside Director ○ ○ ○ ○ Health, Labour and Chair of the Welfare Nomination Committee ○ Vice-Minister of Harufumi Mochizuki (North ○ ○ ○ Economy, Trade Outside Director America/ and Industry Europe) Masatoshi Kawana Vice-president of Outside Director ○ Tokyo Women's Chair of the ○ (North ○ ○ ○ Medical University Governance and America) Hospital Remuneration Doctor of Medicine Committee Served as outside director and audit & supervisory board member at Makiko Nakamori several companies ○ ○ ○ Outside Director including ITOCHU Techno-Solutions Corporation Certified Public Accountant Outline of Limitation of Liability Contracts Pursuant to Article 427, Paragraph 1, of the Companies Act, ITOCHU has entered into limitation of liability contracts with respect to liability as set forth in Article 423, Paragraph 1, of the Companies Act with outside Directors and outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members. Under these contracts, their liabilities are limited to the lowest amount of liability pursuant to Article 425, Paragraph 1, of the Companies Act if and so long as they have acted in good faith and without gross negligence in performing their duties. Remuneration Overview of the Remuneration Plan for Directors ITOCHU Corporations' current remuneration plan for Remuneration Image of Directors Directors is designed to be an incentive to grow (excluding Outside Directors) business performance. Performance-linked bonus has a high proportion of overall remuneration, and this remuneration plan, including the calculation method, has been previously disclosed publicly, making it highly transparent. In order to increase awareness of contribution to raising business performance and enlarging corporate value over the medium to long term, we are including stock remuneration as part of the remuneration plan. 176 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Remuneration Plan for Directors for FYE 2021 consists of (1) monthly remuneration, (2) performance-linked bonuses, (3) share price-linked bonuses, and (4) performance-linked stock remuneration (trust type). Of these, (3) share price-linked bonuses is a revision of the market capitalization-linked bonuses, which were introduced in FYE 2019, and the share price-linked bonuses are not designed on the single year base used when the market capitalization-linked bonuses was introduced. The bonus amount is calculated based on the evaluation of the relative growth rate of ITOCHU Corporations' share price during the period from FYE 2019 to FYE 2021 versus the growth of Tokyo Stock Price Index (TOPIX). The share price-linked bonuses are, like the stock remuneration, also for further strengthening awareness of enlarging corporate value from a mediumto long-term perspective. Net profit (consolidated) is of high interest to the stock market because it is an easy-to-understand indicator of capital to growth-oriented investments and to returns to shareholders and we have an unshakeable belief in its importance as an indicator going forward. In addition, bonuses for employees are linked to net profit (consolidated) so we have net profit attributable to ITOCHU (consolidated) as the linked indicator for performance-linked bonuses ((2) above) and performance-linked stock remuneration ((4) above). Also, regarding share price-linked bonuses ((3) above), as stated above we have the growth rate of ITOCHU Corporations' share price during the period from FYE 2019 to FYE 2021 as the linked indicator, but for the calculation of the growth rate of the share price, we use the simple average of the daily final price for each fiscal year. Resolution at Type of Fixed / General Details Remuneration Limits Remuneration Variable Meeting of Shareholders Determined according to ¥0.8 billion per year as total factors that include degree of amount of monthly (1) Monthly contribution to ITOCHU Fixed remuneration (of that remuneration Corporation, based on a amount, ¥0.1 billion per year standard amount for each for Outside Directors) position Total amount of payment is determined based on net profit (consolidated), and the Variable (2) Performanceeach individual payment (single linked bonuses June 21, 2019 amount is determined in year) relation to the position points ¥2.0 billion per year as the for the Director total amount of bonus * Not paid to Outside Bonus amount is calculated Directors based on an evaluation of the relative growth rate of (3) Share priceITOCHU Corporation's share linked bonuses price during the period from FYE 2019 to FYE 2021 versus the growth rate of TOPIX*1 Variable The amounts below are limits (mediumfor two fiscal years, for Total payment amount is Directors and Executive to longdetermined based on net Officers term) profit (consolidated), and Limit on contribution to trust by (4) Performanceeach individual payment ITOCHU Corporation: ¥1.5 linked stock amount is determined in June 24, 2016 billion remuneration relation to the position points Total number of points granted for the Director used in to eligible person: 1.3 million calculating the individual points (conversion at 1 point = performance-linked bonus*2 1 share) * Not paid to Outside Directors 177 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Remuneration Composition Ratios Image of Directors (excluding Outside Directors) (FYE 2020) * In the case of net loss (consolidated), Directors will receive neither performance-linked bonuses nor performance-linked remuneration. Formulas for Remuneration Directors' Bonuses for FYE 2021 Performance-linked Bonuses Director performance-linked bonuses for FYE 2021 will be paid in amounts calculated according to the methods described below, following the conclusion of FYE 2021 Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders. a. Total Amount Paid to All Directors: The total amount paid to all Directors shall be the lesser of the sum of the amount paid to an individual Director in b. below or ¥2.0 billion. b. Amount Paid to an Individual Director The formula to calculate the amount paid to an individual Director is below. Total base amount paid to all Directors=(A+B+C) x Sum of Position points for all the eligible Directors/55 Where: A=(Consolidated net profit attributable to the Company for FYE 2021 for the portion up to ¥200.0 billion) x 0.35% B=(Consolidated net profit attributable to the Company for FYE 2021 for the portion more than ¥200.0 billion but up to ¥300.0 billion) x 0.525% C=(Consolidated net profit attributable to the Company for FYE 2021 for the portion exceeding ¥300.0 billion) x 0.35%(amount of less than ¥1 shall be rounded down) The amount paid to an individual Director = (Total base amount paid to all Directors as above x Position Point/Sum of Position points for all the eligible Directors) x 20% + (Total base amount paid to all Directors as above x Position Point/Sum of Position points for all the eligible Directors) x 80% x the Rate (defined below) determined based on plan achievement rate of the consolidated net profit of the assigned division/department (amount of less than ¥1,000 shall be rounded up) Provided, however, that (1) The Rate: 100% + (plan achievement rate of the consolidated net profit of the assigned division/department -100%) x 2 (if negative, it will be 0%) (2) The assigned division of the Director utilized the Rate is the General Products & Realty Company of which planning of the consolidated net profit for FYE 2021 is 60 billion yen (announced at 8 May, 2020). (3) The plan achievement rate shall be 100% for the eligible Director (not being the Division Company President) for whom no plan achievement rate is measurable. 178 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance The points assigned to each position are as per below: Position Points Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 10 President and Chief Operating Officer 7.5 Executive Vice President (resident in Japan) 5 Executive Vice President (resident outside Japan) 4 Senior Managing Executive Officer 4 Managing Executive Officer 3 Notwithstanding the calculation stated above, the amount paid to an individual Director shall not exceed the maximum amount for each position as set forth below: (Millions of yen) Maximum Amount Paid to an Individual Director Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 560 President and Chief Operating Officer 420 Executive Vice President (resident in Japan) 280 Executive Vice President (resident outside Japan) 224 Senior Managing Executive Officer 224 Managing Executive Officer 168 Share Price-linked Bonuses By resolution of Board of Directors held on 2 February, 2018 and for the purpose of the incentive towards increasing the Company's corporate value, ITOCHU introduced market capitalization-linked bonuses structure which is linked to the increased amount of the Company's market capitalization as compared to the last fiscal year. In order to further strengthen awareness of enhancing corporate value from a mediumto long-term perspective, the following changes were made, and the name was changed from market capitalization-linked bonus to share price-linked bonus: Changed a design based on 3 years rather than on a single year Changed a linked indicator from market capitalization to stock price in order to better align with shareholders In order to secure fairness, included an index relative to the absolute amount For share price-linked bonuses, the bonus amount for individual Director is calculated for FYE 2020 and FYE 2021 based on the following specific calculation formula for individual payment amounts, and when the Director retires or, in the case of taking on the position of executive officer after retirement of the Director, the executive officer retires, such amount will be paid. a. FYE 2020 [(The simple average of daily stock closing price of the Company ( Average of Daily Closing Price ) in FYE 2020) – (Average of Daily Closing Price in FYE 2019)] x 1,300,000 x (Points assigned to each Director according to the position ( Position Point ) / 108.8 points x Relative Stock Price Growth Rate (Note 1) (Note 1) Relative Stock Price Growth Rate = (Average of Daily Closing Price in FYE 2020 / Average of Daily Closing Price of FYE 2019) / (Simple average of daily TOPIX (Note 2) in FYE 2020 / Simple average of TOPIX in FYE 2019) (Note 2) TOPIX = Tokyo Stock Price Index, the principal index consisting of all Japanese common stocks listed on the First Section of Tokyo Stock Exchange. 179 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance b. FYE 2021 [(Average of Daily Closing Price in FYE 2021) – (Average of Daily Closing Price in FYE 2019)] x 1,300,000 x (Total Position Points in FYE 2020 and FYE 2021) / (108.8 points x 2(years)) x Relative Stock Price Growth Rate (Note 3) – (share price-linked bonus for FYE 2020 calculated in the above a.). (Note 3) Relative Stock Price Growth Rate = (Average of Daily Closing Price in FYE 2021 / Average of Daily Closing Price of FYE 2019) / (Simple average of daily TOPIX in FYE 2021 / Simple average of TOPIX in FYE 2019) The Position Points assigned to each position are same as those applied for performance-linked bonuses. The share price-linked bonuses together with performance-linked bonuses are paid to the eligible Directors within the Director bonuses limit of ¥2.0 billion. (If the amount of performance-linked bonus and share price-linked bonus based on the above formula exceeds 2.0 billion yen, the performance-linked bonus is preferentially allocated to the limit amount) Performance-linked Stock Remuneration Plan By resolution at the 92nd Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders held on 24 June, 2016, ITOCHU introduced the performance-linked stock remuneration plan (the Stock Remuneration Plan ) and, by resolution of the Board of Directors held on 13 May, 2020, we continue this plan from FYE 2021. This plan is described below. Under this plan, in June of ever year during the trust period, Directors who served as Directors from 1 July of the previous year to the last day of June of the said year are granted points based on performance in the fiscal year that ended on 31 March of said year and in accordance with the number of months of service during that period. The method of calculating the number of points granted to Directors (excluding outside Directors) in FYE 2021 is described below. One point corresponds to one share in ITOCHU, and amounts of less than one point are discarded. Points = Individual stock remuneration amount (Note 1) / Average acquisition stock price of ITOCHU shares in the trust (Note 2) × {(Number of months of service from July, the beginning month of the applicable period of payment, to June of the following year (rounding up fractions of less than one month)) / 12} (rounding down fractions) (Note 1) The individual stock remuneration amount is calculated on the basis of the total stock remuneration amount, which is calculated as indicated below. a. Total stock remuneration amount = (the amount of consolidated net profit attributable to ITOCHU for FYE 2021 ¥300.0 billion) x 0.175% x Sum total of position points of eligible Directors / 55 (rounding up fractions of less than ¥1) b. Individual stock remuneration amount = Total stock remuneration amount x Position points of each Director / Sum total of position points of Directors (rounding down fractions of less than ¥1,000) Position points for each Director are the same as the number used for calculating Director bonuses. (Note 2) In the event that the trust period has been extended, this is the average acquisition stock price of ITOCHU shares that were acquired by the Trust in accordance with the extension of the trust period. (However, if no ITOCHU shares are acquired by the trust in accordance with the extension of the trust period, then this is the closing stock price of ITOCHU shares on the market of Tokyo Stock Exchange on the first day of the extended trust period). The points assigned to each position are as per below: Position Points Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 10 President and Chief Operating Officer 7.5 Executive Vice President (resident in Japan) 5 Senior Managing Executive Officer 4 Managing Executive Officer 3 180 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance As the Stock Remuneration Plan, ITOCHU has adopted a framework called Board Incentive Plan Trust (BIP) ( BIP Trust ). The BIP Trust is a stock incentive plan for executives, based on the performance share and restricted stock plans in the United States. ITOCHU will conduct delivery and payment of ITOCHU shares acquired by the BIP Trust and an amount of money equivalent of the conversion value of said shares ( ITOCHU Shares, etc. ), together with dividends derived from ITOCHU shares, to Directors, etc. following retirement from office (or after death in the event of the death of a Director, etc.; the same applies hereinafter), based on performance, etc. Outline of the Stock Remuneration Plan is as follows: (1) Persons Entitled to Receive Stock Remuneration: Directors and executive officers of ITOCHU (excluding outside Directors and those who are non-residents of Japan, as of June 19, 2020, the numbers of the Directors applicable is 5 and of the executive officers not being Director is 7) (2) Maximum Amount of Money Contributed by the Company to the Trust: a total of ¥1.5 billion for 2 fiscal years (3) Method for the Acquisition of Shares by the Trust: Scheduled to be acquired on the stock market (thus no dilution of shares is anticipated) (4) Upper Limit on the Number of Shares to be acquired by Directors, etc.: For the trust period, with an applicable period of 2 fiscal years, the upper limit will be 1,300,000 points (an average of 650,000 points per year) (5) Performance Index under the Stock Remuneration Plan: Consolidated net profit attributable to the Company (upon which the amount of total stock remuneration will be calculated. See above for more details) (6) Timing of Delivery of Shares: After retirement from Office (7) Voting Rights Concerning Shares in the Trust: Will not be exercised in order to ensure neutrality toward management Rules for Directors of Non-residents in Japan A Director of non-residents in Japan is not eligible for performance-linked stock remuneration. As a substitute, such Director is eligible for the Equivalent Amount of Individual stock remuneration. The Equivalent Amount of Individual stock remuneration is calculated in accordance with the above formula (except the points assigned to such Director being 15) as if such Director were subject to performance-linked stock remuneration, and the amount will be added or subtracted according to a certain performance achievement rate. The remuneration will be determined and paid following the conclusion of FYE 2021 Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders as a performance-linked bonus, (round up less than ¥ 1,000), separately from the performance-linked bonus based on formula above. This performance-linked bonus (the Equivalent Amount of Individual stock remuneration) will be paid within the limit of 2.0 billion yen (a resolution of the general meeting of shareholders on June 21, 2019), the overall maximum limit of the bonus including this performance-linked bonus, the performance-linked bonus calculated by formula above and the share price-linked bonus. If the total amount exceeds 2.0 billion yen, this performancelinked bonus and the performance-linked bonus calculated by formula above will be preferentially allocated. Compensation Paid to Directors in FYE 2020 Details of the compensation paid to Directors in FYE 2020 are as follows. Number of Amount Paid Type Details People (Millions of yen) (1) Monthly remuneration: ¥591 million (2) Performance-linked bonuses: ¥1,273 million Directors 10 (4) 2,298 (59) (3) Share price-linked bonuses: ¥105 million (Outside Directors) (4) Special Benefits: ¥180 million (5) Stock Remuneration: ¥149 million (Rounded to nearest million yen) 181 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Notes: 1. Maximum compensation paid to all Directors: ¥800 million per year as total monthly remuneration (including ¥100 million per year for the outside Directors) and ¥2.0 billion per year as total bonuses paid to all Directors (resolved at the General Meeting of Shareholders on 21 June, 2019. 2. Maximum compensation paid to all Audit & Supervisory Board Members: ¥13 million per month (resolved at General Meeting of Shareholders on 29 June, 2005, as of the date hereof, the numbers of the Audit & Supervisory Board Members applicable is 5) 3. Following deliberation by the Governance and Remuneration Committee, at a meeting of the Board of Directors held on May 13, 2020 ITOCHU resolved to pay special benefits. This will be paid within the limit of bonuses for Directors, and is based on ITOCHU's record profits despite the increasingly severe business environment. 4. The introduction of performance-linked stock remuneration for Directors (Board Incentive Plan Trust BIP ) was approved at the 92nd Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders held on June 24, 2016. The total amount of stock remuneration in the table is the recorded amount of expenses involving share granted points granted during this fiscal year related to BIP. 5. The amounts of the share price-linked bonuses are calculated at the end of FYE 2021. Name, position, and amount of compensation paid to Directors receiving compensation of ¥100 million or more during FYE 2020, are as follows. Share PerformanceMonthly PriceSpecial Stock Name Category linked Total Remuneration linked Benefits Remuneration Bonuses Bonuses ** ¥30 ¥50 ¥632 Masahiro Okafuji Director ¥153 million ¥351 million ¥49 million million million million ¥22 ¥40 ¥452 Yoshihisa Suzuki Director ¥90 million ¥263 million ¥37 million million million million ¥15 ¥25 ¥320 Tomofumi Yoshida Director ¥85 million ¥171 million ¥24 million million million million ** ¥15 ¥25 ¥313 Yuji Fukuda Director ¥66 million ¥207 million ¥0 million million million million ¥12 ¥20 ¥263 Fumihiko Kobayashi Director ¥71 million ¥140 million ¥20 million million million million ¥12 ¥20 ¥259 Tsuyoshi Hachimura Director ¥68 million ¥140 million ¥20 million million million million (Rounded to nearest million yen) Note: The remuneration paid to Directors (excluding outside Directors) in FYE 2020 comprised monthly remuneration, performance-linked bonuses, Share price-linked bonuses, special benefits, and performancelinked stock remuneration for Directors (Board Incentive Plan Trust). Monthly remuneration is determined by the contribution to ITOCHU of each Director according to a base amount set by position, the total amount of performance-linked bonuses is determined on the basis of consolidated net profit attributable to ITOCHU, and the amount of the share price-linked bonuses is determined based on relative evaluation of the stock price growth rate of ITOCHU with the TSE stock index (TOPIX). (**) Monthly remuneration includes housing allowance. 182 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Evaluation as to the Effectiveness of the Board of Directors ITOCHU conducted the evaluation as to the effectiveness of the Board of Directors targeting Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members in FYE 2020. As a result of this evaluation, in terms of the structure of the Board of Directors and its advisory committees as well as the roles and duties, operation status, information provision to Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members, and training, the Board of Directors of ITOCHU confirmed that the effectiveness of the Board of Directors was secured. According to an external consultant, it is evaluated that ITOCHU's score has improved in the majority of the questionnaires, and the effectiveness of the Board of Directors has made further progress through means including (1) progress in external form such as improvement of diversity and the structure of advisory committees, (2) invigoration of discussions in the Board of Directors through improvements in proceedings and operation of meetings, and (3) enhancement of information sharing. With regard to the operation of the Board of Directors based on the transition to a Monitoring-Focused Structure, which was recognized as an ongoing issue in the previous evaluation, discussions were held with the goal of improving mediumto long-term corporate value, which ITOCHU seeks in its management strategy and corporate philosophy, and steady progress was observed. At the same time, the findings also noted that, as remaining issues, there is a need for initiatives to address (1) further diversity in the Board of Directors, (2) the further enhancement of mediumto long-term discussions in the Board of Directors, and (3) the strengthening of provision of information to outside Directors and outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members. Based on the above survey results, ITOCHU intends to continue investigations aimed at increasing the diversity of outside Directors and outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members, and to enhance discussions by the Board of Directors on major themes. Based on the results of this evaluation of the Board of Directors, we will continue to maintain and improve the effectiveness of the Board of Directors. For your reference, please see the result in our homepage at: https://www.itochu.co.jp/en/files/board_evaluation_2019e.pdf 183 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Advisory Committees We have established Governance and Remuneration Committee and Nomination Committee under the Board of Directors as voluntary advisory committees to raise the transparency of the decision-making process and strengthen the supervisory function of the Board of Directors. Each committee is chaired by an outside Director and the majority members of each committee are outside Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members. Advisory Committees to the Board of Directors Name Function Deliberates and advises on proposals related to remuneration system for Directors and executive officers and other matters on corporate governance Governance and Remuneration This committee was held for 3 times with the participant of all members, and the remuneration Committee plan for Directors, evaluation as to the effectiveness of the Board of Directors in FYE 2019 and FYE 2020, Policy on the Governance of Listed Subsidiaries, and Reorganization of Nomination Committee. Deliberates and advises on proposals related to nomination and dismissal of executive officers, nomination of candidates for Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members, dismissal of Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members, and appointment and dismissal of Nomination responsible Directors and officers Committee This committee was held for 4 times with the participant of all members (except one time with the outside members limited), and the executive management appointment, and the plan for the successor were deliberated therein. Composition of the Governance and Remuneration Committee and the Nomination Committee (As of June 19, 2020) Governance and Nomination Name Title Remuneration Committee Committee Masahiro Okafuji Chairman & Chief Executive Officer ○ ○ Yoshihisa Suzuki President & Chief Operating Officer ○ ○ Fumihiko Kobayashi Director ○ Atsuko Muraki Outside Director ◎ (Chair) Harufumi Mochizuki Outside Director ○ ○ Masatoshi Kawana Outside Director ◎ (Chair) Makiko Nakamori Outside Director ○ Shuzaburo Tsuchihashi Audit & Supervisory Board Member * Makoto Kyoda Audit & Supervisory Board Member ○ Shingo Majima Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member ○ Kentaro Uryu Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member ○ Kotaro Ohno Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member ○ (7 members) (7 members) * Shuzaburo Tsuchihashi, Audit & Supervisory Board Member, attends as an observer 184 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Principal Internal Committees The HMC (Headquarters Management Committee) and various internal committees have been established for the purpose of contributing to appropriate and flexible decision making on management issues by the President and Chief Operating Officer and the Board of Directors. HMC is, in principle, chaired by the President, and in principle consists of the Chairman, the President, and executive officers appointed by the President. The HMC is a supporting committee to the President and Chief Operating Officer where companywide management policy and important issues are discussed. Various internal committees carefully screen and discuss management issues in their respective fields. Several of the internal committees including the Internal Control Committee work to support the decision making by the President and Chief Operating Officer and the Board of Directors by incorporating external opinions with measures such as designating outside key figures. The roles of the main internal committees are as follows (as of June 19, 2020). Name Chairman Objectives Internal Control Deliberates on issues related to the development of internal control CAO Committee systems Deliberates on issues related to business activity disclosure and on Disclosure Committee CFO issues related to the development and operation of internal control systems in the area of financial reporting Deliberates on issues related to risk management systems and ALM Committee CFO balance sheet management Compliance Committee CAO Deliberates on issues related to compliance Deliberates on issues related to sustainability and ESG, including Sustainability CAO environmental problems and social contribution initiatives, excluding Committee governance related issues Investment CFO Deliberates on issues related to investment and financing Consultative Committee New Headquarters CAO Deliberates on issues related to New Headquarters Project Project Committee Policy and Process for Appointing Executive Officers Executive Officers are appointed annually by the Board of Directors among, in principle, employees regarded as candidates for executives based on our HR system with high integrity and exceptional ability (or those who have already been appointed as Executive Officers) who are judged to be capable of assuming the role as the Executive Officers. Candidates for Executive Officers are first selected by the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer based on, among others, recommendations from other officers (or in terms of incumbent Executive Officers, based on their respective performance) and submitted to the Nomination Committee for further deliberation. Based on the deliberation and advice of the Nomination Committee, the Board of Directors appoints Executive Officers by its resolution. In case that an Executive Officer breaches the Executive Officers' Regulation of the Company or otherwise his or her performance is judged to be not appropriate, the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (or the chairman of the Nomination Committee) firstly makes a proposal of dismissal, and the Board of Directors dismisses such Executive Officer by its resolution based on the deliberation and advice of the Nomination Committee. 185 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Corporate Auditors and the Audit & Supervisory Board Overview Audit & Supervisory Board Members and the Audit & Supervisory Board endeavor to enhance cooperation with the independent external auditors, for example through active exchange of information and opinions on the status and results of each other's audit plans and audits along with other important auditing matters with the aim of improving the quality and efficiency of auditing and of enhancing corporate governance. Audit & Supervisory Board Members and the Audit Division (internal audit division) endeavor to closely cooperate and exchange information by discussing internal audit plans regularly to exchange opinions on the results of each internal inspection, issues and recommendations, etc. The Audit Division and independent external auditors endeavor to cooperate by holding regular meetings to exchange information, etc. The Audit & Supervisory Board is comprised of 2 full-time internal Audit & Supervisory Board Members and 3 outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members. In addition, the Audit & Supervisory Board Members' Office (5 members as of 19 June, 2020), which directly reports to the Audit & Supervisory Board, is set with employees dedicated to the duties of the Audit & Supervisory Board Members. Following the Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders, the Audit & Supervisory Board determines the audit policy, the allocation of audit work, and the audit plan for the period until the next Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders. Each Audit & Supervisory Board Member audits the appropriateness of the performance of the duties by Directors and Executive Officers in accordance with the Audit & Supervisory Board Regulations, Auditors' Auditing Standards . Mr. Shingo Majima, Auditor, is qualified as a certified public accountant in Japan and Unites States of America, and has adequate knowledge and experience in the fields of finance and accounting. In addition, Mr. Kentaro Uryu and Mr. Kotaro Ohno, both Audit & Supervisory Board Members, are qualified as a lawyer in Japan and have adequate knowledge and experience in the field of law. The results of audits by the Audit & Supervisory Board Members, Audit Department and independent external auditors are reported to the Board of Directors, HMC, internal committees, etc. in a timely and appropriate manner, and are fully taken into account in decision making and used to improve management. Members of the Audit and Supervisory Boards FYE 2020 FYE 2020 Number of Number Number of Governance Position in Attendance at of Attendance at and Nomination Name ITOCHU Meetings of the Years Meetings of Remuneration Committee Corporation Audit & in the Board of Committee Supervisory Office Directors Board Full-time Audit 15/15 2 Shuzaburo Tsuchihashi & Supervisory 13/13 (100%) – * (100%) years Board Member Full-time Audit – Makoto Kyoda & Supervisory – – ○ – years Board Member Audit & Outside 15/15 7 Shingo Majima Supervisory 13/13 (100%) – ○ Independent (100%) years Board Member Audit & Outside 15/15 5 Kentaro Uryu Supervisory 13/13 (100%) – ○ Independent (100%) years Board Member Audit & Outside 3 Kotaro Ohno Supervisory 13/15 (87%) 13/13 (100%) ○ – Independent years Board Member ○:Member *:Observer 186 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Policy and Process for Appointing Candidates for Audit & Supervisory Board Members As Audit & Supervisory Board of a sogo-shosha with broad range of business, for effective monitoring and audit, candidates for Audit & Supervisory Board Members are selected from those with understanding about ITOCHU's management and with high expertise and extensive experience in the relevant area such as accounting, finance, legal and risk management. Among the members of ITOCHU's Board of Audit & Supervisory Board Members, half or more of the members always consist of outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members. In appointing outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members, ITOCHU prioritizes candidates with higher independence based on the independence criteria prescribed by the Tokyo Stock Exchange, and ITOCHU's own independence criteria who are expected to effectively monitor and audit ITOCHU's activities. In addition, ITOCHU selects at least one Audit & Supervisory Board Member with adequate expertise in finance and accounting. Candidates for Audit & Supervisory Board Members are selected by the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer after the discussion with the executive Audit & Supervisory Board Members and submitted to the Nomination Committee for further deliberation before the Board of Directors (with consent of the Audit & Supervisory Board) finally nominates the candidates for election at the General Meeting of Shareholders. Independent Reason for Appointment as Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member (For Name Auditors Independent Auditors, Including Reason for Designation as an Independent Auditor) Mr. Majima is appointed as an outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member in the anticipation that he will monitor management and provide auditing from an independent perspective by utilizing his wealth of experience and expertise on finance and accounting audit as a certified public accountant for many years. Shingo Majima ○ According to the criteria for the independence of directors/auditors prescribed by the Tokyo Stock Exchange, as well as our own independence criteria, Mr. Majima qualifies as an independent Audit & Supervisory Board Member. Accordingly, ITOCHU believes that he is unlikely to have conflicts of interest with general investors, and he has been designated as an independent auditor. Mr. Uryu is appointed as an outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member in the anticipation that he will monitor management and provide auditing from an independent perspective by utilizing his high level of expertise in law and extensive experience as an attorney-at-law for many years. According to the criteria for the Kentaro Uryu ○ independence of directors/ auditors prescribed by the Tokyo Stock Exchange, as well as our own independence criteria, Mr. Uryu qualifies as an independent Audit & Supervisory Board Member. Accordingly, ITOCHU believes that he is unlikely to have conflicts of interest with general investors, and he has been designated as an independent auditor. Mr. Ohno is appointed as an outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member in the anticipation that he will monitor management and provide auditing from an independent perspective by utilizing his advanced specialized knowledge in law and the extensive experience he accumulated while serving in important positions at the Ministry of Justice, including Vice-Minister of Justice, Superintending Prosecutor of Kotaro Ohno ○ Tokyo High Public Prosecutors Office and Prosecutor-General. According to the criteria for the independence of directors/ auditors prescribed by the Tokyo Stock Exchange, as well as our own independence criteria, Mr. Ohno qualifies as an independent Audit & Supervisory Board Member. Accordingly, ITOCHU believes that he is unlikely to have conflicts of interest with general investors, and he has been designated as an independent auditor. 187 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Principal Areas of Experience of Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members Principal Specialized Area of Experience Internal Main Career History and Name and Role All Aspects Overseas Finance Human Control and Qualifications, etc. of Assignment and Resources Legal Affairs Management (Global) Accounting and Labor /Compliance Executive Director, Chuo Shingo Majima University ○ Outside Audit & Senior Partner, KPMG LLP ○ (North ○ ○ Supervisory Certified Public Accountant in America) Board Member Japan and the United States (New York State) Kentaro Uryu Managing Partner, URYU & Outside Audit & ○ ○ ○ ITOGA Supervisory (Asia) Attorney-At-Law Board Member Kotaro Ohno Prosecutor-General Outside Audit & ○ ○ ○ Vice-Minister of Justice Supervisory Attorney-At-Law Board Member Outline of Limitation of Liability Contracts Pursuant to Article 427, Paragraph 1, of the Companies Act, ITOCHU has entered into limitation of liability contracts with respect to liability as set forth in Article 423, Paragraph 1, of the Companies Act with outside Directors and outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members. Under these contracts, their liabilities are limited to the lowest amount of liability pursuant to Article 425, Paragraph 1, of the Companies Act if and so long as they have acted in good faith and without gross negligence in performing their duties. Compensation Paid to Audit & Supervisory Board Members in FYE 2020 Details of the compensation paid to Audit & Supervisory Board Members in FYE 2020 are as follows. Amount Paid Type Number of People Details (Millions of yen) Audit & Supervisory Board Members (Outside Audit & 5 (3) 131 (45) Only monthly remuneration Supervisory Board Members) (Rounded to nearest million yen) Checking and Balancing System by the Independence Executives Criteria for the Independence of Directors/ Auditors ITOCHU has adopted its own independence criteria (augmenting the independence criteria established by the Tokyo Stock Exchange), which is disclosed at our homepage. Please refer to the following URL: https://www.itochu.co.jp/en/about/governance_compliance/governance/pdf/independence_criteria.pdf All of the Company's outside Directors and outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members who qualify as an independent Director/ Audit & Supervisory Board Member are designated as independent Directors/ Audit & Supervisory Board Members. 188 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Performance of the Independent Executives Ms. Muraki attended all of the 15 meetings of the Board of Directors held during the current term. She mainly made statements from an objective and neutral position as an outside Director. During the current term, she chaired the Governance and Remuneration Committee and led discussions on executive remuneration and other topics. Furthermore, she provided many beneficial suggestions in the areas of internal control, compliance, human resource utilization, and organizational revitalization. Mr. Mochizuki attended all of the 15 meetings of the Board of Directors held during the current term. He mainly made statements from an objective and neutral position as an outside Director. During the current term, he chaired the Nomination Committee and offered a practical perspective while leading discussions on the appointment and dismissal of key management members and succession plans. Furthermore, he provided many beneficial and broad-minded suggestions on internal control, compliance, and reinvented business. Mr. Kawana attended all of the 15 meetings of the Board of Directors held since his appointment. He mainly made statements from an objective and neutral position as an outside Director. During the current term, he was a member of the Governance and Remuneration Committee and contributed to the further enhancement of governance at ITOCHU. Additionally, he used his expertise to provide many beneficial suggestions in the areas of health management and medical care-related business. Ms. Nakamori attended all of the 11 meetings of the Board of Directors held since her appointment. She mainly made statements from an objective and neutral position as an outside Director based on her experience as a company manager in multiple executive positions, in addition to her expertise on finance and accounting and her extensive experience as a certified public accountant. During the current term, she was a member of the Governance and Remuneration Committee and contributed to the further enhancement of governance at ITOCHU. She drew on her experience and expertise to provide many beneficial suggestions in the areas of internal control, compliance, and reinvented business. Outside Directors actively advise and provide recommendations, from a neutral and objective position, at the Board of Directors and at the voluntary advisory committee of the Board of Directors, and ensure and enhance the effectiveness of the monitoring and supervising function of the Board of Directors and transparency of decision-making by appropriately demonstrating to the internal Directors their supervisory functions based on various perspectives and their management advice function of the outside Directors. Mr. Majima attended all of the 15 meetings of the Board of Directors and all of the 13 meetings of the Audit & Supervisory Board held during the current term. He mainly made statements from an objective and neutral position as an outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member based on his wealth of experience and expertise on finance and accounting as a certified public accountant and over many years as a university professor. During the current term, he was a member of the Nomination Committee and made contributions toward improving the objectivity of ITOCHU's officer nomination process. Mr. Uryu attended all of the 15 meetings of the Board of Directors and all of the 13 meetings of the Audit & Supervisory Board held during the current term. He made statements from an objective and neutral position as an outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member, based on his wealth of experience and expertise as an attorney in wide-ranging fields of corporate legal matters. During the current term, he was a member of the Nomination Committee and made contributions toward improving the objectivity of ITOCHU's officer nomination process. Mr. Ohno attended 13 of the 15 meetings of the Board of Directors and all of the 13 meetings of the Audit & Supervisory Board held during the current term. He mainly made statements from an objective and neutral position as an outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member based on his expertise in legal systems and operations and his high-level knowledge developed through many years of experience in the Ministry of Justice and public prosecutor's office. During the current term, he was a member of the Governance and Remuneration Committee and contributed to the further enhancement of governance at ITOCHU. Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members actively provide an opinion, from a neutral and objective position, at the Board of Directors and at the voluntary advisory committee of the Board of Directors, and enhance the transparency of decision-making by appropriately demonstrating their supervisory functions of the outside Directors against the performance of the internal Directors. 189 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Significance of Holding and ITOCHU's Policy on the Governance regarding its Listed Subsidiaries ITOCHU has 203 consolidated subsidiaries (as of the end of 2019) and is expanding our diverse businesses in Japan and all over the world. As the core of the Group, ITOCHU formulates management policies as well as shortand medium-term management plans on a group basis, and regularly monitors the progress of each segment. In order to appropriately deal with various risks as a group, we have the internal control systems on a group basis, which are necessary to ensure that Directors' implementations of duties are in compliance with laws and statutory regulations and the Articles of Incorporation, and to ensure the appropriateness of other operations. In particular, ITOCHU makes conscientious efforts to ensure execution of duties by directors and employees at each subsidiary to comply with laws and regulations and the Articles of Incorporation by means of the directors and corporate auditors dispatched to each subsidiary supervising and auditing the execution of duties. In addition, in order to deal with various risks such as market risk, credit risk, country risk, investment risk, etc. of the Group, ITOCHU maintains and manages risks comprehensively and individually. For that purpose, various internal committees and responsible departments have been established, and the necessary risk management system and management method are group-based. Furthermore, ITOCHU formulates a group compliance program, establishes and operates the system required to prevent the occurrence of any violations of laws and regulations, and strives for continuous improvement through regular reviews. ITOCHU respects the autonomy of listed subsidiaries, ITOCHU Techno-Solutions Corporation, ITOCHU ENEX CO., LTD., ITOCHU-SHOKUHIN Co., Ltd., CONEXIO Corporation, C.I. TAKIRON Corporation, FamilyMart Co., Ltd., and Prima Meat Packers, Ltd., and prohibits any acts that contradict the principle of shareholder equality. In particular, with the recognition that there is a potential conflict of interest between ITOCHU and the minority shareholders of these listed subsidiaries and in order to secure the independent decision-making of these listed subsidiaries, we request these listed subsidiaries to set up the governance structure under which the independent outside Directors of these listed subsidiaries are well functioned. Specifically, ITOCHU encourages each listed subsidiary that (1) independent outside directors should be one-third or more of the total number of directors, (2) an independent board advisory committee should be established, and (3) independent outside corporate auditors should be half or more than the total number of corporate auditors. It is recognized that each of the listed subsidiaries have established a governance system that is generally in line with the request. On the premise of the above-mentioned governance system, the significance of holding a listed subsidiary is including: (1) expansion of business partners based on our name recognition, creditworthiness and independence; (2) the expansion of synergies within the Group; (3) reduction of the Company's financial burden on the listed subsidiary; and (4) securing excellent human resources. In addition, the significance of holding each listed subsidiary from the perspective of the Group's management strategy and sales perspective is as follows: Company Significance of Holding It is expanding its business by developing solutions utilizing the Group's domestic and overseas networks and developing services for group companies, and ITOCHU and ITOCHU TechnoITOCHU Techno-Solutions Corporation have an appropriate commercial relationship as Solutions business partners. It was established and founded by inheriting part of ITOCHU's Corporation information industry business as an independent company. There has been no competitive relationship with the ITOCHU's business, and has been few transactions between us. Utilizing its wide and diverse domestic customer base, ITOCHU ENEX CO., LTD. is developing new fuel sales, logistics efficiency business, next-generation business, etc. in addition to existing energy business and power business. It is important and ITOCHU ENEX CO., indispensable presence for the Group in order to build a stable profit base both in Japan LTD. and overseas. It was established and founded by inheriting ITOCHU's existing subsidiary as an independent company. There has been no competitive relationship with the ITOCHU's business, and has been few transactions between us. 190 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Company Significance of Holding The principal and main business of ITOCHU-SHOKUHIN Co., Ltd. is the sale and distribution of alcoholic beverages and processed foods. Based on the existence of it, ITOCHUITOCHU secures stable contact points with various domestic retailers, and we aim to SHOKUHIN Co., maximize profit in the food distribution field by utilizing this sales channel. While Ltd. pursuing synergies by strengthening cooperation with it, a business relationship on the premise of pursuing mutual economic rationality has been established and maintained. It is expanding its business by utilizing the Group network to promote mobile accessory sales and cross-industry collaboration, etc., and ITOCHU and CONEXIO Corporation have CONEXIO an appropriate commercial relationship as business partners. It was established and Corporation founded by inheriting ITOCHU's mobile device sales business as an independent company. There has been no competitive relationship with the ITOCHUs business, and has been few transactions between us. C.I. TAKIRON Corporation is positioned as a core enterprise in the Group's plastic resin business, due to its advanced technological capabilities and large-scale production capacity. We aim to maximize the Group's profits through synergies such as support for C.I. TAKIRON overseas expansion of the products handled by C.I. TAKIRON Corporation utilizing Corporation ITOCHU's diverse overseas network. While pursuing synergies by strengthening cooperation with it, a business relationship on the premise of pursuing mutual economic rationality has been established and maintained. FamilyMart Co., Ltd. operates convenience store businesses in eight countries including Japan. It assumes key functions of our consumer-related business, and aims to further FamilyMart Co., strengthen Group's business foundation by jointly developing new products and services Ltd. that capture diversifying consumer needs and promoting digital strategies that contribute to improving customer convenience. A business relationship on the premise of pursuing mutual economic rationality has been established and maintained. The main and principal business of Prima Meat Packers, Ltd. is to sell meat and processed livestock products, and it assumes an important role in supplying final Prima Meat products in ITOCHU's livestock value chain. While pursuing synergies by strengthening Packers, Ltd. cooperation with it, ITOCHU is strengthening our value chain by conducting a wide range of transactions with other companies. A business relationship on the premise of pursuing mutual economic rationality has been established and maintained. To enhance the corporate value of the overall ITOCHU Group, ITOCHU, as their parent company and major shareholder, regularly pays adequate attention to the legal compliance systems and status of these listed subsidiaries. ITOCHU provides appropriate advice and support as needed on specific compliance-related matters, creation of internal control systems, and other managerial issues. 191 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Internal Control System On April 19, 2006, ITOCHU's Board of Directors established the Basic Policy regarding the Internal Control System, which was most recently partially revised as of April 1, 2020. ITOCHU intends to revise and improve the internal control system tirelessly in order to build a system that is even more appropriate and efficient. The following highlights two noteworthy initiatives under this policy. Basic Policy Regarding the Internal Control System and its Operational Status The Company has established the following internal control systems, which are necessary to ensure that executive officers' implementation of duties are in compliance with laws and statutory regulations and the Articles of Incorporation and ensure the appropriateness of other operations. Below is a summary of the Basic Policy regarding the Internal Control System and its Operational Status as of June 19, 2020. ( Basic Policy regarding the Internal Control System was approved by Board of Directors on April 19, 2006, and the latest revision was made on April 1, 2020). Notes 1. System to Ensure Compliance by Directors and Employees to Laws, Regulations and the Articles of Incorporation (1) Corporate Governance 1. As the decision-making body, the Board of Directors, consisting of Directors and Outside Directors, is to decide important matters in accordance with laws and regulations, the Articles of Incorporation, the Board of Directors Regulations, and other internal regulations, and as the supervisory body, the Board of Directors is to supervise the performance of the directors. 2. Each director is to carry out such director's functions and duties as designated by the Board of Directors in accordance with laws and regulations, the Articles of Incorporation, resolutions by the Board of Directors, and internal regulations. 3. ITOCHU is to adopt the Executive Officer System to strengthen the decision-making function and supervisory function of the Board of Directors, and to streamline executive decision-making. Based on the approval of the Board of Directors, executive officers implement their designated duties based on delegation from the Board of Directors and representative directors. 4. The corporate auditors are to oversee the performance of the directors based on the Board of Corporate Auditors Regulations and Auditors' Auditing Standards. (2) Compliance 1. Directors, executive officers and employees are to conduct themselves in accordance with the ITOCHU Group Corporate Mission and the ITOCHU Group Guideline of Conduct. 2. ITOCHU is to designate a representative director as the chief officer responsible for supervising compliance and also establish the Compliance Committee and a department that oversees all compliance matters. In addition, the ITOCHU Group Compliance Program is to be created to further enhance our compliance system. (3) Internal Control to Ensure Reliability of Financial Reporting 1. ITOCHU is to have in place internal regulations concerning commercial transactions management and accounting, and is to create the position of CFO to ensure the reliability of financial reporting. 2. ITOCHU is to establish the Disclosure Committee and regularly review and improve the development and implementation status of the internal control systems to ensure the reliability of financial reporting. (4) Internal Audits ITOCHU is to establish the Audit Division under the direct control of the President and Chief Executive Officer. The Audit Division is to regularly implement internal audits of all aspects of business operations based on the Audit Regulations. Such internal audits are to examine compliance with laws and regulations, the Articles of Incorporation, and internal regulations, as well as, among other matters, the appropriateness of the procedures and nature of the exercise of duties and responsibilities. 192 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance 2. System for the Storage and Preservation of Information Related to Director Duties The directors are to appropriately store and preserve important documents and related materials concerning the performance of their duties, including the minutes of the General Meeting of Shareholders, in accordance with the Information Management Regulations, the Document Management Rules and other internal regulations. All documents and information so stored and preserved are to be subject to inspection by the directors and auditors at any time. Further, the Company will establish departments responsible for the timely disclosure of important corporate information and other information. At the same time, directors will rapidly and comprehensively gather information that requires disclosure and implement timely and appropriate disclosure in compliance with laws and statutory regulations. 3. Regulations Concerning the Management of the Risk of Loss and Other Relevant Risk Management System To adequately address the various risks associated with our business operations, such as market risk, credit risk, country risk, and investment risk, ITOCHU is to establish internal committees and responsible departments, and is to develop the necessary risk management system and risk management techniques, for example establishing a full range of management regulations, investment criteria, risk limits and transaction limits, and developing reporting and monitoring systems, and managing company-wide as well as matter-specific risks . Furthermore, ITOCHU is to regularly review the effectiveness of the risk management system. 4. System to Ensure Efficient Performance of Directors (1) The HMC and Other Internal Committees The HMC as a supporting body to the President and Chief Executive Officer, and a number of other internal committees, are to facilitate the proper and agile decision-making by the President and Chief Executive Officer and the Board of Directors. (2) Division Company System Under the Division Company System, the position of Division Company president is to be created at each Company, and each Company is to manage its business autonomously in accordance with laws and regulations, the Articles of Incorporation, and internal regulations. Furthermore, each Company is to establish its own numerical targets, and regularly evaluate its performance by comparing against such numerical targets. (3) Clearly Define the Scope of Authority and Responsibilities In order to ensure the appropriateness and efficiency of the performance of the management, ITOCHU is to develop internal regulations to clearly define the scope of authority and responsibilities of each corporate officer and divisional manager. 5. System to Ensure the Adequacy of Operations of the ITOCHU Group (Consisting of ITOCHU and Its Subsidiaries) (1) Subsidiary Management and Reporting System 1. ITOCHU is to establish a department that oversees all the subsidiaries. Furthermore, relevant departments within ITOCHU are to exercise jurisdiction over their responsible subsidiaries, and provide managerial guidance to such subsidiaries in accordance with the internal regulations concerning consolidated company management. In principle, ITOCHU is to send directors and corporate auditors to each subsidiary to ensure the adequacy of the subsidiary's operations. 2. With respect to subsidiaries that ITOCHU owns indirectly through its directly-owned subsidiaries, ITOCHU is to strive to ensure the adequacy of operations by such indirectly-owned subsidiaries in accordance with this Basic Policy by way of, in principle, causing directly-owned subsidiaries to provide managerial guidance to indirectly-owned subsidiaries. 3. With respect to important matters on the management of subsidiaries, ITOCHU is to, in principle, agree and specify with each subsidiary what matters will require the prior approval of or reporting to ITOCHU, as appropriate, taking into account, among others, each subsidiary's nature and size of business and whether it is listed or unlisted. 193 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance (2) Rules and Other Systems to Manage the Risk of Loss at Subsidiaries ITOCHU is to identify the subsidiaries which shall be subject to ITOCHU's Group-wide risk management in respect of each risk category, taking into account, among others, each subsidiary's nature and size of business and whether it is listed or unlisted. In addition, ITOCHU is to periodically review the effectiveness of such Group-wide management system. (3) System to Ensure the Efficient Performance of Duties by Directors, etc. of Subsidiaries ITOCHU is to formulate a management plan on a consolidated basis and undertake managerial guidance of subsidiaries in order to attain the said management plan as well as to provide support to subsidiaries such as provision of group financing from ITOCHU. (4) System to Ensure Compliance by Directors, etc. and Employees of Subsidiaries to Laws, Regulations and the Articles of Incorporation 1. In principle, ITOCHU is to send directors and corporate auditors to each subsidiary and strive to ensure that the performance of duties of directors, etc. and employees of a subsidiary complies with laws and regulations and the Articles of Incorporation of such subsidiary through supervision and audit of the performance of duties at the subsidiary by the said directors and auditors sent from ITOCHU. 2. ITOCHU is to provide guidance to its subsidiaries for the purpose of implementing a compliance system under the ITOCHU Group Compliance Program and to perform periodic monitoring and review of the implementation status of the relevant matters as well as providing education and training at subsidiaries whenever necessary for the purpose of securing compliance by the entire ITOCHU Group. 3. All of the operations and activities of the subsidiaries are to be subject to internal audits by the Audit Division. 6. Matters Concerning Supporting Personnel to Corporate Auditors, Independence of Such Personnel from the Directors and Ensuring the Effectiveness of Instructions to Such Personnel ITOCHU is to establish the Corporate Auditors’ Office under the direct jurisdiction of the Board of Corporate Auditors and is to put in place full-time employees with the sole responsibility of supporting the work of the corporate auditors. The supervisory authority over such employees is to belong exclusively to the corporate auditors, and evaluation of such employees is to be carried out by the corporate auditor designated by the Board of Corporate Auditors. Any transfer orders or disciplinary actions relating to such employees are to require prior approval by such corporate auditor. 7. System for Reporting by Directors and Employees to Corporate Auditors (1) Attendance at Important Meetings The corporate auditors are to attend meetings of the Board of Directors, the HMC meetings, and other important meetings, and interview the directors and other relevant persons regarding the performance of their duties. In addition, the corporate auditors are to have the right to inspect all relevant materials. (2) Reporting System 1. The directors and corporate officers are to regularly report to the corporate auditors about their performance. Furthermore, in addition to the matters required by laws and regulations, the directors and corporate officers are to report all the decisions that could have a major impact on the finance or business of ITOCHU to the corporate auditors immediately after such decisions are made. 2. Employees are to have the right to report directly to the corporate auditors any matters that could cause serious damage to ITOCHU. 3. In the ITOCHU Group Compliance Program, ITOCHU is to explicitly prohibit disadvantageous treatment of directors and employees who have reported to the corporate auditors and to ensure thorough familiarization with this prohibition. 194 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance 8. System for Reporting by Directors, Corporate Auditors and Employees of Subsidiaries or by a Person who Received a Report from Them to Corporate Auditors (1) Reporting System 1. The directors and corporate auditors of subsidiaries may report directly to the corporate auditors of ITOCHU any matters that could cause serious damage to the said subsidiary. 2. A department that oversees compliance is to periodically report to the corporate auditors of ITOCHU a summary of matters that could cause serious damage to a subsidiary that were reported by the officers and employees of the said subsidiary. 3. In the ITOCHU Group Compliance Program, ITOCHU is to explicitly prohibit disadvantageous treatment of persons who have reported to the corporate auditors under the provisions listed above and to ensure full familiarization with this prohibition. 9. Matters Concerning Policy on Procedures for Prepayment or Refund of Expenses Arising in Relation to Performance of Duties of Corporate Auditors and Processing of Expenses or Obligations Arising in Relation to the Performance of Other Duties When a corporate auditor claims prepayment, etc. from ITOCHU in relation to the performance of duties under Article 388 of the Companies Act, ITOCHU is to process the relevant expense or claim promptly upon confirmation by the responsible department. 10. Other Relevant Systems to Ensure the Proper Functioning of Audits (1) Coordination with the Corporate Auditors by the Audit Division The Audit Division is to maintain close communication and coordination with the corporate auditors with respect to matters such as formulation of the internal audit plan for each business year, and internal audit results. (2) Retaining External Experts When deemed necessary, the corporate auditors are to independently retain outside experts for the implementation of an audit. Overview of the Operational Status of Internal Control System For the proper operation of internal control systems, ITOCHU has adopted a system by which it further segments items stipulated by the Basic Policy into more detailed confirmatory items in respect of each fiscal year, and, after setting the department in charge of each of these confirmatory items, conducts checks of the construction and the operational status of internal control systems by each department (and by other related internal committees) at the Internal Control Committee meetings held each half year. As of FYE 2021, the Internal Control Committee is chaired by Chief Administrative Officer with the Corporate Planning & Administration Division as secretariat, and consists of Chief Financial Officer, General Manager of Internal Audit Division, and an external expert (attorney) as members. Corporate Auditors also attend and voice opinions every time. At its meetings, the Internal Control Committee verifies the content of checklists summarizing achievement status, issues, etc. for each of the above confirmatory items, as submitted by the departments in charge of each. It also confirms the construction and operational status of internal control systems by verifying the content of individual reports from the departments in charge, with respect to important matters such as systems to ensure the reliability of financial reporting, compliance systems, systems to manage the risk of losses, and the construction and operational status of internal control systems in the ITOCHU Group. The results of deliberations by the Internal Control Committee are reported twice per year to the HMC and the Board of Directors, the latter of which conducts a full-year evaluation of the construction and operational status of internal control systems. Regarding the meetings of main internal committees related to internal control in FYE 2020, the Internal Control Committee met 2 times, the Compliance Committee 2 times, and the ALM Committee 10 times. ITOCHU's internal control systems are constructed on the base of the ITOCHU Group, consisting of ITOCHU Corporation and its subsidiaries, and the operational status of the Group base internal control systems, and the construction and operational status of internal control systems in subsidiaries, are reported regularly to the Internal Control Committee. ITOCHU intends to revise and improve these internal control systems tirelessly in order to build systems that are even more appropriate and efficient. Further, a meeting of the Board of Directors convened on May 8, 2020 evaluated the development and implementation status of each item enumerated in the Basic Policy regarding the Internal Control System for FYE 2020 and confirmed that there were no significant deficiencies or defects. 195 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Initiatives to Further Enhance the Reliability of Financial Reporting We have established an internal system in order to further enhance the reliability of our consolidated financial reporting. The designing and implementing of internal control are periodically assessed to keep making appropriate improvements. Specifically, a Chief Responsible for Internal Control has been appointed in each organization to design and implement internal control. The Internal Audit Division evaluates the effectiveness of internal control and provides feedback to each organization to ensure the continuous improvement. Overall management of these initiatives is conducted by the Internal Audit Division, and important matters are determined through deliberations in the Disclosure Committee chaired by the CFO. In this way, we are working to reinforce the companywide internal control system. Strengthening Risk Management on a Group Basis, Including Subsidiaries ITOCHU has established internal committees and responsible departments in order to address the various risks associated with the Group's business operations, such as market risk, credit risk, country risk, and investment risk. At the same time, on a Group basis ITOCHU has developed the risk management systems and methods to manage various risks individually and on a companywide basis. Those include a range of management regulations, investment criteria, risk exposure limits, and transaction limits, as well as reporting and monitoring systems. Moreover, ITOCHU regularly reviews the effectiveness of its risk management systems. As part of such efforts, the ALM Committee protects the ITOCHU Group's assets through deliberations on Group balance sheet management as well as analysis and management of risk. Process for Investments 196 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Managing Concentrated Risks We also manage overall country risk exposure to non-industrialized countries and manage individual country risk based on internal country rating standards. Country limits are deliberated by the Asset Liability Management (ALM) Committee and approved by the HMC. 197 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Risk Management Action Plan Risks Opportunities Improvement of transparency in decision-making, appropriate Occurrence of business continuity risk or unexpected loss response to changes and establishment of a stable basis of resulting from the malfunction of corporate governance or growth enabled by the establishment of a firm governance internal control, and others. system, and others. SDGs Issues to Business Performance Materiality Commitment Specific Approach Degree of Progress Targets Address Area Indicators We reviewed the progress situation for the action plans Maintain a firm in the first half of 2019 with each department Conduct regular reviews of governance system in the responsible for risk management. The Global Risk We will build a system risk management systems mediumand long-term Management Division assembled and made a report to Maintaining and for group risk that have been established, by establishing a PDCA the Internal Control Committee in October 2019 to the reinforcing a management and including internal Maintain cycle, including effect that the risk management structure is functioning. governance maintain it to manage committees and risk rigorous Risk development and system for the risk of loss and management departments, This includes the response to events that occurred during governance management implementation of action achieving ensure the various rules and the applicable period. It obtained approval for the report structures plans by the departments sustainable appropriateness of our regulations, reporting and from the committee. responsible for risk growth corporate group's monitoring systems, as well management, and We reviewed the progress of the second half of FYE 2020 operations. as the effectiveness of such monitoring and reviews by and the action plans of FYE 2021 at the meeting of systems. internal committees. Internal Control Committee in April 2020 and obtained approval from the committee. Policy and Basic Concept The ITOCHU Group is exposed to various risks due to its wide range of business natures, such as market, credit, and investment risks. These risks include unpredictable uncertainties and may have significant effects on the ITOCHU Group's future financial position and business performance. We acknowledge risk management as a key management issue. Therefore, we have established our basic risk management policy and develop necessary risk management systems and techniques based on the concept of the COSO-ERM framework. Specifically, we have defined the following 18 risks as major risks* and are responding to them by building information management and monitoring systems at each department responsible for managing these risks on a consolidated basis. In addition, we periodically review the effectiveness of management systems through our internal committees. Moreover in accordance with the medium-term management plan, we conduct risk assessments across the company to reevaluate the risks we are currently aware of and identify risks comprehensively. *Major Risks 1. Compliance Risks 2. Legal Risks (Excluding Compliance Risks) 3. Risks Associated with Trade Security Policy Management 4. Risks Associated with Customs 5. Country Risks 6. Commodity Price Risks (Specific, Important Product) 7. Credit Risks 8. Investment Risks 9. Stock Price Risks 10. Foreign Exchange Rate Risks 11. Interest Rate Risks 12. Financing Risks 13. Information System Risks 14. Information Security Risks 15. Labor Management Risks 16. Human Resources Risks 17. Risks Associated with the Appropriateness of Financial 18. Risks Associated with Internal Control Reporting 198 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Structures and Systems Risk Management Structure Risks associated to business operations are managed under oversight from the board of directors, within the responsibilities mandated to our division companies, Headquarters Management Committee (HMC) , and relevant committees. ITOCHU has established internal committees and responsible departments in order to address the various risks associated with the Group's business operations, such as market risk, credit risk, country risk, and investment risk. At the same time, on a Group basis ITOCHU has developed the risk management systems and methods to manage various risks individually and on a companywide basis. Those include a range of management regulations, investment criteria, risk exposure limits, and transaction limits, as well as reporting and monitoring systems. Moreover, ITOCHU regularly reviews the effectiveness of its risk management systems and reports on results and findings to the board of directors. At the Group level, ITOCHU's structural approach to risk management is overseen by the President and Chief Operating Officer (COO) and the Board of Directors and aims to ensure timely and sound executive decision making. The HMC, which is chaired by the President and COO and comprised of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and other executives appointed by the President and COO, is the committee that sits at the highest level regarding our risk management system. Subsequent committees that report up to the HMC, also referred to as Principal Internal Committees, which include the Internal Control Committee, Disclosure Committee, ALM Committee, Compliance Committee, Sustainability Committee, Investment Consultative Committee, are responsible for identifying and addressing risks and incidents in their respective fields. The Sustainability Committee, one of the Principal Internal Committees introduced above, is tasked to promote sustainability in the ITOCHU Group's company-wide risk management. The Committee manages operational ESG risks such as human rights risks, health and safety risks, climate risks, and natural disaster risks, as well as ESG risks related to investments. The Committee cooperates with other Committees as necessary and makes decisions on policies and initiatives to address ESG risks and operational improvements to further mainstream sustainability concerns in our risk management culture. Activities and findings are compiled by the Committee and reported to the Board of Directors annually. At the individual Company level, each Company's President reports to the Division Company Management Committee (DMC), an advisory body to the Companies. The DMC deliberates on important issues such as those regarding investments, lending, assurance, and business management that have the potential to substantially impact the management of each company. If the risks identified or escalated exceed beyond the responsibilities mandated to the DMC, depending on the gravity of the risk and upon deliberation with other committees as necessary, risk issues may be escalated to the HMC and/or the Board of Directors. ITOCHU is a company with Audit & Supervisory Board Members and endeavors to strengthen the monitoring/supervising function and ensure the transparency of decision making by having the Audit & Supervisory Board Members (including outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members) fully monitor corporate management. Auditors are therefore independent from the Committees within our risk management structure, including the HMC, but do attend Committees to perform their monitoring/supervising responsibilities. The executives chairing each respective Committee is also required to report to the HMC and/or the President and COO as necessary. The Audit Department directly under COO and other corporate staff departments oversee risks and our group-wide approach to managing risks as assigned within their mandated responsibility, and are also required to support the HMC and their subsequent Committees. Organization chart regarding the ITOCHU Group's corporate governance structure and internal controls system (P171) Overview of ITOCUH Group's main internal committees (P185) With the business environment being filled with rapid changes and uncertainty, the ITOCHU Group recognizes the importance of predicting and preparing for various eventualities. As such, we create and analyze various risk scenarios regarding the various elements of the macroeconomic environment, such as political, legal, economic, socioeconomic, and technological factors, and consider relevant future impacts in our management planning. Please see Macroenvironmental PEST Analysis page (https://www.itochu.co.jp/en/ir/doc/annual_report/online2020/ pest.html) for our non-financial capital PEST analysis reported in the Integrated Report. 199 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Initiatives Risk Management Risk Capital Management* and Management of Concentration Risk Strict Management of Risk Assets Risk Assets and Risk Buffer Our basic operational policy involves first calculating risk assets based on the maximum amount of possible future losses from all assets on the balance sheet including investments and all off-balance-sheet transactions. Second, we manage the amount of risk assets within the limits of our risk buffer (Total shareholders' equity + Non-controlling interests). As we promote investments that will lead to evolve existing business moving forward, we will work to maintain risk assets within the limits of our risk buffer, conduct strict risk management, and further strengthen our financial position. Business Investment Management Fundamental Approach Along with strategic business alliances, business investment is an important means of creating new businesses. To actively promote strategic investments in areas of strength in a timely manner, we choose the optimal structure from a wide range of methods, such as establishing a wholly owned subsidiary, implementing joint investment with partners, and participating in management through M&As or converting to a consolidated subsidiary. In principle, we hold investments continuously. After making each investment, we work to maximize the investee's corporate value and to expand trading profit and dividends received by fully utilizing our Groupwide capabilities. Given such considerations as larger-scale investments in recent years, we are rigorously screening the appropriateness of the business plan and acquisition price. For existing investments, to increase investment earnings and to exit quickly from low-efficiency assets, we are further strengthening monitoring procedures, centered on instituting more rigorous exit criteria and thoroughly implementing periodic investment review. Decision-Making Process for New Investments A multilayered decision-making process that achieves quick decision-making by giving a certain level of discretion to the Division Companies while striving to pursue investment return and curb investment risk. 200 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Business Investment Process Under Brand-new Deal 2020, in addition to the conventional investment process, we have further strengthened the earnings base to make it more resilient to economic fluctuation by thoroughly verifying the appropriateness of business plans and focusing on the monitoring of sub-subsidiaries. Despite the challenging operating environment, in FYE 2020 profits/losses of Group companies reached a record high for the fourth consecutive year. Besides, amid the COVID-19 pandemic, the ratio of Group companies reporting profits remained high, at 88.6%. Given the rapidly changing operating environment, we recognize that prevent efforts will be an even higher priority in FYE 2021 than in the past. By conducting careful and close monitoring, which is our forte as a company having strengths in the non-resource sector, we will strive to accurately ascertain risks unique to individual businesses. If we anticipate impairment concerns that could result from lower share prices or decreased earnings, we will act preemptively. 201 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Number of Consolidated Subsidiaries and Share of Group Companies Reporting Profits Security Risk Management Policy and Basic Concept The ITOCHU Group aims to reduce and avoid information and data security risks by taking a structured approach to ensure a high level of information security. The Information Security Policy (https://www.itochu.co.jp/en/security/index.html) is communicated to all of our executives and employees and serves as the overarching policy that guides our information management initiatives. We have also established the Information Management Code, which includes a code of conduct specific to information and data security to which our executives and employees must comply to. More specifically, rules and standards are strictly set regarding the management of personal information, documents, and IT security to prevent information leakage and breaches. Structures and Systems Name Chairman Objectives IT Strategy Council CDO・CIO Deliberates regarding IT Strategy (Annual IT Strategic Plan, etc.) 202 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Initiatives At the ITOCHU Group, we have experienced a data breach incident in the past, where a malware caused confidential client information to be leaked externally. This incident became pivotal in our renewal and improvement of our efforts to prevent similar data breaches from happening ever again. Some of our cornerstone initiatives have been to expand and enhance our basic security infrastructure, renew the structure of our Cyber Security team (ITCCERT: ITOCHU Computer Emergency Readiness, Response & Recovery Team), and hiring expert advanced cybersecurity analysts. We routinely collect the latest information regarding potential cyber threats by analyzing system logs and malware and based on findings, implement preventative measures. Additionally, when incidents do occur, we respond instantly by investigating their causes, discussing possible countermeasures, and restoring services. In FYE 2018, we integrated the ITCCERT into our IT Planning Division to further enhance security countermeasures across the entire Group and build internal capacity around information security. We also provide training programs to develop technicians proficient in cyber security. There are few examples of user companies in Japan that are working as actively as we are to develop systems and respond to information security risk. Moving forward, we plan to maintain these initiatives and make enhancements where necessary to ensure sustainable growth that is free from cyber threats. We periodically engage in the training programs listed below to maintain and improve our information security program. We give training to all employees on how to identify and respond to targeted e-mail attacks twice a year. All global employees including those in group companies are subject to a mandatory, simultaneous e-learning course on information security, which is held every three years. Several times a year, the ITCCERT leads an internal cyber security workshop for the ITOCHU Group companies. Policies regarding information security and the management of personal information are required to be communicated to employees upon hiring. If amendments or updates are made to these policies, all executives and employees receive a notification of the changes made. Employees are also updated on such amendments in their periodic e-learning trainings. Cyber security is especially important to us given that our BCP is supplemented by IT solutions which have enabled us to maintain business operations during the COVID-19 pandemic. Such IT solutions include our adoption of thin clients in all of our internal computers, WEB-based teleconferencing systems, and cloud systems. We ensure that cyber security is monitored in these systems by requiring that all company-wide services and tools are subject to prior assessments. Business Continuity Plan In order to ensure business continuity under extreme circumstances, including natural disasters (such as major earthquakes), pandemics, terrorist attacks, cyber-attacks and security incidents, the ITOCHU Group establishes a Business Continuity Plan (BCP). The BCP aims to prepare us for unpredictable incidents and minimize disruptions to our business. It is subject to regular reviews and revised as necessary. The BCP outlines four stages between the occurrences of a major incident to the full recovery of our business: 1. Emergency response and immediate recovery 2. BCP implementation 3. Operational recovery 4. Full recovery. Each stage in the BCP clearly appoints responsibilities to certain personnel and outlines response protocols. The ITOCHU Group's BCP is subject to all group-wide operations and is supplemented by business segment and departmentspecific provisions. Regarding the COVID-19 Pandemic that began in late 2019, the ITOCHU Group responded by establishing an emergency response task force. In addition to ensuring the health and safety of our immediate employees and their families, as a trading company that prides itself in consumer goods, it is also important to us that we fulfill our duty to consumers and their livelihoods by maintaining stable operations in our various supply chains. By taking a risk-based approach to handling the COVID-19 Pandemic but also prioritizing business continuity, we continued to do our best in fulfilling our social responsibility. 203 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Compliance Action Plan Risks Opportunities Improvement of transparency in decision-making, appropriate Occurrence of business continuity risk or unexpected loss response to changes and establishment of a stable basis of resulting from the malfunction of corporate governance or growth enabled by the establishment of a firm governance internal control, and others. system, and others. SDGs Issues to Business Performance Materiality Commitment Specific Approach Degree of Progress Targets Address Area Indicators Registered with the Whistleblowing Compliance Management System (selfdeclaration of conformity) on April 10, 2019. We monitored all ITOCHU Corporation for bribery and corruption in July and Continuous direct August 2019. We confirmed the application status under the Public Officer and communication with Foreign Public Officer Guidelines, Business Partner Guidelines and Investment Recognizing attitude employees through Guidelines based on certificates. We found no major problems as a result of that. We will make of employees face-to-face training employees more We conducted compliance attitude survey on 57,781 employees in ITOCHU identifying issues programs whose aware that Corporation and group companies in August and September 2019. The number Maintain and ensuring action contents shall be ensuring rigorous Ensuring plans to tackle the updated along with of employees subject to this survey increased by approximately 14,000 Compliance compliance at any governance compliance issues through monitoring the compared to the previous survey (FYE 2018). The response rate was 94.9%. This time is our structures periodic compliance measures according to exceeded the response rate for the previous survey (93.4%). contribution to the attitude survey and risks, expectations company and We provided e-learning on dealing with bribery and corruption and organized direct from society and society. crime for ITOCHU Corporation employees (January 31 to February 29, 2020). communications. issues on site which will change with the The situation concerning the implementation of training tours in FYE 2020 is as time. follows. For ITOCHU Corporation : Implemented 53 times with 2,198 attendees For ITOCHU group companies (implemented in 84 companies): Implemented 195 times with 10,715 attendees Policy and Basic Concept All officers and employees are to conduct themselves in accordance with the ITOCHU Group Corporate Mission and the ITOCHU Group Guideline of Conduct based on high ethical values. ITOCHU is to designate a representative director as the Chief Officer for Compliance (Senior Managing Executive Officer・CAO) responsible for supervising compliance and also establish the Compliance Committee and a department that oversees all compliance matters. In addition, the ITOCHU Group Compliance Program Is to be created to further enhance our compliance system. 204 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Structures and Systems ITOCHU Group's Compliance System The ITOCHU Group is developing a system for compliance by having the Compliance Department of the Legal Division plan and suggest policies and measures to encourage compliance throughout the entire Group and appointing compliance officers in each organization within ITOCHU Corporation, overseas offices and major Group companies worldwide (including consolidated subsidiaries and some equity method associated companies; hereafter, the companies subject to compliance management ). The Compliance Department performs these roles under the direction of the Chief Administrative Officer (CAO) who serves as the Chief Officer for Compliance. In addition, the ITOCHU Group Compliance Program provides guidelines to maintain the compliance system. We then periodically monitor and review the implementation situation of these matters. At the same time, we strive to ensure thorough compliance throughout the Group by giving education and training in our subsidiaries as necessary. Incidents of compliance violations revealed in each organization within the Headquarters, overseas offices or companies subject to compliance management are reported to the Chief Officer for Compliance (CAO) and the Corporate Auditors, while incidences of serious compliance violations are reported to the Board of Directors as appropriate. The Compliance Committee is chaired by the CAO and consists of three external members and heads of relevant administrative divisions and sales division as internal members. It deliberates on matters related to compliance as a permanent organization on business operations. The most recent Compliance Committee meeting was held on February 26, 2020. (The meeting is held two times a year, in principle.) The ITOCHU Group Compliance Program details the compliance system of the ITOCHU Group so that each organization within ITOCHU Corporation, its overseas offices, and companies subject to compliance management can ensure compliance by taking into account business characteristics, operational formats and local laws. The Compliance Committee (Chair: CAO) reviews the effectiveness and validity of the program based on laws/ordinances and social trends. The committee then revises and approves this program as appropriate every year. Across the Group, we conduct Monitor & Review surveys once a year to check the status of compliance systems and operations of each organization. In addition, as for key organizations such as overseas offices and companies subject to compliance management, we are implementing activities with a focus on system operation, including onsite guidance with the objective of ascertaining actual front-line compliance conditions and identifying risks. Furthermore, based on trends in former incidences of compliance violations and the findings of the Monitor & Review surveys, we are formulating individual compliance reinforcement measures tailored to each Division Company, and these measures are steadily being implemented. The ITOCHU Chief Officer for Compliance (CAO) and the compliance officers of each organization, overseas offices and companies subject to compliance management report the situation of compliance system operation and the results of the monitoring and reviews in accordance with the ITOCHU Group Compliance Program to the respective board of directors and top management (e.g., DMCs, responsible directors, presidents and board of directors) once a year in principle. Moreover, the directors of ITOCHU and our group companies are obliged to report any serious violations of compliance with laws/ordinances or our Articles of Incorporation to the Audit & Supervisory Board members of the respective companies. The Internal Audit Division of ITOCHU conducts two types of internal audit: compliance audits to verify that the compliance system in the ITOCHU Group is functioning sufficiently and regular audits to check the compliance implementation situation of the relevant organizations as appropriate in the regular audits on each division (including supervising group companies) and overseas bloc. In addition, to ensure compliance throughout the Group, at personal performance evaluations at the end of each fiscal year we ask all employees to confirm in writing that they have complied with laws, regulations, and other rules. 205 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Response to Violations The compliance officers in the relevant organizations make reports as appropriate to the Chief Officer for Compliance (CAO) on compliance-related concerns for which violations of the aforementioned policies and regulations, including those concerning the prevention of corruption, have been discovered or for which it has been determined there is a risk of such occurring in each organization in the headquarters, overseas offices and companies subject to compliance management. At the same time, the compliance officers in the relevant organizations play a central role in taking a proactive response that includes investigating the causes of issues and formulating measures to prevent their recurrence and to then report developments in the situation, the results and recurrence prevention measures to the Chief Officer for Compliance (CAO). We set up an investigation committee as necessary under the direction of the Chief Officer for Compliance (CAO) for serious compliance-related concerns requiring consideration from a company-wide perspective. That committee reports the results of the investigation and the recurrence prevention measures to the Board of Directors. Furthermore, ITOCHU then takes action as necessary upon considering whether it is necessary to respond, report and make announcements to external organizations. We verify whether it is necessary to impose internal punishments on officers and employees involved in violations of laws/ordinances including those concerning bribery in accordance with the internal regulations (e.g., work regulations) of each company. If necessary, we impose appropriate punishments according to the procedures stipulated in the internal regulations upon consulting with the relevant departments including the supervising organization. Overview The ITOCHU Group Compliance System Internal Information Reporting System (Hotlines) ITOCHU Corporation has formulated regulations on the Internal Information Reporting System (Hotlines) and instructed the installment of hotlines at companies subject to compliance management as well. In addition to protecting whistleblowers through these arrangements, we have defined mechanisms for proper disposal of cases. This initiative is reinforcing compliance management by supporting the prompt discovery and rectification of any incidents of corruption, including bribery. The Internal Information Reporting System operation situation is reported to the Compliance Committee periodically. ITOCHU Corporation has established multiple whistleblowing contacts both in Japan and overseas (including external whistleblowing contacts that utilize specialized company and external lawyers). We accept reports from employees who have an employment relationship with ITOCHU, those who have been dispatched to ITOCHU under a worker dispatch contract from a company that has entered into that contract with ITOCHU, and group companies. It prohibits the unfavorable treatment of whistleblowers, such as retaliation, and allows whistleblowers to provide information anonymously. 206 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Flow of Report ITOCHU Corporation applied for recognition under the Whistleblowing Compliance Management System (Phase 1: self-declaration of conformity), which was newly introduced by the Consumer Affairs Agency of Japan. Our conformity with certification standards was confirmed and our registration was accepted as of April 10, 2019, ahead of the competition (first on the registrant list). Consultation Desk for the General Public (including Stakeholders) ITOCHU Corporation has established a system to accept opinions, proposals, and grievances and to accept inquiries from the general public and all our stakeholders, as described below. 207 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Initiatives Implementation of Compliance Training ITOCHU provides ongoing education and awareness on compliance. The aim is for each one of our officers and employees to understand the purpose of laws/ordinances and social norms and to then comply with these based on high ethical values. On-Site Compliance Training We conduct On-Site Compliance Training for all officers and employees of ITOCHU Corporation every year. This training, which is intended to raise compliance awareness and prevent the occurrence of any cases, uses actual incidents of compliance violations as teaching materials while also focusing on the following points. Raising awareness of compliance with laws that need to be observed in the course of business Raising awareness of prevention of any incidents of corruption, including bribery, insider trading, and money laundering Raising awareness of prevention of human rights violations such as power harassment and sexual harassment In addition, Group companies implemented their own compliance training programs for officers and employees as appropriate for their operational formats. In FYE 2020, on-site training was also provided by the Headquarters for officers and employees of major Group companies for a total of about 10,800 people from 85 companies in Japan. Training was also provided to about 1,450 people from 51 group companies at major overseas blocs in FYE 2020. We also distribute the Compliance Handbook to all employees. This handbook provides advice on compliance for each potential work setting (in Q&A format) and advises what actions to take in order to prevent corruption. We also conduct separate programs of finely-tuned education and training for each employee layer that are based on actual cases, including training for new recruits, manager training, training for Group company officers and training prior to overseas assignments. Compliance Awareness Survey The ITOCHU Group implements a Compliance Awareness Survey every two years with all Group employees, including the level of understanding of the ITOCHU Mission, and assists the implementation of specific initiatives. In FYE 2020, we conducted the survey of 57,781 Group employees, and received response from 54,848 of them (retrieval rate of 94.9%). The results of the analysis of the findings are presented as feedback to each organization and reflected in efforts to improve the compliance system. 208 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Bolstering Measures to Fight Corruption The ITOCHU Group has established the ITOCHU Group Anti-Corruption Policy based on the Corporate Ethics Code of Conduct. It prohibits the provision of money and goods, entertainment, convenience and other profits to public officials and officers and employees of private entities, in Japan or overseas, for the purpose of gaining an illegal advantage. ITOCHU Group Anti-Corruption Policy 1. ITOCHU Group Anti-Corruption Policy The ITOCHU Group ensures the implementation the compliance principles, that is, legal compliance, and recognizes that it must continue to be an organization that is permitted by society. We do not even need one yen if it is gained through illegal means. To address the risk of bribery and corruption, the ITOCHU Group has established rules relating applications and approval procedures, and recording method, etc. according to categories of behaviors which are easy to be used for bribery or corruption, and strictly observes those rules. The rules were established based on Regulations Concerning the Prohibition of Giving Illicit Benefit, as well as four related guidelines relating to public officers, foreign public officers, business partners, and investment generally. [ITOCHU Group Anti-Corruption Policy] No money, entertainment, gifts, or anything of value in order to obtain illicit gains shall be given to any public or quasi-public official inside or outside of Japan. No money, entertainment, gifts, or anything of value in order to obtain illicit gains shall be given to any director, officer or employee of any private entity. 2. Requests for All Partners In order for the ITOCHU Group to implement the above anti-corruption policies, the ITOCHU Group requires the cooperation of all of its business partners and investment partners. In connection with the business partners and the investment targets and investment partners (collectively Partners ), the ITOCHU Group will request itself conducting due diligence on Partners and entering into contracts containing anti-bribery provisions with Partners. The ITOCHU Group thanks you for your understanding and cooperation. April 1, 2020 Masahiro Okafuji ITOCHU Corporation Chairman & Chief Executive Officer The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (U.S. FCPA) and the U.K. Bribery Act 2010 evidence the global trend toward the tightening of legislation against bribery. In keeping with this trend, ITOCHU Corporation has thus far determined and strictly operates the Regulation Concerning the Prohibition of Giving Illicit Profit and three related guidelines (regarding public officers, agents and consultants, and foreign public officers) to prohibit all employees from giving any improper advantage to Japanese or foreign civil servants or people in an equivalent position. In December 2015, we revised the guideline regarding agents and consultants to guideline regarding business partners, thereby expanding the scope of application of the guideline, and bolstered measures to fight corruption by establishing investment guideline, which is designed to carefully check investment projects for the risk of bribery. The Regulation Concerning the Prohibition of Giving Illicit Profit includes facility payments, or payments of small amounts of money that are aimed solely at facilitating ordinary administrative services, among the improper advantages it prohibits. It also prohibits commercial bribery, which falls under an improper advantage given to business partners in the private sector. In addition to banning bribery, our internal rules prohibit officers and employees from receiving improper advantages from business partners in the private sector, deeming such acts to be a mix of business with personal affairs (conflicts of interest, etc.). 209 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance The guidelines regarding public officers and foreign public officers include guides for decisions and judgments on business entertainment and gift-giving to public officers and foreign public officers, under which we review cases on an individual basis. The guideline regarding business partners clarifies the process for comprehensive checks and stipulates the process of concluding contracts on new appointments and renewals of contracts with business partners who will provide services to ITOCHU Corporation (including agents and consultants). Concerning overseas business partners, we use the Corruption Perceptions Index (CPI) published by Transparency International as one of our risk identification criteria. In contracts where there is a possibility to contain a risk of bribery, including ones with business partners, we include an article prohibiting bribery, thereby prohibiting improper payments (bribery or the provision of improper advantages) and clearly state that the contracts may be cancelled immediately if the provisions of the article are violated. The investment guideline includes specific provisions on the implementation of due diligence and procedures for obtaining the confirmation letter from the viewpoint of preventing corruption, which are to be used for deliberations on investment projects. In the training provided to officers, employees and others, we strive to raise awareness and instill ITOCHU Group Anti-Corruption Policy, the Regulation Concerning the Prohibition of Giving Illicit Profit and four related guidelines. We make certain that the regulation and guidelines are reflected in their daily management work to prevent corruption, including the provision of improper advantages. We also provide training specializing in bribery for organizations where the risk of bribery is particularly high. We also manage our political contributions, charities, and sponsorship activities by referring to internal rules to ensure that they do not constitute corruption, and by following our internally specified routes of application for the approval of donations and sponsorship to ensure that such activities are socially just and meet ethical standards. The annual Monitor & Review surveys, which are mentioned in the ITOCHU Group's Compliance System above, include a check on business entertainment and gift-giving to public officers and foreign public officers and on the appointments and renewals of contracts with agents and consultants by organizations within ITOCHU Corporation, overseas offices, and companies subject to compliance management. Where necessary, we hold a dialogue on the status with the compliance officer of each organization. Measures to Fight Collusive Bidding and Cartels In recent years, there have been many reports of suspected cartel activities in markets around the world. In response, to prevent involvement in any illicit transactions, ITOCHU Corporation established the Basic Regulations on the Compliance with the Antimonopoly Act, etc. and the Standard on Prevention of Cartels and Collusive Bidding on November 1, 2017. In addition, we regularly revise our Anti-Monopoly Law Manual and the document A MustRead! 51 Q&A about the Antimonopoly Act which facilitates referral. (The last revision was made in August 2017.) Through various Monitor & Review surveys and education and training programs as well, we are making sure all employees are aware of requirements. Further, in July 2017, we set up the Antimonopoly Act Desk in the Legal Division as the consultation desk and created The 29 Frequent Misunderstandings about the Antimonopoly Act as a new educational material. We passed instructions at a meeting of the Board of Directors according to four exclusion measure orders we received from the Fair Trade Commission from FYE 2018 to FYE 2019. We have notified and thoroughly informed all our employees of the content of these resolutions. 210 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance ITOCHU Group Tax Policy ITOCHU Group Tax Policy 7th December, 2017 ITOCHU Corporation ITOCHU Corporation and the ITOCHU group companies (collectively, the ITOCHU Group ) have established a Basic Policy: To comply with all applicable tax laws, rules, regulations, and tax treaties (collectively, Tax Rules ) of each country and region where the ITOCHU Group conducts business. The ITOCHU Group is committed to respecting the interests of all stakeholders, including all of the countries and regions where the ITOCHU Group conducts business, as well as the ITOCHU Group's shareholders, creditors, business partners, and employees. 1. Basic Policy Compliance with Tax Rules The ITOCHU Group is committed to managing its business operations in full compliance with all applicable Tax Rules and not engaging in transactions that are intended to evade or avoid taxes. 2. Tax Cost Management In accordance with the Basic Policy, the ITOCHU Group strives to achieve effective tax cost management by eliminating double taxation and utilizing the favorable Tax Rules of each country or region. 3.Maintaining Relationships of Mutual Trust with Tax Authorities The ITOCHU Group strives to maintain a relationship of mutual trust with all tax authorities by engaging in constructive discussions and preparing documents in an accurate, timely and appropriate manner to ensure overall transparency of the ITOCHU Group's tax matters. Measures for Intellectual Property To completely prevent infringements on intellectual property rights held by other parties in businesses related to such rights, as well as in the ordinary course of business, ITOCHU implements measures to call attention to the issue by holding seminars for employees and by establishing internal rules, regulations and manuals etc., that conform to related laws and regulations. We also define and properly apply internal rules for employees’ inventions and work and rules for application, renewal, etc. of rights to properly manage and handle intellectual property rights that constitute property of the companies. Basic Policy on Product Safety ITOCHU Corporation has prepared a product safety manual for each internal company to assure safety. The manuals are based on its policy of observing obligations stipulated by laws related to the safety of the products it handles, and providing safe and secure products to its customers. We are going to continue with efforts to assure provision of safe and secure products through in-house education, institution of ad-hoc units assigned to product safety, establishment of information relay routes, and response in the event of product accidents, while revising arrangements in these aspects as necessary. 211 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Measures for Comprehensive Import and Export Control Japanese government maintains strict trade-security under the Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Act in order to prevent the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and conventional weapons. We have implemented a strict internal comprehensive trade-security control program so as to observe laws and regulations. Our internal program covers not only Japanese laws and regulations but also global security risks such as U.S. sanctions to ensure that we do not take part in business transactions that threaten international peace and security. Accordingly ITOCHU recognizes that, as a responsible member of the global business community, we need to manage carefully potential risks associated with business operations in certain locations. In response to the growing importance of the corporate governance associated with global security risk, we have implemented corporate policies, procedures, and internal reporting structures to ensure that we perform rigorous, securityminded due diligence for global projects and transactions. The Compliance Program of ITOCHU is annually submitted to the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry of Japan as a company that has developed export control and an excellent management system. In addition, to properly conduct customs procedures for import and export, including import (payment of customs duty) declaration, we conduct internal customs examination (monitoring), provide training for clearing and customs valuation control, and take a host of other measures under the internal control/management provisions and regulations, thereby ensuring full compliance with customs procedures, etc. We have also been providing information needed for developing new businesses, by providing training on Economic Partnership Agreements (EPAs), which will be used more widely by sales sections in the future. These measures have led to the director-general of Yokohama Customs certifying ITOCHU as an Authorized Economic Operator (AEO) (both Authorized Exporter and Authorized Importer), a title given to operators with outstanding compliance systems and security control. Basic Policy and Efforts against Antisocial Forces ITOCHU Corporation makes it a basic policy to block any relationship or transaction with anti-social forces that threatens public order and safety. ITOCHU has established and strengthened the internal systems necessary to achieve this by providing education and awareness-raising activities to employees on a regular basis and ensuring prior confirmation that counterparties of transactions do not fall under anti-social forces. Insider Trading Regulations ITOCHU Corporation has an internal rule regarding the restriction of insider trading, and formulated the guideline regarding reporting and management of insider information in April 2014 in conjunction with the revision of the rule. The above guideline stipulates, for example, recommended handling in case of acknowledging the insider information of entity which ITOCHU has capital or contractual relationship, and we are taking action to assure that all employees know about them. Perspectives on Information Management ITOCHU Corporation has formulated Information Security Policy for all members of the board and employees to handle information with high security level. Also, in order to manage information required for business management activities properly, we also formulated IT Security Management Policy for all executives and employees, which is a code of conduct on information handling. More specifically, we have determined rules and standards on personal information management, document management, and IT security, and are striving to prevent the leakage of personal information and other confidential information. We have also established a management system for complying with the My Number Act. Monitor & Review Surveys on Personal Information Management The ITOCHU Group regularly conducts Monitor & Review surveys of ITOCHU Corporation and companies subject to compliance management under the auspices of the Corporate Planning & Administration Division, the IT Planning Division and the Legal Division. In the ten survey, which was conducted in FYE 2020, the personal information management systems of ITOCHU Corporation and 136 companies subject to compliance management were checked from September to November 2019. Based on the results of the checks, we have continued activities to encourage continued improvements at ITOCHU Corporation and Group companies. At the same time, we have established a system and provide support for the operation with advice from external lawyers. 212 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Evaluation by Society FTSE4Good Index Series・FTSE Blossom Japan Index ITOCHU has been selected as an index constituent of FTSE4Good Index Series and FTSE Blossom Japan Index. The FTSE4Good Index Series is designed to measure the performance of companies demonstrating strong Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) practices. The FTSE Blossom Japan Index is adopted by the Government Pension Investment Fund (GPIF) of Japan as a core ESG benchmark for its passive investments. FTSE Russell (the trading name of FTSE International Limited and Frank Russell Company) confirms that ITOCHU Corporation has been independently assessed according to the FTSE4Good criteria, and has satisfied the requirements and become a constituent of FTSE4Good Index and FTSE Blossom Japan Index. Created by the global index provider FTSE Russell, the FTSE4Good Index Series is designed to measure the performance of companies demonstrating strong Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) practices. Also, FTSE Blossom Japan Index is specifically designed to assess the performance of Japanese companies demonstrating strong ESG practices using the globally established FTSE4Good Index Inclusion Rules. The FTSE4Good Indices are used by a wide variety of market participants to create and assess responsible investment funds and other products. MSCI Japan Empowering Women Index (WIN) ITOCHU Corporation has been selected as a constituent of MSCI Japan Empowering Women Index (WIN). MSCI Japan Empowering Women Index (WIN) was created as a benchmark for social themes within the framework of ESG by U.S. company MSCI. Index figures are calculated using data disclosed under the Act on Promotion of Women's Participation and Advancement in the Workplace, with constituents comprised of those companies which earn a high gender diversity score. The inclusion of ITOCHU Corporation in any MSCI Index, and the use of MSCI logos, trademarks, service marks or index names herein, do not constitute a sponsorship, endorsement or promotion of ITOCHU Corporation by MSCI or any of its affiliates. The MSCI indexes are the exclusive property of MSCI. MSCI and the MSCI index names and logos are trademarks or service marks of MSCI or its affiliates. 213 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance Dow Jones Sustainability Indices ITOCHU Corporation has been selected as an index component of the World and Asia Pacific Index of the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices, a global stock ESG index, for 7th consecutive year. The DJSI revises the indices every September by an independent survey of economic, environmental and social practices. In FYE 2020, 318 companies including 33 Japanese companies were selected as DJSI World Member among 3,519 targeted companies around the world. ITOCHU achieved the best score in Trading Companies & Distributors Industry (one of the 61 Industries), and has been named as the Industry Leader for the 5th consecutive year. (As of September 2019) SAM Sustainability Award ITOCHU Corporation was awarded Gold Class at the SAM Sustainability Awards 2020, winning the recognition of RobecoSAM, a Swiss research institution that evaluates companies making efforts in sustainability and offers information to investors. ITOCHU has become the top for the fifth consecutive year in the Trading Companies & Distributors sector. (As of February 2020) * Industry Leader which was provided to the top scoring company in each sector, is integrated with Gold Class from 2017. S&P/JPX Carbon Efficient Index The S&P/JPX Carbon Efficient Index is a global environmental stock index adopted by Government Pension Investment Fund (GPIF). Using TOPIX as the universe, this index of S&P Dow Jones Indices, the world's leading independent index provider, overweights companies that have high carbon efficiency within their industry as calculated by Trucost on a market value basis and companies that disclose information on greenhouse gas emissions. It consists of 1,725 companies, including ITOCHU (As of March 2020). 214 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance CDP CDP Climate Change CDP Climate Change evaluates corporate action on climate change. In FYE 2020, we scored a B. CDP Water CDP Water evaluates corporate efforts related to water stewardship. In FYE 2020, we scored a B. CDP Forests CDP Forests evaluates corporate action on risks related to forest destruction within the supply chain. In FYE 2020, we scored a B in Timber, Bin Palm oil, D in Cattle, C in Soy. SNAM Sustainability Index Itochu Corporation has been selected as SNAM Sustainability Index by the Sompo Japan Nipponkoa Asset Management Co., Ltd. (hereinafter SNAM ) for the second consecutive year. This index is used as a unique active index in SNAM Sustainable Management ,for pension funds and institutional investors, which invests widely in ESG-rated companies that SNAM started operation in August 2012. Evaluation by Stakeholders ITOCHU was selected as an index component of SNAM Sustainability Index for the second Jun. consecutive year 2020 ITOCHU won a Bronze Award at the Ministry of Environment's 1st ESG Finance Awards Feb. Feb. ITOCHU was selected as the Gold Class of the SAM Sustainability Awards 2020 ITOCHU has been selected as an index constituent of FTSE4Good Index Series and FTSE Dec. Blossom Japan Index 2019 ITOCHU Corporation has been selected as a constituent of MSCI Japan Empowering Women Dec. Index (WIN) Sep. ITOCHU Represented as Industry Leader 2019 in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices 215 Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group Environment Society Governance 216
