S PA R E B A N K 1 NORD -NORGE SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Sustainability As the regional bank, SpareBank 1 Nord-Norge’s vision is: For Northern Norway. The Group’s business model as a savings bank is based on contributing to sustainable development in the region. The Group’s ambition for its sustainability work is: The Group has chosen to base its reporting on the SpareBank1 Nord-Norge has a sustainable business Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), to provide a better conduct that will contribute to reaching the UN’s internal overview and transparency for external stakeSustainable Development Goals holders. This sustainability report will be built around a combination of what the Group’s stakeholders are SUSTAINABILITY NATIONALLY concerned about and what the Group itself sees as AND INTERNATIONALLY key issues for sustainability. As the world’s northernmost financial group, SpareBank 1 Nord-Norge is particularly concerned “Sustainability must be integrated into all of our activwith matters that affect Arctic areas. The Group can ities. A good balance between growth and protection thus be a catalyst for a more sustainable future in the will form the basis for future value creation, especially North. At the national level, it sees a key role for the for those of us who live in what is one of the world’s finance industry in the way the private sector handles most vulnerable areas. SpareBank 1 Nord-Norge will climate risk and the sustainability challenges facing take its share of the responsibility for combating clithe world. Internationally, a number of initiatives have mate change, by integrating sustainability into all of been launched to commit the business community our activities. We believe in the business advantage to work more systematically on this issue. this focus can provide. For SpareBank 1 Nord-Norge and for Northern Norway.” The UN’s 17 Sustainable Development Goals are the world’s shared work plan to eradicate poverty, Liv Bortne Ulriksen, Acting CEO combat inequalities and stop climate change. In 2019, SpareBank 1 Nord-Norge set out its ambition, RESPONSIBLE FINANCIAL INSTITUTION together with its largest owner, the Northern The Group’s work on sustainability is driven by the Norwegian society, to help to achieve all of the UN’s Board of Directors and Group Management, and was 17 Sustainable Development Goals. This means that discussed at three Board meetings in 2019. The Group the Group’s strategy for distributing community divcan extend its influence far beyond its own organisation CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY idends, Samfunnsløftet, is dedicated to projects that via good guidelines and procedures for responsible can describe how they are working towards one or banking. In this way, the Group can contribute to a more more of the Sustainable Development Goals. sustainable Northern Norway and more sustainable financial markets. Sustainability has become an integral Sustainability is now also integrated into the Group’s part of the Group’s operations in 2019. This is implemencore processes, such as financing (credit), liquidity ted through the Group’s risk strategy and in a separate and corporate governance, and distribution of mutual policy on sustainability and corporate social responfunds, procurement and policies for our employees. sibility, with associated procedures. This is a task that The Group’s work on sustainability is an endorsement will continue to take a high priority in the year ahead. of the Global Compact with its 10 principles for responsIn particular, the Group will focus on developing green ible business. A separate report on the Group’s work products and good practices for assessing the envion the UN Sustainable Development Goals can be ronmental, social and governance (ESG) aspects of found at snn.no. financing and investment processes. 2 OBJECTIVE In 2020, SpareBank 1 Nord-Norge will focus especially on the following UN Sustainable Development Goals: “Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts” Subsidiary objective 13.2 Conserve and sustainably use the oceans and marine resources for sustainable development Targets 14.1 and 14.3 Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all Target 8.6 Responsible financial institution Responsible Climate risk investment activities Responsible credit Green products Samfunnsløftet MATERIALITY ANALYSIS In 2018, the Group conducted a materiality analysis to see which sustainability topics were important to employees of SpareBank 1 Nord-Norge compared with external stakeholders. This analysis has been an important starting point for the Group’s continued work on sustainability and corporate social responsibility. It identifies the key topics set out below: Negative screening and exclusion Ethics and anti-corruption Requirements for financial providers Data protection and information security Responsible credit policy Local business development Green products and innovation CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Climate risk Supply chain monitoring Banking practice Marketing products and services Development of employees Support to local communities The topics that ended up at the bottom left have been taken out of the matrix. The topics that remain are judged to be the most important and will be covered in the GRI index, where the box at the top right is the most important. THE GROUP’S KEY STAKEHOLDERS SpareBank 1 Nord-Norge has a number of stakeholders who are involved in and influence the Group’s work on sustainability. The key stakeholders are summarised in the following model. SpareBank 1 Nord-Norge maintains extensive dialogue with its stakeholders. The table on the next spread shows the relevant meeting places, together with the main topics for each stakeholder group. 3 EPMLOYEES CIAL BENEFI SO T O F S RECIPIENTS RS ME ME DIA TO OW CU S NE RS DA NALYSTS OCIET Y NS AN IA NORW G AGEN TIN EG CY RA THE GROUP’S KEY HE RN RT STAKEHOLDERS NO AFFIL IA T ED GNO SINESSES 'S BU PPLIERS SU ES TI AUTH OR I RATORS COMP BO ET LA I CO L RS TO CO R P O R AT E S O CI A L R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y 4 Stakeholders Meeting place for dialogue Key topics Measures related to topics Customers Customer and market surveys in These stakeholders are interested Development of business strategy. the retail and corporate markets in how the Group’s activities are Dialogue with customers via responses perceived by our customers. to enquiries over the phone and Position survey social media, and in the media. Sustainability, presence via local Customer communication and branches and cash machines, feedback via online banking and response to marketing. More reporting on sustainability social media Customers want help in their initial Customer communication in branches contact with the bank, whatever and via chat, phone or e-mail. channel they use. Customer events Events tailored to the customer’s life situation or needs. Employees Employee survey twice a year Health and safety, skills development, Involvement of employees in gender equality, involvement in the development of the Group Working environment committees in processes and projects. all companies in the Group. Monthly meetings between elected representatives and the Group’s HR department. Employee privacy policy Recruitment policy focusing on diversity and gender equality. Equity certificate Supervisory Board meeting and Annual accounts and allocation of profit, holders election for equity certificate holders plus other company actions. Election of members of the Board of Directors. Stock exchange announcements and quarterly reports Briefing on trends in the northern Norwegian economy, as well as Investor presentations developments in the Group and financial markets Income statement and goal achievement, return, briefing on trends in the northern Norwegian economy Performance and sustainability/ESG Authorities Contact with control and regulatory Operations, security and data Increased focus on compliance with authorities (Police, Financial protection laws and regulations, and protection Supervisory Authority of Norway etc.) of personal data throughout the year. Identification and personal data Obtaining and checking proof of identity from customers to meet the requirements in the Norwegian AntiMoney Laundering Act has been a major focus in 2019. Northern Extensive dialogue with clubs and Insight into the challenges faced by Support through Samfunnsløftet, Norwegian associations throughout the region clubs and associations in the region sponsorships and banking services society via cooperation agreements and sponsorships. Share knowledge of personal finance Establishment of a youth panel to follow up and disseminate the inCollaboration with “Ungt entreMeeting place for business, the sights from the young people prenørskap” in lower and upper public sector and academia in the secondary schools region. The summary report provided Dialogue with the government on CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY a unique insight into young people’s the report from the northern region Agenda Nord-Norge conference thoughts on the challenges and opand the establishment of a separate organised each year. At this year’s portunities associated with settling in youth panel conference, a summary report was the North. presented, based on input from 100 Development of kbnn.no young voices aged between 18 and 34 Share knowledge of macro developments, globally, in the Norwegian Kunnskapsbanken, kbnn.no economy and in Northern Norway Stakeholder Discussions with “Framtiden i våre Using SpareBank 1 Nord-Norge’s poMore comprehensive communicaorganisations hender” (“The future in our hands”) sition and influence as a shareholder tion about own corporate social and the Norwegian Consumer to make the investment market more responsibility Council on the Ethical Bank Guide at sustainable least once a year in connection with New guidelines for third-party funds data collection for the Guide Responsible investments, credit activities, transparency, trust, local Collaboration with the Norwegian presence Confederation of Trade Unions (LO) through LOfavør and various projects in the region throughout the year. 5 CLIMATE RISK The world faces big climate-related changes that will indirectly exposed to climate risk. In light of this, the affect financial stability. One of these is the fact that topic has been given a separate chapter in the Group’s the climate is changing. The other is the commitments sustainability report. Climate risk is defined as the risk made by the global community through the Paris of events that affect society due to changes in the cliAgreement. Norway aims to be part of the transition to mate and climate policy. The term covers physical risk, a low-emission society. This will also affect SpareBank policy risk and liability risk. For more information on 1 Nord-Norge. The Group is therefore both directly and climate risk, see Note 6 to the annual accounts. WORK ON CLIMATE RISK IN SPAREBANK 1 NORD-NORGE SpareBank 1 Nord-Norge has progressed further with annual reports that include assessments of the Group’s integrating climate risk into the governance and control exposure to climate risk. Clear roles and responsibilities framework in 2019. Through assessments of climate have been established in the administration related to risk in our own activities and in industries that the the risk exposure in this area, and the relevant people Group finances, SpareBank 1 Nord-Norge aims to report to Group Management within their defined area. help achieve the UN Sustainable Development Goals. The overall responsibility for this area rests with the This is especially true of target 13.3, Improve educaExecutive Vice President Credit and Risk Management. tion, awareness-raising and human and institutional capacity on climate change mitigation, adaptation, Strategy impact reduction and early warning . Assessments Climate-related risks and opportunities identified related to climate risk are made through financing, by the Group in the short, medium and long term liquidity and corporate governance, procurement and The Group regards climate risk as an underlying risk in the distribution of mutual funds. driver for other risk types. This includes credit risk, market risk, liquidity and financing risk, insurance For 2019, SpareBank 1 Nord-Norge is reporting risk/ownership risk, as well as operational and reputfor the first time on climate risk using the template ational risk. Both risks and opportunities, in the short, from the Task Force on Climate-related Financial medium and long term, are thus associated with Disclosures (TCFD). lending, borrowing and investment in the capital markets etc. The issues to be considered include: CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Board’s knowledge of • which industries the Group climate-related risks and opportunities should or should not finance. The Board is well aware of climate-related risks and • which objects the Group opportunities through strategic discussions and its should or should not finance. approval of governing documents where climate risk • which products the Group is mentioned. The Board also receives various quartshould or should not offer. erly and annual reports that include assessments of • which markets the Group should the Group’s exposure to climate risk. The Group’s risk or should not be exposed to. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY strategy is defined and determined by the Group’s risk appetite in different risk areas. The Group’s appetite Description of the impact of climatefor climate risk is low to moderate, in line with overall related risks and opportunities on business risk appetite for the Group’s operations. operations, strategy and financial planning The Group’s operations, strategy and financial planManagement’s role in assessing and managing ning are affected by both external and internal factors. climate-related risks and opportunities Climate risk is a key external factor that the Group In 2019, the management expanded its understanding takes into account both in defining its strategy and in of climate-related risks and opportunities through its operational activities. A priority in 2020 will be to strategic and operational discussions, and by prodraise the level of knowledge in the Group and among ucing governing documents that cover climate risk. our customers on climate risks and opportunities and The management also receives various quarterly and the challenges related to these. 6 Potential impact of different scenarios How processes for identifying, assessing and on business operations, strategy and managing climate-related risks are integrated financial planning, including a 2°C scenario into the company’s overall risk management The annual ICAAP report is used to assess the Group’s Climate risk is an integral part of the Group’s risk and overall risk exposure and capital needs. From 2019 capital management. For a more detailed description onwards, climate risk has also been included in this of the Group’s risk and capital management, please assessment. The ICAAP also includes stress tests refer to the annual report. related to negative trends both externally and internally, looking at how these could affect the Group’s finanTarget cial position. The stress tests do not include an explicit Targets and indicators used by the business to ‘top-down’ assessment of climate risk. Nevertheless, assess climate-related risks and opportunities, in the financial implications found in the stress tests give line with the strategy and risk management processes a picture of the possible impact of external factors The Group’s appetite for climate risk is low to modsuch as climate risk. erate, in line with overall risk appetite for the Group’s operations. This defines the level of risk the Group is In 2020, the goal is to map climate risk in the key willing to take in the area. This is implemented through industries. This will be the start of efforts to analyse underlying governing documents and day-to-day operthe impact of different climate scenarios on the ations. The issues to be considered include: Group and its financial position. • SpareBank 1 Nord-Norge does not finance Risk management businesses or activities which carry a high The company’s processes for identifying, risk of serious damage to the environment. assessing and managing climate-related risks • ESG risk has to be included in the credit Climate risks are identified, assessed and managed at assessment before granting a loan. different levels and by different methods, including: • The Group will increase its own knowledge of sustainability and climate risks related to • at the overall level, through the ICAAP, relevant industries, particularly the marine risk strategy, governing documents etc. sector and property. • at the detailed level, through assessments • The Group will help customers take a conscious made when granting credit, investment position on sustainability and climate risk, and decisions, product development etc. expects them to take an active approach in • ongoing monitoring and reporting from their own practice in this field. the administration to the Board of Directors • The Group will integrate ESG risk into and senior management. investment mandates and liquidity strategy. SpareBank 1 Nord-Norge contributes to national work The climate accounts report on greenhouse gas emon industry standards for climate-related risk, including: issions from our own operations, broken down into Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3. See separate section • Sustainable Edge (CICERO) on the environment in this chapter. The Group has a • Finance Norway’s working group on climate risk target of a 5% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY each year from 2016-2026. SpareBank 1 Nord-Norge plans to carry out the following work in this area in 2020: Facts • Developing a methodology to measure carResponsible area in the Group: Risk management bonrelated exposure in the lending portfolio. Measurement parameter: GRI 201-2 • Establishing a temporary methodology for Governing documents: assessing ESG risk in the credit portfolio, to ∞ Risk strategy be used until an industry standard has been ∞ Guidelines for sustainability in liquidity established in this area. management and corporate governance ∞ Guidelines for sustainable financing Link to UN Sustainability Goals: 13.3 7 ETHICS AND ANTI-CORRUPTION Facts SpareBank 1 Nord-Norge will not provide advice or services to customers seeking to evade tax, launder Responsible area in the Group: Compliance money, finance terrorism, or commit other types of Measurement parameter: GRI 205-2, 205-3 financial crime. Both givers and receivers of such beneGoverning documents: fits may be punished. Employees should display high ∞ Policy for anti-money laundering and terrorist financing ethical standards. They must act in an honest and ∞ The SNN Code fair manner that inspires confidence and comply with ∞ Whistleblowing and nonconformance policy the norms, regulations and laws that apply in society. Link to UN Sustainability Goals: 16.4 The Group’s own ethics manual, the SNN Code, describes how employees should conduct themselves in this context. This applies to all of the Group, includDATA PROTECTION AND INFORMATION SECURITY ing its subsidiaries, and all employees and members SpareBank 1 Nord-Norge processes a lot of personal of boards, committees and the Supervisory Board. data that must not fall into wrong hands or be misused. All employees have been trained in the Group’s proceThe Group carries out a number of training measures dures through introductory courses for new employees aimed at ensuring that employees have the necessary and mandatory e-learning. This also applies to the Board knowledge and skills within data protection. The status of Directors of the Group. Measures against financial of the Group’s compliance with the regulations, includcrime are followed up in all business relationships. An ing any non-conformities, is reported to the Board of annual report is presented to the Board which covers Directors and Group Management every quarter. The the status of this work. Group did not receive any complaints regarding breaches of privacy from the supervisory authorities in 2019. Courses given in this area in 2019: Status: • eLearning course “Ethics and • 44 customer complaints were received, Good Practice” (27% completed in 2019) of 3 of which concerned breaches of privacy. • eLearning course: Anti-money laundering (degree of completion 95%) Facts • The e-learning course “GDPR and personal data” and Training Cards (14% completed in 2019) Responsible area in the Group: Data protection officer • Security programme “PassOpp”; 6 courses Measurement parameter: GRI 418-1 (degree of completion not documented) Governing documents: • Management webinars on financial ∞ Privacy policy crime, ethics and anti-corruption ∞ Employee privacy policy • Training of new employees in trust, Link to UN Sustainability Goals: 16.4 legal matters and ethical dilemmas (completed by 100% of new employees) • Training for the Board of Directors on LOCAL COMMUNITIES AND anticorruption and anti-money laundering LOCAL BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT (100% completed) Samfunnsløftet is the Group’s strategy for distributing CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY community dividends to society. Status: • obtaining and checking proof of identity The strategy for Samfunnsløftet is divided into: lokalfrom customers to meet the requirements samfunnsløftet (for the local community), arenaløftet in the Norwegian Anti-Money Laundering (for arenas), ungdomsløftet (for youth), innovasjonsløftet Act has been a major focus in 2019. (for innovation), kunnskapsløftet (for knowledge), and • establishment of a joint IRT (incident a separate campaign, plastløftet, which focused on response team) for SpareBank 1-alliansen plastic pollution in 2019. Innovasjonsløftet National analyses show that Northern Norway needs 25,000 new jobs and up to 30% more entrepreneurs 8 by 2040. “Innovasjonsløftet” aims to stimulate greater Status: innovation and fresh ideas and raise the pace of inn• Establishment of Lab Nord-Norge ovation in existing businesses. The funding will be • Grants have been made for 49 artificial distributed to pure entrepreneurial and innovation grass pitches in the region to limit the projects, and to actors who facilitate and promote spread of plastic granules innovation in promising Northern Norwegian compan• Collaboration with In the Same Boat ies with the potential for growth. NOK 13.6 million has collected 200 tonnes of plastic from was allocated to this in 2019. the sea in Northern Norway • 18 innovation projects in the region received LAB Nord-Norge support through “Innovasjonsløftet” in 2019 Lab Nord-Norge is a new start-up organised as a notNOK 1 million from Samfunnsløftet set for-profit company. Different institutions in the region aside to mark the UN’s International are associated with the project based on the technoYear of Indigenous Languages logical challenges being prioritised. Microsoft and UiT Arctic University of Norway were two major contriFacts butors in 2019. The solutions being developed will benefit the region; they will be open and will be shared. Responsible area in the Group: Communication Lab Nord-Norge is owned by SpareBank 1 Nord-Norge. Measurement parameter: GRI 201-1 NOK 100 million has been set aside over five years to Governing documents: develop the company, which has one employee. ∞ Sustainability guidelines in Samfunnsløftet Link to UN Sustainability Goals: 14.1, 7, 8, 9, 12 “Plastløftet” of NOK 15 million Through Samfunnsløftet, SpareBank 1 Nord-Norge has partnered with the Norwegian Football Federation to limit the spread of plastic granules from artificial RESPONSIBLE FINANCING OF COMPANIES grass pitches. This includes awareness-raising in footSpareBank 1 Nord-Norge mainly finances companies ball clubs in the region, and support for measures to that work in and for Northern Norway and has an imcollect the granules. In 2019, Samfunnsløftet spent portant social role to play in contributing to sustainable NOK 9 million on this work. development of the economy in the North. Financing is one of the Group’s key areas of business and an area SpareBank 1 Nord-Norge has also invited other playthat is exposed to climate risk. Assessments of sustainers to assist in measures to reduce plastic pollution. ability and ESG issues were included in the customer The largest of these grants have gone to voluntary dialogue and financing process for the first time in collection and influencing work. A research colla2019. Operationalisation and training in the Group boration under the auspices of “In the Same Boat” in this area will be prioritised in 2020. resulted in 200 tonnes of plastic waste being collected from around the coast of Northern Norway. Status: NOK 15 million was allocated to “Plastløftet” in 2018, • Simplify the financing process for to cover 2018 and 2019. small and medium-sized enterprises • ESG assessments were included in the financing CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Sami areas process in 2019 (new sustainability guidelines) SpareBank 1 Nord-Norge’s market area is part of the Sápmi/Sami regions. The Group wants to have a Facts presence in local Sami communities and be a good business partner for Sami businesses and Sami retail Governing documents: ∞ Credit policy, corporate market customers. The telephone bank and advice are avail∞ Guidelines for sustainable financing able to customers in the Northern Sami language. Link to UN Sustainability Goals: 8.3, 13.3, 14.1, 16.4 Information is also available in Northern Sami on the Group’s website at snn.no. For more information, see chapter on Samfunnsløftet in the annual report. 9 GREEN PRODUCTS AND GREEN INNOVATION RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT By developing green financial products, the Group can AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE help to push capital flows in a more sustainable direction. Investments by SpareBank 1 Nord-Norge are mainly In 2020, it will launch green products and services to in the Norwegian and European bond markets, primarly make it easy for customers to make sustainable choices. the bond markets. In 2019, the Group developed new guidelines for sustainability in liquidity management The work on green products is closely linked to the and corporate governance with the aim of integrating way in which the Group obtains its capital markets ESG risk into investment mandates and liquidity stratfunding. In 2018, SpareBank 1 Boligkreditt (Spabol) egy and contributing to a greener securities market. issued the first green covered bond from a Norwegian covered bond institution. The bond was for EUR 1 The Group does not carry out its own fund management billion and has a duration of seven years. Spabol is but distributes mutual funds from other investment alliansen’s jointly owned issuer of covered bonds and managers. In 2019, SpareBank 1-alliansen developed The Group held a 18.65% stake in the company at the new guidelines for sustainability in mutual funds to end of 2019. At the end of the year, the bank had NOK ensure that the fund offering reflects SpareBank 1’s 25.6 billion (41.5%) outstanding in capital markets fundsustainability goals. A comprehensive ESG review of ing, while loans transferred to Spabol amounted to all fund providers was conducted in 2019. Based on NOK 36 billion (58.5%), for a total of NOK 61.6 billion. this survey, closer ESG monitoring of fund managers and clearer information to customers through ESG The loans transferred to Spabol constitute a volume labelling will be launched in 2020. equivalent to approximately 58.5% of SpareBank 1 Nord-Norge’s total borrowing from the capital markets. Active ownership/follow-up of subsidiaries In 2018, SpareBank 1 Nord-Norge and the Nordic SpareBank 1 Nord-Norge’s policies and guidelines Investment Bank (NIB) signed a loan agreement for a also apply to the Group’s wholly owned subsidiaries, total of NOK 1 billion. The funds are reserved for small EiendomsMegler 1 Nord-Norge, SpareBank 1 Regnand medium-sized enterprises, as well as environmental skapshuset Nord-Norge, and SpareBank 1 Finans projects in Northern Norway. A total of NOK 100 milNord-Norge. Group Management is represented on lion in loans based on the NIB agreement have been the boards of all of the subsidiaries, and the compgranted to environmental projects so far. This amounts anies are managed according to the guidelines that to just over 0.1% of the total lending portfolio. apply to the rest of the Group. Status: In collaboration with the other alliance members in • Through our collaboration with the SparBank 1-alliance the Group har ownership in several Nordic Investment Bank (NIB), the Group joint ventures. These are held together with other has offered financing of green projects. alliance banks. SpareBank 1 Nord-Norge also owns • At the end of the year, the bank had NOK 25.6 billion an insurance company, Fremtind, together with other (41.5%) outstanding in capital markets funding, alliance banks and DNB. while loans transferred to Spabol amounted to NOK 36 billion (58.5%), for a total of NOK 61.6 billion Sustainability is high on the agenda for all companies • Green bonds accounted for just under 4% in SpareBank 1-alliansen, with this ambition: We will CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY of the bank’s total liquidity portfolio in 2019 score well in sustainability ratings and maintain our (compared to 1% in 2018) position among consumers as the banks that seen as the are most sustainable. SpareBank 1 was named Facts “most sustainable bank” by the Sustainable Brand Index in 2019, a position it will strive to retain in 2020. Responsible area in the Group: Treasury Concepts Measurement parameter: GRI FS8 ODIN Forvalting is a provider of mutual funds and a subsidiary of SpareBank 1 Gruppen. The company has Governing documents: ∞ Market risk strategy a comprehensive sustainability policy for its investment ∞ Guidelines for sustainability in liquidity targets, and they have participated in the work on management and corporate governance sustainability in 2019. Link to UN Sustainability Goals: 13.3 and 16.4 10 Status: Facts • SpareBank 1 Nord-Norge invests parts of the liquidity portfolio in multilateral development Responsible area in the Group: Purchasing in SpareBank 1 Utvikling banks. These investments accounted for 12.4% Facilities management in SpareBank 1 Nord-Norge of the liquidity portfolio in 2019. Measurement parameter: GRI 102-9 • A common sustainability goal has been ∞ Governing documents: established for SpareBank 1-alliansen ∞ Guidelines for sustainability in suppliers • Review of the ESG profile of 291 mutual funds. Link to UN Sustainability Goals: 13.3 and 16.4 Facts ENVIRONMENT AND GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS Responsible area in the Group: Treasury, Investment film, SpareBank 1 Nord-Norge continued its efforts to be Savings and investment committee Measurement parameters: GRI FS11, FS10 even more efficient with respect to the environment and saving resources in 2019. All employees in the Governing documents: ∞ Market risk strategy Group should give conscious thought to consumption, ∞ Guidelines for sustainability in liquidity travel, waste management and energy consumption in management and corporate governance general, and understand that a focus on sustainability ∞ Guidelines for sustainability in the distribution and recommendation of mutual funds. is also a personal responsibility at work. The Group’s internal goal is to reduce its own greenhouse gas Link to UN Sustainable Goals: 8, 13.3 and 16.4 emissions by 5% per year in the period 2016-2026, inline with the commitments made in the Paris SUPPLIER MONITORING Agreement for a 40% reduction by 2030. SpareBank 1 Nord-Norge accounts for a significant volume of procurement in a Norwegian and regional SpareBank 1 Nord-Norge produces its own energy and context and will use this volume to influence suppliers climate accounts. These accounts comply with the in their work on sustainability. international standards set out in the Greenhouse Gas Protocol and ISO 14064-1. The energy and climate The bulk of the purchasing comes from SpareBank 1 accounts for 2019 show that SpareBank 1 Nord-Norge Utvikling. The company has agreements with 249 produced total greenhouse gas emissions totalling suppliers which provide services to the SpareBank 1 829 tonnes of CO2 equivalents (tCO2e). This represents banks and companies. In 2019, tools were prepared a total reduction of 5% in terms of tCO2e and is in line for assessing the risk of suppliers’ negative impact on with the Group’s goal of reducing GHG emissions. the environment, social conditions and ethical business practice, along with new guidelines for follow-up. Status Based on this assessment, suppliers with an increased • New target for reductions in greenhouse risk of negative impact are monitored to ensure that gas emissions was set in 2019 they work systematically and practically on sustainabil• Purchases of electricity with a ity. These are requirements that apply to all purchases guarantee of origin started in 2019 made by SpareBank 1 Nord-Norge, as well as purchases made through SpareBank 1-alliansen. Facts CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY SpareBank 1 Nord-Norge made purchases totalling Responsible area in the Group: Facilities management, HR NOK 739 million from 1,885 different suppliers. Among Governing documents: the largest procurement categories are joint spending ∞ Policy for sustainability and corporate social responsibility on systems in the alliance and new technology. Link to UN Sustainability Goals: 13.3 Status • New guidelines and procedures for risk assessment of sustainability in purchasing • 249 of SpareBank 1’s suppliers have been risk assessed by the new procedure, and 37% of these will be actively monitored in 2020 11 DISTRIBUTION OF GHG EMISSIONS BY ACTIVITY 829 TONNES CO2e Air travel Waste Business travel Transportation Electicity DH Nordic locations ENERGY AND CLIMATE ACCOUNTING Comments to the accounting Category 2019 Scope 1: 2,8% (22.9 tCO2e) Transport: Actual consumption of fossil fuels by the Group’s Scope 1 Transport (Diesel and bensin) vehicles (owned, rented and leased). Use of diesel (B5) and petrol accounted for emissions totalling 23 tCO2e in 2019. This is roughly the same as in 2018. Scope 1 emissions 22,9 Scope 2: CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Scope 2 Electricity 26.4% (218.8 tCO2e) Measured consumption of electricity in own or leased premises/buildings. Emissions from electricity use decreased by 4% compared Electricity Nordic mix 207 with 2018. The use of district heating increased by 79.2% from 2018. A key reason for the increased consumption of district heating was that a new building was DH Nordic locations Total 11,8 commissioned in 2019 which uses district heating. SpareBank 1 Nord-Norge purchased guarantees of origin (OG/REC) for all of its electricity consumption in 2019. Scope 2 emissions 218,8 Scope 3: Scope 3 Travel and waste 70% (587 tCO2e) Air travel and mileage allowance: Flights account for 62.9% of total greenhouse gas emissions in the parent bank. Measured person-kiloAir travel total 520,9 metres (pkm) travelled per region. Emissions from air travel amounted to 520.9 tCO2e and accounted for 62.9% of total emissions in 2019. This is a reduction Mileage all. car (NO) 52,6 in emissions from air travel of 5.9%. In 2019, mileage allowance payments were made for 367,000 km. This results in emissions of 52.6 tCO2e, and is Waste total 13,5 roughly the same as the previous year. Waste: Waste accounted for total emissions of 13.5 tCO2e in 2019, a reduction Scope 3 emissions 587 of 30.8% on figures from 2018. The reduction is due to the construction and renovation of the head office in Tromsø which started in 2017 and was completed Total emissions 829 in January 2020. Emptying of the premises resulted in exceptional waste in 2018. 12 SOCIAL ACCOUNTS Finance Consolidated profit before tax (NOK millions) 2,473 Consolidated total assets (NOK millions) 111,524 Consolidated return on equity after tax 15.9 Consolidated core Tier 1 capital ratio 17.22 Strategy Business strategy and risk strategy Strategy implemented in accordance with plan Policy for sustainability and corporate social responsibility Adopted by Group Management and the Board of Directors Employees No. of FTEs, incl. subsidiaries 904 No. of FTEs, Parent Bank 584 Absence due to illness 3.98% Proportion of women 53% Proportion of women in senior positions 38% Average age 43 Average period of service 10 Number recruited internally 14 Number recruited externally 136 Turnover 7.7% Apprentices and internships 4 Employee satisfaction survey 2 Samfunnsløftet 2018 Knowledge (NOK millions) 25 Innovation + Lab Nord-Norge (NOK millions) 55 Youth (NOK millions) 25 Local communities (NOK millions) 60 Arenas (NOK millions) 85 Theme: plastics (NOK millions) 5 Administration (NOK millions) 10 Total, Samfunnsløftet 265 Sparebankstiftelsen SpareBank 1 Nord-Norge Samfunnseierskap NOK 200 million CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Global Compact: SpareBank 1 Nord-Norge has signed up to the UN Global Compact, which is the world’s largest initiative for sustainability in business. Miljøfyrtårn: SpareBank 1 Nord-Norge is Eco-Lighthouse certified and complies with the certification scheme’s obligations. UNEP FI: SpareBank 1 Nord-Norge has signed in the UN Priciples for Responsible Banking Klimapartner: SpareBank 1 Nord-Norge is a member of Climate Partner Troms (Klimapartner Troms) together with 15 other partner companies 13 Samfunnsløftet 53.6 per cent of SpareBank 1 Nord-Norge is owned decided to allocate NOK 50 million to the project by the community in Northern Norway. This then Bodø 2024. Having Bodø as a European Capital of receives its dividend in the same way as private Culture will give a huge lift to northern norwegian shareholders through their equity certificates. This culture and voluntary work. In particular, it will prompt community dividend is used to support the aims people across the region to work closely together in of Samfunnsløftet which aims to boost Northern the coming years. The dividend benefits several of Norway. Good results in 2018 made it possible to the pillars of Samfunnsløftet, and will be crystallised increase the dividend to the community. Through in a series of projects out to 2024. the first full year of Samfunnsløftet, we have seen good results from the dividends paid out. Another major project from 2019 is ‘Nye stemmer’. 100 young people from the north were asked what A total of NOK 215 million was allocated in 2019 to the was important to them if Northern Norway is to underlying pillars of Samfunnsløftet: Ungdomsløftet remain an attractive place to live. The discussions (for the youth – NOK 23 million), Kunnskapsløftet between young people resulted in a summary report (knowledge – NOK 23 million), Innovasjonsløftet presented at Agenda Nord-Norge in Narvik in Novem(innovation – NOK 13.8 million), Arenaløftet (arenas ber 2019. The project received considerable attention, – NOK 78.2 million), Lokalsamfunnsløftet (the local including from Prime Minister Erna Solberg, and will community – NOK 60 million) and Plastløftet (plastic continue in 2020. pollution – NOK 5 million). During 2019, 2009 applications were made to Samfunnsløftet. A total of 1.361 In March 2019, Kunnskapsbanken, the Knowledge projects both large and small in Northern Norway were Bank, was also launched (www.kbnn.no). As an integral awarded almost NOK 300 million. Samfunnsløftet part of Kunnskapsløftet (knowledge), the Knowledge contributes to value creation and development of the Bank, has great ambitions: to establish a common region, and within the awards the northern Norwegian northern Norwegian knowledge base in order to community has worked towards all of the UN Sustaindefine common issues and find common solutions. able Development Goals. A more systematic approach On the website there are reports, statistics, expectato achieving the goals will be a priority in 2020. tion barometers and the podcast “Northern Norway in the world”. And of course, Konjunkturbarometer Ever since the launch of Samfunnsløftet, dedicated for Northern Norway, the Business Barometer for resources have worked to coordinate projects and Northern Norway. organisations across the region. In 2019, even more emphasis was placed on working proactively. This means, After the first full year of operation, it is clear that among other things, initiating projects based on knowSamfunnsløftet has contributed to projects that have ledge and familiarity with the region. It also means brought pleasure and happiness to people living in CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY actively looking for people who want to help realise Northern Norway. During the year, Samfunnsløftet has such projects. Outreach efforts and detailed discussions featured in a number of editorial articles in the northwith associations, teams, clubs and organisations have ern Norwegian media, which helps to raise awareness opened many people’s eyes to the possibility of fundof the ownership model. People can see the difference ing which is reflected in the large number of applicants. between SpareBank 1 Nord-Norge’s ownership model – where large portions of the profits are distributed to The organisation of Samfunnsløftet ensures that all the region – and the banks owned exclusively by proapplications are treated equally. Most applications fessional investors. This makes more and more people are handled by a panel of employees. Applications want to be customers of the bank they co-own. exceeding NOK 1 million are decided on by the CEO, while applications over NOK 10 million have to be This in turn offers a greater benefit to the community, approved by the Board of Directors. In 2019 the Board and more funding for good projects in Northern Norway. 14 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) INDEX General information Page numbers in this index refer to the annual report GRI indicator Description Location in the report Reporting directly in the index Organisasjonsprofil 102-1 Name of the organisation SpareBank 1 Nord-Norge 102-2 Activities, brands, Operations (190) products and/or services 102-3 Location of headquarters The head office of SpareBank 1 Nord-Norge is located in Tromsø. 102-4 Number of countries in which the SpareBank 1 Nord-Norge organisation operates – Our presence (16) Annual accounts – Notes 8 (77) 102-5 Ownership and legal form SpareBank 1 Nord-Norge is a savings bank owned 53.6% by the northern Norwegian community and 46% through equity certificates listed on Oslo Børs. 102-6 Description of markets served by the Operations organisation – Description of operations (190) 102-7 Size and scope of the organisation Operations – Description of operations (190) Annual accounts 2019 Note 23 (108) SpareBank 1 Nord-Norge – Annual accounts (48) 102-8 Total number of employees by type of Women Men employment, employment contract and region, broken down by gender. Permanent 498 447 employees (472,6) (434,4) Temporary employees 39 (20) 23 (12,6) Number of employees. FTEs in brackets. Women Men Full-time 439 472 Part-time 59 20 No work is done at SpareBank 1 Nord-Norge by workers who are not employees. No large variations in the number of employees. 102-9 Description of the Corporate social responsibility organisation’s supply chain – Sustainability in SpareBank 1 Nord-Norge (222) CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 102-10 Significant changes in size, structure or No major changes ownership during the reporting period 102-11 Description of whether and how the Corporate social responsibility SpareBank 1 Nord-Norge is a member precautionary principle is used within – Sustainability in SpareBank 1 of the UN Global Compact and is therethe organisation Nord-Norge (41) fore committed to complying with the precautionary principle. 102-12 External initiatives, charters or prinCorporate social responsibility Miljøfyrtårn ciples in the financial, environmental – Sustainability in SpareBank 1 Global Compact or social area that the organisation Nord-Norge (224) UNEP FI supports or has acceded to Klimapartner 102-13 Membership of industry organisations Corporate social responsibility NHO or other associations, and national/ – Sustainability in SpareBank 1 Finans Norge international lobbying groups Nord-Norge (224) AEC 15 Strategy and analysis 102-14 Statement from the CEO From the CEO (6 og 213) Ethics and integrity 102-16 The organisation’s values, principles, Strategic compass, pages 10 and 11 The 10 principles in the Global standards and norms of behaviour Corporate Social Responsibility Compact's guide the Group's – Sustainability in SpareBank 1 work on sustainability Nord-Norge (213) Governance 102-18 The organisation’s management strucCorporate governance, page 160. ture, including the highest authority Corporate social responsibility and committees who are responsible – Sustainability in SpareBank 1 for decision-making on financial, Nord-Norge (213) environmental and social topics Stakeholder engagement 102-40 Stakeholder groups that the Corporate social responsibility organisation is in dialogue with – Sustainability in SpareBank 1 Nord-Norge (211 og 212) Percentage of employees who 100% in the parent bank, 102-41 are covered by collective 100% in the group bargaining agreements 102-42 Description of how the organisation Corporate social responsibility In the process of improving the chooses relevant stakeholders – Sustainability in SpareBank 1 Group’s work on sustainability, a Nord-Norge (214 og 215) survey of the most important stakeholders and their views on ethics and sustainability was conducted in 2018. The stakeholder map is also applicable for 2019. 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement, Corporate social responsibility including frequency of engagement – Sustainability in SpareBank 1 by type and stakeholder group Nord-Norge (216) 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Corporate social responsibility through stakeholder dialogue – Sustainability in SpareBank 1 and the organisation’s response Nord-Norge (216) Reporting practices 102-45 Overview of all entities included Annual report from the Board (22) the organisation’s annual financial statements or similar documents Description of the process for defining Corporate social responsibility The sustainability report should 102-46 the report’s content and topic bound– Sustainability in SpareBank 1 convey correct and understandable aries, and the implementation of the Nord-Norge (212) information, in a way that enables reporting principles stakeholders to make decisions. Both positive and negative aspects of the Group's impact on society and the environment should be reported and be of high quality and relevance. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY List of all the topics that have Corporate social responsibility 102-47 been identified as material – Sustainability in SpareBank 1 Nord-Norge (214) Change of historical None 102-48 data from earlier reports Significant changes from the previNone 102-49 ous report with regard to the scope of the content, distinctions made in the report or the measurement methods. Reporting period 01.01.19-31.12.19 102-50 Date of publication This is SpareBank 1 Nord-Norge’s 102-51 for the previous report second GRI report. Reporting frequency Annual 102-52 16 Contact person for questions Ragnhild Dalheim Eriksen 102-53 about the report or its content Reporting level This report has been prepared 102-54 in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option GRI index Annual report (226) 102-55 102-56 Current practices for external The report is not externally verified. assurance of the report SPECIFIC INFORMATION GRI indicator Description Location in the report Reporting directly in the index Financial performance 103-1 Description and demarcation of material topic(s) 103-2 Description of the management Annual report from the Board (35-42) system that covers material topic(s) 103-3 Evaluation of the management system 201-1 Economic value generated Annual accounts 2019 (54) Income: MNOK 5,595 and distributed Personnel costs: MNOK 580 Other operating costs: MNOK 651 Interest costs: MNOK 1,260 Fees and commissions payable: 92 Losses: -2 Tax: MNOK 355 Dividends: MNOK 866 Retained earnings: MNOK 1,793 201-2 Financial implications, risks and Corporate social responsibility opportunities due to climate change – Sustainability in SpareBank 1 Nord-Norge (217-218) Anti-corruption 103-1 Description and demarcation of material topic(s) Corporate social responsibility 103-2 Description of the management – Sustainability in SpareBank 1 system that covers material topic(s) Nord-Norge (219) 103-3 Evaluation of the management system 205-2 Communication and training about Corporate social responsibility anti-corruption policies and procedures – Sustainability in SpareBank 1 Nord-Norge (219) 205-3 Confirmed incidents of No confirmed cases in 2019 corruption and actions taken Training and education 103-1 Description and demarcation of material topic(s) CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 103-2 Description of the management Organisation and HR (204) system that covers material topic(s) 103-3 Evaluation of the management system 404-1 Average hours of training per year Partially reported. Retail market per employee by position category (40 hours). Corporate market and technical departments (10 hours). See information about courses p. 212) 404-2 Programmes for personal developOrganisation and HR (205) The annual appraisal ment and lifelong learning that meeting covers this topic. develop the employee’s value Everyone over the age of 60 is in the labour market enrolled in the pension association. 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving All employees have an annual regular performance and career appraisal. Some 30% are also development reviews offered quarterly meetings. 17 Diversity and equal opportunities 103-1 Description and demarcation of material topic(s) 103-2 Description of the management Organisation and HR (204) system that covers material topic(s) 103-3 Evaluation of the management system Women Men Manage4 5 ment team Other 3 (+2) 7 (+1) managers Regular 244 251 employees (458) (383) Management team: Group Management. Other managers: Management in the Bank. Management incl. management of subsidiaries' stated in brackets. Regular employees: Ban employees minus management team and other managers. Regular employees of the Group stated in brackets 30 and 30-50 50 + below Manage0 (0) 5 (2) 7 (1) ment team Other 10 (1) 30 (25) 20 (8) Diversity of governance bodies managers 405-1 and in different employee categories Regular 112 237 190 employees (67) (138) (84) . Women Men Staff/support 62 97 Core (borrowing, 222 231 lending, treasury) Including: Regions, Sales and customer relationships and Markets defined as line organisation. Remainder defined as staff/support/group functions 30 and 30-50 50 + below Staff/support 54 121 104 Core (borrowing, 42 156 117 lending, treasury) Non-discrimination CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 103-1 Description and demarcation of material topic(s) 103-2 Description of the management Organisation and HR (204) system that covers material topic(s) 103-3 Evaluation of the management system 406-1 Incidents of discrimination We had one case of discrimination and corrective actions taken in 2019 which concerned wages. The case was handled according to the applicable procedures. 18 Privacy 103-1 Description and demarcation of material topic(s) Corporate social responsibility 103-2 Description of the management – Sustainability in SpareBank 1 system that covers material topic(s) Nord-Norge (219) 103-3 Evaluation of the management system 418-1 Incidents of discrimination Corporate social responsibility 44 customer complaints. and corrective actions taken – Sustainability in SpareBank 1 3 concerns privacy Nord-Norge (219) Responsible credit policy 103-1 Description and demarcation of material topic(s) Corporate social responsibility 103-2 Description of the management – Sustainability in SpareBank 1 system that covers material topic(s) Nord-Norge (220) 103-3 Evaluation of the management system FS8 Monetary value of products and Corporate social responsibility services designed to deliver a specific – Sustainability in SpareBank 1 environmental benefit Nord-Norge (220) Responsible investments and requirements for financial services providers 103-1 Description and demarcation of material topic(s) Corporate social responsibility 103-2 Description of the management – Sustainability in SpareBank 1 system that covers material topic(s) Nord-Norge (221) 103-3 Evaluation of the management system FS10 Percentage and number of Corporate social responsibility SpareBank 1 Nord-Norge’s policies companies held in the institution’s – Sustainability in SpareBank 1 and guidelines apply to and are portfolio with which the reporting Nord-Norge (221) communicated to the Group’s organisation has interacted on wholly-owned subsidiaries. environmental or social issues. FS11 Percentage of assets subject to posiCorporate social responsibility Fund investments: 100% tive and negative environmental or – Sustainability in SpareBank 1 From 2020, ESG risk will also social screening Nord-Norge (217) be assessed in credit processes and the liquidity portfolio CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 19 SpareBank 1 Nord-Norge Org. nr: NO 952 706 365 PB 6800, 9298 Tromsø Tel 02244 www.snn.no
