19th May 2020 GLOBAL COMPACT 2020 (FIRST HALF YEAR) Multi Net Resources Sdn Bhd 2020 Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. . Slide Subtitle Global Compact 2020 (First Half Year) 2 2020 HUMAN RIGHTS Freedom of Speech Women Rights • All the employees are welcomed to speak out their • Company protect and support all the pregnant women’s opinions during meeting, or write their concern into rights to breastfeeding their children by allowing them to company Whatsapp Group and through annual employee pump their milk during working hours without restriction. satisfactory survey • Company will never eliminate an pregnancy worker unless she • We have emphasized on close communication which all made an intolerable mistake. All the pregnancy workers enjoy levels of workers could directly reach the other level of at least 60 days of confinement holiday and they are free to apply leave upon the reason of taking care of their infants. employees or even management. • Besides, to support the workers with new born. Company • However, freedom of speech is formed based on the rules rewards special fund to the worker with the aim of reduce “to respect each other” , “Adherent to Local Government financial burden and kind of appreciation to the contribution Rules”, and “Follow Company Rules”. of the workers Global Compact 2020 (First Half Year) 3 2020 HUMAN RIGHTS Freedom of Education Freedom of Privacy • Company organize trainings and open to all staffs that • All the employees personal data are kept by authorized fulfil the requirement which might including department, personnel and with access authorization control. basic knowledge, potential of personal growth & etc. • All types of forms with personal information filled up • All the employees are encouraged to report type of including identity card number, address, contact number, training they are interested to join. Company will done email and any other private and confidential data are analysis and further planning on the training arrangement. required to be paper scrapped before recycle. • At the time of digital transformation, Company have done a lot of training to all levels of staff to assist them in implementing new technology in the working environment. Global Compact 2020 (First Half Year) 4 2020 HUMAN RIGHTS Freedom of Getting Consultation & Freedom of Equity Information • All the workers enjoy the equity opportunity to get • All the employees are free to received company promoted based on performance data collected and consultation services analyzed. • We are highly concern on working stress and stress • All the workers are free to access to all company public management. All the workers with difficulty in relief area and enjoy all the public services provided by stress are advised to have personal consultation with company without discrimination authorized personnel. All the discussion topic wont reveal to third party. Global Compact 2020 (First Half Year) 5 2020 HUMAN RIGHTS Rights to Safety & Health • With the explosion of COVID-19, Company has prepared all necessary personal protective equipment including 3 layers face mask, hand sanitizer, disposable gloves, and other relevant practice such as 1 meter social distance rules, disinfection activity and temperature taking. • Company arrange for high-risk workers to be sent to COVID-19 Screening Test before returning to work Global Compact 2020 (First Half Year) 6 2020 Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Slide Subtitle Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Global Compact 2020 (First Half Year) 7 2020 LABOR Freedom of Association Elimination of Forced Employment • All the employees are freely to join any union and • All the Multi Net Resources Sdn Bhd workers are contract association without restriction protected • And the written of the contract is based on Local Employment Laws • Without mutual agreement and signature of employer and employee, the agreement will not be effective Presentation Title 8 2020 LABOR Protest Against Child Labor Elimination of Discrimination • Multi Net Resources Sdn Bhd will never knowingly take • Offer job vacancy without limitation to specific race & part in child labor hiring. religion through public platform (Facebook) • All types of hiring (excluded Internship & Apprenticeship) • Emphasize it through Production Rules and Meeting Rules are not opened to underaged as according to local law : No Offensive, racist language is tolerable in Company • All the job applicant are required to show their original • Provide Training to all potential growth workers without identity card/passport and a copy of the document will including their race/religion as one of the criteria be kept together with their personal file. Global Compact 2020 (First Half Year) 9 2020 Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Slide Subtitle Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Global Compact 2020 (First Half Year) 10 2020 ENVIRONMENT Recycling Program RoHs & REACH Compliance • All the recycle-able items are not allowed to be throw • All the materials and products purchased and sold by directly and gather and collect for recycling activity Multi Net Resources Sdn Bhd are RoHS and REACH • All the environmental friendly information are shared Compliance. amongst company area to instill the mindset of • We never knowingly take part in purchasing non-RoHS & protecting environment to our employees and even REACH compliance items as the items will greatly impact visitors our Mother EARTH • We are planning to design annual event with idea of • Strictly control over adoption of control chemical combination of healthy lifestyle and green environment substances into 1 in order to promote the importance of protect environment to all interested parties. Global Compact 2020 (First Half Year) 11 2020 ENVIRONMENT Embrace the Environment with Green Technology • Multi Net Resources Sdn Bhd has started its progress of digitization of internal operation since middle of Year 2019. • Transforming any paper printed works to application or eform in order to cut down paper printing cost and at the same time educate employees the importance of environmental protection • Transforming production into semi & automation production to increase the productivity and yield on productivity. So to reduce the utility waste due to low output. Global Compact 2020 (First Half Year) 12 2020 Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Slide Subtitle Global Compact 2020 (First Half Year) 13 2020 ANTI CORRUPTION Say No to Corruption • All the procurement and sales activity are documented and approval required • All the procurement and sales activity pricing and related data are stored in system for review • All the financial related reports or items are assigned to authorized personnel only Global Compact 2020 (First Half Year) 14 SIGNIFICANT DROP IN PAPER 2020 CONSUMPTION We target to reduce the paper consumption to not more than RM30.00 per month in an average Global Compact 2020 (First Half Year) 15 Safety & Health Case Monitoring 2020 For all the safety cases happened, we will assigned safety committee team to do investigation and improvement with the aim to protect employees from all possible dangerous and risks. (All the investigation report are kept in system) Global Compact 2020 (First Half Year) 16 RELATED POLICIES 2020 Labor Policy Safety & Health Policy Environmental Policy Ethics Policy Global Compact 2020 (First Half Year) 17
