RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 ENGA EN ENGAGE SUSTAIN ENABLE SUSTAIN GE ABLE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 2 THE 10 PRINCIPLES OF THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT PROGRESS REPORT 2019 1. DECLARATION OF SUPPORT FROM GROUP MANAGEMENT Interroll sets new standards worldwide with its mateOur strategies and activities are based on universal rial flow solutions. We help to responsibly shape new principles of human rights, working standards, enviconnections between the physical and the digital ronmental protection and anti-corruption. world. Our principles make it easier for our customers We also strive to drive forward social goals. and our employees to act responsibly in a complex environment on a daily basis. We combine business By joining the UN Global Compact in November 2016, success with an awareness of sustainability, the enviwe stated our global dedication for the first time and ronment and social responsibility in both the short committed to the transparent documentation of our and long term. progress in the stated areas. Sustainability principles Our third progress report for the 2019 financial year –– We act sustainably and are focused on long-term presents the most significant measures and successes business success. We strive to find an appropriate of our continuing engagement in accordance with the balance between environmental awareness, social 10 principles of the UN Global Compact. In doing so, responsibility and economic success. we underline the importance of social responsibility in –– We require our business partners and suppliers our business activities. to comply with minimum standards. –– We require our managers and employees to adhere At the same time, we are also renewing our committo our Code of Conduct. ment as a member of the UN Global Compact for another year. 28 February 2020 ­Interroll Holding AG Paul Zumbühl Martin Regnet CEO Global PR Manager CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 3 2. PRESENTATION OF PRACTICAL MEASURES AND MEASUREMENT OF RESULTS IN 2019 HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1 Principle 2 Support and respect the protection of Ensure that the company itself is not complicit internationally proclaimed human rights. in human rights abuses. Self-commitment Re 2: In order to ensure that our Code of Conduct con“Interroll does not tolerate any discrimination, harasstinues to be implemented, managers at our Chinese, ment or unfair treatment based on gender, race, disaDanish, French and US companies were given training bility, ethnic or cultural origin, religion, belief, age or in the Code of Conduct and compliance regulations in sexual orientation.” This extract from the Interroll 2019. Further in-depth training will take place in the Code of Conduct requires the company and its 2020 financial year. employees to respect human rights and the relevant laws. Interroll’s reputation and the trust of its customRe 3: The Interroll Group’s Compliance Management ers, suppliers, business partners, shareholders and the System (CMS) is designed according to the internageneral public depend heavily on the behaviour of all tional ISO 19600 Compliance Management Systems of its employees. standard. The risk-based approach is intended to weight the gravity of possible violations of laws and Interroll expects all suppliers and sub-contractors to commitments in relation to the achievement of corpoadhere to these principles, which reflect Interroll’s rate goals and the negative effect on the reputation of company values and play a significant role in the selecthe Group, and to define priorities for action accordtion and evaluation of suppliers. We also expect our ingly. A local compliance board became active in Gersuppliers to respect these standards in the rest of their many in the year under review. Internal training as a supply chain. compliance manager, including an examination, was carried out with participants from six countries. ReadThe relevant guidelines set out in the Supplier Code of iness checks were carried out by an external compliConduct are intended to ensure compliance with all ance expert in Germany, Denmark, France, China and applicable laws, regulations and directives, and guarthe US, the results of which will be expanded on in the antee that the processes across Interroll’s supply chain 2020 financial year. meet certain social, environmental and economic standards. Re 4: Every employee has the right to report violations of the Code of Conduct, the law or an obligation to Measures in 2019 their manager. An anonymous whistleblower system 1. Global roll-out of a Supplier Code of Conduct with letter boxes has been established for this purpose 2. Prevention through training in Germany. 3. Continued implementation and expansion of the Compliance Management System 4. Further training and development Measurement of the results Re 1: In the selection of new suppliers, adherence to our principles is a necessary requirement for establishment of a business relationship. Existing suppliers are also obliged to comply with the Supplier Code of Conduct. By the end of 2019, we were able to secure this for 95 % of suppliers to our European companies, and we aim to achieve it for all companies worldwide in 2020. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 4 WORKING STANDARDS Principle 3 Principle 4 Principle 5 Principle 6 Uphold the freedom Strive to eliminate Promote the Promote the of association and all forms of forced effective abolition elimination of the effective and compulsory of child labour. discrimination recognition of the labour. in respect of right to collective employment bargaining. and occupation. Self-commitment Measurement of the results Interroll’s globally applicable Codes of Conduct Re 1 to 4: See section on human rights. include basic internationally recognised working standards, such as freedom of association, the eliminaRe 5: There were no reported instances of forced or tion of forced labour, the abolition of forced and child child labour within Interroll or its supply chain in the labour and a working environment free from discrimyear under review. ination. Interroll and its suppliers do not tolerate any discrimination against employees based on gender, Re 6: The third group-wide employee engagement race, disability, ethnic or cultural origin, religion, ­survey showed very good results in the year under belief, age or sexual orientation. review. Interroll has dedicated staff who are always willing to go the extra mile for the company. The Measures in 2019 employees also confirmed the quality and customer 1. Global roll-out of a Supplier Code of Conduct focus within the group. The next global employee 2. Prevention through training ­survey will take place in the 2021 financial year to 3. Continued implementation and expansion monitor consistency. of the Compliance Management System 4. Enhanced cooperation between the Chief Re 7: The Interroll Academy is a major driving force Compliance Officer and local compliance behind knowledge transfer when it comes to material managers flow. Our strong dedication to the further training and 5. Measurement of key performance development of our employees and the exchange of indicators (KPIs) knowledge with our customers and partners contrib6. Employee engagement utes significantly to the success of our business and the 7. Employee training development of our industry. 8. Working conditions We are convinced that good training is a prerequisite for a motivated workforce, which is why we train our employees with the aim of imparting technical knowledge that will enable them to provide our customers with valuable support. Participants in our training programmes – who come from all parts of the company – not only become familiar with Interroll products, but also with the applications and issues faced by our customers. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 5 The ­Interroll Academy is cooperating with the Fraunhofer Institute for Material Flow and Logistics (Dortmund), among others, on the topic of “Management of Material Flow Processes”. Our numerous training and development programmes Interroll and its suppliers ensure workplace safety for offer every employee the opportunity to optimally all employees and provide a working environment that develop and implement their talents. A blended learnpromotes health, helps prevent accidents and exposes ing format that combines traditional teaching with employees to as few health risks as possible. new, online training methods (e-learning) enables participants to overcome their inner hurdles and also Interroll has an appropriate health and workplace engages eager to learn employees who are not on site. safety system in place. Employees must receive adeIn 2019, new content (e.g. for new product developquate training in workplace health and safety issues in ments) was introduced into the training programme. their native language. Health and safety information A further expansion of our range of internal training must be clearly displayed on site. Interroll expects the programmes is planned for 2020. same from its suppliers. Re 8: Interroll and its suppliers comply with all the In the 2019 financial year, the number of sick days was ­relevant legislation and regulations on working hours once again successfully reduced and the number of and breaks. Overtime is always carried out voluntarily. accident-free days increased, thanks to Interroll’s Employees must receive appropriate remuneration health and workplace safety management. An internal and the applicable national statutory minimum wage. competition was held on this topic with bonuses awarded for the most creative ideas. ­ CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 6 ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE Principle 7 Principle 8 Principle 9 Support a precautionary Undertake initiatives Encourage the development approach to environmental to promote greater environand dissemination of challenges. mental responsibility. environmentally friendly technology. Self-commitment Measures in 2019 A responsible approach to resources and environ­ 1. Global roll-out of a Supplier Code of Conduct mental and climate protection are key elements of cor2. Prevention through training porate responsibility and thus a central strand of 3. Continued implementation and expansion ­Interroll’s strategy. of the Compliance Management System 4. Enhanced cooperation between the Our foundational principle “Inspired by efficiency” Chief Compliance Officer and local officers refers not only to the advantages our customers expect 5. Measurement of key performance from Interroll solutions. Companies can also increase indicators (KPIs) their profits with Interroll’s products and solutions, minimise their ecological impact and ensure sustainaMeasurement of the results ble growth. Our resource efficiency is also an imporRe 1 to 4: See section on human rights. tant factor at Interroll. The correct approach to resources is the most important requirement in mainRe 5: Following our first recording of KPIs in the 2017 tenance of our leading market position in terms of financial year, we established further targets for 2019. technology and innovation – which in turn also beneThe aim was a group-wide reduction in paper use of fits our customers. 10 % and the introduction of other “paperless” projects. A further 10 % reduction is planned for 2020. I­nterroll products and solutions enable customers to increase their profits. They reduce their ecological footprint and ensure sustainable growth. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 7 PREVENTION OF CORRUPTION Principle 10 Work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Self-commitment corruption regulations, and to ensure that the comWe want to counteract potential violations of regulapany carries out its business in a socially responsible tions in advance by sensitising and raising awareness manner. Bribery is considered any offer, promise, among our employees. Comprehensive on-site and ­provision, acceptance or demand of an advantage in e-learning training programmes educate our employreturn for an illegal action or breach of trust. This ees on topics such as “Competition law” and “Gifts, includes acceptance of donations of material value invitations and conflicts of interest”. in exchange for a trade, contractual, administrative or personal advantage. We carry out our business The anti-bribery guidelines introduced in 2016 are honestly and ethically in accordance with our Code of designed to establish control mechanisms to ensure Conduct. compliance with all relevant anti-bribery and anti-­ We have a zero-tolerance policy when it comes to ­bribery and corruption. We undertake to act professionally, fairly and with integrity in all our business relationships, and to introduce, implement and enforce effective mechanisms to combat bribery. Measures in 2019 1. Global roll-out of a Supplier Code of Conduct 2. Prevention through training 3. Continued implementation and expansion of the Compliance Management System 4. Enhanced cooperation between the Chief Compliance Officer and local compliance managers 5. Monitoring of anti-bribery guidelines Measurement of the results Re 1 to 4: See section on human rights. Re 5: There were no reported instances of corruption, extortion or bribery within Interroll or its supply chain in the year under review. I­nterroll is heavily involved in industry associations. In 2019, as part of the “Robotics 4 Retail” initiative of the EHI Retail Institute, a pioneering workshop on “Conveyor Technology in the Supermarket of the Future” was held at the ­Interroll Academy. ­Interroll Holding AG Via Gorelle 3 | 6592 Sant᾽Antonino | Switzerland www.interroll.com © ­Interroll Holding AG
