Re: Partner Africa Communication on Progress Type: Stand-alone document Date: 12th November 2020 1. Our commitment Partner Africa’s mission is to improve the working conditions and livelihoods of local workers and producers in African supply chains and advance international trade opportunities, while supporting socially responsible and sustainable business practices. Partner Africa is part of the Gorta Group a development organisation that work throughout Africa reducing poverty and suffering through innovation and enterprise. Partner Africa is a leading social audit and technical advisory provider, trusted by global brands, ethical trading bodies and industry associations. All of the work of Partner Africa exists with the intent of contributing to SDG 8: Promoting sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all. Partner Africa is committed to the UN Global Compact (UNGC) and all of our work is guided by the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGP’s). We encourage all of our clients – which include companies, industry bodies, civil society and government to be responsible through adopting the UNGP’s and the ten principles of the UNGC. 2. An overview of the practical action Partner Africa has taken to implement the Ten Principles in each of the four areas (human rights, labour, environment, anti-corruption) Partner Africa provides ethical auditing and responsible business advisory services throughout Africa. We positively engage with clients to identify, address and report on the salient environmental, social/human rights and governance (ESG) risks in their organization and supply chains and adopt responsible business practices. We provide expertise in a number of industries, including fast moving consumer goods, agribusiness, apparel, manufacturing, cosmetics, tourism and extractives. To identify the salient ESG issues in organizations we use a combination of participatory methodologies, which enable workers to take a more active role in the audit process. Workers can freely explain the true nature of their working conditions, without the need for high levels of literacy, or from fear of reprisals from management. To address the root causes of poor working practices Partner Africa’s advisory services develop a range of preventative and remediation programmes that are framed around the UNGP’s including providing support to: • Companies and industrial bodies to understand and respect their corporate responsibilities – which includes providing training of the UNGC and UNGP’s • Government agencies to develop programmes that promote responsible business practices and protect communities and workers from exploitation • Communities and workers understand their rights and responsibilities and gain access to work remedy when required. 3. A measurement of outcomes Partner Africa believes that its success must be judged by its impact on improving working conditions and livelihoods. We take a results-based management approach to our work so that we focus our interventions on outcomes and long-term positive impacts – for both the companies that we work with and the communities that they are a part of. Over the last 12 months we have completed approximately 1000 audits that has improved the human rights and environmental conditions of over 100,000 workers and small holders in Africa. For: and on behalf of Partner Africa: Sara Clancy Executive Director 12Th November, 2020
