SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS UPDATE 2021 ADDENDUM TO OUR SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PROTECTING AND SAVING LIVES. WORLDWIDE REACH. HUMAN TOUCH. internationalsos.com International SOS Sustainability Progress Update 2020 International SOS Sustainability Progress Update 2021 CONTENTS THIS REPORT COVERS THE FISCAL YEAR 2019/20 (JULY 2019 JUNE 2020) 1 Statement from Arnaud Vaissié Co-founder, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer 2 The world of International SOS 2 Our Mission 2 Our Vision 2 Our Values 4 The forces shaping our future 4 Global public health crisis 5 Health at work 6 Infodemic vs trusted sources 7 A growing divide 7 Innovation via collaboration and speed to market 8 Our commitment in the global COVID-19 pandemic 14 Sustainability and us 14 Our philosophy 15 Sustainability governance 16 Our material topics STATEMENT FROM OUR CEO, ARNAUD VAISSIÉ 18 Our goals and progress 26 International SOS Foundation 2020 has been a difficult year for individuals, their families, organisations the course and have already delivered three – now virtual sessions – and society at large. In our 35 years of providing services to customers, during 2020 and scheduled three more in 2021. 28 UNGC Principles Index we have never experienced such a globally challenging environment. Additionally, we collaborated with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) I am immensely grateful to, and proud of, all my colleagues for keeping in developing their Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) online course, our company and services at the very core of tackling the pandemic. We launched on 1 October 2020. This new course helps companies to have proven once again to be a mission critical partner for our clients, effectively incorporate Occupational Health and Safety impacts within having assisted in well in excess of 45,000 COVID-related client cases. their sustainability report, including insights on the OHS implications Our relevance in business continuity is crystal clear. CEOs and boards of the COVID-19 pandemic. International SOS also participated in the have become direct decision-makers on health issues and programmes panels of two GRI sustainability webinars in June and July 2020. to protect the physical and mental health of their employees. We remain committed to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) standards Undoubtedly, many industries are suffering greatly due to COVID-19 and to the ten principles of the UN Global Compact in the areas of and it is possible that a significant global economic crisis is ahead of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. us. For that reason, we have implemented changes to help us navigate During 2020, we also underwent our very first audit with EcoVadis.1 through these challenging times in the coming months and years. We In June we successfully submitted our answers for the EcoVadis have, and continue, to focus on transitioning the business into a more certification. In 2021 we will work on our action plan in alignment with flexible and collaborative model and realigning our solutions with fastthe areas for improvements highlighted by the audit. changing client needs. We are also proud to have added another award for our sustainability Despite the colossal demands on our teams, our global Sustainability report at this year’s Muse Design Awards. Committee has worked diligently and organised itself around four key workstreams: Operations, Environment, People & Workplace Despite the hardship of 2020, we cannot stand still in matters of and Community. Our sustainability activities are mapped against the sustainability and I am confident that we will emerge stronger outcomes of our risk materiality assessment and use the United Nations throughout 2021 and beyond. Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) as guidance. We have again delivered key milestones against the goals we set out Yours sincerely, for 2020 and are committed to continue the progress with a set of new goals for 2021 and beyond. Some of those milestones I want to emphasise here in particular: About our front cover image In the past year, we developed a training course on Sustainability This image was developed with real International SOS Management & Reporting for the Occupational Health & Safety Arnaud Vaissié people. It symbolises that we are at our clients, Practitioner. The course covers how to prepare an organisation to Co-founder, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer employees and partners’ fingertips. manage OHS & wellbeing sustainably and explains which metrics It also represents how we have touched the lives of and initiatives to prioritise for sustainability reporting. Following the many people. overwhelming success of the pilot with clients, we formally launched 1 EcoVadis is a worldwide business sustainability rating agency. 2 internationalsos.com WORLDWIDE REACH. HUMAN TOUCH. 1 International SOS Sustainability Progress Update 2021 International SOS Sustainability Progress Update 2021 THE WORLD OF INTERNATIONAL SOS AT A GLANCE INTERNATIONAL SOS We care for clients across the globe, from more than 1 ,000 locations in 85 countries. About International SOS Our Mission To pioneer the international health & security risk services sector. The International SOS Group of Companies is in the business of saving lives, protecting your global workforce from health and security threats. Our Vision Wherever you are, we deliver customised health, security risk To be the world’s leading health management and wellbeing solutions to fuel your growth and & security risk services company. productivity. In the event of extreme weather, an epidemic or a security incident, we provide an immediate response, providing peace of mind. Our Values Our innovative technology and medical and security expertise Passion focus on prevention, offering real-time, actionable insights We work with passion, entrepreneurial spirit and teamwork to and on-the-ground quality delivery. We help you meet serve our clients. compliance reporting needs and enhance your risk oversight Expertise and governance. By partnering with us, organisations can We are committed to apply our professional expertise to fulfil their Duty of Care responsibilities, while empowering deliver great quality services. business resilience, continuity and sustainability. Respect Founded in 1985, the International SOS Group is trusted by We treat all our stakeholders with respect and integrity in 12,000 organisations, including over half of the Fortune Global order to earn their trust. 500, multi-national corporate clients and mid-size enterprises, governments, educational institutions and NGOs. 10,000 Care multi-cultural health, security and logistics experts stand with We care about the interests of our stakeholders and aim to you to provide support & assistance from over 1,000 locations make a real diference to their lives. in 85 countries, 24/7, 365 days. Our headquarters are duallylocated in London and Singapore. 2 internationalsos.com WORLDWIDE REACH. HUMAN TOUCH. 3 International SOS Sustainability Progress Update 2021 International SOS Sustainability Progress Update 2021 THE FORCES SHAPING OUR FUTURE 2020 has brought a significant level of volatility in our operating environment, where the only certainty is uncertainty, right now and for the foreseeable future. In those turbulent times, our focus has been on rapidly, yet diligently, pivoting our services and solutions to better assist the evolving needs of our clients and their employees. Close collaboration within our organisation, as well as with stakeholders and partners, has been key to bringing innovation to market with increased speed. While the sustainability agenda had seemingly faded to the background on the world stage and organisations concentrated on dealing with the urgency of the pandemic, we did not lose sight of our sustainability objectives and continued embedding sustainability principles in our ideas, decisions and operations. Actively monitoring and enhancing our understanding of the forces that have the potential to influence our future has provided an opportunity to reposition and develop ourselves in view of emerging stronger from the current world crisis. 1. Global public health crisis At International SOS, right from the first reports of an unknown disease resulting in pneumonia like symptoms, which was later identified as Setting sight on science, solutions and solidarity. COVID-19, we have been doing our part in monitoring and analysing insights. As well as advising and assisting our clients in this very fastAs we write this in November 2020, an unpreceded global public moving and constantly changing situation. We have been working health crisis, triggered by COVID-19, is taking place. Almost 50 million tirelessly and very closely with our clients to protect their workforce and cases of COVID-19 have been reported to the WHO and more than 1.2 meet their comprehensive health requirements. million people have lost their lives. Millions more have suffered due to the disruption of essential health services and others will, no doubt, We work with our clients to create safe workspaces in this new reality experience this in the upcoming months. The future is uncertain. No induced by the pandemic. We continue providing a wide range of vital one knows the long-term effects of this virus on people’s physical, solutions, from assisting in the development of policies, standards mental and emotional wellbeing and the global economy. and procedures to managing work-related stress; injury and illness reporting; health screening; testing; return-to-operation programmes, At the same time, there has been some success in controlling evacuation and many more. transmission with a comprehensive, evidence-based approach. Restrictions to address infections and prevent health systems from As a company, we have dealt with over 45,000 client requests related being overwhelmed are, in the main, working. However more needs to COVID-19, generated 300 open-source informational webinars and to be done and everybody needs to do their part in slowing down the videos, as well as 3,000 press articles on the subject. Since the start pandemic and finding solutions. of the pandemic we have performed in excess of 450 air evacuations. 2. Health at work Additionally, 3,500 medical professionals were sourced and placed for our clients. COVID-19 is putting Duty of Care at the heart of employers’ responsibilities. COVID-19 has clearly shown us that diseases at the scale of a pandemic cannot be addressed through the lenses of Occupational Health alone. A holistic approach to public health is needed to tackle the arising challenges, from workplace organisation to case management, and from transmission prevention to mental health consequences. As working is becoming much more agile, with the workplace no longer being constrained by an office, site or business travels and many people working from home, new health challenges have emerged related to sleep, exercise, nutrition, ergonomics, and so on. It is no longer possible to meet employees’ Occupational Health needs at the workplace without taking into consideration their environmental, personal, mental and emotional health. Health management calls for a broader sense of responsibility, beyond the prevention and cure of diseases to the holistic management of a balanced state of physical and mental harmony at personal and organisational level. Health has become one of the strategic risks for organisations, as its management directly influences their performance. Health is becoming material to organisations as it impacts their business and it is important to their stakeholders. In our experience to date, the higher the health agenda is considered within organisations, the wider the benefits are for employees and HR management. Example: health promotions and vaccination campaigns can have a positive impact on absenteeism. Given its complexity, strategic health management should address the requirements of health promotion, prevention and protection in consideration of the wider public health agenda and global challenges as represented by the SDG3 on Health. At International SOS, we have expanded our TeleConsultation offerings globally. We also implemented more Mental Health activities for clients including a COVID-19 hotline. Working closely with our clients to address their health at work needs is one of our core competences. 4 internationalsos.com WORLDWIDE REACH. HUMAN TOUCH. 5 International SOS Sustainability Progress Update 2021 International SOS Sustainability Progress Update 2021 3. Infodemic vs trusted sources 4. A growing divide CEOs & Boards need information and facts they can trust. There is a need for globally concerted leadership. Globalisation is challenged due in parts to political activities, but also Since the onset of the crisis, many senior executives have increased their direct responsibilities as the pandemic has developed, taking simply through the creation of new divisive polices and regulations. a more hands-on approach to mitigate the disruption caused by the pandemic. This burden has often fallen on their shoulders because The pandemic has set off a wave of nationalism in many countries. of the urgency with which decisions need to be made. The C-suite is generally best placed to quickly respond to issues, set direction and Early on the pandemic, nations scrambled to bring their people update policies in an agile manner to cope with the evolving situation. One of the main areas where the C-suite has gained responsibilities “home” and get their hands on large supplies of PPE. Then countries is the health and safety of employees. Recent research from IBM highlights that 80 per cent of surveyed C-suite executives reported that put in place travel restrictions and quarantines and paralysed they were now directly supporting the physical and mental health of the employees they oversee.1 Data from International SOS also mobility to protect against the spread of COVID-19. shows a 10-fold increase in calls to our Assistance Centres from those at management level, and the number of C-suite-level contacts at client side has doubled. It is clear that C-suite executives are now doing more to ensure that decisions account for the health and safety And now, as scientists work on vaccines for COVID-19, nationalism of staff. is on the ascent as every country tries to procure the maximum of serum for their own citizens. Consequently, the need for independent, factual, global and pragmatic advisory on the disease and its consequences on health has Instead of a coordinated global effort among governments to emerged as a priority for organisations. prepare the world to produce and distribute a vaccine, the pandemic has set off a wave of healthcare nationalism. Jim Robinson, a former executive from the pharmaceutical giant Merck, shared in an episode For example, many pre-existing health issues among employees have been revealed consequently to the crisis, from ergonomic issues, of the Politico podcast, that he is now working with a handful of untreated chronic diseases to stress and mental health challenges. This has emphasised the need to understand the crisis with a much international organisations racing to fill in gaps in the global vaccine broader perspective than the one of an infectious disease response only. supply chain — and in global leadership — to ensure the world gets fair access to the vaccine. Organisations need health expertise provided to decision-makers, from independent, non-biased sources, through doctors who At International SOS, global is already in our name and hence we understand their role is to share facts and information, and counsel on available options to act upon. We offer this expertise with a unique were born to contribute to this crisis with all our expertise. combination of first-hand health information collected and monitored from our presence in 85 countries, compiled and analysed by a dedicated team over 35 years. We are observing the situation closely and analyse all the new data, which we share with our clients in Instant Expert Briefs amongst many other activities. We advocate that Chief Health Officers within large organisations are required to address health needs comprehensively. Our role is to support them to execute their organisation’s strategy and deploy action plans globally. We are also advocating that smaller organisations identify internal specific resources, typically Human Resources, to partner with third-party health advisors on defining their health priorities and developing practical responses and communication tools. 5. Innovation via collaboration and speed to market COVID-19 has transpired as a catalyst for innovation. 1 Source https://www.ibm.com/thought-leadership/institute-business-value/report/covid-19-future-business It is often the impact of a global crisis that stimulates rapid innovation and creativity. As the tragic events of September 11th acted as a catalyst for change for air travel and safety for ever, the current pandemic is changing numerous aspects in health, work and the economy. The need for collaboration is understood. Organisations and teams from a range of backgrounds and disciplines pool knowledge, talent and resources. This is transpiring across governments, national healthcare systems, academia and the private sector coming together to find joint solutions. We are experiencing the same at International SOS. For instance, our Aberdeen Occupational Health clinic, that provides services mainly to the oil & gas industry, moved its services to a TeleConsultation offer during the first wave of COVID-19 in the UK. This switch was made in a mere 14-day window. A task that would have ordinally taken many months of planning and project delivery. In another example, International SOS has partnered with the International Chamber of Commerce and SGS Group to launch the ICC AOKpass, a mobile app providing trusted recognition of an employee’s COVID-19 compliance status. The pass is privacy preserving, digitally authenticated, secure copy of the individual’s medical record, approved by a medical professional. ICC AOKpass aims to be the sesame to open travel and airports again. 6 internationalsos.com WORLDWIDE REACH. HUMAN TOUCH. 7 International SOS Sustainability International Progress SOS Sustainability Update Progress 2021 2020 Update International SOS Sustainability Progress Update 2021 SUPPORTING OUR PEOPLE OUR COMMITMENT IN THE GLOBAL COVID-19 PANDEMIC Since the beginning of the pandemic we have actively supported our employees globally and ensured that our people remain healthy, safe and productive as well as well-equipped to face the pandemic and challenges due to the lockdowns. Our support to our people focused on: • COVID-19 information and prevention. • Working from home advice and sharing best practices. • Mental and physical wellbeing advice and support. As part of our Business Continuity Plan (BCP), a Medical Advisory team was set up globally and is supported by the eminent Virologist Professor John Oxford, from the University of London, who meets daily with our Medical Information & Analysis (MinA) team to assist with internal and external facing information and briefings. A specific COVID-19 resources hub was created to make such information available to both clients and International SOS’ employees. 1 Separately, another team of Pandemic Managers from our global offices HR team was formed under the guidance of Dr Hendrik Scholtz, who oversees the pandemic management at a global level. A Pandemic Preparedness Intranet SharePoint was set up to act as a central repository, reporting and communication platform for the Pandemic Managers community. Resources on the SharePoint includes, but not limited to, crisis management procedures, templates and tools, country COMS Alert level dashboard, employee health monitoring tracker, country government regulations dashboard, country’s Return To Operations tracker, staff travel advisory and tracker, flu vaccination initiative tracker, etc. The Pandemic Managers community meet on a weekly basis to share updates on the “real” situation on the ground as well as best practices and initiatives embarked on by the respective country offices. These Pandemic Managers are part of the respective local Crisis Management team, and these weekly meetings provided the community with insightful information from around the globe and guidance to manage the pandemic in a smooth, coordinated and effective manner. “Working from home” newsletter Sent on a weekly basis to all our employees globally, our internal “working from home” newsletter included themed expert panel discussions as well as advisory infographics providing tips and best practices on the different aspects of personal set up and work life balance challenges including: • Ways to stay productive while working • Distance learning. from home. • Social connections. • Driving innovation remotely & thriving in • Setting boundaries – balance work & times of change. personal life while working from home. • Ergonomics for working remotely. • Coping with stress. • Cybersecurity while working remotely. • Building mental health resilience & • Leading effective virtual meetings mindfulness. (including Zoom tips). • Healthy eating habits and staying active OUR GOVERNANCE AND seen in Nigeria, where one of our doctors diagnosed the first case of COVID-19 in the At each location the Business Continuity Plan – Pandemic Manager, working closely with our • Working remotely and manage virtual teams. while working from home. • Sleep management during stressful AGILE RESPONSE country, our clinics were at the forefront of COVID-19 identification. We also made sure to global network, is responsible for the implementation of local response based on local legisla• Parenting while working from home. periods. DURING THE COVID-19 refine our plans as more and more countries were exposed to COVID-19 and we gathered tion, employee needs and country specificities in cooperation with local General Management • Time management while working from home. • Building confidence through strengths during this time of uncertainty. PANDEMIC better insight into the impacts and risks of and the Medical and Human Resource leadership • Fostering inclusion. the pandemic. Our original Pandemic planteams. International SOS initially set up a global ning was based on a single wave plan with crisis management team, and established crisis options to develop second wave impacts. Our remote Medical Services, clinics and Internal webinars management teams in China and pan-Asia in storage facilities have been supported within this We invested in improving our insight and anframework and in developing local plans relative From March to June 2020, 17 COVID-19 internal webinars took place for our global workforce. January 2020. We then progressively developed alytical capabilities over the past months and to service delivery expectations. The webinars led by our Medical Director Hendrik Scholtz, provided latest situation updates our regional crisis management structure around specifically developed a predictive tool followregarding the pandemic evolution, medical knowledge on the virus and recommendations the world. Each regional and local team impleing a 5-day rolling average, recurrence warning In some cases, where required and for prevention of the virus spread. The webinars were attended by over 1,500 employees mented a tailored Pandemic Response Plan markers structure and COVID-19 Impact Scales appropriate to the worksite and local legislation, worldwide. Additional series of 30-minutes webinars with our own medical experts were which builds on insights and procedures detaking into account risk of travel, relative to the we have supported staff in undertaking testing. scheduled every Thursday as well as virtual trainings on wellness topics led by our HR teams. veloped from previous endemic and pandemic profile events such as SARS, Mers, Ebola, Zika, logistics, security and medical risks. We also proHowever, in most locations we have not seen and Avian Flu. A global Pandemic Manager strucduced a global dynamic mapping and a travel the need for this and have deployed a layered Reinforcing employee engagement ture was put into place immediately and reprerestriction report to assist our clients, as well as approach of pre-work health assessment and our internal staff with travel planning and coself-serve questionnaires, temperature checks on In order to maintain our employees’ engagement and mitigate the feeling of isolation, we sentatives from each location developed local ordination. entry to the offices and hygiene screening. set up several innovative measures such as a Virtual Coffee House, where employees could planning and readiness responses based on the network virtually, and weekly podcasts that provided key company updates and engagement lessons of early experiences as the pandemic We have followed local legislation as a guide and As part of our governance process, we also activities such as quizzes & competitions. Our Executive Committee members also took an spread across Asia. have taken a robust approach to health and safedeveloped and implemented specific policies active part in employees’ engagement efforts by sharing their working from home experiences ty exceeding all guidelines by the spirit and the for working from home and return to office through videos. As early as January 2020 in China and North Asia, this was quickly escalated to a wider letter, as expected from a healthcare company, operations. Asia structure and rolled out globally to all our which takes its Duty of Care responsibilities exoperating units, clinics and remote sites. As tremely seriously. 1 COVID-19 resources hub https://my.internationalsos.com/COVID19_resourcehub_1A 88 internationalsos.com internationalsos.com WORLDWIDE REACH. HUMAN TOUCH. 9 International SOS Sustainability Progress Update 2021 International SOS Sustainability Progress Update 2021 SUPPORTING OUR CLIENTS DURING THE PANDEMIC International SOS sent the first alert on the virus to its clients in December 2019. Based on the different challenges induced by the global pandemic, we adapted our business model and demonstrated our flexibility and agility to deliver best-in-class advice and assistance to help our clients respond effectively to the pandemic. Communicating & sharing insight During times of uncertainty and challenging events, employee mental health can be severely affected due to high levels of stress International SOS has established a portal for staff and members to and anxiety. There are clear psychological impacts that employees access a specialist forum of health and security information, templates can suffer from, such as work-family conflicts, worries over future and up-to-date COVID-19, travel, government guidelines and general employment, strains on personal relationships, and concerns over health information. This allows our staff to ensure that the information loved ones who are directly affected by the disease. In order to help on COVID-19 is accurate, assessed relative to verified accuracy and clients tackle emotional challenges due to lockdowns, we launched aligns with the approved local guidelines in their location. We also a self-assessment tool to educate and raise understanding of implemented a weekly cadence of situation update videos where mental health. The tool provides information on the indicators and our global health and security experts shared the latest status on the influences on mental health through ten multiple choice questions.2 evolution of the pandemic and the corresponding advice. 1 In addition to the insight and information available on our member portal In collaboration with Workplace Options (WPO), International SOS and website, we also provided tailor-made weekly regional updates and also developed a Critical Incident Support Hotline reports for clients globally, especially for governmental institutions. which can be used as a short-term counselling line for a global workforce. The hotline is answered by a qualified Strengthening our TeleHealth and Emotional Support counsellor, with the support of our 24/7 Assistance Centres. capabilities Faced with worldwide restrictions on both domestic and international Advising our clients across the globe movement of people, paired with an increased need for the medical assessment of patients – either with a potential COVID-19 infection, During the global COVID-19 pandemic, providing evidence-based or who have other medical concerns – we recognise a unique need and effective advice to our clients has been a key focus. Our global for the provision of healthcare using communication technology health advisors supported clients with identifying gaps and areas of between a patient and doctor in separate locations. This also applies improvement as well as actionable insights to better respond and to a patient and doctor located in the same city, but who are under manage the challenges arising from the global crisis. governmental enforcement of measures such as physical distancing. In order to respond to those needs while complying with COVID-19 norms and ensure our clinical expertise remains available throughout the COVID-19 crisis, we expanded our TeleConsultation capabilities, accelerating the rollout of additional locations where we offer TeleHealth services. 1 COVID-19 latest updates ( https://www.internationalsos.com/client-magazines/novel-coronavirus ) 2 Mental Health self-assessment tool (https://spottherisk.com/#/quiz) 10 internationalsos.com WORLDWIDE REACH. HUMAN TOUCH. 11 International SOS Sustainability Progress Update 2021 International SOS Sustainability Progress Update 2021 REFLECTING ON COVID-19 COVID-19 has created three globally unified crises: public health, economic and geopolitical. Woven through each of these three is also a major concern about the sharing of accurate, timely and trusted information. Accurate information ultimately being a key variable in the prevention of infections, and potentially death. Just as the September 11th attacks redefined employer Duty of Care responsibilities from a security point of view, so will COVID-19 for the health agenda: following the September 11th attacks, the way that employers saw their Duty of Care agenda completely changed. The responsibility of an employer needed to go beyond just ensuring that people were not injured in the workplace. And it has been forever changed. What we have witnessed during the pandemic is a complete change in approach: before the pandemic – as long as the employer was obeying health & safety regulation – no one was expecting them to prevent an employee from contracting seasonal flu in the workplace. Today, when we are talking about ‘return to work’ it’s no longer an expectation, it is a requirement that an employer puts in place measures to ensure their people will not get infected with COVID-19. Preventative measures have become highly politicised: perhaps most surprising of all to the health community has been the politicisation of preventative health measures. For example, the subject of mask-wearing has become a hotly debated topic in many countries. If it is a subject being questioned on the political battleground, it leads organisations to indirectly be seen as supporting one party or another. This is the case even if the intent is solely to protect and save lives. Case study – COVID-19 workplace health risk assessment & consulting for a global client in the manufacturing industry Our client, a leader in the manufacturing industry, had to close some of its most important manufacturing sites in Europe for ten days as a result of 70+ employees testing positive for COVID-19. Cases were also comfirmed at two other important sites in the Americas and the client’s management team wanted to limit the risks and impact of another outbreak. Problem: COVID-19 response was the responsibility of the client‘s security manager who did not have a medically-informed approach to mitigate the risk of spreading COVID-19 in each location, and relied on the local site managers to follow local regulations and guidelines. Solution: International SOS team from Europe and Americas conducted a comprehensive workplace health risk assessment, Dr Pascal Rey-Herme where health risks are identified, assessed, and managed, by evaluating the COVID-19 measures implemented in 19 priority sites and identifying possible areas of improvement, based on best practices relevant for each location and workplace. This included a desktop review of site plans and procedures, and virtual site assessments via videoconference according to International SOS’ assessment protocol in five different countries. Where possible, we also deployed consultants physically on-site to conduct the Co-founder & Group Medical Director, assessments. International SOS Outcome: The client can better manage operational standards at both site and global levels, contributing to effective business continuity that supports the overarching company objectives. Our client has applied a consistent model that is medically reviewed, and locally relevant to improve COVID-19 risk mitigation at all of its sites around the world in compliance with company directives and international standards and best practices. 12 internationalsos.com WORLDWIDE REACH. HUMAN TOUCH. 13 International SOS Sustainability Progress Update 2021 International SOS Sustainability Progress Update 2021 Sustainability governance Our strategy is to integrate sustainability, step by step, into all parts of our business and is based on International SOS’ mission, vision and values. Our Sustainability Advisory Board oversees the development and implementation of our Sustainability Strategy in coordination with all our policies and commitments. Our philosophy for corporate citizenship focuses on healthcare and education to look after the wellbeing of our employees and the communities where we operate. It also extends to ethical conduct in our dealings with suppliers, clients and other stakeholders. Our Sustainability Committee meets regularly to advise on and set our priorities, which are then articulated in our sustainability plan. The work of the Committee includes a broad range of activities affecting our workplace, markets, communities, human rights and environmental initiatives. The Committee reports to our Advisory Board, who updates our Group Executive Committee. Policies As part of our on-going management approach, we develop relevant policies, SUSTAINABILITY AND US guidance and practice tools that help us bring our values and commitments to life. Our Philosophy WORLDWIDE REACH. HUMAN TOUCH. and inclusive multilateralism by signing onto a powerful statement from Business Leaders for Renewed Global Cooperation. The Statement Driven by our core principles, we deliver invaluable local knowledge aims to reaffirm business support to international cooperation across Our Sustainability Advisory Board and expertise on a global scale through tailor-made services to best borders, sectors and generations to adapt to change circumstances. 1 meet our clients’ needs. Dr Myles Neri Greg Tanner We are proud to support the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and Group Medical Director, Medical Services Group General Counsel Our purpose is to look after our clients and workers, to protect people Sydney Singapore our reporting is guided by their standards – widely recognised as and save lives. We achieve this through our highly trained network of Laurent Fourier Jennifer Gibb international best practice for sustainability reporting. International staff, including medical professionals, security and logistics specialists, Chief Executive Officer, Assistance Services Group Director, HR SOS is a strong supporter of advancing the central role for health and Geneva Singapore and key partnerships in 85 countries around the world. We pioneer wellbeing as part of the corporate responsibility and sustainability a range of preventive programmes strengthened by our in-country agenda. We recently broadened our engagement and commitment expertise, delivering emergency assistance during critical illness, Our Sustainability Committee Members with GRI as we collaborated in developing their Occupational Health accident or unrest. Our work is ultimately driven by our passion to help and Safety GRI 403 standard as well as their newly launched online Kai Boschmann Michael Whitlow Sam George clients mitigate risks to their people working remotely or overseas. We course (1 October 2020). Additionally, since the 1 January 2020, our Chief Marketing & Communication Officer, Director, HR Europe Business Development Manager also support and contribute to the International SOS Foundation, an expert Francesca Viliani, Co-head of Sustainability, is also a member of Co-chair of the Sustainability Committee London London independent, not-for-profit organisation that drives research, surveys London the GRI stakeholder council. Mark Crawford Lizette Klingenberg and the development of best practice guidelines in health, safety and Francesca Viliani Group Deputy Director Quality Marketing Manager wellbeing for a global workforce. Director Public Health Europe Consulting, Co-chair of & Compliance Johannesburg the Sustainability Committee Sydney Ronnie Purcell Everything we do is ultimately driven by our values. We believe our Copenhagen Sune Svenningsen Director of Business Relations & unrivalled expertise, professionalism and commitment to excellence Amélie Chatelet Vilar CEO MedSupply International Development Nordic Region enable us to contribute to sustainable development, while assisting Group Marketing Manager, General Secretary of the Singapore Stockholm our clients in upholding their promises to their employees. Our Sustainability Committee Michael Hancock Lim Thau Khuan sustainability commitments set out our ambition and demonstrate how Barcelona Group Deputy Director Operations Group Compliance Manager we are holding ourselves accountable for our impact and performance. Hien Thanh Dang London Singapore Culture & Engagement Manager James Wood Franck Baron Our sustainability priorities are set by our Sustainability Committee and Singapore Head of Security Solutions Group GM, Risk Management Insurance Singapore Board focusing on the 17 material topics we determined in 2019, and Thierry Dardare London Kelvin Wu are aligned with international initiatives and frameworks, including the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and the United Nations Global We believe our unrivalled Group Finance Director, Financial Management Singapore Zelda Bezuidenhout Assistance GM Corporate GAN Risk & Insurance Senior Manager Singapore Compact (UNGC). expertise, professionalism Rebecca Malzacher Marketing Director Australasia Johannesburg Sally Wang Natalie Piccari Director of Real Estate, HR International SOS has been a signatory of the UNGC since 2013 and we continue to firmly support the Ten Principles with respect to human and commitment to Melbourne Dr Philippe Guibert VP Global Partnerships & Alliances Philadelphia Philadelphia rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Our own policies, operations and culture are closely aligned with the UNGC Principles. As excellence enable us to Medical Director, Europe Consulting Paris Yoko Torimitsu Sajjad Ahmed Chief Information Officer, Asia Pacific part of our active support to the UNGC initiatives, we recently became contribute to sustainable Karel Van De Pijpekamp Group Marketing Manager London Singapore development, while assisting signatory of the letter to the Australian government encouraging President & Chief Executive Officer, Jan Bronkhorst Aviation & Maritime Services Group General Manager, Aspire Lifestyles United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) consideration our clients in upholding their Jersey City Singapore for Australia’s recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic. Along with Samuel Chauffaille more than 1,000 Chief Executive Officers from companies in over 100 countries, International SOS demonstrated its support to the UNGC promises to their employees. GM, MedAire Asia Pacific Singapore 1 Statement from Business Leaders for Renew Global Cooperation (https://ungc-communications-assets.s3.amazonaws.com/docs/publications/UN75_UnitingBusinessStatement.pdf ) 14 internationalsos.com WORLDWIDE REACH. HUMAN TOUCH. 15 International SOS Sustainability Progress Update 2021 International SOS Sustainability Progress Update 2021 OUR MATERIAL TOPICS Our materiality matrix International SOS has carried out a materiality assessment to prioritise the economic, environmental and social topics that have a material impact on our business and that matter most to our key stakeholders. The process involved identification of relevant issues, prioritisation by our key stakeholders and validation by senior management. CRITICAL 1. Identification 2. Prioritisation 3. Validation of results In this first materiality assessment, we To prioritise the identified issues, we The outcomes were reviewed Access to a developed a list of relevant sustainability assessed their relative importance and approved by our Sustainability skilled workforce issues through a review of internal in relation to the business and Committee and Board to Epidemics and documentation, including risk registers, our key stakeholders. Each issue understand how they align with public health policies and statements, our industry was given two scores: impact on our organisation’s strategy. peers and key influencers in our field, the business and external impact. Business such as multilateral organisations, trade The impact on our business was continuity and industry associations and nondetermined by the views of our Data privacy & governmental organisations. Group Executive Committee, top protection and This process identified a long list management and employees. The cyber security HIGHEST of 22 issues. external impact was assessed with reference to the expectations and Patient care, client concerns of our clients, and refined Engagement Modern leadership satisfaction and by the view of our management with regulators and engaging work quality of assistance and influencers in our field. We refined the list down to 17 topics and stakeholders Business integrity, Mobility and evolving shown in our materiality matrix – traveller behaviour transparency with our 12 material issues in the Extreme weather and ethics upper right quadrant. conditions Employee Community impact EXTERNAL IMPACT and engagement health, safety NCDs and and wellbeing mental Security and HIGHER health safety Relationship with assistance partners and suppliers Digitalisation of healthcare and assistance Environmental impacts of our operations HIGH HIGH HIGHER HIGHEST CRITICAL INTERNAL IMPACT Medical & Security People Governance Environment Services 16 internationalsos.com WORLDWIDE REACH. HUMAN TOUCH. 17 International SOS Sustainability Progress Update 2021 International SOS Sustainability Progress Update 2021 New In Progress Ongoing Completed New In Progress Ongoing Completed OUR GOALS AND PROGRESS Goal Progress Activities SDGs* We have laid out our plans for the future based on the three reporting themes. By FY1920, we will expand our Enhanced Emotional Support is now in place for over 1,200 These were described in our previous report and are updated below to reflect progress over the last mental health service offerings clients, providing over 1.2M individual members with onto our clients through our demand consoling support services at no additional cost. twelve months. collaboration with Workplace In the coming year we will be launching a “Single Session Options (WPO). Therapy” option, to accompany the current five-session PROTECTION: PROTECTING & SAVING LIVES model. This will provide members with immediate access to counselling over the phone. MedAire has already started offering the service to flight crew who have limited time Goal Progress Activities SDGs* between flights. Since the first implementation of our emotional support programmes in FY1718, the numbers of In the FY20/21 we aim to Our TeleConsultation services as of June 2020 are cases have tripled. Year on year since FY1718 we have seen continue driving utilisation of available in 24 countries, up from 16 in the last Financial an average growth rate in utilisation of 76%. our TeleConsultation services Year. The new locations offering our TeleConsultation In response to the global spread of COVID-19, we developed in the locations already set services were announced in July 2020. By end of FY20/21 a new Counselling Support Hotline offering, enabling up and further expand our Q2 1, we plan to include seven additional locations clients to offer much needed support to their entire global TeleConsultation capabilities to where we will deliver TeleConsultation services including workforce, including domestic employees and dependents. include more locations. Iraq, Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, Ghana, Nigeria, Chile 28 hotlines were set up, and over 300 individuals assisted. and Laos. FY20/21 Q3 will be dedicated to identifying opportunities to define additional countries to target Finally, in recognition of the success of our work with for implementation of the TeleConsultation services. As WPO, International SOS was a finalist for the Association part of our continuous efforts in driving utilisation of our of Strategic Alliance Professionals (ASAP) 2019 Alliance TeleConsultation capabilities, we plan to introduce a new Excellence Awards in the CSR category. “self-service” option through our TeleConsultation App by Q2 of FY20/21, with three main objectives: • Promote the use of TeleConsultation during the We will maintain our We have been actively promoting the management of current COVID-19 pandemic. commitment to improve community health as a key dimension of global health community health, in for private operators in collaboration with other players. • Empowers our subscribers. partnership with other We participated to the Society of Petroleum Engineers • Widen the scope of cases we can offer stakeholders throughout this Virtual International Conference and Exhibition on TeleConsultation for. year. Health, Safety, Environment, and Sustainability which acknowledged this more comprehensive approach to Our Sustainability Committee We aim to maintain our global In FY1920, we maintained the overall satisfaction at health that include, workers, dependents, consumers is planning to carry out percentage of Promoters (NPS) 89% (this includes members responding 7 or above). and customers. Our experts have also contributed to a global mapping of all as well as our current member Additionally, we increased our global percentage of the chapter “SDG3 Ensure Healthy Lives and Promote our commitments and overall satisfaction in the Promoters (Net Promoter Score rated) by one percentage WellBeing for All at All Ages” for the book “Mining, engagement globally in order coming FY. point which is now at 70%. Materials, and the Sustainable Development Goals 2030 to harmonise data collection and Beyond”. International SOS in Papua New Guinea and reporting. The global (PNG) donated 1,000 plain blood tubes, and 200 filter mapping has been put on By FY20/21, we will support We have been actively working with the International papers to the Port Moresby General Hospital (PMGH) hold for the time being as the introduction of a new ISO Organization for Standardization (ISO), British Standards and Central Public Health Laboratory (CPHL) to support many of our operations have certification standard on travel Institution (BSI) and the standard will be available in a COVID-19 seroprevalence study nationwide, and our undergone major restructuring risk management. 2021. Airways Clinic took part of the study. International SOS due to COVID-19, but we aim PNG won the “Health and Safety Initiative Award” for our to start the process in the Tuberculosis Community Outreach Programme, run by We aim to attain our MedSupply Corporate Quality has developed over 30 FY20/21. our Disease Control Team at the Lihir Medical Centre. MedSupply Corporate Quality Policies and Procedures based on applicable World The team has also supported the Australian Federal Management System (CQMS) Health Organization’s (WHO) guidelines and ISO Police in their mission by providing with COVID-19 by FY20/21 – a set of standard standards to ensure that the Quality, Safety, Efficacy and training. International SOS Canada continues to work quality management system Performance of the products we procure, and supply collaboratively with the Indigenous community partners procedures based on the meets acceptable standards. MedSupply met over 85% locally. These strategic Indigenous Joint Ventures remain World Health Organization’s of the goal and will complete the full implementation of critical to our growth and sustainability across Canada (WHO) Model Quality MedSupply Corporate QMS by FY20/21. MedSupply also and our commitment to, and involvement in, these Assurance Systems (MQAS) made good progress to move towards an objective of communities has grown significantly. Our community for procurement agencies, ONE QMS across MedSupply organisation by integrating efforts now include “emergency & disaster planning and and other applicable WHO the quality systems of the Fulfilment Centres through preparedness”, “Community Fire and EMS training for their guidelines. Corporate QMS. Considering the high regulatory volunteer services”, “Community health assessments”, and complexity and business continuity implications, this “healthy eating and lifestyle programmes” for community integration is continued in a phased and sequential elementary students. International SOS had eight manner. Indigenous community partners in early 2019 and now has 35 Indigenous partners with a total population of We will maintain our The COVID-19 pandemic has been our biggest 40,000 people. International SOS annual man hours spent commitment to improve commitment to Global Health Security ever. More details on these efforts in FY1920 were approximately 3,500 Global Health Security can be found in our dedicated “Our commitment in the hours. Finally, through negotiations and agreements with throughout FY20/21. global COVID-19 pandemic” chapter. Our medical and Indigenous partners and clients, International SOS shared security experts have produced weekly and ad-hoc high$1.8 million with indigenous communities in 2020 and quality documents and analysis on COVID-19. $4.2 million since 2016. 1 Our Financial Years are from July to June 18 internationalsos.com WORLDWIDE REACH. HUMAN TOUCH. 19 International SOS Sustainability Progress Update 2021 International SOS Sustainability Progress Update 2021 New In Progress Ongoing Completed New In Progress Ongoing Completed Goal Progress Activities SDGs* PRODUCTIVITY: KEEPING OUR CLIENTS PRODUCTIVE THROUGH We will expand our global In FY1920 we successfully expanded our global OUR PEOPLE & PARTNERS mentoring programme, mentoring programme for female managers. 19 exclusively for female female executives across eight different departments Goal Progress Activities SDGs* managers. (including Sales & Marketing, Finance, Medical Services, HR, Assistance, IT, Legal and Security Services) have completed this six-month journey. A satisfaction survey We will maintain our This year the group broke the record by ordering 5,200 has been run after the programme completion among commitment to raising Malaria bracelets and raising 2,827 USD (ZAR 46,800). both the mentees and mentors. This resulted in a Net awareness on Malaria The proceeds were used to buy 2,600 mosquito nets Promoter Scores of 99% among the mentees and 90% throughout this year. protecting the lives of 5,700 people. In the past seven among the mentors. The global female mentoring years the group has bought 36,900 bracelets allowing programme and other initiatives supporting our Diversity us to buy 11,950 mosquito nets and give them to and Inclusion agenda contributed to a 14% increase in communities in Africa, protecting nearly 36,100 lives. female representation at our Director level. In January 2021, we will launch the next edition of the programme. In FY20/21 we will launch The first quarterly graduate catch up call is scheduled in The International SOS The Foundation is now self-sustaining thanks to previous quarterly graduate catch up November 2020 and will be run after that every quarter. Foundation received year’s donations from International SOS. calls for all 42 graduates of support for its research the past editions of the global efforts on Duty of Care mentoring programme. & Sustainability, Health, Safety and Wellbeing. We are committed to During FY1920 we hired 22 AIESEC interns from 11 We will commit 50 The annual roster of volunteers can be found at https:// developing young talent, different nationalities across the group. The retention volunteers to support www.internationalsosfoundation.org/about-us. This year through our Global Talent rate of the interns, taking on full-time positions for this the International SOS it included 54 volunteers. Programme in longFinancial Year is averaging nearly 50%. Foundation and its standing partnership with research efforts in Duty of AIESEC. Care: Health, Safety and Wellbeing annually. From FY1920, all our The OH&S online module that we developed as part of employees globally will the annual Global Compliance Course (GCC) has been We aim to contribute to The International SOS Foundation piloted its new be required to complete made compulsory for all employees globally. In FY1920, sustainability education by Sustainability training in October 2019 in Shanghai an Occupational Health & the completion rate for Global Compliance Course was sharing our knowledge and during the Duty of Care awards event. The new course Safety (OH&S) eLearning 97%. best practices to different called “Sustainability Management & Reporting for the course as an annual audiences. Occupational Health & Safety Practitioner” provides The module aims to help employees identify potential mandatory requirement. Occupational Health & Safety practitioners and hazards, know what to do in the event of an OH&S This is part of our Sustainability specialists with the competence necessary incident and encourage positive workplace behaviours continuing efforts in to integrate workforce health & safety management and hygiene practices. developing a culture of and monitoring into their organisations’ sustainability the highest level of safety strategies.1 We are planning to conduct formal sessions and compliance across all of the Sustainability training virtually throughout our offices worldwide. FY20/21. Additionally, the International SOS Foundation collaborated with Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) in developing their Occupational Health and Safety online We aim to attain a The external accreditation ISO 45001 (OH&S course, aimed to be launched in October 2020. This certification of ISO Management System) has been re-scheduled for FY2021 new course helps companies to effectively incorporate 45001:2018 Occupational due to the COVID-19 pandemic as the auditing company Occupation Health and Safety (OHS) impacts within Health and Safety required an on-site assessment and this was not possible their sustainability report, including insights on the OHS management systems in the locations planned due to lockdowns. As a result, implications of the COVID-19 pandemic. Dr Olivier Lo in Europe, Africa and we have rescheduled as follows: and Francesca Viliani, experts from International SOS, Australasia by FY1920. • China: we are currently sourcing a provider (local together with Louis Wustemann, the consultant and provider under Chinese law required) to assess and trainer of International SOS Foundation’s Sustainability certify the China and Hong Kong Medical Services. Training course, have provided their expert input We aim to achieve the certification in this location regarding current trends and challenges related to by June 2021. Occupational Health & Safety. International SOS also participated as panellist to two GRI webinars in June and • UAE: We plan to run a provider gap analysis and July 2020 respectively on the following topics: assessment as part of a three-year audit programme by February 2021. BSI has been engaged as a local • The role of sustainability and transparency in design provider is required under UAE regulations. the “new normal”. • Certification audits are planned for Canada, Russia, • Using sustainability impacts to manage risks and Azerbaijan and South East Asia (SEA) in March and build sound business continuity plans. April 2021. • Regarding the rest of the locations, it will follow progressively over the next two years until global 1 Sustainability Training (https://www.internationalsosfoundation.org/sustainability-training ) certification is obtained. 20 internationalsos.com WORLDWIDE REACH. HUMAN TOUCH. 21 International SOS Sustainability Progress Update 2021 International SOS Sustainability Progress Update 2021 New In Progress Ongoing Completed PRINCIPLES: LIVING BY OUR PRINCIPLES & PRACTICES New In Progress Ongoing Completed Goal Progress Activities SDGs* We will make our Employee In FY1920 we continued to develop both our global We will maintain and We continue to review our business continuity agenda. In Assistance Programme (EAP) Employee Assistance Programme (EAP) and our internal expand, where practical, the past nine months we have fully developed a cloud based and mental health support wellness initiatives. We launched EAP programmes in on our versatile trainings and remote working capability across all our operations available to our employees 21 countries this year. EAP has been launched across globally. The versatile centres allowing greater flexibility across our operational globally. By FY23/24, all all our Medical Services regions (including Africa, SEA, training enables our network. In this, all our centres are able to work from home. International SOS employees Middle East, Russia & Kazakhstan and Canada) apart from non-Assistance Centre This is supported by on-going versatile staff training in are provided with wellbeing LATAM region which is under implementation process employees to be effective our major Regional Centres. The versatile training enables support from the company. and meant to benefit from the programme by the end in supporting our our ex-Assistance Centre employees to be effective in of FY2021. Additionally to the EAP, we introduced a operations in a crisis or/ supporting our operations and client communication global wellness programme called “Be Well” that aims to and when there is a huge agenda in a crisis and/or when there is a surge in cases. In enable our employees to take charge of their physical surge in cases. the past eight months we have run continual live crisis team & mental health during and beyond the pandemic. The oversight of the continuity of business in all regions and at programme is provided through monthly thematic the corporate level overseeing our response to the COVID-19 webinars on various topics, facilitated by our own doctors pandemic and parallel crises. and medical experts. A full planning has been established to reflect topics meant to be covered in each month of the Financial Year.1 We remain on track regarding our goal In FY1920, we will cascade By the end of the FY1920, we completed the expansion to provide all our employees with wellbeing support by the group level cyberof our cyber-attack breach simulation training from our FY23/24. attack breach simulation top general management population to the regional crisis training from our top management teams across all our regions globally. Due to general management the current COVID-19 crisis, we have not conducted any By the end of FY1920, As we start to understand and adapt to the new reality population to the regional training sessions since December 2019 however we did we aim to launch a job brought by COVID-19, we have decided to re-evaluate crisis management teams. run a 45-minutes briefing on the Data Breach Contingency band structure globally, the career band framework to ensure it can fulfil the plan which has been circulated to all our teams globally to covering all functions development needs and progress aspirations beyond ensure alignment on the subject. The current COVID-19 crisis and business lines across this pandemic. With this, the global launch of the career has meant that all our Crisis Management Teams have been different locations. framework will take place after January 2021. activated in the past year. In FY1920, we aim to International SOS Occupational Health Safety (OH&S) In FY1920, we will embark In June 2020, we successfully submitted our answers for the finalise our OH&S data Management System implementation has been on a process of assessing our EcoVadis certification. In FY20/21 we will work on our action management system completed in June 2019. As a next steps, we aim to environmental footprint. plan to improve our scoring. Current scoring is 40/100 which for our Medical Services upgrade the digital platform allowing GRI 403 reporting is the industry average. business in line with the format by Q3 of FY20/21. GRI 403 Standard. We aim to enhance our data Our Group Legal team confirmed that we did not have any gathering systems and conduct reported legal actions regarding anti-competitive behaviour regular reporting to our or violations of anti-trust and monopoly legislation. Our As we have recently refreshed Our global Diversity & Inclusion council was refreshed in Executive Committee on the Group HR team also confirmed that no discrimination cases our Diversity & Inclusion February 2020. We have organised various workshops to following matters, aligned with have been reported during the FY1920. The legal team Council, we aim to define the determine insights and needs with members of the council relevant GRI standards: established that there are no barriers for International key focus area and get kick off and HR representatives. We look forward to kickstarting our SOS’ employees to participate in unions. Where local initiatives on those by FY20/21. global D&I activities by October 2020. The scope of work • Discrimination (GRI 406-1) legislation provides for collaborative partnerships with for the Diversity and Inclusion workstream include gender • Freedom of Association and unions, International SOS is fully compliant and there are identity, age, ethnic identity and people with disability Collective Bargaining (GRI no reported issues in working with these representatives (visible and invisible). Our global Diversity & Inclusion 407-1) to serve our employees. Medical Services Quality, Health Council currently counts 19 members across five continents & Safety Compliance team confirmed that there were no and seven different business functions. • Customer Health and Safety incidents of non-compliance concerning the health & (GRI 416-2) safety impacts of products and services with regulations As part of the embedding We launched the sustainability session in July 2020. We • Anti-Competitive behaviour resulting in (a) a fine or penalty or (b) a warning. The team sustainability in our company started the training for hiring managers and HR teams (GRI 206-1) will collect and report on the number of incidents of philosophy and DNA, we globally to get them familiarised with the use of the toolkit non-compliance with regulations and/or voluntary codes • Customer Privacy (GRI 418-1) will include a sustainability and have given a six-month period for all local HR to concerning the health and safety impacts of products and dimension to the induction integrate it as part of their regional induction programmes. services in the coming years. No substantiated complaints of all new International SOS’ We will aim to collect the first set of data including people from outside parties concerning breaches of customer employees globally. reached by the sustainability session by Q3 of FY20/21. privacy nor regulatory complaints were received. Our Information Security Management Committee (ISMC) did not identify any intentional leaks, thefts or losses of We aim to launch an internal The structure and content of the module is currently customer data. Occasional erroneous reporting of personal sustainability elearning being developed by the Sustainability, HR and Marketing data has occurred, but has been determined not to pose module globally by April 2021. teams to ensure best of content and relevancy to our risks to the rights or freedoms of natural persons. The ISMC different internal audiences. will continue to monitor incident reports from the Hydra Incident Reporting System and other sources. There were no complaints or investigations by regulatory bodies during the last Financial Year. Seven complaints were made by clients due to errors in handling of data. However, there were no adverse impacts to the rights and freedoms of data subjects as a result of containment measures taken in response to these incidents, and the complaints were resolved to the 1 Refer to topic details p.21 satisfaction of the clients. 22 internationalsos.com WORLDWIDE REACH. HUMAN TOUCH. 23 International SOS Sustainability Progress Update 2021 International SOS Sustainability Progress Update 2021 “Be Well” programme Monthly thematic webinars ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ON OUR EMPLOYEES AND RELATED INITIATIVES Mental health themes for our internal wellbeing support Our workforce profile Month Topic Check-in with yourself: Are you stressed? October Total number of employees by employment contract, by Female Male Non-disclosed Group total How to talk about Mental Health at work gender How to improve your focus? Procrastination: do’s & don’ts Permanent 4352 4128 103 8583 November Know the signs: Stress that can lead to anxiety & depression Temporary 620 624 211 1455 Burn-out & how not to feel burnt out The art of relaxation December Per diem 6 8 2 16 Know how to help Suicide prevention Locum 14 40 2 56 How to build healthy habbits January A work environment free of stress Total number of employees by employment type, by Full time Part time Locum Per Diem February The art of sleeping & combat against insomnia gender. March Mental Health for women Female 4546 426 14 6 April Build resilience for your family Male 4502 250 40 8 May Dealing with mistake/ Imposter Syndrome Non-disclosed 156 158 2 2 June Keep the flame alive: your passion & motivation Embrace the changes & uncertainties Sum 9204 834 56 16 Total number of employees by employment contract, by Permanent Part time Per Diem Locum region Physical health themes for our internal wellbeing support Africa 1001 8 0 0 Month Topic Webinar Americas 1700 81 10 0 September Healthy Immune System Immune System ANZ 148 31 0 0 Heart Health Risks of Heart diseases & prevention Asia 1696 33 0 1 October Signs of Heart Attack Europe 1290 230 0 0 Diabetes Diabetes risks & prevention IAS (Globally mobile employees) 947 7 0 50 November Living with diabetes MENA 472 0 0 0 Loneliness & isolation Loneliness, burn-out December Pacific 389 420 6 1 Mental Health and depression Russia & Kazakhstan 830 9 0 0 A year of health & resilience COVID 19 reminder for the festive season January SEA 731 15 0 4 Annual health check: Why, how and what Sum 9204 834 16 56 Cancer awareness Most common types of cancer and prevention February Living with cancer Data correct as of 4 November 2020. Women’s health Breast cancer March Maternal health Be Well & Sustainable Sustainable Alternatives for healthcare April Vegetable-based diets Tobacco The impact of tobacco on health May Tips to stop smoking Men’s health Prostate cancer June Pre-ejaculation Liver Health Common liver-related diseases & prevention July Signs that your liver is suffering 24 internationalsos.com WORLDWIDE REACH. HUMAN TOUCH. 25 International SOS Sustainability Progress Update 2021 International SOS Sustainability Progress Update 2021 Duty of Care & Sustainability education and training The International SOS Foundation has designed the world’s only certified Duty of Care Training programme entitled “Safety, Health and Security for the Mobile Worker.” The training course provides Occupational Safety and Health practitioners with the knowledge and skills necessary to DUTY OF CARE: INTERNATIONAL SOS FOUNDATION actively participate in the management of safe, healthy and secure travel for their mobile workforce. The course is targeted at Occupational Safety and Health practitioners, travel managers, occupational doctors, and travel risk managers. Upon successful completion of the course, participants will be awarded a prestigious certificate from the Institution of Occupational Safety and Health. New to this year, we have The International SOS Foundation is a registered charity and was started with a grant from International transformed the course to be delivered virtually, in adaptation to the current global pandemic context. SOS. It is a fully independent, not-for-profit organisation. Launched in March 2012, the Foundation has The Duty of Care training course has been running successfully since 2017, with 16 courses delivered across the US, Canada, Europe, and Asia. the goal of improving the safety, security, health and welfare of people working abroad or on remote We welcomed participants from a variety of global organisations. We have also customised the course content to accommodate the needs of different sectors such as educational institutions and NGOs. assignments through the study, understanding and mitigation of potential risks. As organisations focus on the response to the COVID-19 pandemic, Occupational Health & Safety will be a key area of importance for the near future, especially in regard to sustainability reporting. This year, the International SOS Foundation launched a new virtual training course Key industry contributions entitled “Sustainability management & reporting for the Occupational Health & Safety practitioner”. Since its inception in 2012, the Foundation has partnered with several associations and organisations to bring to the public a wealth of health and The International SOS Foundation’s brand-new course provides the understanding necessary to integrate workforce health & safety management safety information. Below are some of our key contributions. and monitoring into an organisation’s sustainability strategies. Participants receive a CPD accredited certificate upon successful completion. Sharing global best practices on Duty of Care The International SOS Foundation develops international guidance Recognising organisations’ efforts in Duty of Care worldwide Latest International SOS Foundation publications also include: on the prevention and mitigation of risks associated with working and travelling abroad. In 2019, the International SOS Foundation International SOS Foundation’s Duty of Care Summit & Awards is an internationally recognised platform designed to share best practice and partnered with Heinrich-Heine-Universitat Dusseldorf, International Austria celebrate organisations’ efforts in Duty of Care. The Summit, a world-class forum on protecting mobile workers and mitigating risks, brings Social Security Association (ISSA) and Vision Zero to produce a new together industry leading experts for discussion and debate, practical case studies and invaluable networking. The Awards recognise outstanding whitepaper “Staying safe and healthy while working abroad: how achievements in meeting high standards of health, safety and security at work. It provides entrants with a chance to attain external recognition to conduct a systematic risk assessment for Occupation Health and Launch of the Risk Assessment whitepaper “Leitfaden zur Risikominimierung bei beruflichen Auslandsaufenthalten“. The for their success in protecting their people. On 17 October, 2019 in Shanghai, the Foundation hosted its 4th Duty of Care Awards. The awards Safety”. The paper is based on the original German version “Leitfaden entries were submitted into seven categories including Communications, Innovation, Sustainability, Education, Remote Resilience, Ambassador zur Erstellung der Gefährdungsbeurteilung”. Due to a huge demand, paper, supported by a press release and interviews, was promoted at the Risk Outlook event in Vienna, presented at a webinar of Duty of Care and a new category entitled, Belt & Road Initiative. The next Duty of Care Awards will take place in September 2021. the International SOS Foundation along with its co-publishers have decided to develop an international English version of the guidance, (December) and remains a central vehicle in lead nurture campaigns. making it available to a wider audience. The paper details the steps For more information visit: including the risk assessment process as well as which hazards Denmark dutyofcareawards.com should be identified within Occupational Health and Safety, health protection and security abroad. It also details what preventive and Launch of Danske Industri whitepaper “Looking after your acute measures can be taken to ensure the health, safety and security mobile workforce in a globalising economy“. The whitepaper, of mobile workers and to fulfil the Duty of Care. supported by a press release and interviews, was promoted Read the paper here. at two local events, one in Copenhagen and one in Jutland. We also produced a special video with our client Arla Foods. Italy “Lavoratori con contratto italiano all’estero e responsabilità del datore di lavoro”. Published by the International SOS Foundation in collaboration with the law firm Gianni, Origoni, Grippo, Cappelli & Partners. A paper on the regulatory sources about employer and company’s responsibility and safety Ongoing research obligations for Italian employees working internationally. As an expert in the field, the International SOS Foundation launched in 2020 a global survey ‘What will organisational health look like Portugal in 2030?’. The survey aims to get global audience’s input on Health forecast to include in our forthcoming report on this topic. As part of our continuous efforts to reinforce our message in the market about how we can support organisations keeping Providing regional insight on Duty of Care legal framework their global workforce healthy, safe and secure, the International Developed in conjunction with law firm Herbert Smith Freehills, SOS Foundation has produced a new Duty of Care White Paper the International SOS Foundation produced a guide giving partnering with the leading law firm in Spain and Portugal, complementary legal and security perspectives; it provides regulatory Cuatrecasas. The whitepaper titled “O Duty of Car no direito do and judicial context as well as practical mitigation steps from a trabalho” was officially launched during two exclusive conferences security perspective. The aim is to raise awareness on welfare-related on 2 October in Porto and 3 October in Lisbon together with AON. issues, relevant work-related legislation, common law, as well as the legal complications and obligations of employers. In development of the briefing paper over 100 Australian organisations shared their understanding of the harmonised laws and their compliance to the new law. Read the paper here. 26 internationalsos.com WORLDWIDE REACH. HUMAN TOUCH. 27 International SOS Sustainability Progress Update 2021 International SOS Sustainability Progress Update 2020 UNGC PRINCIPLES INDEX Despite the hardship of 2020, we cannot Principles of the United Nations Global Compact Location stand still in matters of sustainability and I am confident that we will emerge stronger Human rights Principle 1 Businesses should support Business integrity, transparency and respect the protection of and ethics * throughout 2021 and beyond. internationally proclaimed human rights — Arnaud Vaissié Co-founder, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, International SOS Principle 2 Businesses should make sure that Business integrity, transparency they are not complicit in human rights and ethics* abuses Labour Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the Business integrity, transparency freedom of association and the and ethics* effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 Businesses should uphold the Business integrity, transparency elimination of all forms of forced and and ethics* compulsory labour Principle 5 Businesses should uphold the Business integrity, transparency effective abolition of child labour and ethics* Principle 6 Businesses should uphold the Modern leadership and engaging work* elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a About this report* precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8 Businesses should undertake Environmental impacts initiatives to promote greater of our operations* environmental responsibility Supporting our clients during the pandemic Principle 9 Businesses should encourage the Digitalisation of healthcare development and diffusion of and assistance* environmentally friendly technologies Anti-corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against Business integrity, transparency corruption in all its forms, including and ethics* extortion and bribery For more information, please visit internationalsos.com/sustainability For comments and feedback, please write to: International SOS Sustainability Committee c/o Group Marketing Building 4 Chiswick Park, 566 Chiswick High Road W4 5YE, London e: group.marketing@internationalsos.com w: internationalsos.com * Those chapters can be found in our original 2019 Sustainability Report HERE. 28 internationalsos.com WORLDWIDE REACH. HUMAN TOUCH. 29 internationalsos.com
