Outsource Technique Limited C O M P A N Y P R O F I L E · ELECTRICAL & AIR CONDITIONING WORKS Outsource Technique limited P.O. Box 12702-00100 Nairobi, Kenya Business Type: HVAC and Electr ical Contr actor s & Supplies Telephone No. : +254 (0)20 4349245/(0)20 2461136/7 Fax No: +254 (0)20 4349249 Physical location: Convent rd, Lavington E-mail: info@otl.co.ke Web site: www.otl.co.ke Statutory Registrations VAT No. : 0162287x NCA 2. : Reg. No 6659/E/0216 Electrical Works Pin No. : P051189364M NCA 2. : Reg. No 6659/M/0216 Mechanical/Air Conditioning Works ERC: Class A1 Reg. no. A1001118 CAK: License No. TL/TEC/00223 /01 Others Memberships UN GLOBAL COMPACT NETWORK KENYA ISO 9001:2008 Registered Firm UNITED BUSINESS ASSOCIATION BS OHSAS 18001:2007 KENYA FEDERATION OF MASTER BUILDERS Vision Our values determine how we treat our people, cliMission Statement ents, and partners. They define who we are and how “To achieve regional domination we do our job. It also helps us work together in the “To provide a world class, difand establish a National presence most effective way. Our values are: ferentiated service, in Electrical Consulting, on focusedProject Integrity adding valueInstallation Execution, to the customers and Supprocess, whilst addressing cusCompetence ply, whilst maintaining flexibility Client Forever tomers needs through in a professional an efficient and dynamic Commitment and dynamic manner.” core structure offering a Added Value differentiated service.” OTL’s prime objective is to offer a World Class Customer Service. Name of product or service Describe the product, service, or event here. Include a brief description and any features. We will achieve this by: Innovation and modern technology Making quality and excellence as hallmarks of the way we do business Attracting and motivating the best team A strong emphasis on safety Price: $00.00 Order #: 000000 Type: Type Company History Outsource Technique limited is an electrical contracting and supplies company established in the year 2006 .The main goal of the company is to provide our clients with high quality installations and products, consistently bearing in mind the client's budget and requirements. We provide a full in house engineering and contracting service for all our customers and all work is carried out by our qualified and experienced staff, thereby ensuring customer peace of mind. We pride ourselves on our flexibility, professionalism, experience and safety record, gained over the years we have been in business Professional Management Systems Being fully aware of our corporate responsibilities and in order to ensure the highest level of professionalism in the day to day running of the company, OTL has a number of Management Systems in place. They include a Quality Management System, Occupational Health and Safety Programme, Safety Management System, and Environmental Protection Systems. Safety Culture and Safety Systems Safety is of the highest importance to our company as we not only believe that Health and Safety of our employees is of the highest importance it is our commitment to ensure that after work every employee goes home to their family and friends in same health that they came to work. OTL is committed in the development of safety systems, hazard identification and risk management. OTL recognizes the importance of Occupational Health and Safety systems and undertake job safety analysis and hazard identification as a mandatory step prior to undertaking any work. Our staffs are experienced in establishing site safety policies and site inductions throughout various industries. OTL employees are trained to be able to participate in Job Safety and conduct Hazard Identification checks. OTL provides a commitment to setting up site safety policies as an integral step into the safe completion of the project. These policies will be communicated to all team members and sub-contractors for sign off to ensure a safe and successful completion of all work. Due to the inherent risks involved in the electrical industry we are committed in continuous training of all OTL employees from the CEO to the field employees and office staff in First Aid. To identify the risks and develop risk management strategies OTL will use one of our experienced safety advisors to work with the project manager and the engineers during the pre-construction period. Our joint experiences have shown that whilst developing the work methodology is essential the establishment of safe work practices are an important consideration. This then leads to the development of risk management strategies that provides the basis for the safety culture onsite and drives all of the JSA’s(Job safety Analysis) and hazard identification checks during the construction period. OTL is a leader in the enforcement of a drug and alcohol policy. The policy is enforced to ensure no employees are impaired whilst at work. Employment Criteria All OTL employees undergo a rigorous pre-employment background check to ensure only the most trustworthy and capable personnel are employed, this ensures our clients have competent staff attending there site. These background checks may include intensive reference and industry checking, qualification checking and a police and security check. Interaction with Other Contractors OTL has successfully completed many projects with detailed and complex interfaces with other contractors not only on the same site but also carrying out similar works on the same project. Regularly we may be required to work side by side with other contractors in major shut down works and on various projects. Quality Outsource Technique Ltd is committed to developing and maintaining our ISO 9001:2008 registered Quality Management System. The consistent application of the quality system will be a demonstration of the company's commitment to compliance. The main objectives of the quality system are to: • Provide products and service matching business and customer needs. • Develop and maintain close liaison and good working relationships with clients. • Promote an environment of continuous improvement in all aspects of the company's operations At OTL we believe the true test of a HVAC company is its capability to self perform all aspects of HVAC work. This self performing skill set requires a significant organizational investment to create a team of skilled professionals both in the field and office. we provide this comprehensive self performing skill set that adds significant value to our clients. Existing buildings air conditioning systems • HVAC Maintenance and repair • Retrofits and replacements • Automate temperature controls • Commissioning • On-going system monitoring • Full service and maintenance contracts • Indoor air quality solutions • Cooling tower testing, cleaning, decontamination and refurbishing • Mechanical and chemical tube and coil cleaning • DX & Chilled Water Piping/Welding • Professional engineering services Data Centre Cooling At OTL we specialise in cooling solution applications for varied business and industry sectors. Apart from supplying the cooling equipment, our data centre cooling engineers can install the complete package, including pumps, tanks, filtration and pipe work . Our main services include air conditioning, water chillers, cooling towers, free cooling, server cooling and much more IBM Africa In the year 2013 Outsource Technique ltd was contracted to supply install and commission cooling system(chiller),data center racks including accessories(PDUs,busbars),stabilizer,power boards the IBM research center datacenter(located in CUEA,Karen) Rittal Chiller system Safaricom Thika Data Center In 2015 Outsource Technique ltd supplied,installed and commissioned two chiller systems at the Safaricom Thika Datacenter Safaricom Thika Data Center Safaricom Thika Data Center Electrical Services Outsource Technique Limited undertakes all aspects of industrial, commercial and residential installations and maintenance services. Our core business is: • Lighting and power installations • Substations • MV and LV switchgear • Street lighting systems and flood lights • Design services • Energy Audits power quality checks and reports Specialist Services Thermal Imaging Thermal Imaging Surveying is ideal for carrying out electrical safety inspections, be it to source that loose connection or an overloaded component in your electrical panels. We all understand the consequences of electrical system failure, with the costs associated not often being obvious until it is too late. Whilst the fault observed may only cost less to repair, if left to fail that same fault may cost millions in lost sales, downtime, wages, insurance excesses, injury claims etc. Accidents are commonly caused by loose connections, weakening of insulations, obstructed cooling and mechanical damage. Insurance providers may ask for evidence that you completed a thermal imaging survey of your electrical equipment, when renewing or commencing insurance cover. A thermal imaging survey is a fast and cost-effective way to locate faults with no disruption to the running of your business. Power Quality Surveys We offer our clients power quality surveys to ensure that all our installations are fully completed and free from any hidden problems. A written report is then generated and issued as a record. We measure true-rms and peak voltage and current, frequency, dips and swells, transients, interruptions, power and power consumption, peak demand harmonics, inter-harmonics, flicker and unbalance. System-Monitor puts a multiparameter power quality health check on one display. Energy Audits The need to reduce energy costs is a crucial business practice for successful organizations, and energy audits have begun to play a more significant role in managing energy expenses .We offer our clients energy audit service through analysis of energy usage followed by a report which will detail ways of reducing energy costs. Intelligent lighting, including occupancy and daylight level sensors. TOOLS AND EQUIPMENT OTL has built up on its support system by investing in tools and auxiliary equipment which include various test equipment. A few of the test equipment is mentioned hereunder: -Megger BM402/2 Analogue/Digital Insulation Continuity Testers -Megger LCB 2500/2 Premium Loop & Circuit Breaker Testers -Megger MFT 1502 Combined Insulation, Loop & RCD Tester -Megger DCM 24R True RMS Digital Clampmeters -Megger DET 5/4D Digital Earth Tester -Megger DCM 2000P Power Clampmeter -Midtronics Advanced Conductance Battery Tester -Circutor AR5 3 phase Network Analyser -Infrared Camera – This can be used to locate hot spots without touching any equipment. -Phoenix contact Bluemark printer with UV technology for cable,equipment and connector marking -Phoenix Contact Thermomark S1 printer for cable,equipment and connector marking. -Anritsu Site Master model S331D -Fluke Ti200 thermal imager Work Experience Safaricom Limited Since 2008,we have been offering maintenance services for Safaricom mobile switch rooms (MSR),media gateways/soft switch stations(MGW/MSS) and major Hub sites power and plant services. Outsource Technique ltd was contracted to carry out maintenance services to all Safaricom mobile switch rooms(MSR) countrywide namely 1. Safaricom care center MSR’s 1 & 2-Nairobi 2. Safaricom HQ 1 datacenter –Nairobi 3. Queen of Apostles(QOA) MSR-Nairobi 4. Thika MSR-Thika 5. KBC Nakuru MSR-Nakuru 6. Kiboswa MSR– Kisumu 7. Government Chemist MSR– Mombasa 8. Nairobi Gospel -Nairobi 9. Avenue Park– Nairobi Scope of work includes 1. Planned/Emergency maintenance of ♦ Safaricom owned transformers,PFC,stabilizers ♦ Power supply checks ♦ switchboards ♦ Lightening protection & earth circuits ♦ Load, control and functional tests ♦ Cooling/Air conditioning ♦ Generators ♦ Electrical riser ducts ♦ Fire alarm & suppression systems Geothermal Development Company Design, supply and commissioning of a Power Substation at Menengai Geothermal Prospect Menengai geothermal prospect is approximately 210km from Nairobi. The power substation was expected to serve the power needs for high-lift water pumping station and boreholes pumps. The scope of the work included design, supply, and pre-site commissioning tests which included Transformer Voltage Ratio Test, Vector Group Test, Winding Insulation Resistance Tests, Transformer Oil Tests and other Transformer Functional Tests of a 33KV line substation of one outdoor ground mounted transformer, one H –pole mounted transformer and switchgears WHY USE OTL? We give our clients a dedicated team for their project. Our staff and senior employees have experience in working on major projects with strict deadlines and tight time frames. Our teams pride themselves on being able to meet all challenges and excel above and beyond the norm. As such their knowledge of their trades is unmatched and the pride that they show in each and every job is easy to see. The safety of all our team members is the key driver to our business and therefore we have established safety benchmarks that we can confidently proclaim will set us ahead of the rest. All of our team members are encouraged to make a valuable contribution and all have an equal opportunity to propose alternative work methods to achieve a more efficient method of completing the project >We are proud of our long association with prominent local companies. >We continue to provide electrical services, tailored to their requirements, which are second to none. >Whether it is a casual enquiry or an emergency call out we can do it, saving local industry and commerce customers considerable down time ensuring productivity is maintained. >All our engineers are well qualified and able to undertake a wide range of electrical installations throughout a variety of different types of buildings. Use our resources to solve your problems and you will not be sorry. >Our machine breakdown/electrical failure experience and response time is second to none, covering a diverse spectrum of distribution assemblies and circuit arrangements. >We are reliable and do arrive when we say we will arrive. >You can depend on us. >We are approved and authorised to conduct electrical inspections and tests to installations and appliances to ERC Requirements. Class A1 >Enhance each other's growth and profitability >A commitment to seeing that both partners come out as winners >Offer a more secure and complete solution to customers We have been around and intend, with our customers' continued support, to be here a lot longer still, providing the kind of service we feel our customers’ deserve. Your electrical services are safe in our hands. If prospective new clients wish to receive additional details of our services, or references as to the standard of work and service we provide, this can be arranged on request. info@otl.co.ke Co n tac t u s to d ay ! O n (020)2461136/7 in fo @o tl.c o .ke COMPANY PROFILE Outsource Technique limited is an Electrical/Telecommunication contracting and supplies company established in the year 2006 .The main goal of the company is to provide our clients with high quality installations and products,consistently bearing in mind the client's budget and requirements. We provide a full in house engineering and contracting service for all our customers and all work is carried out by our qualified and experienced staff, thereby ensuring customer peace of mind. We pride ourselves on our flexibility, professionalism, experience and safety record, gained over the years we have been in business Our Professionals are in the Forefront of New Technologies, Client Dedication, and uphold the Highest Professional Standards in the Practice of Telecom Engineering About OTL Our Mission is.. To provide world services to telecommunication and utility organizations throughout the East African region. Our Vision is.. To be the leading East African preferred Telecommunication contractor. Our Values.. Commitment to excellence, quality and innovation Development of long-term relationships with customers and employees Conduct business in a responsible and sustainable way Value and respect the contribution of team members Encourage collaboration in every action Maintain company principles with strong emphasis on team effort. OTL Advantages Communications Quality • Wide Experience in Telecommunication • Project Management & Timely Delivery Industry • Local Market Experience • Proven Track Record • Impeccable Quality Standards • Multivendor Experience • Strict Compliance with SLAs Response time • Large Number of Resources • Cost effective • Turn-Key Services & Solutions. • Qualified & Certified Resources Mobile Networks 2G/3G Indoor Building Solutions (Active/Passive) Microwave Communication Antennae Line Equipment Wireless Drive/Walk Test Testing & Measurement Equipment Outside/Inside Plant Development & Maintenance of FTTH Networks Managed Services (Operations & Maintenance of Mobile & Fixed Networks) Our Services & Solutions Our Services Mobile Networks 2G/3G Project Technical • Technical Site Surveys Management Site Survey • Network Design & Planning • Implementation Works Operations & Network • Network Optimization Maintenance Design & Services Planning • Operations & Maintenance • Complete Project Management Network Implementation Optimization works • Technical Site Survey Indoor Building Solutions TSSR • Site Design • RF Planning RF Plan • Equipment Transportation Warehouse-Site Logistic • Civil Works Teleco • Telecom Implementation m Impl. Walk • Walk Test Pre-launch & Post-launch Test • Quality Check & Quality Assurance QC & QA • Turn-Key Services • Provisional Acceptance • Active & Passive Solutions PAC • Experience on Andrew • Final Acceptance FAT Microwave Communications Microwave Radio Systems • Innovative Point-to-Point Wireless Access System for Next Generation Network • Mobile Backhaul Applications • Mission Critical Network Applications • Intelligent IP Networking Applications. Wireless Walk/Drive Test (2G, 3G) Walk/Drive Test • Network benchmarking, • Quality monitoring and analysis, • Troubleshooting and optimization. • Drive/walk test equipment can collect information including Signal quality, Signal intensity, Dropped calls, Interference, Neighboring cell information, Service level statistics, and more. Development & Maintenance of FTTH Networks Fiber Solution • High quality, best and the latest technologies • fiber to the Home/Premises (FTTH) Managed Services Preventive (Telco / Non-Telco) Corrective / Planned FLM (Telco Assistance / NonTelco) • Our Preventive / Predictive Maintenance will help you begin Project the process of not only preventing equipment failures, Managem Repair & Return ent but also creating a system of predicting when they are Managed going to occur. Services • Multi-vendor Experience Quality Support & Audit & Monitoring Control Center • Certified Resources • Authorized Services Provider Spares & • Proven Track Record Inventory Help Desk Control • Large number of resources NOC Support Antenna Line Equipment • RF Cables • RF Connectors • Antennas • Splitters • Installation Related Materials Testing & Measurement Equipment • Mobile Networks a. Site Masters b. SDH Analyzer c. PCM Analyzers (E-1 Tester) d. Drive Test Kits • Fixed Networks a. Splice Machines b. OTDR c. Power Meters d. Laser Source Meters Projects Since 2008,we have been offering maintenance services for Safaricom mobile switch rooms (MSR),media gateways/soft switch stations(MGW/MSS) and major Hub sites power and plant services. Outsource Technique ltd was contracted to carry out maintenance services to all Safaricom mobile switch rooms(MSR) countrywide Contract Agreement for the performance of Civil Works/Telecom Installation construction. 2006To date 3G Implementation for Safaricom 2009/2010 In the year 2013 Outsource Technique ltd was contracted to supply install and commission cooling system(chiller),data center racks including accessories(PDUs,busbars),stabilizer,power boards the IBM research centre datacentre(located in CUEA,Karen) Subcontracting Agreement for Provision of Telecommunication Engineers OTL is the local appointed Partner / agent for: {Global leader in stored energy solutions (batteries) for industrial (Germany-based and Global market leader and manufacturer of applications} components, systems, and solutions in the fields of electrical engineering, electronics, automation, interconnection, and interface solutions, hand tools, testing and measuring equipment, e,t,c.) AIRSYS is an international well known cooling airconditioning equipment supplier for ICT, medical (Carrier is the world leader in heating, imaging and diagnostic equipment. Its main products air-conditioning and refrigeration include air-conditioning unit for telcom, data centers, solutions. They also formed JVs with computer rooms and cold rooms, chiller units fe.t.c.. Toshiba and Multi Denco thereby enlarging the products ranges from Comfort to Precision units) (German Based and Global Manufacturer and expert in Data Centre Configurations, Server racks, IT Power Distribution Systems, IT Infrastructure, Data centre Cooling, Automation, Software and Services, e,t,c,.) EnerSys Reserve Power Brands Global market leader with world-renowned reserve power brands: TELECOM UPS COMMERCIAL SPECIALTY SPECIALTY Our Clients Get in touch Outsource Technique Limited P.O.Box 12702-00100 , Nairobi, Kenya info@otl.co.ke Nairobi +254 20 2461136/7 www.otl.co.ke THANK YOU COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) YEAR 2019 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER  See attached below HUMAN RIGHTS  One of OTL’s objectives is to provide a work environment that is conducive to achieve both personal and professional growth.  The Company maintains a work environment that is free of illegal drugs, alcohol, firearms, explosives, or other improper materials.  OTL ensures workers are provided with safe, suitable and sanitary work facilities. We have also separated ablution rooms for both ladies and gents.  OTL also Protect workers from workplace harassment, including physical, verbal, sexual or psychological harassment, abuse or threats. Apart from the presence of security personnel, there are CCTV surveillance within the compound that can record such unethical behaviors.  We provide Proper Protective Gears to our staffs working in the field including safety harness for those working at height.  Staffs are trained on Health and Safety, equipment they use to execute works, scope of works they do and soft skills.  We provide First Aid equipment at sites and transport vehicles  We ensure that employees take up leave days to rejuvenate. We also grant sick leaves to allow a staff seek medical attention.  We ensure that ALL our staffs are registered with NHIF and the company remits such payments to the relevant body to allow them access medical attention at any time.  Our workforce is based on gender equality in the ratio of 2/3 of women vis a vis men. LABOUR  OTL engages workers who are over 18 years of age on application based on the available vacancies and no child or forced labour is entertained.  The workers are paid decently much more than the government’s prescribed minimum wages. The salaries are processed and banked to staffs accounts promptly per month.  OTL offers job opportunities to both ladies and men without any form of discrimination. This is majorly based on qualification but with consideration of gender balance as well as persons with disabilities.  We ensure to adhere to the prevailing stipulated rates, taxes, employee benefits such as NHIF, NSSF remittances.  For Termination and Dismissal, we have put a policy in place to ensure that this is done in a fair and sober manner while we embrace Fail Forward model which helps organizations to learn, innovate, and build resilience from such mistakes.  OTL is committed in the development of safety systems, hazard identification and risk management. OTL recognizes the importance of Occupational Health and Safety systems and undertake job safety analysis and hazard identification as a mandatory step prior to undertaking any work.  Being fully aware of our corporate responsibilities and in order to ensure the highest level of professionalism in the day to day running of the company, OTL has a number of Management Systems in place. They include a Quality Management System, Occupational Health and Safety Programme, Safety Management System, and Environmental Protection Systems. ENVIRONMENT OTL is committed to:  Prevent pollution through our business activities and complying with all relevant environmental legislation and other requirements relating to our business activities.  Embed sustainability principles and practices in all aspects of our operations;  Provide training in partnership with our client (Safaricom Ltd) to our staffs for the low carbon economy by incorporating green skills and skills for sustainability to meet the needs of industry and community;  Engage actively with all stakeholders, suppliers, industry partners and community organizations to build their environmental sustainability capabilities contribute positively to the environment;  We partner with our client (Safaricom) and other vendors to offer an e-waste take-back & electronic recycling service that meets local needs and Environmental legal requirements on e-waste.  We have subcontracted Garbage.Com company to manage our waste materials.  We have supplied dust bins in ALL our offices and compound to manage wastes.  Ensure emergency procedures to prevent and address accidents affecting the environment and human health  Carry out energy audits and recommend environment friendly fittings and appliances e.g. LED lighting, Intelligent lighting, including occupancy and daylight level sensors. e.t.c. The need to reduce energy costs is a crucial business practice for successful organizations, and energy audits have begun to play a more significant role in managing energy expenses .We offer our clients analysis of energy usage followed by a report which will detail ways of reducing energy costs.  We also offer to our clients renewable energy; free sources of energy that are naturally replenished e.g. Solar, Wind, e.t.c. ANTI CORRUPTION Outsource Technique ltd values its reputation and is committed to maintaining the highest level of ethical standards in the conduct of its business affairs. The actions and conduct of the firm’s staff as well as others acting on the firm’s behalf are key to maintaining these standards. These have been well stipulated in our policy shared with both staffs and stakeholders. The firm prohibits the offering, giving, solicitation or the acceptance of any bribe or corrupt inducement, whether in cash or in any other form:  to or from any person or company wherever located, whether a public official or public body, or a private person or company;  by any individual employee, director, agent, consultant, contractor or other person or body acting on the firm’s behalf;  in order to gain any commercial, contractual, or regulatory advantage for the firm in any way which is unethical or to gain any personal advantage, pecuniary or otherwise, for the individual or anyone connected with the individual. Assess the risk of corruption when doing business MEASUREMENTS OF OUTCOMES  Some of the compliances have compelled us to install surveillance cameras within our compounds which have helped us to curb thefts, misconducts, e.t.c. We managed to curb thefts mores especially when one of the employees was caught stealing on camera.  We also ensured equal opportunities regardless of tribe, gender, age, colour. This has brought in cohesion in our dynamics. Gender equality is in the ratio of 2/3 of women vis a vis men.  Implementation of Occupational Health & Safety (OHSAS) has reduced work injuries and zero deaths. This has enabled availability of workforce. We have managed to reduce the number of accidents from 5 to 1 annually with zero fatalities.  We have new policies that we have introduced in regards to Anti-corruption to keep the values and reputation of the company in maintaining the highest level of ethical standards in the conduct of its business affairs.
