BUILDING YOUR TOMORROW TODAY Doosan Corporation CSR Report 2019 BUILDING Contents YOUR Introduction Message from the CEO 02 Introduction of Doosan Group 04 TOMORROW Introduction of Doosan Corporation 06 TODAY Design the Future, Spark the Growth Doosan Corporation, Preparing for the Future 10 Foundation for Sustainable Growth 12 Doosan Corporation Quantum Leap to Lead the Hydrogen Economy 30 CSR Report 2019 Value our Stakeholders Create Social Value 34 Our People 36 Our Planet 44 Our Partners 48 CSR Achievements and Plans 54 About this report CSR Policy & Performance 56 Overview of the Report 1st to December 31st of 2019. Certain information in this report Appendix 85 Doosan Corporation has published its Corporate Social Responsirelates to activities in 2020 when they are deemed to have an bility(CSR) Report, which reflects the opinions of its stakeholders, important impact on decision-making. For some achievements, every year since 2013 to share its achievements of the preceding data is provided for more than three years so that trends may be year. The present 7th CSR report aims to transparently disclose more easily understood. This report also discloses the compaDoosan's key CSR achievements of 2019 to its stakeholders. ny's plans for 2020 and for the midand long-term, and based on these, our forward-looking statements as well. It presents the Composition of the Report achievements and activities of all domestic worksites of Doosan This report consists of Design the Future, Spark the Growth, Corporation, while also specifying details concerning overseas which introduces the company's major businesses and sugworksites. gests future growth direction, and Value our Stakeholders, which reports on Doosan's social value and key CSR activities and cases Reporting Principle by stakeholders. Major policies, management methods, activities This report has been prepared in conformance to the Core Options and data related to corporate social responsibility can be found under the GRI(Global Reporting Initiative) Standards. The current Cover Story The dots and lines represent on CSR Policy & Performance and Appendix of 2019 Doosan Corguidelines for reporting can be found on pages 96-99 of this report. Doosan's future-oriented image: poration CSR Report at Doosan website. securing core technologies Independent Assurance through challenge and innovation Reporting Period and Scope DNV GL has verified the contents and publication process of this and growing into a global leader This report presents Doosan's CSR achievements from January report. The assurance statement appears on pages 100-101. through continuous growth. 02 Doosan Corporation CSR Report 2019 Introduction Design the Future Spark the Growth Value our Stakeholders CSR Policy & Performance Appendix 03 CEO Message Introduction of Doosan Group Introduction of Doosan Corporation Message from the CEO Doosan Corporation Doosan Corporation will strengthen its economic and CSR Report 2019 social sustainability while continuing to lead change and innovation. Dear Esteemed Stakeholders, I would like to extend my sincerest gratitude for your everlasting encouragement and support for Doosan Corporation. I am very pleased to once again inform our stakeholders of Doosan's business performance and continued growth through this year's CSR report. Doosan Corporation strives to provide innovative solutions and differentiated value based on its core capabilities and market insight to respond to this 'era of hyper-undertainy'. In the past four to five years, we have seen external growth in our business. Doosan Corporation has proactively responded to the advent of digital transformation, 5G, and e-commerce, while actively exploring new future growth engines. To this end, we have set and implemented strategic goals for the sustainable growth of our business, focusing on the three major growth engines of 'Advanced Material & Energy,' 'Logistics Solutions' and 'Machinery.' In the advanced materials sector, we plan to secure a solid position in the global market, in line with the commercialization of 5G services and the rapid growth the IoT, autonomous driving and electric vehicle markets. As for the energy sector, will implement a new business strategy to secure a competitive advantage during the golden window of the next three years, when the hydrogen economy is expected to grow rapidly. We will also strive to become a first mover to lead the logistics solutions market in increasing logistics complexity and automation trends. Finally for machinery, we will focus its capabilities on diversifying business and securing profitability in preparation for market contraction. Doosan Corporation will strengthen its economic and social sustainability while continuing to lead change and innovation. We announced our own human rights policy based on the UN Human Rights Declaration last year, and we are now strengthening our human rights management system at both our domestic and foreign businesses. In addition, Doosan Corporation will take the lead in implementing shared growth to enhance the competitiveness of our suppliers, such as by building smart factories, strengthening management capabilities and providing consulting support. This year, we will establish an evaluation and management system to clearly identify CSR risks and create a management culture of social responsibility by enhancing the understanding of and consensus on CSR among all members. Doosan Corporation will strive to enhance its social value by first assessing the impact of CSR activities that affect stakeholders, including employees, customers, suppliers, local communities, and the natural environment, and then acting accordingly. Even when the business environment has been uncertain and difficult, Doosan Corporation has always faced the challenge and made a success story. Doosan Corporation will continue to transform itself into an organization that can communicate with our stakeholders based on mutual trust and realize creative results through drastic changes and reforms. I cordially ask you, our esteemed and valued stakeholders, for your everlasting support of Doosan's ongoing efforts to realize a sustainable society. CEO of Doosan Corporation, Vice Chairman Hyun-soo Dong 04 Doosan Corporation CSR Report 2019 Introduction Design the Future Spark the Growth Value our Stakeholders CSR Policy & Performance Appendix 05 CEO Message Introduction of Doosan Group Introduction of Doosan Corporation Doosan Group Introduction of Doosan Group Doosan Corporation Doosan's Management Philosophy CSR Report 2019 Winning Team Doosan An Innovative and Evolving Korea's Oldest Enterprise A People-Centered Enterprise Doosan's unique way of doing business represents a corporate philosophy, culture, and set of management principles we have developed with Global Enterprise the aim of transforming our company into a 'Proud Global Doosan.' The unique way of doing business consists of the following three elements: the Doosan Credo, the People of Doosan('The Six Traits of Doosan People'), and the Doosan Credo Change Model(core competitiveness, and advancement and scientification of work methods), which serves as the foundation through which the People of Doosan realize the Doosan Credo. Doosan is Korea's oldest company, with a Doosan enhances human lives by pursuing Based on Doosan's people-centered phi124-year history, and the fastest-growing continuous innovation and change through losophy, we strive to maximize the value of Doosan Credo company over the last 10 years. its core ISBs(infrastructure support busiour customers, shareholders, and invesness), which are essential for building and tors, and realize a higher level of customer operating social infrastructure. satisfaction. A charter that serves as the criteria and A philosophy to be observed frame of reference for all business Composed of Aspiration and Core Values by Doosan People conduct and decision-making Proud Global Doosan Doosan Credo System Aspiration Core Values Integrity Cultivating To establish a Proud Global Doosan, Doosan People and transPeople parency People practice the nine Core Values of the Doosan Credo on a daily basis, wherever they Talent-centered management, Establishing stream-lined processes Technology conduct business in the world. These Core Inhwa Customers and our source of global competitiveness to reach global standards Values cover the methods by which Doosan Innovation People should operate the company's busiSocial Safety and ness, the way they should treat and respect each Proud Global Doosan Profit ResponsiEnvironother, and the way in which they should work Winning Team! Doosan! bility ment with all of Doosan's partners. Organization of Doosan Group A Strong, Competitive Edge & Advanced Processes and Systems To ensure a continuously strong performance, Doosan strives to secure a strong competitive edge while at the same time optimizing its Electro-Materials BG Industrial Vehicle BG ways of working through advanced processes and systems. This creates a virtuous cycle in which Doosan's people, the individuals who actuDoosan CorporMottrol BG Retail BU ally determine Doosan's performance as a company, are trained to pursue these same objectives. This positive feedback mechanism results ation in a winning team. Fuel Cell Power BU Doosan Digital Innovation BU Doosan Heavy IndusDoosan Engineering Doosan People Doosan Doosan Infracore Doosan Bobcat Doosan Fuel Cell Affiliated tries & Construction & Construction Group ISB 1) Companies Doosan Mobility Doosan Logistics Regardless of whether they have exceptional capabilities or not, the term 'Doosan People' refers to all Doosan employees, who incessantly Doosan Solus Doosan Robotics Doosan Mecatec or SubInnovation Solution strive to enhance their capabilities while practicing Doosan's Core Values with the mindset of actively contributing to the organization. In sidiaries addition, Doosan People respect and practice certain fundamental values, while placing great importance on the concept of talent. The CSB2) Hancom Doosan Magazine Doosan Bears Doosan Cuvex Neoplux Oricom intrinsic Traits of Doosan People may be summarized as follows: Auxiliary Doosan Yonkang Foundation Doosan Art Center Doosan Business Research Institute Organizations 1) Infrastructure Support Businesses 2) Consumer & Service Businesses *These affiliated companies or subsidiaries may be partially different from those in the business report. Limitless Aspiration Cultivating Talent Inhwa Open Communication Tenacity & Drive Prioritization & Focus 06 Doosan Corporation CSR Report 2019 Introduction Design the Future Spark the Growth Value our Stakeholders CSR Policy & Performance Appendix 07 CEO Message Introduction of Doosan Group Introduction of Doosan Corporation Introduction of Doosan Corporation Doosan Corporation, the parent company of Doosan Group, oversees global network of Doosan Group across European, Asian and American markets, and at the same time, directly manages its businesses such as Electro-Materials BG, Industrial Vehicle BG, and Mottrol BG. Doosan Corporation CSR Report 2019 Date of Establishment December 18th, 1933 Representative Directors Park Jeongwon, Dong Hyunsoo, Kim Minchul Electro-Materials DSCS DDI China Business Areas Electronic components/materials, forklifts, hydraulic parts, retail, fuel cells, biomaterials Industrial Vehicle DIVC Electro-Materials DSES Mottrol DMJC Electro-Materials Operating Countries 14 countries including Korea, China, the USA, and the UK Vietnam Branch Business Hightlights Electro-Materials DSC Headquarters: 275 Jangchungdan-ro, Jung-gu, Seoul, Korea Electro-Materials Electro-Materials Taiwan Branch Shen Zhen Electro-Materials Electro-Materials DSH Japan Branch Total assets KRW 6,910.9 billion Sales KRW 2,834.9 billion Operating profit 188 Electro-Materials Industrial Vehicle DLE Jeungpyeong Plant Industrial Vehicle DIVUK Electro-Materials KRW billion Gimcheon Plant Industrial Vehicle DIVEU Electro-Materials Industrial Vehicle Rushlift Iksan Plant Fuel Cell America DFCA DDI Europe Industrial Vehicle Headquarters Incheon Plant Electro-Materials DSEA Electro-Materials Europe Branch Industrial Vehicle France Branch Electro-Materials Mottrol Changwon Industrial Vehicle DIVAC Number of employees 4,984 R&D Center Plant Industrial Vehicle DMHS Industrial Vehicle Italy Branch Industrial Vehicle Fuel Cell Power DDI America DDI Europe Czech Branch R&D Center Hwaseong Plant persons Europe Asia Korea Americas Including the overseas subsidiaries of Doosan BGs at the end of 2019 Materials Branches 1 Materials Subsidiaries 5 Materials R&D Centers 1 Materials Subsidiaries 1 Machinery Subsidiaries 4 Branches 3 Production Plants 3 Machinery Subsidiaries 2 Branches 2 Machinery Subsidiaries 2 Machinery R&D Centers 1 Branches 0 DDI Subsidiaries 1 Branches 0 Production Plants 2 Energy Subsidiaries 1 Branches 1 DDI Subsidiaries 1 Energy Production Plants 1 DDI Subsidiaries 1 Doosan Corporation CSR Report 2019 DESIGN THE FUTURE, SPARK THE GROWTH The industry is undergoing a paradigm shift. Doosan is expanding its investment in Doosan Corporation, Preparing for the Future 10 new and growing markets and businesses to keep pace with rapidly changing market conditions while focusing on its capabilities. Doosan Corporation is increasing its value Foundation for Sustainable Growth 12 by strengthening its economic sustainability through the diversification of its business portfolio and the continuous search for new growth businesses, with a focus on those Quantum Leap to Lead the Hydrogen Economy 30 with a high growth potential in the future. 10 Doosan Corporation CSR Report 2019 Introduction Design the Future Spark the Growth Value our Stakeholders CSR Policy & Performance Appendix 11 Doosan Corporation, Preparing for the Future Foundation for Sustainable Growth Quantum Leap to Lead the Hydrogen Economy Doosan Corporation, Preparing for the Future Continuous Change and Growth Strategic Direction for Strengthening Strategy Enhancement Doosan Corporation continues to grow by adapting its business This change in our business portfolio, along with the discovery of new Business Competitiveness Direction Expanding Strengthening of Business Our Business Global CompetiCompetportfolio to the market environment and customer needs. We reorgrowth businesses, was the result of continuous proactive reaction Doosan Corporation will promote its business based Platform tiveness itiveness ganized our business portfolio through the sale of our non-core based on close analysis of the market. But Doosan Corporation is not on its main strategic directions for securing business consumer goods-oriented businesses in the first decade of the milsatisfied with these achievements. We are still strengthening our comcompetitiveness, strengthening global competitiveStrategic ·D evelopment of leading ·E  xpansion of the  xpansion of ·E lennium, and expanded the scope of our finished parts and solutions petitiveness in the materials business to guard against future changes in ness, and expanding its business platform. We will Tasks products to respond to global markets existing business businesses in the materials and parts field in the 2010s. We have the market environment, including increased demand for high-end ecocontinue to develop products that can lead market market changes ·D  iscovery of next  tabilization of new ·S been actively investing and entering into future high-growth indusfriendly materials and a surge in demand for logistics automation sys·E nhancement of major customer business change and secure manufacturing competitiveness profitability by improving companies ·E  xpansion of tries. As a result, four of our businesses, Battery Copper Foil, OLED, tems. We are also expanding our business to logistics solutions, Cobots, through digital transformation in order to boost our manufacturing/quality · Diversification solutions business Bio Materials, and Fuel Cells for Power Generation, which had been and fuel cells for drones. Based on this, Doosan Corporation is providing business competitiveness. In addition, Doosan Corcapabilities of market in ·R einforcement of emerging counseeing steady growth, were listed as separate corporations to attract innovative solutions and differentiated values to B2B customers and poration plans to expand to new regions and cusmanufacturing tries large-scale early investment. end users, and has continued to increase the company's value through tomers in global businesses. We will also expand our competitiveness through investments in technology. Doosan Corporation will create another digital transformation business platform to prepare for the future through ·S trengthening of digital future by expanding the value chain and entering the high-growth investment and stabilization in new businesses such capabilities and intelligent industries. as robotics, logistics, and drones. work methods 2020 2016 2008 Strategic Direction for Future Growth Doosan Corporation has divided its business areas into three business groups by promoting projects that utilize existing capabilities and analyzing Expansion of Value Chain and Entering Expansion of Existing Business/ into High Growth Industries which industrial groups are likely to grow rapidly in these areas. We will expand our materials business into advanced materials for 5G based on our Reorganization of Discovery of New Growth Business existing business capabilities, and produce fuel cells for residence and buildings in line with the market's demand for eco-friendly energy. Doosan Change of Consumer Business Portfolio Goods-based Corporation will expand its total logistics solutions business with a focus on existing business areas, such as cobots, and industrial/logistics drones. 〮 Sale of consumer goods 〮 Advancement into fuel cell/ 〮 Advanced materials for 5G, Business Business In addition, we will enter into new high-growth businesses, such as downstream business and next-generation electric drive systems. businesses duty-free businesses parts for electrical devices (liquor, clothing, food) 〮 E xpansion of Electro-Materials/ 〮 Logistics cobot/system 〮 Liquor, 〮 Sale of non-core Clothing, Industrial Vehicle/Mottrol 〮 Entering into hydrogen economy SRS businesses(Feed & Live〮 New growth businesses industries Market Trend Key Business Area BG/BU and Investment Business of stock, Dong-A, TechPack, (Battery copper foil, cobot, Doosan Corporation Samhwa Crown) fuel cell for drone, logistics 〮 Sale of businesses automation solution) Advanced · 5G, autonomous driving/electric ·N  etwork boards ·E  lectro-Materials BG 〮 Spin-off of Doosan Solus and following value-up(DST) Material & Energy vehicles, AI, IoT, AR/VR ·M  aterials for · F uel Cell Power BU Doosan Fuel Cell(2019) · Eco-friendly energy semiconductors » Increase in demand for high-end ·M  aterials for electrical equipment and fuel cell Sales* 7.0 and eco-friendly materials · F uel cell for residences/ buildings Growth (Unit: KRW trillion) Logistics ·E  -commerce based · T otal logistics solution · I ndustrial Vehicle BG 4.4 Solution Provider · Complex/automated logistics ·E  lectric forklifts, cobot, fuel ·D  oosan Logistics Solution* » Rapid increase in logistics 3.6 cell for drones ·D  oosan Robotics Inc.* 3.6 3.1 ·D  oosan Mobility Innovation* 2.6 automation systems 2.4 Machinery · Stable growth in the aftermarket services ·E  ngine-powered forklifts · Industrial Vehicle BG(Logipia) · Increased demand in emerging markets · Forklift downstream ·M  ottrol BG » Growing demand in business 2008 2012 2016 2018 2020(P) 2022(P) 2024(P) ·H  ydraulic and electric drive emerging markets system * Sales of Doosan Group: Doosan Corporation's BGs/BUs + 100 % investment business of Doosan Corporation * 2020 ~ 2024: Planned figures * 100% subsidiary of Doosan Corporation 12 Doosan Corporation CSR Report 2019 Introduction Design the Future Spark the Growth Value our Stakeholders CSR Policy & Performance Appendix 13 Doosan Corporation, Preparing for the Future Foundation for Sustainable Growth Quantum Leap to Lead the Hydrogen Economy Foundation for Sustainable Growth Electro-Materials BG Main Products and Services ELECTRO-MATERIALS Network Substrate CCL BUSINESS GROUP Network Substrate CCL is high-function CCL used in wired and wireless communication equipment such as servers and base stations, which increases the demand for low-loss product technology to minimize electrical signal loss for high-capacity and high-speed communication. Our low-loss technology is considered one of the best in the world. Fuel Cell Electrode Electrode, a key material of fuel cell produced by EM BG, is supplied to Doosan Fuel Cell. We are strengthening our business competitiveness by internalizing raw materials in the fuel cell business. IC Package Substrate CCL The IC package substrate CCL market is divided into CCL for Electro-Materials BG produces and supplies CCL(Copper Clad Laminate), which is a core memory semiconductors, such as DRAM and NAND, and for material for printed circuit boards, an essential part of electronic products. Doosan's CCL non-memory semiconductors, such as CPU, GPU, and AP. It is is growing into a foundation for technological advances in high-tech electronic devices, high-end CCL that can be used in microcircuits for high-temsuch as smartphones, semiconductors, and telecommunication equipment. In particular, perature semiconductor processes and high-integration cirElectro-Material BG is continuing to improve its competitive edge as the world's only supplier cuit design. with a full line up of high-end CCL, including PKG CCL for semiconductors, NWB CCL for telecommunication equipment, FCCL for smartphones, and CCL for electrical devices. In addition, it is mass-producing electrodes, a key material for fuel cells, to secure Flexible CCL competitiveness in the renewable energy business. We are improving our sustainability by Flexible CCL is used in smart devices and wearbuilding future-oriented portfolios for 5G, eco-friendly cars, and energy. able products, such as smartphones, smartwatches, and wireless earphones. It is ideal for optimal circuit design for small devices due to its flexible characteristics, and its application has expanded to various new technologies, such as foldable phones and electric vehicles. 14 Doosan Corporation CSR Report 2019 Introduction Design the Future Spark the Growth Value our Stakeholders CSR Policy & Performance Appendix 15 Doosan Corporation, Preparing for the Future Foundation for Sustainable Growth Quantum Leap to Lead the Hydrogen Economy Market Status and Outlook Business Strategy Existing Business 5G Materials Mobile products, a key application area of Electro-Materials Electro-Materials BG plans to develop new BG are maintaining an annual average growth rate of 2% with market materials for 5G, such as next-generchanges in the paradigm of the Fourth Industrial Revolution ation high-frequency low-loss products and such as Internet of Things(IoT), servers, electric cars, and 5G. antenna materials, as major items for future In particular, the market for high value-added products like business. When base stations and terminals network and semiconductor CCL are expected to grow further. for 5G start to hit the market, the demand for In keeping with the era of 5G, new products have been develhigh-performance materials with ultra-high oped to meet the demand for high-performance materials frequency and low loss is expected to rise. with ultra-high frequency and low loss. In addition, the size Therefore, Electro-Materials BG is moving fast of the renewable energy market is expected to grow in develto become a first mover based on its top-tier oped countries based on policy trends such as global restricloss technology. tions on carbon emission. New Business Currently, Electro-Materials BG is expanding its business into promising industries(automotive electronic components/ energy). It is also exploring new markets, such as autonomous driving radars and communication boards such as ADAS(Advanced Driving Assistant System), as high growth in the electric car market has led to a paradigm shift in the autoElectric Vehicle Materials mobile industry. The future automobile market is evolving from internal combustion engines based on diesel and gasoline to electric vehicles based on eco-friendly raw materials. In order to increase sales in the electric vehicles and electronics fields, Electro-Ma2019 Major Achievements terials BG has developed materials to expand electrical devices Secured Business Competitiveness and improve fuel efficiency for the smartification and electric Electro-Materials BG accelerated entry into the CCL market for non-memory semiconcontrol(EVs, HEVs*) of electric vehicles. ductors and increased sales of high-end NWB(Network Board). It has strengthened its *HEV(Hybrid Electric Vehicle) developmental and manufacturing competitiveness for mass-producing 5G products, a key material for the future, improving both yields and productivity. Energy Materials Strengthened Global Competitiveness Electro-Materials BG is focusing on developing 2-stack products and internalizing key materials to strengthen its fuel cell Electro-Materials BG's business accounted for 37% of overseas sales, rising 1% from electrode business. The miniaturization of fuel cells has allowed the previous year. In particular, it further expanded business in the newly-entered Chifor the development of long-range drones as future markets. nese market and achieved additional sales of KRW 46.6 billion in 2019. In addition, ElecAccordingly, Electro-Materials BG has secured potential martro-Materials BG strives to strengthen our global competitiveness through localization by kets for electrodes for fuel cells and completed mass-producexpanding Changshu plant in China to respond to issues such as short-term delivery. tion facilities for electrodes. New Business As mass production of electrodes has stabilized, Electro-Materials BG is gaining business competitiveness by internalizing raw materials production through synergy with Doosan Fuel Cell. It has completed setting up of mass production facilities at its Iksan Plant for the commercialization of CPI(Colorless Polyimide) film, a key material for foldable smartphones. Electro-Materials BG has secured approval from global automakers for new materials for secondary battery parts for electric vehicles, and will set up a production base in Vietnam in 2020. In addition, it will continue to discover and nurture new items in promising industries. 16 Doosan Corporation CSR Report 2019 Introduction Design the Future Spark the Growth Value our Stakeholders CSR Policy & Performance Appendix 17 Doosan Corporation, Preparing for the Future Foundation for Sustainable Growth Quantum Leap to Lead the Hydrogen Economy Foundation for Sustainable Growth Industrial Vehicle BG Main Products and Services INDUSTRIAL VEHICLE BUSINESS GROUP Diesel/LPG Forklifts Industrial Vehicle BG has a line-up of 1.5 to 30 tonne diesel models and 1.5 to 7 tonne LPG forklifts. These forklifts enable high-efficiency logistics at various worksites thanks to their climbing capacity and high power output. Electric Sit-Down/Stand-Up Forklifts Industrial Vehicle BG has a line-up of 1.5 to 5 tonne models for sit-down and 1.3 to 2.5 tonne models for stand-up forklifts, and offers two power source options: lead storage and lithium-ion batteries. These forklifts are eco-friendly, with low noise and vibration, making them perfect for indoor work such as moving food and cold storage. Lithium-ion battery forklifts have a longer battery life and are easier to maintain than lead-battery electric forklifts, and hence dramatically reduce operating costs for customers and create a safer working environment without the genKnown for manufacturing Korea's first forklift in 1968, Industrial Vehicles BG has secured eration of harmful gases during charging and discharging. more than 50 % of the market share in the domestic market, and has grown into a global logistics equipment manufacturer that exports forklifts to more than 100 countries from its six business sites, including sales subsidiaries, in USA, Belgium, UK, China, and Germany. Industrial Vehicle BG is evolving into a data-based total solution provider by building a digital platform that incorporates ICT technology to enhance sustainability. It plans to secure future growth engines and maximize profitability by strengthening its forklift rental and Warehouse Equipment second-hand purchase, and providing customized products and service. The warehouse equipment of Industrial Vehicle BG consist of various line-ups, including 1.3 to 6.0 tonne order pickers, pallet trucks, stackers, and tow/transportation vehicles that provide excellent mobility in small spaces with their compact size and minimal turning radius. 18 Doosan Corporation CSR Report 2019 Introduction Design the Future Spark the Growth Value our Stakeholders CSR Policy & Performance Appendix 19 Doosan Corporation, Preparing for the Future Foundation for Sustainable Growth Quantum Leap to Lead the Hydrogen Economy 2019 Major Achievements Downstream Business In 2019, Industrial Vehicle BG recorded the highest sales(KRW 900 billion and 25,000 units) in its history thanks to an increase in dealer support and stronger sales channels, along with continuous Downstream business, including forklift rentals, the trade in improvement of product competitiveness and successful efforts to develop new markets. By setting used forklifts and maintenance services, provides options for up an S&OP(Sales & Operations Planning) advancement project for managing not only its existing prousers to quickly and easily access forklifts and to meet changing duction enhancement system, the MES(Manufacturing Execution System), but also customer/market product usage needs. Industrial Vehicles BG provides a variety information, sales, production and inventory planning, Industrial Vehicle BG has raised its operational of options, from ownership to sharing, with a range of customcapacity to the next level. izable products and services that incorporate digital technology. 2019 was an important year when it came to setting the foundation for the midto long-term vision of Industrial Vehicle BG, which showed achievement in both product and business areas. Industrial Vehicle BG declared itself a 'comprehensive logistics service leader' to employees and stakeholders, and introduced a full warehouse logistics equipment line-up. Is also announced areas for creating synergy with DLS in order to secure its business direction as a total solution provider, which encompasses not only forklift manufacturing but also downstream services and logistics automation solutions. It is working its on AGF(Automatic Guided Forklift) business in response to the growth of the logistics market and unmanned/automated needs. With the development of its own dedicated vehicles and synergy with suppliers who can deliver and install them, Industrial Vehicle BG has already received orders for actual projects. Market Status and Outlook Lin-Q In terms of products, a full line-up of electric and logistics equipCloud The forklift market has been showing a growth trend in developed countries, even in the face of intensifying price ment has been established with the addition of new models. A competition due to excessive supply. The demand for batmodel with an economic engine for China and other emerging tery-operated forklift trucks has grown as regulations on markets has been developed and already sold more than 1,000 diesel emissions have been strengthened owing to the units. Based on the competitiveness of these products, it has a growing concern over atmospheric pollution. The demand high-end/economic product line-up that encompasses engines, for smaller-sized warehouse equipment has also grown, electric vehicles, and logistics equipment to meet the needs of Fuel Driving as it is suitable for large retail and warehouse businesses. various customers. Industrial Vehicle BG has built the foundaefficiency hours Vehicle Battery Such market trends are expected to persist along with the tions for a great leap forward thanks to the stabilization of Doosan charge/ location Discharge shared economy, increasing use of renewable energy and Logipia, which opened in 2018. information the Fourth Industrial Revolution based on ICT. Maintenance Failure Business Strategy history history Industrial Vehicle BG will strengthen its downstream business, including purchasing, usage, and service, to Industrial Vehicle BG plans to strengthen dealer support and provide value to customers throughout the entire serdevelop stronger sales channels while continuing to explore new vice life of its products, and lead the shared economy and markets based on the improvement of product competitiveness, innovation in ICT-based logistics services. By building which has been the company's driving force of continuous growth a digital platform based on ICT technology, Industrial over the last 50 years. Industrial Vehicle BG will develop technolVehicle BG will grow into a total solution provider that can ogies and innovate products to improve customer experiences, provide customized products and services based on data. expand its downstream business area to supply customized services and rentals based on ICT technologies such as big data and platform, and continue to drive its future growth engines and Cloud systems monitors forklifts maximize profitability. The company aims to achieve sales goal of remotely to use data for location, fuel effiKRW 2 trillion by 2025 through enhancement and innovation. ciency, driving hours charge/discharge information, and factory history. 20 Doosan Corporation CSR Report 2019 Introduction Design the Future Spark the Growth Value our Stakeholders CSR Policy & Performance Appendix 21 Doosan Corporation, Preparing for the Future Foundation for Sustainable Growth Quantum Leap to Lead the Hydrogen Economy Foundation for Sustainable Growth Mottrol BG Main Products and Services Hydraulic Components MOTTROL As a hydraulic components manufacturer BUSINESS GROUP with over 40 years of experience, Mottrol BG has a production capacity of more than 35,000 hydraulic product units per month. Its range of products includes travelling motors, swing motors, main pumps, and main control valves for heavy construction equipment. In addition, Mottrol BG carries out systematic quality, environmental, and safety management of its products. In particular, its travel device for excavators was designated a World-Class Product by the Ministry of Commerce, Industry, and Energy, proving its excellence. Travel Device With a built-in, automatic 2-speed function, built-in hydraulic brakes, a built-in shockless function at start/stop, and an embedded anti-cavitation function, Mottrol BG's travel device provides powerful output torque, excellent controllability and high reliability. Since its advancement into the unexplored hydraulic industry of Korea in 1974, Mottrol BG has grown into a leader in the hydraulic industry. To consolidate its position as a leading global manufacturer of components, it has established a full line-up of hydraulic products including travelling motors, swing motors, main pumps, and main control valves for heavy construction equipment. Swing Device Mottrol's powerful swing device incorporates a relief valve with an embedded shockless function, built-in mechanical brake valve, anti-cavitation function, and reverse swing protection valve, all of which cumulatively ensure high performance and fatigueless operation. 22 Doosan Corporation CSR Report 2019 Introduction Design the Future Spark the Growth Value our Stakeholders CSR Policy & Performance Appendix 23 Doosan Corporation, Preparing for the Future Foundation for Sustainable Growth Quantum Leap to Lead the Hydrogen Economy Main Pump 2019 Major Achievements Developed in 2001, the DPA Series pumps have various features. Secured Business Competitiveness Compared with the T5V series of the same class, the total length Mottrol BG recorded sales of KRW 562.7 billion in 2018, the has been shortened by 30%. Also, the new model has adopted highest annual sales since its foundation in 1974. In particular, the newest low-pulsation, low-noise technology, which can be the market share of Mottrol BG in China, which has the largest applied to various types of heavy equipment in combination with market size for excavators, reached 19.7%, expanding its grip various control methods(flow control, power control, power shift on the market. Mottrol BG was able to achieve this result by control, and electronic control). Various attachments are availimproving production capacity, reducing costs, improving able with an optional high-pressure gear pump. The low-noise quality and strengthening competitiveness through new and high-efficiency DPA Series swash plate pumps offer a firm product development to meet growth in demand. foundation for environmentally friendly design. Strengthened Global Competitiveness Mottrol BG continues to expand its market share in China by strengthening local sales promotions and expanding local production through its China subsidiary. Mottrol BG has secured a bridgehead for new markets/customers by promoting sales of its travel devices through European companies and dealers and expanding its global market share. Meanwhile, sales of MCV(Main Control Valve) hydraulic components have been strengthened through alliThe MCV controls the flow route of hydraulic oil from the pump ances with Indian equipment makers and partners, allowing in order to operate actuators, such as the travel motor, swing entrance to the Indian market. Mottrol BG plans further expanmotor, or cylinders. This 2-block MCV meets customers' diversision into emerging markets such as India and Southeast Asia, fied requirements, with excellent controllability and extendibility. which are expected to grow in the future. Business Strategy Mottrol BG plans to develop new series and expand its product Market Status and Outlook line-up by improving cost, performance, durability, and reliability compared to existing products to strengthen product China's construction machinery market, a major competitiveness of hydraulic components for heavy constructarget for our hydraulic components, has continued tion equipment. Mottrol BG aims to expidite global sourcing and to grow since 2016 due to the country's increased continuously expand production at its subsidiary in China to investment in real estate and infrastructure as strengthen its business competitiveness. It also plans to increase well as increased demand for the replacement of its global market share by further spreading its business to old equipment. Market size is expected to remain non-excavator market and expanding its supply to global consteady in 2020 due to the Chinese government's struction heavy equipment manufacturers including those in continued investment in construction. The expanIndia and North America. sion of midto long-term urban readjustment projects may results in increased demand for smalland New Business medium-sized equipment. In addition, the industry Mottrol BG plans to launch new business to respond to future is expected to grow due to increased investment in technological trends and secure new growth engines. It plans to infrastructure in emerging markets such as India develop and commercialize electric/electronic products in accorand Southeast Asia. Mottrol BG is striving to become dance with the strengthening of environmental regulations and a global total parts supplier by taking advantage of demand for low-noise and high-efficiency products. market opportunities based on the knowledge of hydraulic pressure and competitive new products is has accumulated over decades. 24 Doosan Corporation CSR Report 2019 Introduction Design the Future Spark the Growth Value our Stakeholders CSR Policy & Performance Appendix 25 Doosan Corporation, Preparing for the Future Foundation for Sustainable Growth Quantum Leap to Lead the Hydrogen Economy Foundation for Sustainable Growth Retail BU Fuel Cell Power BU RETAIL FUEL CELL POWER BUSINESS UNIT BUSINESS UNIT With a broad experience and deep understanding of Fuel Cell Power BU was founded in 2003, and is the first company multinational customers, Doota Mall-major shopping and in Korea to lead the fuel cell for residences/buildings. It is a global tourist destination, and Korea's leading fashion mall-is visited top-tier fuel cell company that has secured core technology such by over 9.1 million local and foreign shoppers annually. The seven as stack and reformer design and manufacturing, fuel converter story fashion mall houses over 210 boutique stores that sell a and system integration. It remains committed to government wide range of products, providing a perfect one-stop shopping subsidy project for residence/building fuel cells and to supply experience. Retail BU offers the best customer satisfaction with building equipment in the mandatory installation of renewable its differentiated services at Doota Mall. energy to satisfy the Korean government's renewable energy plan. Main Products and Services Market Status and Outlook Main Products and Services Market Status and Outlook With the slogan, 'Fast & First Fashion,' Doota Mall always strives to provide the most pleasant and efficient shopping environment and The online market is expected to continue to grow due to advantages such as convenience of purchase and diversification of items, PEMFC The domestic fuel cell market is forecast to grow based on the hydrogen economy promotion roadmap announced by the govdeliver the highest level of customer satisfaction by keeping facilities while the offline market is expected to remain stagnant, except for (Polymer Electrolyte Membrane Fuel Cell) ernment in 2019. Japan has steadily expanded its fuel cell market up to date. Doota Mall aims to provide customer satisfaction through outlets/complex shopping malls. Strengthening its online-based to 50,000 household items, thanks to subsidy policies. Both the A polymer electrolyte fuel cell is a type of fuel cell that uses a polymer its innovative business strategies, and was the first fashion mall to business portfolio is the most important goal for Retail BU in the private and public sectors in Europe, including those of Germany, electrolyte membrane which can be permeated by hydrogen ions. offer a fixed price system, install information centers for foreign visimarket. Therefore, Retail BU is striving to continue its growth and have started to invest in technology development for fuel cells and Features tors, and deploy floor managers. development by strengthening MD capabilities in high growth cathydrogen, with the goal of building a fully independent fuel cell eco• Free start/stop and real-time on/off operation egories such as sports, and enhancing competitiveness focusing on system without subsidies. Fuel Cell Power BU plans to take the lead • Can adjust the amount of power generation in the system online business. in producing stable and clean high-efficiency fuel cells through conaccording to the power demand tinuous technological development and investment based on market • Installable in indoor and outdoor spaces 2019 Major Achievements status and policy direction. • Less time and space required for installation compared to Doota Mall has attracted a variety of global concept stores as it carother energy sources ries out a renewal of the entire building to attract more customers and strengthen the identity of the mall. Doota Mall offers its unique 2019 Major Achievements products, differentiated from other commercial centers, with a focus Fuel Cell Power BU has laid the foundation for providing various on sports brands that are growing in the market. It is increasing cusproducts in buildings/homes fuel cell market by developing SOFC tomer satisfaction by attracting designers and Dongdaemun-based products for buildings as well as PEMFCs, currently being mass-probrands with product planning abilities and providing products that duced. It is seeking to enter global markets such as China, which has reflect the latest trends at reasonable prices in order to strengthen high demand for eco-friendly distributed generation as well as the its grip on the fashion sector, which is the core strength of Doota. Korean market, which is a major market, and will respond by developing locally customized models based on thorough market analysis in order to increase sales of fuel cells for residence/building. 26 Doosan Corporation CSR Report 2019 Introduction Design the Future Spark the Growth Value our Stakeholders CSR Policy & Performance Appendix 27 Doosan Corporation, Preparing for the Future Foundation for Sustainable Growth Quantum Leap to Lead the Hydrogen Economy Foundation for Sustainable Growth Digital Doosan Innovation BU Robotics INC. DIGITAL INNOVATION BUSINESS UNIT Digital Innovation BU is in charge of providing a comprehensive Doosan Robotics is a specialized robot solution provider that range of IT services, including IT consulting, system integration, leads the cobot(collaborative robot) market. It was launched in business systems and IT infrastructure services, to all Doosan 2015 as one of Doosan Group's new growth engines and core Group companies around the world. It utilizes SI and added businesses. It developed cobots with in-house technology and service businesses, and provides IT services to enable the completed mass-production facilities with a yearly capacity of globalization of Doosan Group. 10,000 units at the end of 2017. Doosan Robotics is recognized both domestically and in overseas markets such as Europe, the United States, and China, for its outstanding technology. It is currently accelerating its expansion into the global market. Main Products and Services Market Status and Outlook Digital Innovation BU is in charge of providing a comprehensive With AI, RPA, big data and other intelligent technologies, all systems, range of IT services, including IT consulting, system integration, industries and stakeholders are now connected to the network. It Main Products and Services Market Status and Outlook business systems, and IT infrastructure services, to all Doosan is expected that drones and robots that can interact with the enviDoosan Robotics has a line-up of collaborative robot arms for a variety Market interest in Cobots continues to grow due to difficulties in Group companies. ronment and people will be developed, and AI technology will be of processes with maximum work envelopes ranging from 900 mm to securing manufacturing personnel, improvement of production effiapplied in the digital factory area, where advanced AI plants will be 1,700 mm and with payloads ranging from 6 kg to 15 kg. Cobots are ciency through labor hour distribution between workers and robots, Digitalization Service developed. In addition, RPA technology will be expanded mainly equipped with a high-performance 'torque sensor' that detects forces avoidance of potentially harmful physical work for elderly workers, around simple repetitive tasks. New convergence services will be Utilizing digital technology through ways of working, AI & in each of six joints. Doosan Robotics cobots are widely used in manand increased on-site automation needs. According to the 2019 reviewed, and data utilization and protection will be strengthened data analysis to support the business innovation of customers ufacturing and production processes such as assembly(screwing, ABI Research cooperative robot market report, the cobot market through reforms to ICT regulation. and creating opportunities for new revenue through digital gears), pick & place, polishing and debugging, secondary actions for is expected to grow at an average annual rate of 52% until 2024, to marketing technology machine tools, inspection, gluing/bonding, secondary actions for approx. $4.7 billion(USD). 2019 Major Achievements plastic injection, packaging and palletizing, and pressure printing. Platform/IT Infrastructure Development and Operation Building/maintaining IT infrastructure for system operation, In 2019, Digital Innovation BU provided total IT services to Doosan 2019 Major Achievements performing system conversion to a public cloud, providing Group affiliates, including digitalization services, application develDoosan Robotics aims to sell 15,300 units in 2023, or 10% of the PaaS/SaaS service based on its digital platform, and building/ opment and operation, and platform/IT infrastructure development global cooperative robot market, by expanding sales channels and operating an open innovation system for internal and external and operation. It plans to enhance its infrastructure and train speproduct line-ups, and strengthening product competitiveness. It is collaboration cialist personnel in order to support the digital cloud transformacurrently expanding its market from Germany, China, United States, tion of Doosan Group companies. Digital Innovation BU strives to Application Development and Operation and Korea to new countries, planning to develop additional channels provide IT services that truly contribute to the reinforcement of cusDeveloping applications and providing digital services for smart by expanding sales territories within existing markets, and searching tomer values. manufacturing, smart engineering, supply chain management, for new sales targets. In addition, Doosan Robotics will create new robotic process automation, and financial cost management demand by launching pairing families of cooperative robots, such as AGV, AMR and Vision, and strengthen its product competitiveness, * PaaS: Platform as a Service including UX(User Experience) innovation through SW differentiation. ** SaaS: Software as a Service 28 Doosan Corporation CSR Report 2019 Introduction Design the Future Spark the Growth Value our Stakeholders CSR Policy & Performance Appendix 29 Doosan Corporation, Preparing for the Future Foundation for Sustainable Growth Quantum Leap to Lead the Hydrogen Economy Foundation for Sustainable Growth Doosan Logistics Doosan Mobility Solutions Innovation Doosan Logistics Solutions was established in 2019 following the DMI(Doosan Mobility Innovation) focuses on the mobile acquisition of Samo Logistics Information, which has supplied application of fuel cells and strives to drive growth of the UAV logistics automation software to the domestic distribution and (Unmanned Aerial Vehicle) industry by providing stable, longmanufacturing industries since the 1990s. It has been leading distance flight solutions. DMI developed and commercialized the the WMS(Warehouse Management System) and WCS(Warehouse world's first compact, lightweight mobile fuel cell pack based on Control System) markets in Korea with its in-house technology decades of accumulated source technology. DMI aims to provide and has further expanded its business scope to system customers with reliable, durable fuel cell packs and to create integrators, which supply logistics automation equipment using optimum business solutions that can be used in a wide variety of advanced software. Doosan Logistics Solutions will become industrial environments. the best total solution provider by supplying advanced logistics automation equipment and enhancing software in a variety of Market Status and Outlook industries to meet customer needs. Explosive growth in online sales channels, the aging of the population, increased labor costs, and intensified competition among Main Products and Services Market Status and Outlook shipping companies are driving the need to introduce automation technologies to logistics centers. Demand for logistics automation Fuel cells are eco-friendly products that use hydrogen, a natural gas, As the long-distance BVLOS(Beyond Visual Line of Sight) market is solutions in Korea and Asia is expected to continue to grow by five as an energy source. Their energy density is approximately three to expected to become more active in the mid to long term, Doosan Main Products and Services four times higher than that of batteries. The flight time of drones Mobility Innovation plans to expand into the BVLOS flight platform to ten percent over the next ten years. In particular, the demand for Doosan Logistics Solutions integrates software technologies and high-end automation systems for large retailers and e-commerce with existing batteries used to be less than 30 minutes, but with the business including logistics to develop its business. In this way, it automated hardware systems that control and manage all processes will expand to manufacturing industries. DMI fuel cell pack, this has been increased to more than two hours. plans to secure end-to-end solution capabilities for different indusat logistics centers, including designing and consultation. It provides With the advantage of innovative, long-distance flights, the fuel cell tries through cooperation and outsourcing with various companies turnkey solutions or individual product development/services upon pack for drones is expected to be utilized in various industries for across its value chain. customer request. 2019 Major Achievements managing facilities, such as solar/wind power plants, monitoring The logistics drone market is expected to show the highest growth forest diseases and pests and forest fires, transporting emergency Since its establishment in 2019, Doosan Logistics Solutions has been potential. Doosan Mobility Innovation is working with various comsupplies over long distances, and surveying road/port traffic. selected as a provider of total solutions for new logistics center projpanies such as DDI to secure a drone control solution to prepare for ects by Korean and Thai customers. In 2020, it set a goal of winning In addition to its line-up of hydrogen fuel cell packs, Doosan Mobility the logistics market. It plans to build an integrated logistics drone a large Korean SI projects with its supplier, Knapp, an Austrian comInnovation has three types of drones optimized for them, and on solution by expanding its product line-up and linking its drones with pany. top of the long-haul capability of its fuel cell packs, it also provides intelligent SW. hydrogen charging and delivery services. We have established In addition, Doosan Mobility Innovation plans to diversify its mida hydrogen supply system that customers can use conveniently to long-term business platforms by developing small-sized forklifts through linked mobile apps. and unmanned logistics vehicles through the application of its DMI power module. To this end, it is preparing to participate in relevant national projects and to form a technical committee within Doosan Group to secure extra-large class, water-cooled fuel cell technology. Once this technology is secured, DMI will be able to establish a bridgehead for the development of flying cars, or PAVs (Personal Air Vehicle), in the future. 30 Doosan Corporation CSR Report 2019 Introduction Design the Future Spark the Growth Value our Stakeholders CSR Policy & Performance Appendix 31 Doosan Corporation, Preparing for the Future Foundation for Sustainable Growth Quantum Leap to Lead the Hydrogen Economy Special Report Quantum Leap to Lead Key Competencies and Business Areas of Doosan Corporation Role and Direction of Hydrogen Economy Division the Hydrogen Economy Doosan Fuel Cell was established in 2014 when Doosan Corporation In 2019, Doosan Corporation established its Hydrogen Economy Innovation Office(HEIO) as an enabler to present midto long-term growth acquired CEP(ClearEdge Power). It has become a leading company directions for fuel cells based on Korea's hydrogen economy roadmap, capture business opportunities and create new business in the hydrogen in fuel cells for power generation by winning 300 MW in orders by economy. The aim of HEIO is to enhance synergy in the development of new products as well as technology by organizing the functions of scat2019, including for the world's largest byproduct hydrogen power tered R&D organizations and strengthening cooperation in Doosan Group. plant in 2018. In particular, with the possession of the proven PAFC1) technology, we have secured synergy and life cycle safety. In 2019, Enhancement of Competitiveness through SOFC Climate Change and the Hydrogen Economy Doosan Corporation it has signed a joint development agreement with Ceres Power, a Development & Commercialization Climate change, caused by the burning of fossil fuels, has a signifiBritish fuel cell technology company, to develop high-efficiency Hydrogen Economy Innovation Office 〮 SOFC System Development(Building/Power Generation) cant impact on the environment, society and the economy. Global SOFC²⁾ for buildings, strengthening the opportunity to expand its 〮S  ecuring mass-production SOFC technology regulations on natural disasters, ecological changes and greenfuel cell portfolio and strength in power generation using hydrogen. 〮 Responsible for national projects for development of house gas emissions caused by climate change require a switch power generation systems SOFC is a technology designed to meet existing demand for both FCP DMI FCA Doosan Fuel Cell to new energy sources. Hydrogen is emerging as an alternative, heat and electricity, as well as for high-efficiency electricity. Doosan Discovery and Promotion of Hydrogen Economy PEMFC 1) PEMFC PAFC PAFC Business Model next-generation energy source. Countries are beginning to establish Corporation has been able to respond to various market demands by Building/Home Powerpack Power Generation Power Generation economic and industrial structures(production, storage, distribution securing high-efficiency SOFC technology. Drone (Overseas) (Korea) 〮 Enhancement of company-wide R&D capability and utilization) that use hydrogen as their main source of energy. In 〮A  lignment of Doosan Group's hydrogen economy business The hydrogen industry covers the entire value chain, including prodirection Korea, various market opportunities are expected to emerge based duction, storage, transportation and utilization of hydrogen. Doosan Expansion of new business based on hydrogen economy roadmap 〮 E xpansion of transport application on the government's hydrogen economy roadmap. According to Corporation plans to expand its business throughout the value chain 〮 Midto long-term hydrogen production technology this roadmap, hydrogen-based fuel cells are projected to supply 15 through continuous investment in the hydrogen industry. In partic1) PEMFC: Proton Exchange Membrane Fuel Cell GW(307.6 MW in 2018) for power plants and 2.1 GW(5 MW in 2018) ular, our hydrogen fuel cell business will be expanded into various for residences/buildings by 2040. Doosan Corporation recognizes transportation applications beyond its current drone business. In the growth of the hydrogen industry under the hydrogen economy addition, we aim to enter into hydrogen production market in the roadmap as a business opportunity, and is working to secure a comlong term. Stakeholder Interview petitive technological advantage and to develop various applications. It will grow into a leading company in the hydrogen industry 1) PAFC: Phosphoric Acid Fuel Cell 2) SOFC: Solid Oxide Fuel Cell and push forward the change to an eco-friendly society. Q. Following the Korean government's announcement of a roadmap for the hydrogen economy, various policies have been implemented to vitalize the hydrogen industry. Value Chain Doosan Business Areas Please tell us about the future growth of the hydrogen industry. Hydrogen Production Transportation Hydrogen Utilization A. Building a hydrogen supply chain that can promote mass production and consumption is a prerequisite for the hydrogen economy. We need continuous government and private Byproduct Hydrogen Power generation investment leading to technological development, industrial investment and expansion of 〮 Petrochemical 1 supply in order to achieve the national vision and goals. The Korean hydrogen industry is complexes focused on building and expanding the hydrogen supply chain in the short term, but this Ulsan/Yeosu/ Daesan Building/Home Expand the market focus will be shifted to clean and green hydrogen in the long term. The recently-announced by strengthening regional energy policy is expected to promote the expansion of distributed power gencompetitiveness of Hae-weon Lee, Vice President Imported 〮 Pipeline existing products Hydrogen Economy Innovation Office, eration and the decentralization of energy policy. The role of hydrogen fuel cells will vary, Hydrogen 〮 Trailer and securing depending on the distribution of energy resources and energy demand in regions. Doosan Corporation 〮 Australia, Japan next-generation 〮 Hydrogen 〮 Tank trolley Building Home SOFC technology liquefaction/liquid phase technology -Extreme low Q. Please tell us about the direction of Doosan Corporation's hydrogen business. temperatures -Liquidization A. Doosan Corporation hopes to contribute to reducing greenhouse gases by improving the economics of hydrogen fuel cells through Hydrogen continuous technological development and investment to expand supply and improve energy efficiency. Doosan will add high-effiReforming ciency SOFCs as a new platform, in addition to with PEMFC and PAFC, the core platform technologies of fuel cells. Various forms of 〮 Reformer Transportation NG/Bio gas 2 hybridization between platforms will be promoted according to the application purpose and area and based on the specific platform -Landfill gas technologies. Hydrogen fuel cell technology will be applied to more areas, including hydrogen drones. Fuel cell powerpack for drones Drone Expand transport applications and offers new business models for industrial vehicles and construction machinery for Doosan Group under increasingly powerful enviForklift advance into the ronmental regulations. The world's first byproduct hydrogen(PAFC) fuel cell plant is about to be completed, and the development of Gree Hydrogen Ship / Train hydrogen production 〮 Water electrolysis Charging business PAFC Tri-Gen, which can produce electricity, heat and hydrogen at the same time, is accelerating. Doosan Corporation entered the system Infrastructure sector as a fuel cell business, but ultimately aims to strengthen its position as a leading company in the hydrogen economy and create 〮 Linked to renewable energy, such as another leap forward through the production of clean hydrogen, an alpha and omega in the era of the hydrogen economy. solar/wind power Doosan Corporation CSR Report 2019 VALUE OUR STAKEHOLDERS Doosan Corporation focuses its capabilities not only on economic value but also on social value creation. We are engaged in various activities to promote sustainability to communicate with various entities and stakeholders that are closely related to Doosan Corporation's management activities such as employees, customers, business Create Social Value partners, local communities, and the natural environment. 34 Our People 36 Our Planet 44 Our Partners 48 CSR Achievements and Plans 54 34 Doosan Corporation CSR Report 2019 Introduction Design the Future Spark the Growth Value our Stakeholders CSR Policy & Performance Appendix 35 Create Social Value Our People Our Planet Our Partners CSR Achievements and Plans Create Social Value Measurement of Social Value Stakeholder Interview Doosan Corporation strives to properly communicate its business on year due to a decrease in the total number of employees folinnovation performance and continuous growth process to its stakelowing the spin-off of Doosan Solus and Doosan Fuel Cell. Howholders. We aim to measure the impact of these on stakeholders, ever, increase in new employment in line with the efforts to sustain which include employees, customers, business partners, local comdecent work is worth noticing. Efforts to create a safer working enviQ. What do you think about Doosan's measuring its social value? munities, and the natural environment, in order to enhance our role ronment have further increased the quality of People value. The area as a company that contributes to society through continuous growth of Planet, which is measured by the impact of business activities on A. It is a meaningful attempt to measure the social value created by Doosan Corporation through and development and based on solid business ethics. Changes in the global environment, saw a 6% year-on-year increase in minus management activities and major products. However, it is necessary to constantly think about value for social and environmental impacts that are not represented impact. The Partners area, where our impact on shareholders, cuswhether social value can be verified objectively and what activities might be needed to build more in our financial statements are measured and monetized for easy tomers, partner companies, local communities and government social consensus. In addition, it is important to use the results of social value creation strategically. understanding by stakeholders. Measurement results are used as agencies is measured, shows that the company's positive contribuI suggest that Doosan not only to present its social value as backward-looking data, but also incorperformance indicators to enhance the value of Doosan. Doosan tion to society has increased by about 14 % year-on-year through porate it into forward-looking plans. I expect that Doosan Corporation will be well-equipped to Corporation will continue to carry out management activities to an increase in dividend yield, expansion of activities to support respond to new trends and external demands related to social value. enhance social values and communicate with stakeholders. shared growth for suppliers, and continuous community contribuJae-hyuk Lee, tion activities. Despite the spin-off of some business units, Doosan's Professor at Measurement Results total social value in 2019 was approximately KRW 459.0 billion(5% Korea University Of the social value created by Doosan Corporation in 2019, the increase year on year) similar to the previous year, showing that the area of People, which is measured the change in value of human positive trend is continuing. Doosan strives to increase its social resources, totaled KRW 159.9 billion. The overall figure fell year value based on the impact on its stakeholders. Areas of Value Measurement Social Impact Activities to Increase Value Value Created(unit: KRW billion, YOY) Positive(+) Negative(-) Employment, ·R  ealization of decent work through human rights management, Women's Council, leadership People Wages and competency training, and training performance analysis ·E  mployment Doosan's differentiated and sustainable performance can only be achieved through talents and the growth of talents. In addition, a safe and ·W  ages and ·S  afety factors Benefits ·E  mployee communication activities, etc. 159.9 People clean environment is very important to social value, as it is a duty to our benefits (9% decrease) Workplace · I oT-based EHS facility inspections, safety inspections for suppliers families, society, customers and shareholders. Accidents · EHS leadership activities, Occupational Health and Safety Management Systems(ISO 45001) certification, employee health programs, etc. Global Environment · Greenhouse gas emissions Greenhouse · I nvestment in waste heat recovery facilities, savings of idle power consumption at production As a member of both the community and society at large, Doosan should not Gases, Water, facilities, waste source responsibility management system, and expansion of investment in · Waste discharge cause environmental damage. Instead, we are taking the lead in protecting the global environment alongside the rest of humanity. Environmental · Water usage Wastewater, Waste, resource recycling facilities -16.4 Social Value 459.0 Planet ·R  esponse to and monitoring of new environmental regulations, management of water use and protection is not just a matter of corporate image, and it is an area that fulfills Atmospheric (6% decrease) ·A  ir pollutant discharge water, management of air pollutants, etc. Environment our duty in the community and creates more social value. emissions (5% increase) Shareholders · Introduction of quarterly dividend system in 2018 · Dividends, capital ·7  .3% in cash dividend yield based on common stock(increase of 162% compared to 4.5% the previous year) expenses, taxes Partners · Purchase from Impact on · Promotion of Quality Committee improvement of quality indicators, and implementation of Quality Academy Doosan understands how everything we do serves the interests of our 315.5 suppliers, Support · V iolation of Customers · Expansion of customer communication channels, strengthening of information management systems, etc. partners. For us, one important area of social value is to build a foundation for suppliers fair trade Partners for long-term success by respecting the interests of all our partners, including shareholders, customers, suppliers, communities and government agencies. · I nvestment in and (14% increase) Impact on · Shared  growth funding, Support for building smart factory and consultation donations to local Suppliers · Evaluation and management of supply chain CSR communities Impact on Local · M  easurement of social contribution impact and promotion of representative volunteering activities · Securing business Communities Profit competitiveness Doosan provides high-quality products and services to its customers, and · Strengthening · Securing business competitiveness: Improvement of manufacturing quality capacity, cost reductions, application of digital transformation Net Income generates fair and high profits for its shareholders. global Profit 533.8 · Strengthening global competitiveness: Developing market-leading products and promoting diversification competitiveness of local customers · Expanding the · Expanding the business platform: Discovering future growth engines business platform * Net income for 2019 reflected KRW 554.9 billion of discontinued operating profit from Doosan Solus and Doosan Fuel Cell. (850% increase) 36 Doosan Corporation CSR Report 2019 Introduction Design the Future Spark the Growth Value our Stakeholders CSR Policy & Performance Appendix 37 Create Social Value Our People Our Planet Our Partners CSR Achievements and Plans Realizing a Desirable Organizational Culture Decent work through human rights management Human Rights Impact Assessment (HRIA) Due diligence Through human rights impact assessments, we actively identify Due diligence consists of the assessment, improvement and commupotential human rights violation issues in the areas of discriminanication of human rights risks. In 2019, Doosan Corporation estabtion, forced labor, wages, working hours, child labor, freedom of lished a human rights due diligence plan and conducted assessment association, consumer human rights, information security. Doosan on four domestic and Chinese corporations. We selected five major conducts these assessments for all its BGs/BUs and suppliers in areas(human rights management, fair treatment, prohibition of all countries where Doosan is in operation. Human rights impact forced labor, respect and communication, and organizational culassessments have been conducted on approx. 80.2% of the total ture) out of the top ten areas of human rights impact assessments. number of employees in the last 3 years, and we aim to complete it 01 for 100% of employees by 2021. OUR PEOPLE Human Rights Due Diligence Human Rights Monitoring Process Business sites with due diligence completed 01 Commitment of Human Rights Policy WHY IT IS IMPORTANT Risk & Impact Assessment The world is facing a new industrial paradigm shift based on the Fourth Preparation of Company-wide Industrial Revolution, and hyper-uncertainty is emerging due to the rapidly Human Rights Assessment System Percentage of 02 changing business environment. In this management environment, the imporEmployees participating 1. Establish assessment areas HRIA* 2. Establish assessment scope tance of selecting and nurturing key talents that will lead the company's future 2017~2019 3. E stablish assessment period & plan is gradually increasing. In addition, the company's efforts to improve the satis80.2 4. Summarize assessment result faction of its employees are gradually expanding, such as providing employees % with safer and more comfortable working conditions and introducing various Preventive & Mitigating Actions in-house systems to guarantee work-life balance. Plan for Risk Prevention Measures Based on Assessment Results 03 HOW WE RESPOND 1. T ake institutional actions for vulnerable areas Doosan Corporation is pursuing long-term growth based on its 2G strateOccupational 2. Educate and communicate Accident Rate Through HRIA activities at home and abroad gy(Growth of People, Growth of Business) of nurturing talented people, and is committed to realizing a virtuous circle in which corporate growth provides 0.06 Risks identified Remediation measures % Performance Assessment & Disclosure 0.20%p opportunities for individuals to grow. In addition, we are carrying out various taken Review and Reporting of Human Rights 15 cases 14 cases activities, such as creating a safe working environment, strengthening human up 04 Management Assessment rights management, and realizing a happy organization for employees based Disclosure of Human Rights Management on a corporate culture that respects them. Workplace Accidents of Human Rights Due Diligence at Chinese Corporations Midto Long-Term Tasks from Due Diligence at Chinese Corporations Suppliers Link to Materiality 2019 Doosan conducted interviews with 26 core employees at its Chinese Reorganize grievance 0 corporations as part of human rights due diligence. Significant feedEnhance human 01 process and guidence 02 · Realization of a desirable organizational culture rights education for employeees CASES back was collected. Shortand medium-term management meafor workplaces sures were established to resolve issues that were raised and to · Development of employee capabilities implement systematic preventive & mitigation measures. Provide summer Strengthen · Implementation of a safe working environment 03 vacation bonus for 04 communications with welfare promotion Korea HQ · Respect for human rights *HRIA: Human Rights Impact Assessment 38 Doosan Corporation CSR Report 2019 Introduction Design the Future Spark the Growth Value our Stakeholders CSR Policy & Performance Appendix 39 Create Social Value Our People Our Planet Our Partners CSR Achievements and Plans Establishing Happy Corporate Culture through Women's Council Women's Council Overcoming Generation Gap in Organization Doosan's Women's Council was established in 2014 with the aim As of the end of June 2019, 57% of Doosan's office workers born after Satisfaction survey for <Welcome! First Time With a Millennial?> of creating a family-friendly and healthy corporate culture in which 1981. 'Welcome! First Time With a Millennial?', a special lecture, was gender equality is realized. In the early years, the Women's Council prepared to help create a better organizational culture by improving 4.4% 2.2% focused on programs for establishing a culture of gender equality the understanding generational differences. Eighty employees par15.6% 11.1% and developing women's leadership. It now plans and implements ticipated in the lecture. Doosan's employees got to understand the various programs to promote the well-being and happiness of Doodifferences between generations from a demographic perspective I will recommend The program helped 17.8% san's employees. and had time to talk about our organizational culture and the future. to colleagues. for better work/life. In 2019, we received a great response from employees regarding 80% 60.9% various programs that were implemented to increase their emotional resilience, such as, 'Welcome! First Time With a Millennial?', which dealt with how to understand the generation gap within an Strongly agree Agree Neutral Disagree Strongly disagree No response organization and deal with related issues, and 'Welcome! First Time With an Adolescent?' to help employees strengthen communication * Survey of 45 participants 'Welcome! First Time With a Millennial?' with their teenaged children. Stakeholder Interview Better Parent Project 'Welcome! First Time With an Adolescent?', presented by the Women's Council, was a special lecture on better parenting for employees Q. How should corporate culture develop? and spouses who were having difficulty communicating with their adolescent children or who wanted to develop a stronger relationA. The business environment is changing, with telecommuting and teleworking ship with their children. The special lecture was attended by 140 becoming more common due to recent environmental factors such as COVID19, techemployees and spouses of Doosan Corporation along with their adonological advances in mobile devices and remote solutions, and the millennial generlescent children, and a special external speaker was invited to help ation, who are familiar with telecommuting and teleworking. Keywords like flexibility, them strengthen their communication with one another. autonomy, and responsibility, which are ideal notions about organizational culture, are rapidly being realized due to such environmental impacts. In the end, I think the biggest issue relating to organizational culture will be <how to communicate with Satisfaction Survey for 'Welcome! First Time With an Adolescent?' 'autonomy' and 'responsibility' in a situation where 'uncontact' is accelerating, and Jae-yeon Park how to create 'real performance' through 'flexible adaptation'>. 7% 7% CEO of Replus Humanlab 1% 3% Q. What do you think about Doosan's projects, 'Better Parent' and 'Overcoming Generation Gap in Organization,' to create a 12% happy organizational culture? I will recommend This would help 13% communicate with to other parents. children. A. A happy organizational culture is formed through a close link between roles of parents and leaders. Parents of unhappy families 90% 87% cannot be happy at work. If they are not happy at work where they spend much time, their personal life can't be happy either. 'Work-life balance' cannot be achieved if employees cannot focus on their work when they are annoyed. I think that a true work-life balance is achieved through mutual respect and relationships. Children and parents should work hard for safety, but solve their Strongly agree Agree Neutral problems while maintaining mutual respect. Team members and leaders should work hard for personal growth, but also consider Disagree Strongly disagree No response organizational growth, also while maintaining mutual respect. That's because the important invisible string of trust is the biggest * Survey of 110 participants 'Welcome! First Time With an Adolescent?' variable in maintaining trust between people. Doosan Corporation should review mutual respect and consider promoting internal programs. 40 Doosan Corporation CSR Report 2019 Introduction Design the Future Spark the Growth Value our Stakeholders CSR Policy & Performance Appendix 41 Create Social Value Our People Our Planet Our Partners CSR Achievements and Plans Employee Training Based on Impact Analysis Developing Employee Competencies Doosan Corporation conducts an impact analysis on training courses ysis on how our MBA program has affected the growth of junior for employees to provide better quality education. This education leaders and has been upgrading trainings since 2013 to better underLeader Competency in Responding to Hyper-Uncertainty Leader Training Curriculum for Future Growth Insights impact analysis measures the degree of on-the-job application as well stand effectiveness of the Junior MBA program at enhancing the capaDoosan Corporation has operated various training programs to as organizational and job transfer rates as key factors. The results are bilities of our junior leaders. foster leaders who can respond quickly to changing business condireflected in the planning and improvement activities of our employees Module 1 Strategic Decision-Making Component tions. In 2019, we created a training programs to enhance the stratraining courses. Doosan Corporation has conducted scientific analStrategy Competitive Advantage Methodology tegic decision-making capabilities of our leaders from a financial point of view. A total of 143 business team and part leaders participated in the Module 2 Economic Indicators for Decision Making training programs. Those leaders acquired future growth insights Finance Financial Accounting, Cost and Management Accounting for their business based on the strategic perspective of the organization's vision, and learned financial decision-making skills by gaining understanding of financial acumen. Module 3 Strategic Challenges This program, comprised of education and workshops, was conWorkshop Action Plan for Each BG ducted to help team leaders identify how the BGs tasks worked in conjunction with Doosan's enterprise management strategy. We plan to strengthen our leadership's innovation capabilities to create a consensus on innovation and promote quantitative and qualitative growth in our business in this era of hyper-uncertainty. Impact Analysis of the Junior MBA Leader Training Curriculum for Future It was a very meaningful time for Doosan leaders to discuss its straGrowth Insights tegic direction related to the company's future growth. If the related 143persons education continues to be developed regularly, it will be a good Work The support or promotion factors needed to Obstacles Both participants of the training program nourishment to strengthen the company's strategic competitiveRelevance successfully apply the content learned through and their managers select a heavy workload Leader training to build the right future strategy ness. the training program are continuous stimulation during Junior MBA, which can act as an obstacle Commnent from a participant and motivation. to the effectiveness of program. Job transfer rate Training program and Training program and job in the field after training work relevance performance improvement Position transfer rate Positive response rate Positive response rate 28% 69% 62% 42 Doosan Corporation CSR Report 2019 Introduction Design the Future Spark the Growth Value our Stakeholders CSR Policy & Performance Appendix 43 Create Social Value Our People Our Planet Our Partners CSR Achievements and Plans Workplace Safety Management Advancing Site Safety Management Doosan Corporation operates the Win-Win Safety and Health CoopRisk Assessment and Management Doosan Corporation has set strengthening 'field safety' as its top The existing EHS impact assessment process for new or changed eration Program with its suppliers to strengthen EHS support activities. We strive to implement disaster-free worksites by managing the Organization of Risk Assessment Team priority and is making its management system more sophisticated. production facilities and processes has been divided into three Electro-Materials BG extends the MOC(Management of Change) phases through the MOC process. Doosan Corporation does its best safety and health levels of suppliers, covering risk assessment, sup· Interviewing with managers and identifying safety and health status(on-site inspection, etc.) process to all manufacturing processes in order to proactively idento identify and eliminate potential hazards through risk assessments port for safety and health training, and guidance on safety and health tify potential risks and prevent accidents. prepared at each stage: before order, before construction, and after technology. In addition, we operate health promotion programs construction. for suppliers based on prevention activities for stress, as well as for Risk Assessment mental, cardiovascular, and musculoskeletal disorders, etc. Doosan · Risk assessment training, collecting opinions from workers, and MOC(Management of Change) Process Corporation is fully committed to safety and health management establishing a risk improvement plan activities for its employees, including the employees of its suppliers. Description Before Order Before Construction After Construction Responsibles Change Management Committee Safety Planning Approval Committee Final Approval Committee for Change Risk Improvement Activities · Determination of MOC class · Construction safety plan and work safety · Inspection before operation and preparation · Supporting risk improvement and monitoring (class 1 to 3 according to risk) analysis of punch list risk improvement status Health and Safety Risk Assessment · Confirmation of possible risks · Identification of risks before construction · Establishment of a work improvement plan (discussion of related laws, changes, EHS (daily check for all workers) · Preparation and amendment of SOP D  oosan's risk assessment team conducts assessment jointly with issues, etc.) · Issuance of daily security work letter suppliers. · Training of new workers · Conducting a risk assessment in advance Identify potential risks based on the 4M principle (machine, man, management, media) NFC sensors Inspection/ installed maintenance by C  lassfiy identified risks according to frequency and intensity, and on equipment smartphone tagging develop improvement plan and activities in case of high-level risks Supporting EHS Activities of Suppliers Four Strategies for Safety Management of Suppliers Doosan has established and operated four major directions to EHS Facility Inspection Powered by IoT 01 02 strengthen employee safety management of its suppliers and Mobile EHS inspection system with IoT technology has been introachieved zero accidents in 2019. We share EHS management capaOperate health & safety Identified potential risks via duced to realize a safe working environment. The system uses tablet council joined by suppliers site inspection Internet Cloud bilities and major regulation changes through regular EHS sessions devices and beacon* location technology to inspect equipment within and conduct joint inspections to identify and resolve potential risks scope of operators. The EHS inspection system is now undergoing at at worksites. In addition, we strive to manage risk assessment, safety Electro-Materials Gimchen plant and will be gradually expanded to 03 04 and health education, and technical support for suppliers at the all worksites. Doosan Corporation will upgrade the EHS inspection same level as those of Doosan Corporation through Win-Win Safety Offer employee training for Provide EHS performancesystem. supplier's to enhance EHS based incentives and Health Cooperation Program. Doosan Corporation plans to supcompetence *What is Beacon technology? It's a smartphone near-field communication port EHS not its in-house suppliers but also outside suppliers(secProvision of Information technology for browsing equipment at close range based on the user's location information to collection and ondary suppliers). and connecting them to smartphone programs. facility managers control by (inspection date, management inspection time, agency replacement time, etc.) Accidents by In-house Suppliers (unit: cases) 2016 10 2017 4 2018 5 2019 0 * For 1,700 employees of 94 in-house suppliers. 44 Doosan Corporation CSR Report 2019 Introduction Design the Future Spark the Growth Value our Stakeholders CSR Policy & Performance Appendix 45 Create Social Value Our People Our Planet Our Partners CSR Achievements and Plans Efforts to Reduce Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Energy Use Reduction in GHG Emissions Based on Improving Energy Efficiency of Production Facilities Energy Reduction Activities Doosan Corporation is expanding activities to improve the efficiency of its production facilities in order to meet GHG management tarAs demand and regulations for reducing greenhouse gas emisgets. In 2019, energy KPIs were established to introduce a unit persions and improving air quality have increased, Doosan Corporaformance management system and to discover energy waste factors. tion is carrying out greenhouse gas reduction activities through its Electro-Materials BG reduced LNG usage by improving the operational Energy Management Committee, which was established in 2018. As efficiency of incinerators and improved power efficiency by removing all BGs became subject to the government's GHG and Energy Target unused pipes when changing the cooling water pipes of cooling the Management System, Doosan Corporation has established energy tower. In 2020, Doosan Corporation plans to focus on energy saving saving plans for BGs and is promoting investment and reduction activities at five major businesses with high power consumption, activities to achieve GHG goals. including Electro-Materials Jeungpyeong, Iksan and Gimcheon plants and Mottrol BG to enhance the system for improving energy efficiency. 02 In 2019, the amount of electricity used at Doosan's worksites in energy-intensive management was 87,322 MWh, which was 18.1 % less than that of the previous year. Doosan makes efforts to OUR PLANET reduce greenhouse gases based on energy reduction activities and increased investment in facilities. Electric Power Savings at Major Worksites* WHY IT IS IMPORTANT (Unit: MWh) Environmental pollution issues, caused by the expansion of corporate production/consumption activities, are a global challenge. Accordingly, various memSales Ratio of 2017 2,075 bers of society, such as nations and corporate citizens, are seeking different Eco-friendly Products 2018 2,987 solutions to solve the environmental problems that are emerging globally. Environmental legislation is expanding in major developed countries subject 60 2019 3,529 to CSR, such as the EU, and demands for disclosure of relevant information % Idle Power Management Savings through various channels are gradually increasing. Our Energy Management Committee has set idle electric power sav*Worksites with high power consumption subject to intensive energy management: Electro-Materials BG's Jeungpyeong, Iksan and Gimcheon ings of air conditioners and isothermal humidifiers as a key point for plants and Mottrol BG HOW WE RESPOND energy savings and GHG emission reductions, and is conducting Doosan Corporation aims to minimize the impact of its corporate activirelated systematic management activities. Total Investment in ties on the global environment. To this end, we are carrying out activities to Facilities for Reducing Environmental Impact Investment in Energy Saving Equipment At Electro-Materials BG, 74% of power is consumed by the air conreduce greenhouse gas emissions based on energy reduction, and various (Domestic worksites) (Mottrol BG, investment in heat recovery equipment) ditioning facilities used to control indoor temperature and humidity. other activities to proactively respond to government regulations, including reducing air pollutant emissions at worksites. KRW 6 3.1times↑ Electro-Materials BG's Jeungpyeong plant saved 471,627 kW of billion energy by adjusting the load of the air conditioning/temperature 460 compared to 2018 resistor. Electro-Materials BG's Gimcheon plant saved 593,154 kW of KRW million energy by adjusting fan/motor operation and raised the basic temperature of the air conditioner by 2°C. Energy Savings (5 major worksites) Link to Materiality KRW 640 ·Efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions million and energy use ·Increased resource circulation and recycling 46 Doosan Corporation CSR Report 2019 Introduction Design the Future Spark the Growth Value our Stakeholders CSR Policy & Performance Appendix 47 Create Social Value Our People Our Planet Our Partners CSR Achievements and Plans Investment in Heat Recovery Facilities Resource Circulation Mottrol BG introduced an eco-friendly facility for recycling high-temperature exhaust gases from air pollution prevention facilities and Advanced Resource Circulation System Resource Circulation Initiative(2030) Waste Generation uses them for energy saving activities. The facility realizes energy (Domestic Waste Generation, unit: ton) savings by collecting waste heat through the heat exchanger from Doosan Corporation has established a waste recycling-based collector and by supplying it to the surrounding air-conditioning and resource recycling process to minimize waste generation in its busiReclamation and heating system. Energy saving is expected to reduce greenhouse ness activities and to establish a resource circulation system that can 30% incineration rate gas emissions by 331 tCO2 (air conditioner KRW 125 million) per year. recycle unavoidable waste as much as possible. We have established A total of KRW 460 million was invested in the facility installed in June a resource circulation initiative to gradually expand our recycling rate 2019 15,124 70% 2020. Doosan Corporation plans to invest in facilities that can reduce for waste from 70 % as of 2019 to 90 % by 2030 as we put into practice Recycling rate energy and greenhouse gas emissions. management activities to minimize our environmental impact. Doosan 13,971 Corporation has established a responsibility management system for 13,600 waste sources of BGs to enable us to proactively respond the Frame13,282 Heat Recovery System work Act on Resource Circulation. A resource circulation goal is set for BGs such as Electro-Materials, Mottrol and Industrial Vehicle BGs. Reclamation and 10% incineration rate The amount of waste generated is managed according to the BG and the process. Doosan Corporation has established emission goals 2030 for its BGs by selecting waste that needs to be reduced, preparing a 90% Waste heat generated in Recycling rate factory facilities material balance analysis of emissions performance and establishing improvement measures. In 2019, we reduced the amount of waste we 2016 2017 2018 2019 Heat exchanger: produced by 1,000 tons compared to that of 2018(based on the total 100~120℃ domestic volume of regular and hazardous waste). Waste heat recovery equipment Establishing a Resource Circulation Process Based on (collection Stack Waste Recycling equipment) Hot water: ① Air-conditioning units: 9 ea(heating supply) Doosan Corporation is building a resource circulation process to reduce Stakeholder Interview 85℃ waste. We make efforts to settle the resource recycling process by reviewing whether it can be recycled and discovering recycling companies. Q. What do you think about Doosan's energy savings and greenhouse Heat Analysis of waste types and components gas reduction activities? storage A. In terms of business, Doosan's fuel cell business can make an important contribution to the hydrogen economy. In terms of internal management, Doosan's Energy Selection of recyclable waste and establishment of Management Committee, operated by its BGs, is the main body for the energy manWashing solution TANK Washing solution TANK recycling standards agement plan and activities to reduce greenhouse gas emissions through energy ② Hot water from ③ Hot water from oil-coating pretreatment oil assembly tunnel management. I hope that Doosan makes more efforts to raise awareness of the envifacility: 55℃ washer: 55℃ ronment among employees. Discovery of recycling companies Establishment of a virtuous circle system, Q. How do you think corporate resource recycling should be activated? including monthly recycling treatment notices Il-kyu Lee, Director Korea Environmental Industry and A. The concept of a circular economy pursuing sustainability through resource saving Technology Institute and recycling has been spreading around Europe, especially in the EU. The most important concept in the circular economy system is the recovery of resources from existing products and their utilization in manufacturing, without any collection of new resources. I hope Doosan Corporation will continue to pursue innovative technologies that can reflect measures to facilitate recycling after disposal for all products manufactured and produced by the company. 48 Doosan Corporation CSR Report 2019 Introduction Design the Future Spark the Growth Value our Stakeholders CSR Policy & Performance Appendix 49 Create Social Value Our People Our Planet Our Partners CSR Achievements and Plans Competitive Enhancement through Supplier Support Programs Support for Smart Factories Doosan is working with the government to support smalland The selected suppliers have introduced smart factory systems taimedium-sized suppliers in building smart factories with the aim of lored to their plant facilities and processes. Some suppliers estabstrengthening their competitiveness for productivity improvement. lished new integrated Manufacturing Execution System(MES) and In 2019, a total of eight small and medium-sized suppliers selected by real-time Programmable Logic Controller(PLC) using remote manBGs were supported of KRW 800 million through Doosan's support agement devices. Doosan has achieved quality stabilization and project to secure standardization and efficiency of production prostandardized processes for suppliers' products. cesses. 03 Achievements in Supporting Smart Factories The eight suppliers who participated in the support project established smart OUR PA RTNER S factories in their desired locations. They received substantial support in enhancing their core competitiveness in processes, including manufacturing cost reduction, productivity improvement, and process defect rate reduction. WHY IT IS IMPORTANT Companies are corporate citizens and members of their community. To achieve Supply Chain sustainable growth, they must grow and develop together with their supply Purchases Average manufacturing lead time Average process defect rate Average delivery compliance chain and local communities. Mutual growth and sharing can be done by Total purchases in the domestic 16.85%↓ and overseas supply chain of anyone, but not by everyone. The practice of sharing with partners and local Doosan Corporation 28.02%↓ 3.95%↑ communities will be an important foundation for realizing a sustainable society. KRW 1,553 billion HOW WE RESPOND Doosan Corporation is engaged in a number of different activities to grow with its various stakeholders. We carry out activities based on the needs of our partEstablishment of Integrated Management Execution This supplier reduced their manufacturing lead time from 180 hours ners such as supporting smart factories for shared growth, and upgrading Social Contribution System to 160 hours, and manufacturing costs by 3 % through the introducInvestment social contribution activities aligned with business to practice sharing with local tion of a smart factory. In addition, their delivery compliance rate One of Industrial Vehicle BG's suppliers benefited from Doosan's 7,512 communities. We are also focusing our capabilities on quality management improved from 95 % to 98 %. Doosan Corporation will expand supKRW smart factory support project, and realized productivity improvements activities through our Quality Committee to enhance customer satisfaction. port for smalland medium-sized suppliers in building smart facmillion 31%↑ in their production facilities with the introduction of the Integrated tories, while strengthening their competitiveness and solidifying compared Management Execution System(MES), which controls process automato 2018 Doosan's value chain. tion machine facilities and related equipment in real time. Total Volunteer Hours Link to Materiality 7,929 ·Highest-level quality management hours ·Support for shared growth and strengthening of CSR activities ·Social contribution aligned with business 50 Doosan Corporation CSR Report 2019 Introduction Design the Future Spark the Growth Value our Stakeholders CSR Policy & Performance Appendix 51 Create Social Value Our People Our Planet Our Partners CSR Achievements and Plans Consulting Support for Suppliers Description Consulting Task Realization of the Highest Quality Control Doosan is conducting consulting support activities to strengthen the 〮 Analysis of purchase and improvement of raw materials/calculation of inventory turnover rate manufacturing competitiveness of its major suppliers. In addition 〮 Re-establishment of labor cost rate for each facility according to to minimizing the burden on suppliers through full cost support, to actual operations Advanced Quality Control System Supporting Tasks to Improve Quality Indicators 〮 Analysis of quality defects and drawing up of improvement measures ensure the active participation of suppliers and more effective con〮 Analysis of purchases and review of activities for Doosan Corporation realizes customer satisfaction based on prodDoosan Corporation selects major tasks for each BG/BU to improve sulting operations, core themes were selected in consideration of improving raw materials/simplifying welding companies ucts that deliver superior quality and best solutions. We have been quality KPIs for each business sector and manages them at the com〮 Purchasing analysis and activities to improve key materials the urgency and expected effects, which were determined through Industrial 〮 Establishment of FCU product unit price system/detailed operating the Quality Committee since 2015, and have conducted pany level. Major tasks are selected by the Quality Committee. Each Vehicle profit analysis on monthly closing prior assessments of suppliers. mutual exchange between BG/BU based on the committee. The 〮 Establishment of standard time for can manufacturing and BG/BU shares its status/target and actively discusses related issues improvement of productivity Quality Committee, consisting of three BGs, is expanded to nine BGs in order to establish a quality indicator improvement task. EstabIn 2019, with consideration for urgency and expected effects, three to 〮 Improvement of defects in painting and can manufacturing/ analysis and improvement of steel plate purchasing and invested companies, and is engaged in quality innovation activlished improvement tasks are continuously managed through regfour themes were selected(i.e., improving productivity, redefining the 〮Review of possible integration of parts processing purchase ities based on quality data analysis and quality working group comular inspection processes. quality control system, optimizing the operation of raw materials and 〮Establishment of cost basis and calculating labor cost rate/ petency activities. subcontractors, analyzing business profitability, establishing inveninventory classification standard 〮Redefining production performance management system/ Support Process for BG/BU Quality Index Improvement Tasks tory operation plans, etc.). Then, three to eight months of profespreparing costing standards In 2019, quality diagnosis activities were carried out at BGs, and the Mottrol sional consulting were conducted for ten suppliers to reduce costs, 〮Organizational maintenance and establishment of quality system was upgraded by discovering related risks. Risk and performance management indicators for each departments Quality Committee Implementation improve quality levels, and strengthen manufacturing competitive〮Preparation of manufacturing process standardization and diagnosis findings from quality diagnosis activities were presented ness. Electrofacility management manual as the main agenda of the Quality Committee and horizontal discusDiscussing/ Implementing/ Materials 〮Reduced production time/improved yields, and establishment Sharing current establishing support supporting of PQ system by products sion activities were carried out. Doosan Corporation will do its best status/target tasks measures improvement tasks Fuel Cell 〮 Improving work processes and logistics/process quality control system to upgrade its BG-specific quality management system based on 〮 Establishing a worker certification system Sharing improvement Discuss/establish Provide full-time 〮 On-site inspection and documents based on the Occupational Safety the Quality Committee and maximize customer satisfaction through tasks to achieve support measures support under and Health Act and the Toxic Chemicals Control Act products. annual quality index for quality indicator established support Bio 〮 Establishment of a KPI management system/shortening of work goals for each BG improvement tasks plans preparation time 〮 Establishment of quality assurance documents and matching processes(process QA/QC system) Key Activities of the Quality Committee Supporting Collaboration on Key Tasks for Each BGs Stakeholder Interview 〮 Improvement of vulnerable systems at each BG BG/BU Major Tasks Co-work Partners 〮 Horizontal deployment of key items derived from Upgrading Mottrol Upgrade of quality system Industrial Vehicle/ the quality Electro-Materials system quality diagnosis results(standard operations, Fuel Cell Strengthening of the supplier Electro-Materials/Induschange point management, traceability) Q. How should large companies support for their suppliers and develop shared growth activities? management system trial Vehicle/Mottrol Bio Promotion of process improveElectro-Materials A. Doosan Corporation has been carrying out various shared growth activities since last year, ment/stabilization which have helped its smalland medium-sized business partners strengthen their innovaFCP Improvement in field quality Quality Committee 〮 Spread of quality data analysis techniques to all BGs Enhancement of data through data management tion activities and problem-solving capabilities. The representative mutual growth program analytics 〮 Contribution of data analysis to generating results Industrial Reinforcement of DCA/ Quality Committee that I received from Doosan Corporation was a consulting support program for strengthcapabilities Vehicle Kansei quality ening global competitiveness. Outside professional consultants were dispatched to my company, and PSM was promoted for about four months to reduce costs. I was able to learn more 〮 Operation of professional human resources systematic inventory management methods and improve my business profitability analysis Improvement Improving Personnel Competency through Quality training courses of capabilities capabilities. Innovative training for full-time employees has helped them develop a mind for in quality 〮 Support for mutual cooperation of BGs through Academy Gun-sin Park change. If these activities are expanded from primary to the secondary and tertiary suppliers, personnel QRS*, based on current status Quality Academy courses are operated to improve the quality manCEO Sung Sin Industries Co., Ltd. it will be more effective in strengthening the overall competitiveness of the industry. *QRS: Quality Review Session agement capabilities of employees. Doosan's Quality Academy courses provide a quality competency training system for each posiQ. Is there anything you want related to Doosan's partner support activities in the future? tion, focusing on basic to advanced quality training courses. The A. I was able to access funds at very low interest rates through a shared growth fund created by quality management skill of quality personnel is improved through Doosan with financial institutions. This fund helped me deal with the difficult economic envipractical training courses that can be applied immediately in practice. ronment that has arisen due to COVID-19. I was able to lay a foundation for enhancing cost The basic quality course is an essential training course for all workcompetitiveness by establishing a wage rate and cost management system through the maning-level staff who are in charge of quality control, and particiagement consulting. In addition, support programs for health checkups and funeral services pants learn data management and quality problem solving skills to for employees of Doosan's suppliers and their spouses are very popular among employees. improve process quality. The advanced quality course is a selected I hope that mutual growth will be upgraded to strengthen the technology management of and advanced course, focusing on FMEA(Failure Mode & Effects Analsuppliers and the programs that can solve the problem of manpower shortages at smalland ysis) contents based on third-party cases. medium-sized enterprises in conjunction with large companies. 52 Doosan Corporation CSR Report 2019 Introduction Design the Future Spark the Growth Value our Stakeholders CSR Policy & Performance Appendix 53 Create Social Value Our People Our Planet Our Partners CSR Achievements and Plans Advancement of Social Contribution Projects 'Woori Doori' Sports Program for Youths with Disability 'Tomorrow Lab,' Youth Convergence Education Program 'Woori Doori' is a sports program designed to help youths with develTomorrow Lab, a youth convergence training program, is a scienopment disabilities who usually lack the opportunity to experience tific education program for middle and high school students aimed Social Value of Representative 'Woori Doori' Three-Year SROI of 'Woori Doori' Program at fostering convergence thinking and problem-solving skills among group sports or build physical strength and improve social skills. For Program 188% youths with disabilities in Seoul, Incheon, Iksan, and Changwon areas, teenagers. The curriculum for middle school students will be held Doosan Corporation measured the quantitative social where Doosan subsidiaries are located, a group of volunteers particiin the first grade class under the 'Free Year Policy'* and consist of a 132% 16-week course to learn the principles of science in life and industry, contribution performance of the 'Woori Doori' sports pated in the program and provided T-ball* coaching. program for youths with disability for three years(201677% and to devise new applications to solve future social problems using Classes are organized according to the guidance of profes2018). Doosan measured SROI(Social Return on Investexisting industrial products(e.g. excavators, robotic arms, wind gensional instructors, and a group of volunteers composed of Doosan ment) for the 'Woori Doori' program and quantified the erators, etc.) through design thinking techniques. 2016 2017 2018 employees and college students participated in the program. Youths benefits to beneficiaries. Doosan Corporation was able The curriculum for high school students is operated as an autono· 'Woori Doori' program shows a social performance growth rate four times higher than with development disabilities gathered together at the end of the to see how much the 'Woori Doori' social contribution the increase in input costs, and the average SROI value for the three years was 138%. mous club activity. We provide project-type activities for producing year for a sports day. In 2019, 220 youths with disabilities took part project has contributed to society. · In the future, it is expected to generate impact-level performance through the products alongside Doosan's employees that can solve social probdiversification of programs(Promotion of sports for those with disabilities, improvement in 146 T-ball training sessions, and 275 employees(586 hours) particof public awareness of disabilities, integrated physical training for people with and ipated in the training. In addition, the program received the Mayor's lems uncovered by students under the annual theme of the Sustainwithout disabilities, etc.). Award for Social Contribution in Seoul. able Development Goals(SDGs). In 2019, a total of 267 students from *T-ball: A new sport where a polyurethane baseball on a T-shaped stick is hit 9 middle schools and 15 high schools in 5 regions participated to without a pitcher. develop their dreams and abilities in science and engineering. *What is SROI? Formula for Calculating SROI *Free School Year Program: It has been implemented in Korea since 2020 to help SROI was developed by REDF(Roberts Enterprise Development students reduce burden of exams and find their dreams and talents during firstFund), a USA private foundation that invests in employment-type year of middle school. Monetization of social performance social enterprises, and spread by the NEF(New Economics FounX 100 = Social Value dation), a third-sector research institute in the U.K. It is a frameInput cost work that can quantify the concept of ROI used in economics by applying it to values in a wide range of areas, including various societies and environments. Formula for Calculating Outcome Benefit Description of indicator Formula SROI Measurement Methodology for 'Woori Doori' Promotion of Converting the class time and Program unit price × basic physical number of classes that youths with Number of classes × strength through disabilities participated in the proNumber of participants Input Input Resources participation gram to improve basic fitness into Calculation 〮C  alculation of project costs, manpower, time, etc. in the programs the cost that would be paid to participate in a similar program Stakeholder Interview Major Activities Improving social Converting the class time and Program unit price × Activity adaptation skills number of classes that youths with Number of classes × Analysis 〮 T-ball program, new sports, field day, etc. through disabilities participated in the proNumber of participants participation in gram to improve social adaptation Q. What do you think about Doosan Corporation's representative cultural and arts skills into the cost that would be paid Performances programs to participate in a similar program social contribution project, 'Woori Doori'? Output Reduced medical Measured medical expenses Reduced annual medical Calculation 〮 T-ball program: 359 sessions conducted, expenses due to saved by improving basic physexpenses × Number of particiA. 'Woori Doori' is important because it focuses on the problems of youths with disabilities, 917 employees volunteered, etc. improved basic ical strength and motor skills and pants in the program for persons which are relatively underrepresented in corporate social contributions, and because it has physical strength health through participation in prowith development disabilities who and athletic ability grams by youths with disability participated in sports activities been operated according to a long-term plan, as can be seen in its four-year history. It is also Benefits for People a great achievement in terms of business scalability to carry out programs for elementary Understanding Cost to acquire an individual's Average social education costs 〮 Improving physical strength/sociability/social adaptation Social Conflict understanding and knowledge for those in their 20s through 50s school students with disabilities. Beyond just measuring the effectiveness of the annual and Improving of society to alleviate × Number of employees particiskills of youths with developmental disabilities Perception of social conflicts pating in volunteer work program, I think it was a timely attempt to verify that the project is achieving its actual busi〮 Improving awareness of employees and university Outcome Calculation Disability (improvement of awareness of Average social education costs student volunteers of disabilities disability) for those in their 20s × Number of ness objectives and to measure social performance. If the 'Woori Doori' project is expanded 〮 Increased income for program instructors and related participants in volunteer work for through cooperation with disabled groups or disabled sports organizations in the future, it college students Kyung-woon Lee agencies will become a representative sports program for disabled youths at home and abroad. Increased income Increased income of professional Increase in Income × Vice President Plan M *SROI measurement area: monetization of significant achievements among direct changes to the beneficiary of stakeholders instructors through Woori Doori Number of classes × (professional proprogram to improve the effectiveTraining time × gram instructor) ness and quality of programs where Number of instructors Q. What should we do to upgrade SROI measurement in social contribution? compared to other instructor fees are set higher than Expected Long-term & Indirect Changes programs other programs A. There were parts that could not be quantified despite the qualitatively meaningful results due to the lack of clear prior research on the 〮 Promoting sports for disabilities, improving social performance and measurement of the 'Woori Doori' project. If research is conducted to secure objective reliability in the social perIncreased instituSupport for Korean Society for Actual payment cost = Impact tional income and Rehabilitation of persons with External income and Calculation public awareness of disabilities, growing up as promoted sponsor developmental disabilities to propromotion effect formance and measurement of social contribution projects, especially when there is a need for numericalization, it is possible to quantify a healthy society for youths with development programs mote the program and network of more accurate results. Also, I think it is important to focus on the problems that are found in the process of producing results rather than disabilities, etc. related organizations for youths with disabilities simply evaluating the high and low results, and to always keep in mind that improved social performance is the essential measurement. 54 Doosan Corporation CSR Report 2019 Introduction Design the Future Spark the Growth Value our Stakeholders CSR Policy & Performance Appendix 55 Create Social Value Our People Our Planet Our Partners CSR Achievements and Plans CSR Achievements and Plans Activities in 2019 Plans in 2020 Midto Long-Term Plans Performance Indicators in 2019 ･ Declaration of human rights policy ･ E xpanding human rights management practice and ･ Monitoring potential human rights risks in all worksites Turnover rate(Voluntary turnover Performance of human ･ Establishment of a human rights impact assessment system inspection system ･ Achieving 100% in taking actions to mitigate potential human rights risks rate of regular employees) rights impact assessment ･ Expanding the coverage of human rights evaluation 5% Promotion and expansion of the system to overseas business sites from 2017 to 2019 ･ Settlement of the 52-hour work week system ･ Development and review of mandatory human rights ･ Continuous improvement of system/culture for work-life balance of Employee 2% ･ Expansion of Women's Council activities Participation rate of employees 80.2% Value management programs ･ E xpanding the system for work-life balance and laying Midto long-term Target the foundation for activation ･ Expansion of key training programs ･ Strengthening leadership/job training of ･ Verification and upgrade of impact measurement of job/technical training Average hours of training Continue to work rate for Human Strategic/financial courses for leaders, Insight training newly established subsidiaries ･ Introduction of education ROI evaluation and indicator management per employee 12 months after childcare leave ･ E xpanding and improvement of on-the-job application ･ Strengthening diversity and establishing a culture of gender equality 44 hours for top technicians, etc. 75% Resource Development ･ Evaluation and improvement of on-the-job application ･ Improving job development and recruitment process for ･ E xpand maternal protection program and create a 74 hours 85% people with disabilities and Respect for Diversity foundation for expanding employment of disabled workers ･ CEO's signing support for UNGC WEPs Midto long-term Target Midto long-term Target (Principles of Strengthening Women's Competency) ･ Establishing a monitoring system for accident prevention ･ Establishing EHS management culture for in-house suppliers ･ Spread EHS culture in business sites abroad Rate of Lost-Time Injuries Frequency Safe and ･ Upfront investment and improvement and expanding EHS support for outside suppliers ･ Introduction of unsafe behavior monitoring program 0.06% 0.28% occupational accidents Rate(LTIFR) Healthy ･ Supporting in-house suppliers to raise EHS competency Worksites and awareness ･S  haring and benchmarking best practices through ･ Reduce GHG emissions by 10% year on year ･ Establishing greenhouse gas inventory for overseas worksites Energy savings Response 3,529 MWh the Energy Management Committee through energy saving activities ･ Establishment of strategies for climate change to Climate ･ Discovering continuous energy saving items and ･ Increase awareness of members responding to Change sharing information climate change ･E  xpand target for CSR risk assessment and eliminate ･ E xpanding sustainability assessment and improving ･ Expanding the sustainable supply chain system Comprehensive Supplier support Fair trade supplier sustainability risk supply chain risk management ･ Advanced supply chain evaluation system evaluation of shared for bridging training Shared ･ Spread of Doosan CSR policy on supply chain ･ Continuous spread of CSR policies for overseas suppliers growth index the gap ･ Expansion of support for secondary and tertiary suppliers Growth and ･ Strengthen training and inspection, and establish ･ Strengthening competencies of purchasing/ ･ Expansion of communication channel 2.2 billion 1,208 persons Midto long-term Target Most excellent Fair Trade infrastructure for fair trade shared growth workers ･ Establish a win-win cooperation system and programs ･ E xpanding competitiveness of business partners and KRW with suppliers implementing practical programs ･R  e-establish the definition of eco-friendly products and ･ Disclose best cases on 'innovative eco-friendly products' ･ Declaration and promotion of expansion of eco-friendly products Sales ratio of Eco-friendly products 60 % calculate the sales ratio of eco-friendly products in CSR report Eco-friendly ･ Environment-friendly impact analysis ･ Further discover cases for the development of R&D ･B  enchmarking of best cases on eco-friedndly products eco-friendly products reported in CSR reports. ･ A nalysis of eco-friendly certification cases and possibility of expansion of certification ･ Establishing ethics training system ･ Enhancement of ethics training system ･ Compliance system assured by a third party Ethics management training ･ Reflecting the results of ethical management ･ Establish a high-risk corruption assessment system ･ Carry out regular campaigns to raise awareness 3,119persons level assessment ･ Strengthen the global ethics management ･ Strengthen global ethics management Ethics ･ Spreading ethical culture ･ Level up of ethical culture for employees Management ･ Strengthening internal communication ･ Establish an ethics management system for audit and feedback ･ Strengthen communication with external stakeholders ･ Strengthening the social contribution subcommittee ･ Invigorate in-house communication for ･ Improving the social contribution operation system Participation rate of social contribution 46 % 53 % Social ･ Establishment and operation of the social contribution portal social contribution activities ･ Development of the UN SDGs-linked program ･ I ntroduction of new social contribution activities to ･ Introduction of a promotion system for employees' Contribution participation ･ Building a platform and providing support for volunteering activities Midto long-term Target promote employees' participation ･ Establishing a company-wide management system ･ Establishing a roadmap and performance management ･ Promote participation in information protection Personal information protection training rate Customer ･ Enhancement of customer information protection system ･ Cooperation with suppliers for personal information protection information ･ Internalizing a culture for personal information protection ･ Inspection on the status of personal information protection Basic training Advanced training for Personal ･ Operation of a global response center for employees person in charge leak 1,835 persons(100%) 151 persons for domestic users 0case Information ･ Creating a culture to better understand personal information ･ Response to global standards and certifications Protection protection ･ Provide supervision and consultation for trustees Doosan Corporation CSR Report 2019 CSR CSR Strategy and Key Activities 58 Governance 62 POLICY & PERFORMANCE Risk Management Anti-Corruption · Ethical Management · Fair Trade 64 66 R&D 68 Doosan Corporation responds to global regulations and initiatives in the economic, social and environmental sectors to minimize negative impacts Customer Satisfaction Management 69 that may occur through corporate management activities. Information Security · Personal Information Protection 70 In particular, we are gradually upgrading our internal policies, guidelines, Quality Management 72 and systems and creating various achievements in each CSR areas. Talent Management 74 EHS Management 79 Shared Growth · Supply Chain CSR Management 81 Social Contribution 83 58 Doosan Corporation CSR Report 2019 Introduction Design the Future Spark the Growth Value our Stakeholders CSR Policy & Performance Appendix 59 CSR Strategy and Key Activities Key CSR Activities Establishment of Sustainability Risk Management System Doosan Corporation has established and improved its sustainable Operation of the CSR team CSR Value Structure CSR Committee Doosan Corporation Doosan Corporation operates a CSR team dedicated to carrying out management direction through activities of the subcommittees of the CSR Committee, which establishes enterprise-wide policies and Doosan Group declared its firm resolution to practice CSR manageAs Doosan's supreme decision-making body, the CSR Committee develops CSR Report 2019 CSR management more effectively. The CSR team diagnoses the CSR strategies. It has promoted sustainable risk-reduction activities that ment and create a 'Proud Global Doosan' on the basis of 'Doosan CSR strategic directions, reviews CSR-related management activities, and management activities in order to survey economic, environmental may arise at Doosan's BGs and investment company. Doosan CorpoCredo'. Moreover, to anticipate and promptly respond to various CSR inspects the progress of improvement tasks and implementation plans. and social risks and opportunities, and identifies and carries out ration encourages its worksites to conduct voluntary diagnosis and requirements and standards within and outside of Korea, a groupThe CSR Committee is composed of representatives from all of the compaimprovement tasks for each subcommittee and BG/BU based on improvement through the Doosan Sustainability Risk Management this. In addition, the team establishes the direction of CSR operation System(which includes risk level) as well as four key areas: ① Respect wide CSR strategy has been established consisting of clearly-deny's BGs/BUs, its Corporate Center, and its Administration Center, as well at the company level and identifies CSR trends frequently to share for People, ② Reliable Operations, ③ Responsibility in Engagement, fined objectives and missions, with four key areas and ten priority as executives from its key departments. The CEO of Doosan Corporation with the management and subcommittees. ④ CSR Value Creation. Doosan's sustainability risk management is tasks. Doosan Corporation has been practicing CSR management serves as the chairperson, with the relevant officers assuming responsibility based on Doosan Group's CSR value framework. In particular, as the for seven subcommittees, which oversee human rights, EHS, R&D, shared External Communication of CSR Performance divided into three tiers according to BG/corporate risk impact levels necessity of increasing business value through CSR is growing within growth, ethics, personal information, and social contributions. The BG/BU Doosan Corporation publishes its CSR report each year in order to and considering the size and value chain of each business. Self-diagsociety, we have added 'CSR Value Creation' and expanded the CSR heads participate in the CSR Committee as members to enable each busitransparently communicate its achievements and plans with all nosis and on-site diagnosis in each group are operated separately area, which used to focus on CSR risk management activities such ness division to aggressively promote CSR activities. The CSR Committee its internal and external stakeholders. Doosan prepares for the by time period. Doosan's sustainability risk management continues as meeting legal regulations and industrial standards, to underholds two meetings per year, which serve as a forum for designing improveDJSI(Dow Jones Sustainability Indices) assessment, which compreto check the risk level of its worksites by conducting improvement standing and creating social values. ment plans through in-depth discussion of key CSR issues. hensively evaluates the economic, social and environmental pertasks according the risk level of issues indicated in the diagnosis. Sub-committee formance of global companies around the world, and has been It is expected to become an effective program for responding to CSR Governance Seven CSR subcommittees have been formed for the fields of human included in 'DJSI Asia Pacific', which refers to businesses of the global regulations, which have been rapidly changing and constantly Doosan's CSR decision-making assembly consists of the CSR Comrights, EHS, R&D, shared growth, ethics, personal information and Asian region in the top 20 %, for six consecutive years. Doosan has strengthening in the global market. mittee, CSR Subcommittees, and BG/BU-level CSR Operation Meeting, social contributions, and they discuss relevant CSR issues on a quarbeen rated A or above since 2011 in the ESG(Environment, Social, which is operated in accordance with the initiative body. Doosan Sustainablility Risk Management terly basis. Related matters are shared at the BG/BU Operation Governance) evaluation conducted by the Korea Corporate GovMeeting and reported to the CSR Committee. ernance Service. In 2019, Doosan disclosed its company-wide and ❶ Identify ❷ Assess product-unit social value measurement results in its CSR report. It BG/BU CSR Operation Meeting Identify potential risks Discover/Check is carrying out various activities to expand external communicapotential risks The entire BG/BUs of Doosan Corporation separately runs operation tion related to Doosan's social responsibility management. Based CSR BG/BU CSR meetings for discussing CSR issues and making decisions periodiSubcommittees on these efforts, Doosan's CSR report has achieved remarkable Committee Operation cally. An operation meeting is supervised by the head of each BG/BU Meeting results in several sustainability report awards. In 2019, Doosan's CSR and carried out by the executives and relevant team leaders every Continuosly report won awards in two categories at the CRRAs(Corporate RegImprove quarter. During the meeting, contents discussed at CSR Committee ister Reporting Awards), and won a platinum rating at the Spotlight and Subcommittees are shared, and key activities to be handled at Awards at LACP(League of American Communications Professionals). BG/BU level are established for improvement activities. ❹ Monitor ❸ Mitigate Manage risk Improve potential risks CSR Value Structure * Standards published by the World Economic Forum, Davos, Switzerland CSR Goals Description 2017 2018 2019 Join the Global Top 100 Most Sustainable Companies in the World Index* by 2025 Mission Supporting Responsible and Sustainable Growth ClassificaBusiness Size Value Chain Risk DJSI DJSI Asia Pacific for tion of Tier Sales Employees Planning Production Business Impact Assessment 6 Consecutive Years High impact on stakeholders for production and sales High CSR Priorities Tier 1 Respect for Reliable Responsibility in CSR Value when any risk is incurred (Areas of People Operating Engagement Creation Focus) Medium impact on stakeholders for production and Medium Tier 2 ESG sales when any risk is incurred ❶ Nurturing a culture of ❹ Enhancing fair business and ❼ Incorporation of ❾ Implementation businesses A A+ A CSR Evaluation Priorities respecting human rights supply chain CSR business values to enable that create CSR value Low impact on stakeholders for planning and corporaLow Tier 3 (Main Tasks) ❷ Fair employment ❺ Green management and climate sophisticated community ❿ Improvement monitoring of tion when any risk is incurred ❸ Workplace safety manchange mitigation/adaptation involvement activities CSR performance agement ❻ Strengthening of product ❽ Reinforcement of disclosure of quality/service responsibility corporate information(CSR) Enablers Doosan Values Demands of Society Develop Strong CSR Governance The Nine Core Values of Doosan Global CSR Initiatives Execution system/Commitment by manPeople, Cultivating People, Integrity and Transparency, UN SDGs/ISO 26000/ agement /Employees' Awareness of Social Inhwa, Customers, World-Class Technology and Innovation, UN Global Compact/GRI Responsibility Profit, Social Responsibility, Safety and Environment 60 Doosan Corporation CSR Report 2019 Introduction Design the Future Spark the Growth Value our Stakeholders CSR Policy & Performance Appendix 61 Collection of Stakeholder's Opinions Materiality Test Doosan Corporation conducts a materiality test every year with the participation of its stakeholders in order to identify essential key issues for Stakeholders Activating communication with stakeholders sustainable management in terms of the economy, the environment, and society. The materiality test for the 2019 CSR Report was conducted in a Doosan Corporation defines its stakeholders as those who wield Doosan Corporation consistently employs diverse communication four-step process: 1) Building CSR issue pool 2) Prioritizing issues 3) Identifying issues 4) Communicating issues. International standards relater direct or indirect influence on its business activities. Based on this channels to listen to the opinions of stakeholders and reflect them to CSR(GRI Standards, DJSI, KCGS ESG Evaluation, ISO 26000, UNGC) were considered for the materiality test. Issue priority was evaluated based definition, key stakeholders include shareholders, investors, cusin its management. The outcomes of stakeholder participation are on media research, global benchmarking, and Doosan Corporation's internal data analysis. tomers, employees, suppliers, local communities, and government reflected in Doosan's management activities. Furthermore, the agencies. Based on our classification system, we are carrying out achievements of our major activities are disclosed transparently in Materiality Map Core Issues from Materiality Test various activities to expand stakeholder communication. our annual CSR Report. In addition, Doosan Corporation conducts a Number Category ISSUE ❶ materiality test every year with the participation of its stakeholders ❶ Economy Securement of new growth engines in order to identify essential key issues for sustainable management. ❻ ❷ ❷ Social(stakeholder) interest(impact) Economy Highest-level quality management ❸ Channels for Stakeholder Engagement Economy Increased investment in R&D ❸ ❼ ❹ EnvironDevelopment of environmentally ment friendly products and services Shareholders Local Communities Government Suppliers ❺ ❹ ❺ Society Realization of a desirable organizational culture for workplaces ❾ ❽ ❻ Society Realization of a safe work environment Major Issues ·R  egularly gather feedback from local · Legal and regulatory compliance ·A  ssist suppliers in strengthening communities competitiveness and capacity Economy Creation of economic performance and ❿ ❼ · Public-private cooperative Supplierships ·S  upport the growth of local · Facilitate the sharing of information ⓭ ⓬⓫ improvement of financial security communities in the vicinity of worksites ❽ EnvironEfforts to reduce greenhouse gas emisment sions and energy use ❾ Communica· Volunteer activities · Participation in government-led ·C  ooperative Council Society Attraction of key talents and enhancetion projects ment of employee competencies ·D  iscussions and meetings with local ·H  otline Channels communities  artnership agreements with ·P · T echnical review meetings ❿ Society Alignment of CCI activities with business · Sisterhood ties and Supplierships governmental and public ⓫ Society Support activities for Suppliers organizations ⓬ EnvironIncreased resource circulation and ment recycling Business impact(relevance) ⓭ Society Respect for Human Rights Report of Core Issues Core issues selected by the Materiality Test are disclosed in the Doosan Corporation CSR Report in the categories of People/Planet/Partners. Shareholder People Planet Partners Core Issues · Related · Realization of a desirable organizational · Efforts to reduce greenhouse gas · Highest-level quality management Issues culture for workplaces emissions and energy use · Support for shared growth and · Respect for Human Rights · Increased resource circulation and strengthening CSR activities · Development of director and recycling · Alignment of CCI activities with business employee capabilities · Implementation of a safe working environment Business In these constantly changing market conditions We are facing extreme environmental probCollaboration with stakeholders in the value Relevance and this age of limitless competition, our fundalems, such as air pollution and climate change, chain is an essential element of corporate Shareholders Customers Shareholders & Investors Employees mental competitiveness comes from the compedue to high carbon-emission businesses. In management for global business competitivetencies of our employees. Implementing a good particular, waste reduction through resource ness. Managing a company in such a way that Major Issues  andle customer complaints and ·H ·E  nsure shareholder and investor · Job satisfaction and improvement of organizational culture and attracting key talcirculation has become a major issue recently. it meets the needs of various stakeholders, strengthen customer satisfaction iniparticipation in the decision-making welfare ented people are major priorities for the compaEfforts to reduce environmental impact have including customers, Suppliers, and communitiatives process through the general · Active organizational communication ny's future sustainability. become a major concern for stakeholders, ties has become an essential activity. · I mprove product quality and strengthen shareholders' meetings ·E  stablishment of mutually beneficial and the environmental management system accountability · Healthy corporate governance labor relations has become a core element of corporate risk management. Communica· VOC · General Shareholders' Meeting · Employee surveys tion · Technical review meetings · Disclosures · Corporate newsletters Key Employees Local Communities Customers/Suppliers/Local Communities Channels · Customer satisfaction surveys · IR events · In-house intranet Stakeholders · Website · Labor-management council Page Employees(36-43p) Local Communities(44-47p) Customers/Suppliers/ Local Communities(48-53p) 62 Doosan Corporation CSR Report 2019 Introduction Design the Future Spark the Growth Value our Stakeholders CSR Policy & Performance Appendix 63 Governance Transparency of Governance Independence of the BOD Approval of Key Matters Evaluation and Compensation The BOD maintains three or more outside directors, thus satisfying The BOD approves key management issues, including the disposal Directors' compensation is determined within the director compenThe Board of Directors(BOD) is responsible for deliberating and voting its own target, namely, that outside directors should always make up or transfer of important assets and the borrowing of assets worth sation limit approved by the general shareholders' meeting. Outon major business issues and making decisions on matters stipulated the majority of all directors. In this way, balanced and objective decilarge amounts pursuant to the relevant statutes or internal regulaside directors receive a standard fixed pay, whereas inside directors by laws and corporate by-laws, matters delegated by the general sharesion-making is facilitated, while the checking function of the BOD is tions. In 2019, the BOD approved 58 cases that were referred to it, receive a compensation package, consisting of salary, incentive pay, holders' meeting, and other important matters related to the compareinvigorated. Directors who have interests in specific matters are including the 83nd Annual Financial Statement and the Business and severance pay, which is determined in a fair and transparent ny's basic management policies and operations. Doosan selects its restricted from voting on such matters. There are three commitReport. The details of such issues are disclosed in the Business manner in accordance with the executive management policy. outside directors from among professionals who can supervise comtees under the BOD(including the Audit Committee), each of which is Report and other related documents to ensure transparency. pany management objectively from an external perspective. As of the composed solely of outside directors so as to ensure independence Stakeholder Communication end of 2019, the Board consists of seven directors, of which three are and transparency. For the Audit Committee to perform audits effecDiversity of Outside Directors The BOD interacts with Doosan's stakeholders through internal and internal directors and four are outside directors. There are three comtively, the committee may request a report of the company's operDoosan Corporation strives to secure the diversity of its board memexternal communication channels such as disclosures and IR events. mittees established under the Board, which are composed wholly of ations or an investigation into the status of its corporate assets. If bers in terms of expertise as well as individual capabilities based To promptly provide management information to shareholders and outside directors: the Audit Committee, the Internal Transaction Comdeemed necessary for auditing, the committee may also request on various procedures for organizing its BOD. In particular, Doosan stakeholders, decisions made at the general shareholders' meeting mittee and the Outside Director Candidate Nominating Committee. The relevant employees or external auditors to attend meetings while organizes the BOD to make decisions on its management with conand key decisions on business operations are disclosed immediately. average tenure of director is 4.2 years. seeking advice from experts, at the company's expense. sideration for diverse viewpoints, including gender, specialization, industrial experience, and origin. Doosan has no female outside BOD Operations Procedure and Standards for the Appointment of Outside Directors directors, but we continue to make efforts to expand the number of Doosan Corporation makes decisions on major agenda items and To fully enable the BOD's role in promoting checks and balances, female directors on the list of candidates for outside directors. integrates shareholders' feedback into the decision-making proDoosan preserves the independence of its outside directors pursuant cess through the BOD for more careful deliberation. Pursuant to to the stringent requirements set forth by commercial law. Outside the applicable laws, Doosan allows all directors to participate in the director candidates are nominated by the Outside Director CandiBOD Committees decision-making process by means such as real-time voice commudate Nominating Advisory Group, which is composed of three external nication, whereby directors are deemed present at the relevant BOD Description Audit Committee Internal Transaction Committee Outside Director Candidate Nominating Committee experts, and the total number of candidates is maintained at less than meeting. The BOD can host ad-hoc meetings when deemed necesMembers Doohee Lee, Seonggwan Cheon, Hyoung Joo Kim, Seonggwan Chun, Hyoung Joo Kim, Doohee Lee, Hyoung Joo Kim, Bokhyeon Baik two times of the number of outside directors to be selected at the genBokhyeon Baik Bokhyeon Baik sary, and can also delegate a portion of its authority to the BOD comeral shareholders' meeting. Further, the nominated candidates are ResponsibilAudit the company's accounting and business operaDeliberate on and approve internal Nominate outside director candidates mittees to ensure swift and efficient decision-making, in which cases ities tions and review the operational status of the internal transactions pursuant to fair trade law recommended to the Outside Director Candidate Nominating Comthorough reviews are performed and details on deliberations and accounting management system mittee. The Outside Director Candidate Nominating Committee, conoutcomes are reported to the BOD. Meetings of the BOD are conDescription of Review the outcomes of accounting audits performed Approve inter-affiliate transactions, etc. Nominate outside director candidates, etc. sisting of three outside directors, reviews the candidates' suitability Activities by external auditors, provide consultations on non-auvened when a majority of the directors are present, and decisions based on considerations such as establishing transparent corporate dited services, review the operational status of the are made based on the concurrence of the majority of directors. internal accounting management system, etc. governance and enhancing the expertise of the BOD, and selects the When a quorum with weighted voting is required by laws and regmost qualified persons from among the outside director candidates ulations, such a quorum is held. Directors cannot vote by proxy, and nominated by the Outside Director Candidate Nominating Advisory any director with personal interest in certain agenda items cannot Group. The selected candidates are appointed as outside directors vote when that agenda is raised for voting. In 2019, the BOD met ten after approval of the general shareholders' meeting. times with an average attendance rate of 95 %. Directors Date of First Term of Description Name in Full Major Career Duties Appointment Office Inside Jeongwon Park (Present) Chairperson of Doosan Corporation CEO, President of Board of Directors 2016 4years Directors Hyunsoo Dong (Present) Vice Chairperson of Doosan Corporation CEO 2018 2years Minchul Kim (Present) President of Doosan Corporation CEO 2018 2years Outside Sunggwan (Present) Advisor to Kim & Chang Law Firm, (Former) Director of Seoul Audit Committee, 2019 1years Director s Chun Central District Prosecutor's Office Internal Transaction Committee Bokhyeon Baik (Present) Professor at Seoul National University Business School, Audit Committee, Internal Transaction 2019 1years (Present) Vice Chairperson of Korea Accounting Information Association Committee, Outside Director Candidate Nominating Committee Doohee Lee (Present) Professor at Korea University Business School Audit Committee, Outside Director 2018 2years (Former) Dean of Korea University Business School Candidate Nominating Committee Hyoung Joo (Present) Professor at Seoul National University, Engineering College Audit Committee, Internal Transaction 2017 3years Kim (Former) Senior Director of Development Fund at Seoul National UniCommittee, Outside Director Candiversity date Nominating Committee (Former) Head of Informatization Division at Seoul National University 64 Doosan Corporation CSR Report 2019 Introduction Design the Future Spark the Growth Value our Stakeholders CSR Policy & Performance Appendix 65 Risk Management Risk Management System In 2019, Doosan Corporation prepared a management system to Internal Control Assessment Procedure and Structure of Executive Authorization Doosan Corporation carries out risk management for all business activities at all its worksites across the world. Risks are classified into financial diagnose/evaluate corruption risk level by BG and to identify the iniand non-financial categories for more systematic enterprise-wide risk management. tial signs of risks before they occur by defining core risks that affect Request test Review test the overall company. Doosan Corporation completed an upgrade of its internal accounting management system by reflecting internal Test Risk Management System Subcommittees and external changes in the DICAS. Design test Test & Review Doosan Corporation is strengthening its internal control assessment Financial CSR Committee Reject(request re-test) systems not only in Korea but also at overseas businesses. Risks have Risk been managed for overseas branches and corporations in the AmerCFO/CEO Report/Approval CSR Team icas and Europe through internal control items since 2018. In 2020, ·R  isks related to the market, credit, Doosan Corporation will enhance the transparency and reliability of Review by Review by Audit Disclosure external auditors Committee/BOD liquidity, exchange, etc. accounting information by checking and improving local processes. Human Rights EHS R&D Ethics Non·R  espect for human · Safety/Health · Development · A nti-corruption Financial rights of eco-friendly guidance Risk Man·P revention of · Improvement to environmental products · I nternal control agement quality of life pollution · Life-cycle assessment ·R  isks related to sales, costs, · T alent development ·C limate change Emerging Risk quality, investment, customers, Emerging risks mean risks with high uncertainty that can occur over the analyzing the political, economic, social, technological, legal, regulatory, industry, banking, etc Shared Growth Personal Information Social Contribution long term. These emerging risks must be identified and managed preand environmental factors of the macroscopic environment related to ·R  isks related to climate change, ·S  upplier evaluation and · Personal information ·P  articipation in local the environment, health and safety, educational support protection policy and communities and emptively, as they can have a significant impact on business. Doosan company business. Furthermore, we constantly implement and monitor · Subcontract management system support activities supply chains, compliance, ethics, is promoting the long-term stability of management by building an plans to mitigate each risk after determining its priority based on the human rights, reputation, taxes, etc. · Fair  competition emerging risk management system. We identify emerging risks by time of possible occurrence and the potential impact on business. Key Fluctuations in Markets and Climate Change and Changes in Technology Procurement of Raw Materials Business Environmental Risks Management of Financial Risk Internal Control System Emerging Risks Doosan Corporation focuses on financial risk management with the Doosan Corporation operates internal control assessment systems aim of improving its financial structure and enhancing efficiency in to secure the transparency and reliability of information. In 2018, the use of funds in order to facilitate stable and continuous managestrengthened by revisions to the 'the Act on External Audit,' it conment in conditions where risks are likely to arise in connection with ducted a full redesign of its internal accounting management system ·M  arket changes attributable to new · Global economic downturn and · Supply  imbalance of imported raw · Strengthening environmental regthe market, credit, liquidity, and exchange rates. In particular, the with external auditors in response to the external auditor's audit of technological trends slow growth of existing main materials(if the export of raw mateulations company focuses on improving its financial structure and enhancing the operation of the internal accounting management system. The markets rials is limited by supplying coun· Depletion  of fossil fuels/unstable · I ntensified price competition due to tries based on the prioritization of supply its fund management efficiency. Financial risk management is priinternal accounting management system, which reflects the revised domestic industries) excessive supply · Change  of business/product/techmarily led by the Treasury Team, which sets financial risk thresholds best practices, has further strengthened the level of management of · Emergence  of new competition nical regulations and management policies by closely working with other relevant accounting transparency and risk. elements teams, while identifying, evaluating, and hedging financial risks. In The DICAS(Doosan Internal Control Assessment System) includes not Potential ·B  usiness falling behind in the ·D  ecreased sales of existing main ·D  isruption of production due to · Loss  of market opportunities due addition, Doosan aims to minimize the impact of potential financial Impact on market as it fails to capture new products shortage of raw materials to failure to comply with environonly internal accounting management systems, but also items related Business growth opportunities in a timely ·D  ecreased profitability due to ·C  ustomer dissatisfaction and mental regulations risks through regular monitoring. to operational efficiency and compliance, as Potential hazards subject manner decline in selling prices and compedamage to corporate image due to  · Loss of product utility due to depletition to secure supply volume failure to deliver ordered products tion of fossil fuels/unstable supply to monitoring and control. It assesses every aspect of the company's Management of Non-Financial Risks ·D  ecrease in market share in a timely manner · Unsustainable product/technology business operations, including, but not limited to, finance, sales, purdevelopment or business due to Non-financial risks are managed by dividing them into business and changes in regulations chasing, and production. All BGs/BUs of Doosan Corporation persustainability risks. Each of Doosan's BGs/BUs manages business risks form an interim and end-of-tern internal assessment for each team, Risk ·A  nalysis of market opportunities ·R  eshuffle of product portfolio: · Diversification of supply channel of ·U pdate of the Product Developin-house, while sustainability risks are managed by the CSR team at the whereupon an independent external auditor inspects their perforMitigation for technological changes Focus on high-performance, high raw materials ment Roadmap and Technology Corporate Center which oversees all BGs/BUs in collaboration with the Activities · I ntroduction of the Product value-added products Development Roadmap to reflect mance. The outcome of the assessment is reported to the Audit Comenvironmental impacts relevant departments. Also, Doosan Corporation's CSR Committee sits Development Roadmap and Tech·E  xpansion of business lines: Promittee and the BOD via the CFO and the CEO based on the internal nology Development vide total solutions across the · Promotion  of product innovation twice a year. At the CSR Committee, the CEO of Doosan Corporation, Roadmap entire value chain, veering away using alternative energy sources accounting management system and the Act on External Audit. the heads of the BGs/BUs and the directors of subcommittees inspect from existing business lines · Continuous  pre-monitoring of busi· F ocus on increasing sales in overness/product/technical regulations enterprise-wise activities and achievements related to sustainability seas/emerging markets risks, and identify and manage factors requiring improvement. 66 Doosan Corporation CSR Report 2019 Introduction Design the Future Spark the Growth Value our Stakeholders CSR Policy & Performance Appendix 67 Anti-Corruption · Ethical Management · Fair Trade Anti-Corruption and Ethical Management Fair Trade Doosan's Code of Conduct Anti-Corruption for Suppliers and Employees Program for Compliance with Fair Trade Regulations Strengthening fair-trade activities for Suppliers To ensure sustainable growth and fulfill its corporate social responDoosan conducted an anonymous questionnaire survey on 543 of Since 2004, Doosan Corporation has operated a compliance proDoosan Corporation established its 'Partner Data Request System' sibility, Doosan has enacted its Code of Conduct, which serves as its suppliers with the goal of preventing corruption and malpracgram for fair trade regulations in order to promote transparent and to transparently disclose the entire process of requesting, receiving, the guiding principles for employees in the performance of their tice by analyzing the status of the ethical business practices of their legitimate business activities and foster a culture of compliance with using and disposing of technical data to suppliers in order to fundaduties. Doosan's Code of Conduct comprises Inhwa, a customer-cenemployees. In addition, we assessed the level of ethical business fair rules while also fulfilling its corporate social responsibility. In mentally solve the recent social problem of illegal technology acquitered business philosophy, and transparent management. Doosan performance and anti-corruption behavior of all our employees 2019, we strengthened our program of compliance with fair trade sition from suppliers. We recognize our suppliers as true business encourages its suppliers as well as all its employees to comply with and shared improvements with relevant departments to reflect the regulations and prevented violations of the law in order to fulfill our partners and in order to protect their technical data, we have made the Code of Conduct. Doosan has also enacted detailed regulations establishment of the anti-corruption evaluation and management social responsibilities to stakeholders, including suppliers. We proefforts to promote their rights and interests by encouraging them and adhered to the Code of Conduct so as to embed the code in the system. Furthermore, we carried out activities for improving leader vided our 1,208 employees with education on the 'Fair Transactions to use the 'Technical Data Escrow System' and providing support for daily work and life of its employees. awareness(spreading cases of social issues, etc.), delivering ethic letin Subcontracting Act,' the 'Fair Agency Transactions Act,' and 'Act on all expenses of the escrow system. In addition, Doosan Corporation *Click the following link for further details concerning Doosan's Code of Conduct ters(special days, such as holidays), and opening a supplier commuFair Transactions in Large Franchise and Retail Business,' and on the has enacts its 'Four Major Practices for Fair Trade' to strengthen its https://www.doosan.com/kr/csr/csr-code/?menu=code-ofconduct nication channel(hotline), to ensure that our ethical business policies shared growth mindset to prevent violations of the law and abuse internal inspection system related to fair trade, and regularly moniare reflected throughout the value chain. of power. Doosan plans to continue providing such education for its tors and improves fair-trade for all BGs. Anti-Corruption and Ethics Education employees while strengthening the monitoring of fair trade pracTo enhance the ethical business mindset of its employees, Doosan Whistleblowing System tices and applying latest laws to the fair trade manual for employees. Corporation conducts ethical business education each year and colDoosan has set up an internal confidential reporting system to lects sworn statements from all of its employees and other interestablish transparent and fair ethical management. By keeping the ested parties requiring them to observe the Code of Conduct. In details of reports confidential, Doosan protects informants and Number of Employees addition to educational programs on ethical business practices, ensures that they do not suffer any disadvantages. Major issues Participating in Education in 2019 including online and offline training and workshops, in 2019, Doosan are investigated and reported to the CEO and the Audit Com(Unit: People) 71%p provided online education for office workers and offline education mittee. Doosan Corporation operates a cyber whistleblowing center compared to 2018 for technical workers at overseas subsidiaries in seven different lanthrough its website, where anyone can file a report either anonyguages: English, Chinese, French, Vietnamese, German, Czech, and mously or under their real name. In 2019, it received twelve tip-offs Korean. concerning violations of Doosan's anti-corruption policies or Code 1,208 of Conduct. Based on these reports, Doosan improved its internal 708 We plan to expand education on the Code of Conduct throughout business processes, conducted preventive education, and took discithe year through general meetings and discussions for supplinary action against those concerned. 2018 2019 pliers, and additionally conduct face-to-face education not only for Employee Education for Fair-Trade employees of newly established subsidiaries and new employees, but also for those who have not completed online and offline trainings. In addition, we will consolidate the foundations for ethical management and compliance through special education by key work Organization of the Fair-Trade Compliance Program function(purchasing, financing, etc.). Corruption Risk Management System Compliance Program Manager In 2019, Doosan Corporation established the Corruption Risk ManageHead of Business Strategy Division ment System to diagnose/evaluate corruption risks for each BG. The Compliance Program Administration Department level of compliance management has been strengthened through comprehensive consideration of the possibility of occurrence and Shared Growth Team business impact of corruption items and the preparation of improveBG/BU Compliance Program Officer ment plans for vulnerable areas. In addition, Doosan Corporation prepared a management system for diagnosing/evaluating core risks for each BG and to identify the initial signs of risks before they occur by Compliance Program Department defining core risks that affect the overall company. These core risks will Electro-Materials Industrial Vehicle Mottrol Retail Fuel Cell Power DDI be managed by team members, team leaders, and executives. Strategic Purchase Team 1 Development Management Management Strategic Doosan's ethical management level will be assessed by third parPurchase Team Purchase Team Support Team Support Team Purchase Team ties(anti-corruption agencies, UNGC, etc.). We will strengthen our foundation for ethical management and compliance based on benchmarking of advanced companies. 68 Doosan Corporation CSR Report 2019 Introduction Design the Future Spark the Growth Value our Stakeholders CSR Policy & Performance Appendix 69 R&D Customer Satisfaction Management Enhancement of Technological Competitiveness the sharing of division-wide performance and future technology trends. Industrial Vehicle BG develops eco-friendly products by enhancing Customer Communications energy efficiency and fuel economy, minimizing emissions of harmful Market-Based Technological Competitiveness In 2019, the Technology Committee was established to expand techCustomer Communication Channels gases, and increasing the replacement cycle of consumable parts. nological cooperation, including by finding and clarifying growth Doosan strives to strengthen the management of customer satisDoosan Corporation practices technology-oriented manageIt plans to develop new products that meet the strengthened Euroengines among BGs. We are conducting various activities, led by faction by expanding communication channels with customers and ment to lead innovation in technologies, products, and solutions pean emissions regulations(EU Stage-V), and sequentially release R&D executives in the mechanical/logistics field, to expand business reflecting customers' opinions. based on market and customer requirements and analysis of rap2.5 ton, 4 ton, 7 ton and 16 ton diesel products from August 2020. opportunities in advanced materials to prepare for the era of 5G and idly changing technology trends. Doosan steadily explores and preThese new products minimize resource use and waste discharge electric vehicles, in energy to prepare for the hydrogen economy, As part of its drive to reduce the number of customer complaints, emptively secures innovative technologies in order to develop, in a by increasing the change intervals of engine oil(from 1,000 to 2,000 and also in logistics solutions. Electro-Materials BG has promoted various weekly Q-Day activities timely manner, market-leading products according to its midand hours)¹⁾. and powertrain oil(from 500 to 1,000 hours). BG continues at the initiative of the quality department. Q-Day is a quality improvelong-term business strategies. All of Doosan Corporation's BGs/BUs to develop technologies for improving the energy efficiency and Establishment of an Enterprise-Wide Integrated IP Strategy ment activity with the aim of sharing quality-related issues and disregularly establish a PRM¹⁾ and TRM²⁾ with specific action plans, and performance of eco-friendly electric forklifts, such as its permanent Doosan Corporation has established an enterprise-wide IP strategy cussing solutions and improvement measures. Electro-Materials BG have reoriented their midand long-term growth objectives towards magnetic motor system and the hydraulic electronic power steering in connection with its midand long-term R&D road map(PRM/TRM), carries out activities to meet customer satisfaction management rapid growth and a highly profitable business portfolio, based on an system. and secured an IP-based system to enhance R&D. It releases new through quality improvement. analysis of changes in the markets and the technological environ1) For diesel 2.5-ton class market-leading products by first analyzing the patents of competiment. Mottrol BG was able to shorten its response time for settling custors and clients during the R&D planning stage and then pioneering In 2017, Mottrol BG established plans and objectives for the develop1) PRM(Product Roadmap) 2) TRM(Technology Roadmap) tomer claims by improving its system for monitoring the entire prodifferentiated technologies and strategic IP. ment of products that meet the requirements of international envicess, from the receipt of a claim to the final resolution. In addition, ronmental regulations, including REACH and RoHS. In particular, the it is steadily improving customers' perceptions of its product quality Enhanced Ability to Practice Technology-Oriented Management use of parts that contain hexavalent chromium(Cr6+) is entirely proby strengthening its network with customer companies at home and Development of Environment-Friendly Products hibited. In response to EU standards that will prohibit the use of parts abroad and by actively reflecting customers' voice. To enhance its ability to practice technology-oriented management, with lead content exceeding 0.1 wt% starting in 2024, BG selected the Doosan operates various assemblies organized and managed by the Initiatives for the Development of Eco-Friendly Products development of eco-friendly lead-free copper alloy materials, starting Fuel Cell Power BU ensures that after-sales service requests are CEO. Mid-and long-term technological strategies based on market and Electro-Materials BG is focusing its efforts on developing eco-friendly with valve plate material, a key material for hydraulic equipment. Since promptly processed upon receipt through the VOC process. It has technology trends are established through PRM/TRM sessions, which materials in the field of electronic products. It has created an eco2018, it has been developing these eco-friendly materials step-byalso established a system whereby the improvement points idenis our core system of technology-oriented management. Furthermore, friendly product portfolio in its R&D road map to develop products step, every year. The development of the eco-friendly lead-free copper tified through the VOC—by operating weekly quality and service the periodic R&D Project Review Session inspects newly-started projbased on eco-friendly materials(lead-free, halogen-free, dust-free alloy materials project has been selected as a new technology develmeetings—are reflected in market & product requirements for both ects and the progress of ongoing R&D projects. In addition, sustainable materials, EV batteries, low-power display materials, etc.). In addiopment task for expanding lead-free materials to all lead-containing product improvements and the development of new products for growth is promoted at our Technology Management Summit through tion, products are designed to use fewer hazardous ingredients in parts for hydraulic equipment by 2024. customers. the development stage, avoid the use of toxic solvents and manage Technology-Oriented Management System environmental factors according to the EHS impact assessment(hazBio BU has obtained COSMOS, an international eco-friendly certifiFuel Cell Power BU has established a preand post-service manardous raw materials, raw material MSDS, etc.). In the intermediate cation, for its two types of ceramide products. COSMOS is an ecoagement system to achieve the best service delivery by expanding 〮 A nalysis of market/technology trends development stage, hazardous substance review tests(RoHS II¹⁾, friendly certification managed by five European certification bodies. customer communication. Pre-service minimizes inconvenience to cusPRM/TRM → Development of midto long-term SVHC²⁾, etc.) are applied to verify that products do not violate internaDoosan Corporation secures customer trust and product competitomers by proactively responding to product abnormalities through technological strategies tional restrictions on hazardous substances. As a major achievement tiveness through the certification of natural ingredients and organic preemptive responses based on regular monitoring activities, while 〮 Inspection of core task achievements and risks in the development of eco-friendly materials, BG developed ecoraw materials. post-service provides a 24-hour call center and immediate response Review of R&D Projects → Enhancement of execution capability for friendly and halogen-free products with halogen-free middle loss system to respond major component failures. The BG conducts a R&D projects As an eco-friendly company, FCP BU has developed 1 to 10 kW PEM'Happy Call Satisfaction Survey' to improve customer satisfaction and and halogen-free ultra-low loss features applicable to high-capacity, FCs(proton-exchange membrane fuel cells) using various fuels, continues to improve service quality by improving service guidelines high-speed and high-function 5G network equipment, as well as Review of 〮 A pplication and enhancement of including natural gas, liquefied gas, and auxiliary gas, and has develNew Product/ BPA-free(bisphenol A-free) products that can be used in fingerprint based on A/S results. new development processes Technology → Preemptive development of products/technologies oped 25 to 100 kW medium PEMFCs using hydrogen fuel to expand Development recognition modules. In 2020, the BG will start developing technolits domestic and overseas market share. In addition, it signed a ogies based on materials that may be applied to batteries for electric joint development agreement with Ceres Power of the UK in 2019 to 〮 A forum for discussing technology-oriented management vehicles, contributing to the supply of eco-friendly electric vehicles and business innovation, guided by Doosan Corporation's develop high-efficiency 10 kW SOFCs. The biggest benefit of SOFC is and thereby helping to preserve air quality. vision and the pursuit of sustainable growth that it can secure approx. 60 % of power generation efficiency, which → Presentation of innovation examples of leading Technology 1) RoHS II: Restriction of Hazardous Substances Directive adopted by the EU to Management restrict hazardous substances in electronic and electrical equipment is 15 % more than those of the PEMFCs produced by FCP. Improved Summit companies and brainstorming to find directions RoHS 6 major hazardous substances (lead, mercury, cadmium, hexavalent for technology-oriented management power generation efficiency will significantly reduce fuel costs → Sharing of the execution processes and outcomes chromium (Cr6+), PBBss, PBDEss) + four Phthalates (DEHP, BBP, DBP, DIBP) 2) SVHC: Substances of Very High Concern and CO₂ generation. Korea has limited land and renewable energy of technology innovation resources, and FCP expects that distributed power generation using R&D Projects 〮 Inspection of core task achievements and risks hydrogen fuel cells, a new energy source, will continue to grow. Review →Enhancement of execution capability for R&D projects 70 Doosan Corporation CSR Report 2019 Introduction Design the Future Spark the Growth Value our Stakeholders CSR Policy & Performance Appendix 71 Information Security / Personal Information Protection Customer Listening Activities in the Development Process Establishment of an Information Security System Building TI(Threat Intelligence) Protection of Customers' Personal Information TI(threat intelligence) is a concept based on big data analytics that Doosan has set the protection of its customers' personal information In the development process, Doosan has made it possible to Information Security System has emerged as the security market shifts from defensive security as a key management objective. Doosan continuously supplements improve both customer satisfaction and product value. Security control is a type of IT service that entrusts security experts to offensive security. In 2019, Doosan Corporation established a its internal management plan and personal information protection Industrial Vehicle BG holds a monthly Quality Conference at which with efficiently carrying out the company's IT information secuKorean threat intelligence system called C-TAS(Cyber Threat Analysis regulations by identifying the enactment and change of domestic the departments in charge of sales, quality assurance, and R&D rity operations. Doosan Corporation conducts 24-hour monitoring, and Sharing) with KISA(Korea Internet & Security Agency) as part of and foreign personal information protection regulations in order to get together to discuss how to provide the best products to satisfy security solution policy setting, detection, analysis, and response to upgrading its security controls. It systematically collects cyber threat secure its customers' personal information. In particular, Doosan customer requirements. In addition, it reflects customers' opinintrusion attempts based on its strong computer security system. information(information on malicious code, the command control ensures compliance and prevents information leakage by applying ions in its products by hosting a quarterly Product Advisory Group, Doosan Corporation acquired ISMS(Information Security Manserver, vulnerability and infringement analysis), and strengthens strong technical and administrative protection measures at all life which is composed of the sales and dealer councils of the headquaragement System) certification, which is nationally authorized, for automated information sharing and preemptive prevention of cycle stages. In addition, we conduct an annual analysis, perforters, as well as a service manager meeting and a meeting of senior the first time in 2013 to protect information assets and information threats among related agencies through comprehensive analysis. mance inspection and audit of our personal information system and sales personnel. In particular, the BG has conducted quality evaland communication networks, and has been reviewed annually and specialists, and improve and manage the identified vulnerabilities. In uation of vehicle prototypes with excellent salespeople and high maintained the certification. We regularly hold a 'Security Diagnosis the last six years, Doosan has experienced no customer data loss or customer contact in the development stage of new products and Day' in which employees perform self-inspections as a means of personal information leaks. Doosan's Threat Intelligence Architecture delivered VOCs(voices of customers) to the R&D team to reflect cusestablishing a culture of information protection and security-accitomer needs in product development activities. To this end, Indusdent prevention in daily life. Every year, we conduct online education trial Vehicle BG operates user tests, and has established a prosumer and information protection campaigns and distribute security newsExternal Threat Intelligence letters to spread security regulations, accident prevention methods, Internalization of a Culture of Personal Information Protection system and diversified channels for listening to VOCs. In 2019, it will Information and major cases. Doosan Corporation appointed executive-level a collection Online training is provided to all employees, while advanced training develop and implement a QRN(Quick Response Network) platform of Big Data CISO to manage information security. The CISO reports the activities threats is provided to personal information protection managers. In addito accurately and quickly provide the services desired by customers and performance of information security to the management. tion, Doosan conducts various activities such as putting up posters, using local maintenance companies with outstanding service capaNational Intelligence card news, and distributing newsletters to spread the culture of perbility in addition to the existing dealer system. Security Diagnosis Day Checklist Service, Domestic KISA C-TAS sonal information protection. and overseas famous Cyber Threat Information Analysis Mottrol BG supplies optimized products through close communicaintelligences, and Sharing System Security Diagnosis tion with customers, from the initial review of specifications to the Domestic affiliated organizations mass-production stage. To that end, the BG develops products that Security Diagnosis/ PC/VDI/Life Security Personal (corporates) Information Information Measure reflect customers' opinions through technology exchange meetings, Sharing Collection Information System promotions, and development processes. Department Trade Secrets/Documents DDI BU has introduced a design thinking methodology across the Facilities/Regions/Entry Internal Threat enterprise to provide customer-oriented digital services. Through Threat Information Intelligence this methodology, it is able to identify customers' demands and Critical Security Management Security Verification Module Known Risk to reflect those demands in system development and improveEnhancement of Officer Information Security Newsletter Automation Interlink(API, RPA) ment in order to realize customer satisfaction. In addition, the BU Information Security Awareness Unknown Risk is changing its way of working from the traditional waterfall to Agile Information development to fill the gap between customers and developmental Firewall/(IPS) Block malicious organizations to drastically reduce the development period and Doosan's Security Control Management Area IP Blacklist to ensure higher operational stability and quality. It helps departInformation Description Major Work Web-Filtering Collection ments change rapidly through internal professional Agile coaches, Block malicious Posters to Enhance Awareness of Personal Hacking detec· 24 X 365 security event monitoring Information Protection and more than 50 employees were trained to carry out Agile projects Domain/URL Blacklist tion and moni· Notification of signs of infringement Internal Integrated throughout the year as Scrum Masters.¹⁾ The BU measures customer toring Security Control satisfaction through a CSI(customer satisfaction index) and an NPS Support for · Analysis of cause and damage in case of a hacking accident Vaccine infringement · Support for recovery of infringement accidents and Block Hash Execution Malicious Code (net promoter score), and is introducing a global survey platform to incidents establishment of measures to prevent recurrence of Malicious Files more systematically and accurately analyze customer voice. · Support for cooperative response with external agencies (KISA, National Cyber Safety Center, etc.) Malicious 1) Personnel trained to carry out projects based on Agile methodology and to Domain/IP contribute to realizing project quality and customer satisfaction Report ·D aily inspection report on security control operation SIEM status and security system Network Forensic Help Desk ·E mergency reports, such as reports on data Vulnerability infringement accidents 72 Doosan Corporation CSR Report 2019 Introduction Design the Future Spark the Growth Value our Stakeholders CSR Policy & Performance Appendix 73 Quality Management Enhancement of Quality Management Systems Thorough Management of Quality DDI BU will deliver the best results to customers by applying its Doosan Corporation strives to satisfy the quality requirements of its product-oriented quality assurance system, which includes perforIndustrial Vehicle BG carries out quality innovation projects for all global customers by acquiring the relevant quality certificates. mance testing, operational control, code static analysis, and open domestic and foreign workplaces in order to upgrade quality consource software verification for the IT systems to be developed. To trol activities. It has established the Q-Cost management system Electro-Materials BG operates its quality management system from this end, the BU has increased awareness of developer quality and and manages it effectively by setting 64 internal and external failed the design stage based on IATF-16949¹⁾ certification. The BG has secured verification techniques for new technologies such as microscost items. Q-Costs are loss costs occurring from quality issues. The strengthened its 4M change point quality verification system for when ervice, IoT, and embedded software through TDD(Test-Driven DevelBG will operate the system stably until 2021 through continuous 4M(man, machine, material, method: the 4 main elements of the proopment) initiatives. In addition, it has established an RPA(robotic management. In addition, Industrial Vehicle BG has introduced a duction process) changes are made. In addition, it conducts co-work process automation) system to ensure IT service integrity, and 24/7 unique problem-solving technique through the operation of SENXactivities such as technical meetings with suppliers and visiting supdetection of faults and server performance degradation, and plans (speed engineering-x) education and tasks to improve the compapliers to provide quality guidance during the evaluation of their samto expand the scope of automated inspection activities. 2019 Mottrol Quality Innovation ny's capability in solving endemic problems. It has also built a mobile Resolution Conference ples to improve the quality of raw materials supplied by Suppliers. app for customers to report quality issues. A function for operating a 1) RTDB(Real-Time Data Base): A program for real-time collection and saving of data As for Industrial Vehicle BG, it has improved its existing TQC system 2) HMI(Human-Machine Interface): A touch screen for controlling machines at GPS-based QRN(quick response Network) has been introduced for automobile sites in order to rebuild it into an ISO 9001 QM system and implement cuspilot operation in the Pyeongtaek region. In 2019, QR App v2.0 was tomer-oriented quality management policies to achieve customer launched after collecting various VOCs to improve ease of use, funcsatisfaction. As a result, all Korean business units and overseas factotions and stability. ries have obtained ISO 9001 QM System certification along with 320 Mottrol BG runs a campaign to internalize the quality culture for Key CSR Activities Suppliers. Industrial Vehicle BG will carry out various guidance supenterprise-wide quality innovation activities. The BG has held a port policies to expand the certification of Suppliers. quality innovation resolution conference for all employees and SupMottrol BG has promoted an SAP Project to secure data reliability pliers, carried out quality theme improvement activities, and shared for manufacturing quality capacity enhancement. It has prepared a success and failure cases of internal and external process improveMajor Activities foundation for promoting data analysis activities for customer satment. The quality innovation resolution conference for Suppliers ·Strengthening of 4M change verification system isfaction. Mottrol BG operates a quality management system based · Major activities for diversifying high-end product raw Electrodecided to focus on compliance with key standards for quality innoMaterials materials(securing high-end raw materials through on ISO 9001. vation and 4M change management. quality control of raw materials supplied by Suppliers) Major Activities ·TFT activities to strengthen quality competitiveness Fuel Cell Power BG conducts quality management based on ISO Bio BU produced an English version of its quality control regulaof Suppliers tions in 2019. In particular, this BU responds to global quality stanIndustrial 9001, KGS Design Group Inspection, KS, and other quality manVehicle · SENX activities(SENX1), 3rd Generation DFSS2)) agement system certifications. It also reviews the field quality issue dards for cosmetic raw materials and pharmaceutical raw materials, · Strengthening activities for product competitiveness Major Activities (DCA 3), benchmarking) VOCs as a core task, and promotes improvement activities. In addiand plans to obtain GMP certification for health functional foods in ·Digitization of inspection reports for all Suppliers tion, the BG promotes KGS(Korea Gas Safety Corporation) certifi2020. To this end, it is implementing integration of its quality control · Step-by-step upgrade of quality control level through cation to diversify of fuel cell dealers. It also has a problem solving manual and planning to bring all products up to the level of pharSPC system with links to Suppliers Mottrol activity system for worst items in parts, processes, and field quality. maceutical raw materials. In addition, the construction of RTDB3) Major Activities and HMI4), started in 2019, will be carried out in 2020 to analyze the ·E  nhancement of quality capabilities for parts DDI BU has established and operates its quality management system association of quality data, which will be applied to the cosmetics raw through the support of Suppliers and the quality based on ISO 9001 and ISO 20000(International Standards for IT Fuel Cell management of parts development material line first and then expanded to other processes. service). The BU has strengthened internal and quality control of IT · Process gate management and VOC improvement Major Activities management to improve quality in the field processes by automating development environment such as config·Management of process change and OOS 4) of uration management and distribution management. It is preparing consignment production to upgrade the existing quality management system to advanced Bio · Quality evaluation of products using statistics of medical and cosmetic materials methods based on DevOps, and will apply it step by step. · Periodic inspection of manufacturing environment Major Activities through process patrol activities · Activation of the product-oriented quality assurance 1) The latest AS9100 certification, Quality Management System for Aerospace system Industry, under ISO 9001 DDI ·Innovation in the service delivery system based on design thinking and Agile 1) Speed Engineering-X 2) Design for Six Sigma 3) Doosan Customer Audit: Selecting one or two vehicles daily and evaluating the quality of the finished vehicle from the customer's perspective based on 170 items, such as appearance, etc. 4) OOS(Out of Specification): when the test result exceeds the predefined test standard 74 Doosan Corporation CSR Report 2019 Introduction Design the Future Spark the Growth Value our Stakeholders CSR Policy & Performance Appendix 75 Talent Management System for Implementation and Review of Human Rights Impact Assessment Human Rights Management Doosan conducts assessments on all its BGs/BUs to investigate Human Rights Management Doosan operates a human rights management system to prenegative impacts and major areas of vulnerability related to human vent human rights violations that may occur in business processes, rights issues. Human rights impact assessments are conducted in including the supply chain, as follows. Through human rights impact priority order by analyzing human rights risks, the gravity of human assessments, we actively identify potential human rights violation rights risk issues and business activities for each country in which Human Rights Policy issues in the areas of grievance mechanisms, discrimination, forced Doosan's businesses are present. Approximately 80 % of branches, labor, wages, working hours, child labor, freedom of association, based on the total number of employees, have been assessed in the Doosan Corporation respects the human rights of not only its employees but of all stakeholders engaged with its management activities, consumer human rights, information security, and privacy, and conlast three years and we aim to reach 100 % by 2021. and advices third parties, including suppliers, to practice human rights management at the same level. The human rights policy of Doosan tinue to apply improvement activities. stipulates that basic human rights be guaranteed, regardless of a person's origin, gender, ethnicity, or other conditions. As a member of the UN Global Compact, we abide by the 10 principles of Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labor, the environment and antiSystem for Implementation and Review of Human Rights Management Employees corruption, establish and practice human rights management and due diligence based on internationally-recognized principles of human rights that, such as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights: Ruggie Performance of human Identification of Improvement of rights impact assessment Framework. 01. Commitment emerging risks emerging risks between 2017 and 2019 Human Rights Policy To prevent human rights violations that may occur in the business process, Doosan has established a human rights management system as described below. In case of human rights violation, we make our best efforts to carry out rectification measures. We aim to grow with society through sustainable improvement activities. 02. R isk & Impact Assessment Preparation of a Companywide Human Rights 80.2% 3% 93% 1 Assessment System Ensuring Employment We strive to avoid any unjust discrimination regarding employment based on gender, religion, 1.Establishment of assessment area Non-Discrimination, and disability, age, social status, region of origin, etc. Furthermore, we recognize workers' freedom · Human rights management/employment/prohibition of Suppliers Freedom of Association and of association and collective bargaining, and do not pursue any punitive action against forced labor/prohibition of child labor/assurance of industrial safety/supply chain management/protection of human Performance of human Identification of Improvement of Collective Bargaining workers for labor union activities. rights impact assessment rights of local residents/ensuring of environmental rights/ emerging risks emerging risks 2 protection of consumer human rights, etc. between 2017 and 2019 Prohibition of We do not accept any form of forced labor that may occur in business activities, and abide 2. Establishment of assessment scope Forced Labor and by the minimum age for employment set by the country of business. We follow the minimum · BGs/BUs, subsidiaries, overseas branches, etc. Child Labor employment age prescribed by laws of the country of business and in the case that we find we 54% 5.4% 56.4% · Employees, suppliers, JV, etc. have hired a minor, we take immediate remedial measures to prevent all wrongful labor prac3. Establishment of assessment period & plan tices that damage human dignity. · Short-term/long-term performance of all BGs/BUs 3 · Performance plan for the year concerned Securement of Industrial We strive to maintain a safe working environment and follow environmental, health and safety 4. Summarization of assessment results Safety and Management of laws and standards that apply to our workplaces. In addition, we adopt separate safety and · Mapping of business risks, regional risks · Investigation of main areas of vulnerability Responsible Supply Chains health measures for pregnant women, the disabled and other vulnerable workers. We establish and continuously check policies and guidelines related to the CSR risks of our supply net03. Preventive & Mitigating Actions work. We also monitor all business partners. Plan for Risk Prevention Measures Based on 4 Assessment Results Protection of Human We respect local residents' rights to life and freedom of relocation, as well as their individuals 1. Institutional solutions for susceptible areas Rights and rights related to safety and property ownership. In addition, we adhere to a principle of preven· Systematic and regulatory supplementation Environmental Rights of tive approach to environmental issues and systematically implement plans to prevent, mitigate, 2. Education and communication Local Residents and control serious environmental damage and environmental disasters. · Educational planning and performance 5 Protection of We pay careful attention to marking design and manufacturing conditions and other indi04. Performance Assessment & Disclosure Customers' cations on products in accordance with legal standards in order to prevent product defects Review and Reporting of Human Rights Management Human Rights from causing damage to the life, health, or safety of customers. In the case that damage is Assessments detected after a product is launched in the market, we notify customers of the risk and recall · Outcomes and results of impact assessments the product immediately. Moreover, we take necessary measures to protect all personal infor· Investigation of vulnerable areas identified mation collected by our company based on our policy of respecting the privacy of customers · Records of employee risk prevention actions and employees. · Records of supplier risk prevention actions Disclosure of Human Rights Management Doosan operates an online whistle-blowing center(https://ethicshelpline.doosan.com/cbrpt/frontView.do) on our website to prevent · Results of grievance reporting · Results of corrective actions possible human rights violations occurring in business processes. We protect whistle blowers through confidentiality principles and · Number of legal actions and their financial impacts handle all issues quickly and fairly. Doosan will take the lead in supporting and respecting human rights principles as a Proud Global · Results of external sustainability evaluation Doosan. 76 Doosan Corporation CSR Report 2019 Introduction Design the Future Spark the Growth Value our Stakeholders CSR Policy & Performance Appendix 77 Grievance Process Employee Communication Leadership Education Doosan has introduced a grievance mechanism as an early warning Vision Sharing Workshop Doosan Corporation's Junior MBA system for obtaining information related to human rights. We Doosan Corporation shares Doosan's vision with its leaders through The 6th term of Doosan Corporation's Junior MBA Course was orgaTeam leaders who participated in the training evaluated it as useful operate an ombudsperson program and various grievance chanthe Doosan Leader Workshop for Change and Innovation. In 2019, nized to enhance the long-term perspective and competencies of for helping them understand how emotional intelligence can greatly nels to provide necessary assistance through counseling on comDoosan Corporation operated a workshop for leaders under the employees and assistant managers who will become leaders in the affect the performance of an organization and how to motivate team plaints raised by employees. Each program provides an opportunity supervision of the heads of its BGs/BUs to build understanding and future. This course comprises a blend of online and offline lectures members by stimulating their emotions. for members to make appeals based on our three principles of grievconsensus on the vision and to discuss ideas about the desirable on strategy, financing, accounting, marketing, and personnel orgaance redressal: protection of anonymity, prevention of disadvanroles of leaders. We have been educating our members on how to nization. Participants can gain a broader view of business and culTraining for Technical Field Managers tage and feedback. In 2019, Doosan expanded the organization of its think about what employees should do in connection with their work tivate professional knowledge through team-based and individual Doosan Corporation has been providing various training programs grievance system. It improved grievance mechanisms and provided to keep their business growing. tasks related to the business strategies of Doosan Corporation. In for technical field managers to strengthen their leadership skills guidance to employees at its China corporation. In 2020, Doosan will addition, a special lecture has been added to introduce employees to since 2017. continue to improve the grievance redressal process by strengthConference for Acknowledging Achievements and Sharing the 4th Industrial Revolution, online marketing strategies of leading ening the grievance system, expanding the number of ombudsmen, Our technical field manager training consists of five courses: the part Exemplary Cases companies, and technology trends of the times. The last part of the and educating counselors. leader course, new field manager course, field manager I, field manDoosan Corporation organizes an annual conference to acknowledge course is a business management simulation that offers learners ager II, and stepping-stone course. In 2019, 187 field managers and achievements and share exemplary cases and lessons learned during a chance to experience corporate management. In the 6th term of juniors from Electro-Materials BG, Industrial Vehicle BG, Mottrol BG, Analysis Map of Emerging Human Rights Risks the year. This conference was started in 2016 and has grown into an 2019, 24 juniors from 8 BGs/BUs/affiliates under Doosan CorporaFuel Cell Power BG and Bio BU completed these training courses. In annual event. Awards for fundamental competitiveness(R&D/busition participated in the course. Doosan Corporation will continue particular, the field manager I course consists of programs to help ness growth), advancement and science(OE advancement/innovation the Junior MBA Course in 2020 to equip its young employees with develop self-awareness, to establish change plans, and to encourage Possibility of Occurrence at manufacturing sites), credo value, and Doosan talent fostering(exan in-depth learning and practical education experience in business action by diagnosing the leadership of field managers. Doosan Corecutive/team leader/team member/CA¹⁾) were presented. A winning administration. poration will provide various programs to improve the leadership Responsible Supply Chain concert was organized to share members' stories. The conference capabilities of its technical field managers. Management Working Hours Courses for Promoted Personnel of Chinese Corporations is an opportunity to motivate members and work toward the better Living Wages performance of the organization. Doosan Corporation operated a course for newly-promoted genSkill Level-Up Course for Retail BG Sales Managers Data Protection and Privacy Republic of Korea 1) CA : Change Agent eral managers and assistant managers at Electro-Materials BG Retail BG is offering a skill level-up course for sales managers to Changshu Corporation, Industrial Vehicle BG Yantai Corporation and China improve their leadership, communication, and performance manSingapore Education for Overseas Corporations our Mottrol Jiangyin Corporation in June and July of 2019. A course agement skills, during its reorganization into a performance-oriDoosan Corporation conducts education for overseas subsidiaries for new general managers was held at the Electro-Materials BG Discrimination ented sales management organization. This course was conducted Forced Labor in order to establish ways of working based on the Doosan Credo. Changshu Corporation with 15 personnel attending, and a course Grievance Mechanism five times for 36 trainees from April to July of 2019, and they could This education strengthens our employees' sense of belonging by for new assistant managers was held at the Industrial Vehicle BG Child Labor learn and practice reporting know-how that can be applied directly Luxembourg linking the strengths of individuals to the organization and ensuring Yantai Corporation for 14 trainees. Each two-day course covered in the field, such as sales reporting, and to understand the indicators USA United Kingdom the involvement of participants in discussions on the future image the new roles and the mindset required for newly-promoted pernecessary for performance management. Germany of the organization. Doosan Corporation will continue its efforts to sonnel, and included a factory tour and time for Chinese corporate Health & Safety build its future through cooperation with members by overcoming employees to interact with each other. After the training, one parBelgium Protection of Consumer Leadership Program for Continuous Performance Management regional boundaries. ticipants said, It was an opportunity to find both my problems and Freedom of Association (Situational Leadership) solutions, and I was able to understand the content of the training DDI BU has introduced a CPM(continuous performance manageA Labor-Management Culture Based on Mutual Trust more deeply through discussions between different corporations, Business impacts ment) whereby the performance of its members is managed at all and it was really helpful to share my views on work and leadership.” Potential Human Rights Issue Doosan Corporation practices a harmonious labor-management times to improve effectiveness in the rapidly changing business Doosan Corporation has operated annual promotion courses for Production Plant culture for mutual growth through regular communication and varenvironment. In addition, it has implemented a situational leadernewly promoted general managers at its Chinese corporations since Subsidiary ious internal and external joint events with labor unions. In addition, ship program for 37 leaders to ensure the stable establishment of 2018 and will continue to provide training. Main Issues Identified we listen to employees' opinions periodically through various comCPM. This way, leaders can develop the ability to provide effective munication channels for employees, such as Doosan Credo Time, coaching and feedback for different members and situations. Emotional Intelligence Leadership Training for Managers ombudsmen, and various surveys, and reflect their opinions in manBio BU provided emotional intelligence leadership training to all agement activities and organizational operations. Doosan Corpoteam and part leaders to strengthen their leadership. They spent ration promotes an organizational culture where all employees time getting to understand their role as a team leader, self-awareparticipate in the growth of the company through quarterly manageness, and how to control their emotions. We conducted a total of two ment briefings. sessions, in June and August of 2019, and one 1:1 coaching session. 78 Doosan Corporation CSR Report 2019 Introduction Design the Future Spark the Growth Value our Stakeholders CSR Policy & Performance Appendix 79 EHS Management Job Education Environmental Management Production Academy to Strengthen Manufacturing Digital Job Competency Assessment Response to and Monitoring of New Environmental Regulations educates and evaluates the vendors responsible. It also maintains Competitiveness DDI BU defined digital job competency with 329 items in the eight Global public awareness of and interest in environmental issues a consistent effort to reduce the volume of waste discharged by its Doosan Corporation has developed a production academy for office areas of ICT, business package, AI, big data, cloud, IoT, consulting, such as environmental pollution, water shortages, natural disasprocesses. Last year, Electro-Materials BG reduced waste by about workers engaged in manufacturing in order to strengthen their and project management, and conducted a digital job competency ters and climate change have increased significantly over the years. 48 tons compared to 2018. competitiveness. Twenty employees participated in the four-day prolevel assessment for the entire DDI PI&IT job group to accelerate Along with this interest, efforts to solve the problems, such as polduction academy, which consists of four courses: understanding of the digital transformation. The BU carries out activities to enhance icies and regulations, are ongoing at the national level. In particResponse to Climate Change manufacturing, site improvement, productivity improvement, and its digital job competencies by sharing knowledge and experience of ular, the importance of environmental management at companies Doosan regularly discloses information related to the greenhouse digital trends. In-house experts developed and lectured on a pracinternal experts for chapter organization, core competency-based is being heavily emphasized. In this regard, Doosan has deployed gas emissions of its facilities and controls these according to the tical, case-oriented curriculum aimed at enhancing site operations. CoP, and certification acquisition. an environmental management system designed to minimize the IPCC Guidelines and the government's own guidelines. Doosan's Doosan Corporation provides on-the-job training for field workers impact of company business on the environment. It preemptively statements on greenhouse gas emissions and energy consumption using various cases from Doosan and around the globe. In 2020, we responds to government regulations and trends by steadily moniand its plans for monitoring them are verified by a third party each Agile Basic Course plan to provide on-the-job training with more contents and three toring business activities and surveying their impact on local comyear. In particular, we have set reduction targets for our workplaces DDI BU conducted two Agile basic courses for 53 prospective times as many cases studies. munities. Furthermore, the company has conducted in-depth expert and have steadily promoted energy saving and greenhouse gas trainees with the goal of fostering Agile concept, philosophy, and research to secure essential EHS capabilities and enhanced its exereduction activities to achieve the targets set by the government, development methodologies, which are the basic skills for innovative Mottrol BG Technical Field Power-Up 1 cution ability through its participation in EHS activities. Based on as regulatory targets were shifted from the GHG emissions trading way of working. The participants got to understand the concept of Mottrol BG conducted 53-hour field power-up course from April these activities, there were no serious violations of environmental scheme in Electro-Materials BG to the GHG management target in the Agile framework, development methodologies, and the Scrum to December for 12 juniors with the goal of fostering next-generalaws in Doosan Corporation in 2019. all BGs. needed for projects, and took part in practical exercises related to tion leaders. This course covered communication, creative thinking, Agile, such as writing backlogs and planning Sprints. In 2020, this Doosan has established an Energy Management Committee to fulStewardship of Hazardous Chemical Substances product technology, and understanding quality systems, and procourse will be provided on the topic of how to work in Agile and varfill its responsibility toward addressing climate change. The Energy Doosan Corporation strives to create a safe and clean workplace vided opportunities for employees to improve their innovation capaious methodologies that can be applied in practice. Management Committee holds four annual meetings to share and through the tighter management of hazardous chemicals. bilities through project planning and other tasks. provide information on cases of energy savings among the BGs. Electro-Materials BG has obtained a business license for harmful Electro-Materials BG's Jeungpyeong and Gimcheon plants were able chemical substances in order to comply with related laws and regto reduce idle power usage by 88,289 kWh. Mottrol BG expects to Business English Writing Course ulations, and conducts statistical and emissions surveys on a regachieve a reduction of 331.6 tCO2 /year by investing KRW 460 milA business English writing course was provided for sales, purular basis in accordance with the legal requirements. Employees lion in a waste heat recovery system that can recover waste heat by chasing, and R&D staff who actively communicate with overseas of all worksites periodically attend education courses on the safe painting environmental pollution prevention facilities. customers in English. The course was run six times from June to handling of chemical substances and the importance of systematiOctober and had a total of 44 participants. They composed emails cally wearing personal protective gear. In addition, the company has Control of Air and Water Pollutants related to their jobs and had them corrected. The trainees conveyed continuously invested in facilities to ensure that it complies with all their opinion that “the training course was practical, not lecture-oriDoosan keeps the atmospheric pollutant emissions generated at chemical substance management laws in all of its business sites. In ented, so it was a highly satisfying as we could use the skills immediits worksites at less than 50 % of the standard allowed under the 2019, improvements were made to factory walls as part of continately after returning to work.” Doosan Corporation plans to launch a relevant statutes. In particular, Electro-Materials BG conducts uous efforts to meet legal requirements. By checking the material variety of language programs next year to help its employees comself-measurement of major pollutants twice a month and, starting information of imported chemicals, the BG ensures that the safety municate actively with global customers. in, plans to further measure pollutant emission concentrations and management of chemical substances entering the company comimprove facilities, as air pollutant emission standards continue to plies with all the legal procedures. The company has also strengthbe strengthened. Mottrol BG invested KRW 500 million in installing ened its management level by introducing a chemical management electrostatic collection equipment for oil scattered during prosystem. cessing. This equipment collects and reuses more than 200 liters Mottrol BG introduced SAP ERP to minimize the use of hazardous chemof scattered oil per month to prevent air pollution and save on raw icals by preliminary impact assessment at the chemical purchase planmaterial costs. In addition, Electro-Materials BG manages the water ning phase to pre-validate the replacement or non-use of chemicals. pollutant concentration of its final discharge water to keep it below 50 % of acceptable standard for water resource risk management in Waste Management order to reduce stable water supply and water depletion risks. To reduce the volume of discharged waste, Doosan separates its waste according to nature and state, and then processes it in accor1) A llbaro System: As the IT-based waste management system of the Korean dance with the law under its 'Allbaro System¹⁾.' For the legal treatgovernment, it controls the entire set of processes for waste management, right ment of waste generated by various processes, Doosan periodically from discharge to transportation, to the final treatment. 80 Doosan Corporation CSR Report 2019 Introduction Design the Future Spark the Growth Value our Stakeholders CSR Policy & Performance Appendix 81 Shared Growth · Supply Chain CSR Management Management of Environmental Investments Response to ISO45001 Certification Supply Chain Management factory construction projects and supporting capacity building Doosan Corporation operates a system for the management of enviDoosan Corporation carries out systematic safety and health manthrough education. Our management consulting program provides Doosan Corporation is strengthening the sustainability of its supply ronmental expenditures to internalize its environmental manageagement activities based on its occupational health and safety maninnovative solutions for cost reduction, inventory management, chain through two strategies: increasing the competitiveness of the ment system. Our environmental investments are mainly focused agement systems(ISO 45001:2018). We are preparing to change quality improvement, and process management, supporting ten entire supply chain through shared growth with suppliers, and idention the installation or replacement of pollution-prevention and enviour existing OHSAS 18001 certification to ISO45001. Thus far, ElecSuppliers in 2019. A smart factory construction project is provided to fying and improving sustainability risks in the supply chain in advance. ronmental-protection equipment and on the construction of wastetro-Materials BG Jeungpyeong, Gimcheon and Iksan plants, Induseight Suppliers based on worksite needs such as MES and PLC. 200 water treatment stations and waste storage warehouses. In 2019, trial Vehicle BG, and our Mottrol BG have already completed the Establishment of a Shared Growth System employees of Suppliers completed Doosan's training programs on Electro-Materials BG invested KRW 2,330 million in maintenance at certification transition. finance, EHS, leadership, etc., to strengthen their capabilities. Doosan Corporation has a vision of 'Building a virtuous Suppliits wastewater treatment plant, with improvements to the walls of ership with suppliers.' Doosan's technological capabilities, busiContinuous Operation of Programs for Closing the Gap facilities that handle harmful chemical substances and the installaBasic Compliance with EHS Rules ness systems, and other unique management qualities, along with Doosan Corporation has conducted a variety of programs for closing tion of a low NOx burner. Mottrol BG invested KRW 460 million in the All of Doosan Corporation's worksites carry out activities designed its technology systems, are shared with its suppliers to enhance the gap between small and medium-sized companies since 2017. installation of dust collectors for organic painting and a waste heat to ensure basic compliance with the EHS rules and prevent the recurtheir competitiveness and seek mutual growth in the global It provides KRW 100,000 per month to secondary suppliers and recovery system. rence of safety accidents caused by non-compliance with those market. Doosan Corporation established a Shared Growth Team to in-house subcontract workers, while providing the same support to rules. Based on a risk assessment of the worksite and processes at strengthen the competitiveness of its Suppliers, which was done at It evaluated the potential risks of 494 aboveground/underground SME employees who are in charge of cleaning and security. The benhand, each worksite selects items that must be observed, without the BG-level in the past. environmental protection facilities that store oil and chemicals to eficiaries of primary and secondary suppliers can get welfare benefail, in order to prevent accidents. By linking these to periodic eduaddress potential risks of environmental accidents, and established fits such as holiday gifts. In 2019, Doosan Corporation provided KRW cation, publicity, inspection, and citation, all employees are naturally Doosan Corporation's Philosophy of Shared Growth monitoring methods and cycles for each evaluation grade. Moni2.2 billion(KRW 1.5 billion for closing the gap and KRW 0.7 million for encouraged to comply with the safety rules with an advanced level of toring was improved through visual inspection(R&R, periodic workDefinition of Shared Growth mutual growth incentives) through the gap relief program. safety awareness. book entries), sensors, water level fluctuation measurements, and Building a 'virtuous Suppliership' with suppliers to strengthen global competitiveness Fair and Transparent Selection in the Supply Chain flow checking. Equipment that could not be installed on the ground Doosan Expansion of Prevention Program for Musculoskeletal Disorders Doosan Corporation conducts sustainability assessments in addition was cleaned, coated or double-structures to prevent environmental Doosan Corporation operates musculoskeletal disease prevention What is a 'Virtuous Suppliership'? accidents. All technology/quality/management to price, quality, and financial status evaluations for the trade item Virtuous program for health of its employees at workplaces and investigates Suppliership systems are operated as part of a single in question when selecting companies that wish to do business with the Potential hazards of musculoskeletal systems. system that includes suppliers. Doosan. Sustainability assessments are carried out transparently in Health and Safety Management Suppliers Doosan's technological capabilities, Electro-Materials BG conducted measurement and consultation accordance with the registration procedures on the Doosan webbusiness systems, and other unique EHS Leadership Activities on musculoskeletal Potential hazards for 296 people, including management qualities, along with its site. They are carried out based on internal regulations that reflect technology systems, are shared with the terms of compliance announced by the Fair Trade Commission. Doosan Corporation has strengthened voluntary EHS management employees of its Suppliers, and provided a pain management proits suppliers to enhance their competitiveamong the heads of its organizations based on the top managegram that prescribed individual exercise methods. ness and seek mutual growth in the Doosan Corporation strives to ensure that these regulations are global market. applied fairly to all companies that wish to do business with Doosan. ment's deep interest in and support for EHS. All leaders personally In addition, Mottrol BG operates a program for its employees as well We conduct a regular evaluation of quality, delivery date, price, and perform diverse EHS leadership activities, including EHS field inspecemployees of its Suppliers in conjunction with acupuncture/drug other sustainability factors for suppliers with a transaction volume tions, safety dialogues, and EHS meetings. Through these measures, Diffusion of Shared Growth Culture treatment and individual exercise prescriptions. Treatment support above a certain amount that have been registered as regular Supthere has been an effective increase in the safety awareness of all Doosan Corporation held a Fair Trade and Mutual Growth Agreeactivities were provided to 134 people, including employees of its pliers. our employees, thus contributing to the prevention of safety acciment Ceremony with 100 major Suppliers and Dong Hyun-soo, Vice Suppliers. Key suppliers are selected based on their strategic importance and dents at our worksites. chairperson of Doosan Corporation and Chairman of the Shared Growth Committee, in April 2019. We prevents risk related to the Fair transaction size. Field diagnosis and improvement plans are carried Trade Act through a fair-trade compliance program and promote out on key suppliers. Doosan Corporation supports shared growth Creating Safe Worksites Together support activities to strengthen the competitiveness of our Supactivities for the capacity-building of suppliers. Doosan Corporation has deployed a mutual cooperation system with our suppliers in order to establish safe and healthy worksites. In pliers. In addition, Doosan Corporation strengthens communication Financial information + item inspection(quality test, etc.) + Supplier capacity evaluation(examples, etc.) + sustainability 2019, Electro-Materials BG's Iksan and Gimcheon plants, Industrial through regular meetings with Suppliers, conducts supplier visits by Registration assessment for labor/human rights, health/safety, Doosan's CEO and executives, listens to the difficulties and suggesEvaluation Vehicle BG, and Mottrol BG participated in the 'Win-Win Safety and environment, etc. Health Cooperation Program,' which is systematically operated for a tions of Suppliers and reflects their opinions in its management. We total of 28 suppliers and includes safety and health-related educaalso promote shared growth, not only for our primary Suppliers, but Price, delivery date, quality performance evaluation Regular (determination of unqualified suppliers) + sustainability tion and support for hazard assessment. for our secondary Suppliers as well. Evaluation assessment for labor/human rights, health/safety, environment, etc. Mutual Growth Through Support to Strengthen the Musculoskeletal Disorder Prevention Program Competitiveness of Suppliers · Selection of key suppliers based on purchasing strategy Doosan Corporation provides free management consulting to Key · Improvement of in-depth diagnosis of sustainability risks Suppliers · Operation of support programs to improve competitivestrengthen the global competitiveness of its Suppliers, and conness and sustainability ducts various shared growth activities, including supporting smart 82 Doosan Corporation CSR Report 2019 Introduction Design the Future Spark the Growth Value our Stakeholders CSR Policy & Performance Appendix 83 Social Contribution Purchase Status(performance of remaining corporation after delivery and price. Under its vision of becoming a 'Global Sustainable Company on the Didim Seed Child Development Accounts of 350 children at 15 childspin-offs of October 1, 2019) World Index by 2025,' Doosan Corporation is carrying out social concare facilities nationwide. In addition to financial support, Doosan Description Number of Purchasing Geographical Purchasing Doosan intends to increase the transparency of its supply chain for suppliers ratio category ratio tribution activities to enhance the competitiveness and corporate Corporation also supports mentoring programs to strengthen the sustainable purchases. To this end, we strive to identify and improve Total 1,321 100% Korea 72% value of the community. self-leadership capabilities of 60 children at 8 childcare facilities issues across our supply chain based on the opinions of Suppliers. Japan 13% nationwide. Our employees serve as mentors to help children in Manufacturing 1,035 90% First of all, Doosan conduct an annual code of conduct compliance China* 9% Support for the Growth of People childcare facilities so that they can grow up to be healthy members survey of key stakeholders in its supply chains. This helps to improve Service 306 10% North America 3% of society through education and play. code of conduct compliance in our supply chains. In addition, we colUnder Doosan its vision ofPhilosophy Corporation's 'commitment to people,' of Shared Doosan is contributing to Growth Europe 3% Key suppliers 171 62% lect opinions from suppliers on possible problems in the business fostering talent for the future so that socially vulnerable groups(chilYouth Start Others 0% relationship with the company and reflect them in our purchasing dren, adolescents, single mothers, etc.) can grow as members of We provides scholarship for college freshmen from underprivi*For China, Hong Kong and Taiwan are included. policy. In addition, we operate a hotline(080-850-3398) for open society. leged backgrounds to enable them continue their studies. The 2019 communication with suppliers, and visit key suppliers to collect their scholarship program provided approximately KRW 100 million in Management of a Sustainable Supply Chain Funding programs collect contributions from employees and the opinions. scholarships to 40 students. We conducted volunteer activities with Doosan has enacted and applied its Guideline for Sustainable Supply company matches these at a one-to-one ratio. As of 2019, we had employee to make flowerpots for the elderly and patients in the vulChains for suppliers since 2015 in order to secure a sustainable Creating a safe working environment is one of our most important spent approximately KRW 1.5 billion on support programs for vulnernerable class. In addition, our employees support the continuous supply chain. This Guideline includes contents related to labor and strategic goals. This can increase the safety of supply chains and able social groups and communities, which were selected through growth of scholarship students by introducing books, listening to human rights, safety and health, the environment, ethics and fair ultimately enhance the sustainability of the entire supply chain by the Employee Funding Committee and Executive Social Contribution their concerns and giving advice. trade, general management, posting of guidelines and compliance, eliminating quality costs, supply-demand setbacks, etc., caused by Committee. etc. It is up to Doosan's Suppliers to agree to and apply the guideaccidents. Doosan operates its Coexisting Cooperation Program for Mother's Future Didim Seed lines. The full text of the guidelines can be found on the Doosan the safety management of suppliers' workplaces. In 2019, Mottrol We operate a self-sufficiency support program for single mothers e-procurement website. BG's mutual growth program obtained the top 10 % S grade from Doosan Corporation supports the financial and emotional indepenwho are raising their children under social prejudice and economic the Korea Occupational Safety and Security Agency. In addition, for dence of children in childcare facilities who, under the Child Welfare difficulties. In 2019, we provided employment and job education Doosan Corporation had devised and implemented conflict minAct, are required to leave the facilities and go out on their own when suppliers found to have vulnerabilities as a result of sustainability expenses to 40 single mothers. Through sectoral coaching and meneral management policies in order to participate in the internathey reach the age of 18. In 2019, we donated KRW 168 million to evaluation, we visit their sites to assess the vulnerabilities and help toring support, 22 beneficiaries succeeded in obtaining qualificational community's efforts concerning conflict minerals. Based on the Korean Social Welfare Council. These funds were credited to the them establish a better working environment through improvement tions and finding a job. our conflict mineral management policies, we identify products that activities. In addition, we provide practical supplier training promay include 3TG(tantalum, tungsten, tin and gold). We request our Doosan Social Contribution Strategy grams, such as programs on labor management and EHS, to help suppliers to verify places of origin based on BOMs,¹⁾ and we were improve the working environment of our Suppliers. able to confirm that no conflict minerals have been used in our verified product group(application components of industrial vehicles, Doosan is strengthening the sustainability assessment of its supply casting materials, etc.). Doosan will continue to carry out monitoring chain to comprehensively support all of these activities. Doosan CorProud Global Doosan for the possible presence of 3TG through BOMs from the R&D stage poration has conducted its SSAP(Supplier Sustainability Assessment and reinforce the process of verifying the place of origin. Program) for key suppliers, which make up 90 % of all suppliers, over Vision Join the Global Sustainable Companies on the World Index* by 2025 the past three years. As a result, 22 out of 40 companies, that are — the most respected company according to Fortune magazine 1) Bill of Material subject to the improvement plan, have improved over the past three Mission years, and 8 out of 9 companies have improved in 2019. Improving future competitiveness and corporate value through strategic social contribution activities Definition of Doosan's High-Risk Worksites Worksites with a high possibility of causing environmental Supply Chain Management Goal(KPI) Unit: % Key Strategies 01 accidents/pollutions or violating environmental regulations Support for Growth of People Support for Local Communities Capitalizing on Our Capabilities Risk improvement for Purchasing ESG training rate for Worksites with a high possibility of employees or stakecore supply chain based on ESG purchasing personnel SDGs 02 holders causing/suffering legal/physical damage through issues/accidents related to human rights/safety/ethics Target Target 100 97 100 Worksites that cannot carry out normal operations due to 89 89 Target 03 sanctions or punishments Enabler Social Contribution Promotion System/Commitment of Employees 80 74 KPI Business KPI Business KPI Business KPI 62 59 61 55 Brand awareness Increased number of tourists to DongImproved employee satisfaction, and Sustainable Purchase Strategy Social KPI daemun, and number of visitors to Doota reduced employee turnover For the management of sustainable supply chains, Doosan operates Increased academic performance Social KPI Social KPI 27 and employment rate of beneficiaries Increased Brand awareness of Changes to beneficiaries, increased a purchasing strategy to reduce worksites with a high possibility of Dongdaemun and Duta number of programs environmental accidents/pollution. Doosan has established a purchasing strategy that reflects ESG elements in addition to quality, 2017 2018 2019 2023 2017 2018 2019 2023 2017 2018 2019 2023 84 Doosan Corporation CSR Report 2019 Introduction Design the Future Spark the Growth Value our Stakeholders CSR Policy & Performance Appendix 85 Support for Local Communities Doosan Corporation is contributing to support the future growth of heon Namgung Eok Memorial Hall, Gungjeong-dong Mugunghwa communities so that businesses and society can grow together. Garden, and the Seoul Botanical Garden since 2016. In 2019, our employees visited Gungjeong-dong Mugunghwa Garden to learn Doosan Day of Community Service about the Mugunghwa Planting Project, the species and history of APPENDIX We have held our annual 'Doosan Day of Community Service,' when mugunghwa, and conducted volunteer activities such as pruning our employees around the world promote sharing activities for local and cleaning up fallen and withered flowers for the maintenance of communities. In April 2019, 1,973 employees from eight countries mugunghwa. conducted various volunteer activities, including furniture making, facility maintenance, and environmental cleanup, for communities and neighbors near local worksites. Capacity Utilization Sharing Tea with Love We actively share our capabilities, resources, and business values Sharing Tea with Love is a CSR program that has been in existence with society and do our best to play a role as a member of the society since 1991, delivering warmth to soldiers serving on the front line. through voluntary participation. We delivered 8,000 boxes of instant coffee and monetary donations 'Dadok-Georim', a Reading Support Program in 2019, and the total number of tea cups delivered to the 360 miliDDI BU operates 'Dadok-Georim,' a reading support program for tary camps around the country so far has reached 39.2 million. children at child-care institutions designed to promote their intellecMugunghwa Planting Project tual and social development. Reading teachers and employees volDoosan has been operating the Mugunghwa Planting Project to unteered at Eden I Ville and participated in fairytale narration and promote the beauty and excellence of 'mugunghwa,' the national craft/drawing activities related to the books for the children. flower of Korea. We have created mugunghwa parks at HongcPrinciples of Charitable Contribution and Sponsorship Doosan Corporation operates its Social Contribution Committee to promote transparent and appropriate donations based on the following principles. Donation Disclosure · The company defines 'donation' as an amount that it provides · Donations made by the company are disclosed to the public Economy 86 to an individual, group or institution, regardless of whether it is through the business report and CSR report. called a support payment or sponsorship money. Environment 88 Social Performance 91 Social Contribution Committee Prevention of Risk Social Value Measurement 94 · The company has established and operates its Social · T he company avoids risks that may arise from donations through UN Global Compact 95 Contribution Committee as a body to deliberate and decide on all the Social Contribution Committee by: matters related to donations. Ensuring corporate contributions are not used as bribes. GRI Standards Index 96 · The Committee consists of the Chairperson of CSR Committee, the I dentifying the justification and assessing the appropriateness of CFO and the Legal Affairs Officer, and it reviews all donations of new charitable foundations. Independent Assurance Statement 100 more than KRW 10 million. -P  reventing donation and sponsorship risks that can be perceived · It also deliberates and decides upon the purpose, type of as political contributions. charitable foundation, amount and use of donation money. Greenhouse Gas Verification Statement 102 86 Doosan Corporation CSR Report 2019 Introduction Design the Future Spark the Growth Value our Stakeholders CSR Policy & Performance Appendix 87 Economy Financial Performance Credit Rating Category Unit 2016 2017 2018 2019 Category Unit 2016 2017 2018 2019 Balance Total assets 3,744,673 3,950,029 4,734,223 4,752,376 Credit Rating Korea Investors Service Inc. AAA‒ BBB+ Sheet Current assets 810,638 980,974 1,176,134 921,195 Korea Ratings Corporation Class AAA‒ BBB+ Non-current assets 2,934,035 2,969,055 3,558,089 3,831,181 NICE Information Service Co. AAA‒ BBB+ Total liabilities 1,632,123 1,750,271 2,428,715 2,607,723 Current liabilities 1,042,961 1,319,120 1,404,103 1,705,581 Non-current liabilities 589,161 431,151 1,024,613 902,143 Distribution of Economic Outcomes(as of December 31 of the year) Total equity 2,112,550 2,199,759 2,305,508 2,144,653 Category Unit 2016 2017 2018 2019 Capital stock 134,838 134,846 134,846 123,738 Investors Interest expenses 382 423 566 737 Capital surplus 678,233 680,215 734,169 797,120 Shareholders Dividend 913 1,004 1,771 1,024 Other capital adjustments -428,592 -395,601 -343,557 -1,146,809 Customers Sales(excluding dividend payouts) 18,878 25,306 28,221 20,385 Accumulated 39,338 48,546 137,013 201,356 Other Comprehensive Income Suppliers Purchasing expenditures 13,003 14,416 14,623 15,527 Retained earnings 1,688,734 1,731,753 1,643,037 2,169,247 Employees Salary, severance pay, benefits, etc. KRW 100 2,896 2,857 3,079 2,735 KRW Total liabilities and equity 3,744,673 3,950,029 4,734,223 4,752,376 Government Taxes and utility charges, corporate million 44 516 335 234 million tax expenses Income Operating revenue 2,067,136 2,624,829 2,919,401 2,060,705 Local Donations, expenses related to 74 73 57 75 Statement Sales 1,887,802 2,530,569 2,822,149 2,038,497 Community corporate community involvement Dividend profits 179,334 94,260 97,252 22,208 Total 36,189 44,595 48,653 40,717 Operating expenses 1,841,764 2,348,072 2,666,038 1,898,783 Cost of sales 1,476,840 1,932,771 2,163,103 1,633,647 Selling, general and 364,924 415,301 502,935 265,135 R&D administrative expenses Category Unit 2016 2017 2018 2019 Operating profit 225,371 276,757 253,363 161,921 R&D R&D investments KRW 100 million 630 880 875 653 Non-operating profit 42,678 90,329 45,221 51,806 R&D ratio of investment to sales % 3.2 3.7 3.3 2.9 Non-operating expenses 113,753 114,347 115,898 117,642 Income before income taxes 154,297 252,739 182,686 96,086 Income tax expense 495 47,638 24,073 17,190 Customer Satisfaction Income from continuing operations 153,802 205,100 158,613 78,896 Income/Loss from discontinued 554,907 Category Unit 2016 2017 2018 2019 operations Customer Satisfaction Index(Electro-Materials BG) 3.5 3.5 3.9 3.6 Net income 153,802 205,100 158,613 633,803 Points Customer Satisfaction Index(Mottrol BG) 3.8 3.6 3.7 3.5 Anti-Corruption/Ethical Management Category Unit 2016 2017 2018 2019 Ethical Education hours per capita No. of hours 1.0 1.0 0.9 0.8 management education Education participants Persons 2,295 2,056 2,231 1,865 Sustainable Supply Chain Category Unit 2016 2017 2018 2019 Sustainability No. of key suppliers 342 235 180 247 of Supply Chain No. of No. of suppliers subject to 121 123 127 178 companies sustainability assessment Total purchases from suppliers 13,003 14,390 14,623 15,527 Purchases from key suppliers KRW 100 7,474 9,668 6,942 9,651 million Total purchases from SMEs 6,309 6,930 7,093 7,648 88 Doosan Corporation CSR Report 2019 Introduction Design the Future Spark the Growth Value our Stakeholders CSR Policy & Performance Appendix 89 Environment Environmental Investment(Domestic/Overseas) Consumption of Resources1) Category Unit 2016 2017 2018 2019 Category Unit 2016 2017 2018 2019 Environmental Investment Total 101.1 88.2 110.7 120.9 Consumption Total 56,588 65,097 80,766 63,585 and Expenses KRW 100 Domestic 72.6 61.9 70.4 105.2 of Key Raw Materials Copper foil 6,501 5,634 5,062 4,195 million Overseas1) 28.6 26.3 40.4 15.7 Glass fabric 20,125 18,042 16,920 14,711 1) Scope of overseas data collection: Changshu, CFL, DLE, DIVC, DMJC, DFCA.(For 2019, data collection for DFCA is excluded.) Epoxy resin 10,066 9,679 11,441 6,047 Steel plate 3,503 4,178 5,120 5,103 Casting materials 16,196 27,230 41,943 32,977 Tons Egg yolk powder 104 124 92 111 Air Pollutants(Domestic/Overseas)²⁾ Ethanol 19 56 41 161 Category Unit 2016 2017 2018 2019 Acetone 32 106 78 200 NOx Emissions 58.2 55.4 65.8 66.8 SUS plate 19 21 31 36 Tons SOx Emissions 1.2 1.0 2.1 2.2 SUS tube 5 6 9 10 2) Scope in 2019 is limited to data from Korean worksites and Electro-Materials Changshu and Mottrol DMJC from overseas worksites. Steel sheet 18 21 29 34 *Some historical data has been changed due to changes in scope of overseas data collection. Use of Recycled Materials Consumption 45 141 104 318 1) Limited to domestic worksites Water Use(Domestic/Overseas) Category Unit 2016 2017 2018 2019 Total Water Use 967 1,011 1,042 1,084 Domestic Total 500 515 502 533 Waste Generation(Domestic2)/Overseas3)) Water supply 427 457 419 443 Category Unit 2016 2017 2018 2019 Groundwater 73 58 83 89 Waste Generation 18.1 18.0 17.6 17.3 All other sources Thousand Tons 0 0 0 0 Waste Generation Domestic total 15.1 14.7 14.0 13.3 Overseas 3) Total 467 496 540 551 by Type Domestic general waste 8.1 6.3 6.7 6.0 Water supply 414 416 444 470 Domestic Hazardous waste 7.0 7.5 7.3 7.3 Groundwater 0 0 0 0 Overseas total 3.0 3.3 3.6 4.0 All other sources 53 80 96 82 Overseas general waste 1.9 2.2 2.2 2.4 3) Scope of overseas data collection in 2019 is Changshu, Solus, DLE, DIVC and DMJC(excluding DFCA). Overseas Hazardous waste: 1.0 1.1 1.4 1.6 Thousand Waste Generation Domestic recycling 9.7 10.3 10.9 10.0 Tons by Discharge Method Domestic landfill 0.7 0.5 0.4 0.4 Domestic incineration 4.7 3.0 2.7 2.9 Overseas recycling 2.8 2.8 2.8 3.2 Discharge of Wastewater(Domestic/Overseas) Overseas landfill 0.0 0.2 0.2 0.2 Category Unit 2016 2017 2018 2019 Overseas incineration 0.2 0.3 0.6 0.5 Discharge of Total 415 413 433 513 2) Korean waste emission figures may differ from those reported in the past due to changes in the method of calculating emissions for the Doota building and Yeongang building. Wastewater Domestic Thousand Tons 168 179 184 208 3) Scope of overseas data collection in 2019: Changsu, CFL, CFAPZ, DLE, DIVC, DMJC. For the overseas data, DFCA was excluded. Global 247 234 249 305 Chemical Oxygen Demand(COD) 4) 21 22 32 35 ppm Biochemical Oxygen Demand(BOD) 18 16 17 12 4) Scope of COD and BOD is limited to Korean worksites. 90 Doosan Corporation CSR Report 2019 Introduction Design the Future Spark the Growth Value our Stakeholders CSR Policy & Performance Appendix 91 Social Performance GHG Emissions(Domestic/Overseas1)) Composition of Human Resources Category Unit 2016 2017 2018 2019 Category Unit 2016 2017 2018 2019 GHG Emissions 172.4 189.8 179.1 183.6 Number of Total 3,789 5,522 5,648 4,984 GHG Emissions Domestic Total 81.6 86.0 83.5 84.3 Employees Domestic 3,789 3,600 3,902 3,385 Domestic Scope 1 28.9 25.1 23.4 25.0 Global N/A 1,922 1,746 1,599 Thousand Domestic Scope 2 52.7 60.9 60.1 59.3 Domestic Electro-Materials 1,265 1,251 1,315 1,210 tCO2eq Overseas Total 90.8 103.8 95.6 99.3 by BG/BU Industrial Vehicle 520 546 585 565 Overseas Scope 1 10.1 8.9 8.3 7.5 Mottrol 484 460 511 516 Overseas Scope 2 80.6 94.9 87.3 91.9 DDI 464 432 453 479 GHG Intensity Total tCO2eq / 7.4 6.4 5.6 7.8 Holding company/CC/ Persons 433 292 289 291 Domestic KRW 100 4.3 3.4 3.0 4.1 Administration center Global million 20.2 23.3 24.9 30.2 Retail 327 249 287 224 GHG Emissions Electro-Materials 139.9 151.1 147.4 147.2 Fuel Cell 223 292 371 100 by BG/BU Industrial Vehicle 4.2 6.2 6.1 5.9 Bio 73 78 91 0 Mottrol 7.5 9.1 10.2 9.9 Overseas Asia N/A 786 705 785 Thousand Europe N/A 490 680 419 Fuel Cell 9.8 11.1 3.7 2.7 tCO2eq Americas N/A 646 361 395 Retail 2.7 4.2 3.6 10.8 Bio 1.9 2.1 2.5 2.0 By employment Total 3,789 3,600 3,902 3,385 Etc.2) 6.3 6.0 5.4 5.1 Type Full-time Persons 3,447 3,541 3,779 3,306 1) Scope of overseas data collection: Changshu, CFL, DIVC.(Among the overseas data for 2018-2019, DFCA was excluded.) Contract 342 59 123 79 2) Including Corporate Center, Administration Center, and DDI By gender Total 3,789 3,600 3,902 3,385 Male Persons 3,134 3,067 3,265 2,809 Female 655 533 637 576 *Personal resource data are calculated based on the tax payee at the end of 2019 and may differ from the figures reported in the business report. ** Employment type and gender data are based on domestic employees Energy Consumption(Domestic/Overseas3)) Category Unit 2016 2017 2018 2019 Employee Diversity Energy Consumption 2,312 2,442 2,459 2,493 Category Unit 2016 2017 2018 2019 Energy Domestic Total 1,646 1,725 1,643 1,695 Ratio of Female Employees 16.47 14.81 16.32 17.02 Consumption Domestic Electricity 1,061 1,189 1,185 1,212 Ratio of Female Total N/A 9.42 10.62 12.09 by Type Domestic Fuel TJ 564 481 400 432 Managers Senior mangers N/A 0.00 0.00 1.27 Domestic Others 21 55 58 51 Middle managers N/A 10.15 11.36 12.77 Overseas Total 666 717 816 798 % Junior managers N/A 18.65 20.23 20.21 Overseas Electricity 533 550 563 597 Basic Salary and Supervisory position 95.50 96.36 95.90 94.67 Overseas Fuel 133 167 252 201 Compensation Ratio of Female, Energy Total 0.99 0.82 0.77 1.00 Non-supervisory position 92.15 77.13 78.79 95.27 TJ/ Compared to Those of Male Intensity Domestic 0.86 0.68 0.58 0.83 KRW billion * Senior managers are at or above the executive level, middle managers are department managers and section managers, and junior managers are section chiefs and staff. Global 1.50 1.62 2.1 2.43 ** Supervisory positions consists of department managers and section managers. Non-supervisory positions consists of section chiefs and staff, except for office support/ 3) Overseas Data Collection Scope Changshu, CFL, CFAPZ, DLE, DIVC, DMJC, DFCA.(Among the overseas data for 2019, DFCA was excluded.) professional/specialty positions. * Among the overseas data for 2018, CFAPZ was added, but DFCA was excluded due to credibility problems for the collected data. Employment and Turnover Category Unit 2016 2017 2018 2019 New Recruits Full-time 371 259 286 296 Contract 226 74 118 84 Persons Employment Disabled 50 42 47 46 Diversity National merit recipients 32 44 38 37 Turnover rate(Full-time) % 5.8 4.7 6.1 5.3 92 Doosan Corporation CSR Report 2019 Introduction Design the Future Spark the Growth Value our Stakeholders CSR Policy & Performance Appendix 93 Labor Practices Human Rights Category Unit 2016 2017 2018 2019 Category Unit 2016 2017 2018 2019 Union Membership Rate1) % 78.8 79.1 78.8 78.6 Human Rights Education No. of hours 3,111 2,968 6,180 4,407 Employees Participating in Human Rights 100 100 100 100 1) Union membership rate = Number of employees enrolled in labor unions / Number of total employees Education % 6 8 7 11 Suppliers Subject to Human Rights Assessment Performance Evaluation Category Unit 2016 2017 2018 2019 Rate of Employees Subject to Performance % 99.8 99.8 100 99.5 Evaluation2) Type of Community Involvement Activities 2) For white-collar employees Category Unit 2016 2017 2018 2019 Total 7,400(100) 7,288(100) 5,747(100) 7,512(100) Charitable Contribution KRW million 753(10) 1,079(15) 660(11) 573 (8) CCI Investments (%) 6,196(84) 4,621(63) 4,505(78) 6,443(86) Health and Safety Commercial initiatives 450(6) 1,389(19) 384(7) 283(4) Category Unit 2016 2017 2018 2019 Rate of Occupational Accidents Employees Rate of occupational 0.15 0.25 0.26 0.06 accidents per million hours LTIFR 3) Employees Rate of occupational 0.98 1.38 1.29 0.28 LTIFR4) Suppliers accidents per million hours 0.00 0.00 0.67 0.00 OIFR 5) Employees Disease rate per million hours 0.16 0.00 0.13 0.14 Investment Type of Community Involvement Category Unit 2016 2017 2018 2019 3) Approval criteria for industrial accidents 4) LTIFR(Lost Time Incidents Frequency Rate): Total number of incidents / Total working hours * 1,000,000 Total 7,400(100) 7,288(100) 5,747(100) 7,512(100) 5) OIFR(Occupational Illness Frequency Rate): Total number of diseases / Total working hours * 1,000,000 Cash donation 6,847(93) 6,525(90) 4,462 (78) 6,168(82) KRW million Donation in kind 216(3) 86(1) 87(2) 11(0.1) (%) Cost of employee's contribution activities 237(3) 200(3) 198(3) 213(3) Development of Employee Capabilities Operating cost 100(1) 476(7) 1,000(17) 1,121(15) Category Unit 2016 2017 2018 2019 Total Training Expenses KRW million 5,685 4,728 4,802 5,838 Total Training Hours Hours 189,532 103,487 118,301 108,086 Training Expenses per Capita KRW 1,000/ Person 1,365 1,313 1,271 1,766 Training Hours per Capita 82 46 49.2 44 Education Status1) General education 70.7 34.6 32.3 40.5 Participation in Community Involvement Activities Ethical management education 1.0 1.0 0.9 0.8 Category Unit 2016 2017 2018 2019 Hours/Persons Anti-sexual harassment education 1.3 1.3 2.6 1.8 Employee Volunteering Persons 2,564 2,242 2,328 2,755 Compliance program education 2.1 1.4 0.3 0.6 Volunteer Hours Hours 9,199 7,623 7,255 7,929 Information security education 5.4 4.6 8.8 0.7 6) The total training hours per person is not equivalent to the sum of training hours per person by specific training course. Business Association Expenditure Childcare Leave and Pension Support Category Unit 2016 2017 2018 2019 Category Unit 2016 2017 2018 2019 Total Expenses 855.4 675.8 828.7 608.9 Childcare No. of employees on childcare leave 33 39 56 51 Leave Major Expenses in 2019 Korea Employers Federation 91 No. of employees returning to work after childcare leave 24 29 35 36 Persons KRW million Incheon Chamber of Commerce and Industry 80 Continue to work rate for 12 months after childcare 13 20 21 27 North American Forklift Association 66 leave Retirement Funds under management KRW million 122,749 128,396 150,250 171,265 H2KOREA 50 pension Defined benefits(DB) Persons 3,329 2,828 3,346 3,052 Korea Industrial Technology Association 15 Defined contributions(DC) 29 39 36 121 * As of December, 2019 94 Doosan Corporation CSR Report 2019 Introduction Design the Future Spark the Growth Value our Stakeholders CSR Policy & Performance Appendix 95 Social Value Measurement UN Global Compact Measurement Method We at Doosan Corporation joined the UN Global Compact in 2014 and have been abiding by its 10 principles in the four areas of human rights, We measured the social value generated for the year by using input/output data from management activities and statistics/research data on labor, the environment, and anti-corruption. We are committed to realizing corporate social values and continuing to grow sustainably by condomestic/international social costs to convert social and environmental impact into a monetary value. stantly challenging ourselves to create future value through innovation and by making sincere efforts as a global corporate citizen. Input / Output According to Social and Environmental Social Costs per Unit(monetized) Management Activities Impacts of the Year 10 Principles 2019 New employees Social costs per unemployed person Effect of increase employment due to employment at Doosan Corporation(+) 2019 GHG emissions Social costs per ton of GHG emissions Effect of traditional environmental pollution 1 2 caused by GHG emissions from Doosan(-) Human Rights Principle 01. Businesses should support and respect the protection of interna37p, 74-76p tionally proclaimed human rights; and Measurement Indicators Principle 02. make sure that they are not complicit in human right abuses. Description Indicators Impact Measurement Results(KRW 0.1 Billion) Main Activities 2018 2019 Growth rat(%) People Welfare and Wages and benefits + 11,647 1,470 -11% Increase of individual income through employee 3 4 5 6 Employment salary and welfare(based on the Business Report) Labour 74-76p Employment growth + 125 130 4% Contribution to the reduction of unemployment through the provision of jobs Principle 03. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the Safety Accident Impact Number of deaths 0 0 Social cost due to industrial accidents effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Industrial accidents 5 1 -80% Principle 04. the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; People Total 1,767 1,599 -9% Principle 05. the effective abolition of child labour; and Planet Greenhouse Gas Impact Total emissions 50 51 3% Social costs related to GHG emissions Principle 06. the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and Water Impact Water use 17 19 12% Social costs related to water use and discharge of occupation. Wastewater discharge 5 6 27% wastewater from business activities Waste Impact Incineration 5 5 2% Social costs of emission by type for waste Landfill 0.5 0.5 -4% generated by business activities Impact of Air Pollutants SOx emissions 0.8 0.8 5% Social costs of emission by type for air pollutants 7 8 9 NOx emissions 67 69 22% generated by business activities Fine dust emissions 14 19 33% Environment Principle 07. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to 44-47p, 68-69p, 79-80p Planet Total 154 164 6% environmental challenges; Partner Contribution to Purchase amount + 910 1,012 11% Contribution to the creation of a shared growth Principle 08. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Suppliers ecosystem through increased purchases from suppliers responsibility; and Support for shared growth + 11 133 1,189% Shared Growth Support Fund and amount supported Principle 09. encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally Inhibition of shared growth 0 0 Inhibition of shared growth ecosystem due to viofriendly technologies. ecosystem due to unfair lation of the Fair Trade Act(penalty) practices Corporate Community Charitable contributions + 7 6 -13% Social value contributed to community education, 42% infrastructure and the environment through social 10 Involvement CCI investments + 47 67 contribution activities and donations Commercial initiatives + 4 3 -26% Anti-Corruption 66p Shareholders Dividends + 1,024 1,000 -2% Increased shareholder value through payment of dividends(based on the Business Report) Principle 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, Investors Payment of interest + 525 763 45% Increase investor value through payment of interincluding extortion and bribery. est(based on the Business Report) The Government Corporate tax + 241 172 -29% Contribution to secure government funding through proper payment of taxes(based on the Business Report) Partner Total 2,769 3,155 14% Social Value 4,381 4,590 5% * Social value is measured with KPC, a special institution for sustainable management. Quantitative social benefit and cost are divided into positive and negative impact based on statistics and research data from Korea and abroad. 96 Doosan Corporation CSR Report 2019 Introduction Design the Future Spark the Growth Value our Stakeholders CSR Policy & Performance Appendix 97 GRI Standards Index General Disclosure Index Contents Page Reference information Index Contents Page Reference information Introduction to Business Stakeholders' Pparticipation 102-1 Name of organization 6 102-40 List of stakeholder groups related to, or participating in, the organization 60 102-2 Representative brand, products, and services 12-29 102-41 Ratio of employees subject to collective agreement 92 102-3 Location of headquarters 6-7 102-42 Standards for identifying and selecting stakeholders 60 102-4 Location of business place/site 6-7 102-43 Method of inducing stakeholders' participation 61 102-5 Characteristics and legal form of ownership 6-7 102-44 Methods and outcome, reports published in response to major issues raised through stakeholders' participation 60-61 102-6 Report on the target market 6-7 Introduction to Reports 102-7 Size of organization 6-7 102-45 All subsidiary companies and joint venture companies included in consolidated financial statements or identical doc4. Business 102-8 Information concerning employees 6-7, 91 uments of the organization Report 102-9 Description of the organization's supply chain 48-50, 81-82 102-46 Processes defining the boundary of contents and aspects of reports About this report 102-10 Major changes in the scale, structure, and ownership of the organization or supply chain 48-50, 81-82 102-47 A list of the material topics identified in the process for defining report content. 61 102-11 Description of the principles of advanced prevention and access methods 64-65 102-48 Effects and causes with regard to re-describing the information provided in previous reports About this 102-12 External initiatives 93, 95 report 101-13 Membership in associations or national/international policy organizations 102-49 Major changes from previous reporting periods in terms of scope, subject, or boundary About this Strategies report 102-14 Declaration by the supreme decision maker of the organization and strategies related to sustainability 2-3 102-50 Reporting period About this 102-15 Key elements of impact, risk, and opportunity 10-31 report Ethics and Integrity 102-51 Date of the latest report About this report 102-16 Organizational values, principles, standards, and business standards, including code of conduct and Code of Con4-5, 10-11 duct 102-52 Report frequency About this report 102-17 Internal and external mechanism for advice on compliance with ethics and statutes, integrity of the organization 66-67 102-53 Contact for information concerning this report as well as related contents 95 Governance 102-54 'In accordance with' the method selected by the organization About this 102-18 Governance structure of the organization, including committees of the supreme governance body 62-63 report 102-19 Procedure for the supreme governance body's delegation of authority on economic, environmental, and social mat62-63 102-55 GRI Index reporting ters to high-ranking employees 102-56 External verification 102-20 Report if any officer-level personnel haves been appointed to posts responsible for economic, environmental, and 62-63 social issues within the organization 102-21 Processes by which the supreme governance body consults stakeholders concerning economic, environmental, and 62-63 social issues 102-22 Supreme governance body and organization of its committees 62-63 102-23 Report if the chairperson of the supreme governance body concurrently serves as an officer 62-63 102-24 Procedure for the appointment and selection of the supreme governance body and its subordinate committees 62-63 102-26 Roles of the supreme governance body and high-ranking officers in developing, approving, and improving the 62-63 objectives, values of the organization, and the organization's mission, strategy, policies, and objectives related to economic, environmental, and social impacts 102-27 Measures for the supreme governance body to develop and enhance joint knowledge on economic, environmental, 62-63 and social matters 102-29 Roles of the supreme decision-making body that surveys and controls economic, environmental, and social impacts, 62-63 crises, and opportunity factors 102-30 Roles of the supreme decision-making body in examining the effectiveness of risk management processes for eco62-63 nomic, environmental, and social issues 102-31 Frequency of examination by the supreme decision-making body concerning economic, environmental, and social 62-63 impacts, crises, and opportunity factors 102-33 Procedure for reporting major matters to the supreme governance body 62-63 102-34 Reporting frequency, and nature of the system for handling or settling major matters reported to the supreme gov62-63 ernance body 102-35 Reward policies for the supreme decision-making body and high-ranking management team members 62-63 102-36 Procedure and standards for determining payroll 62-63 98 Doosan Corporation CSR Report 2019 Introduction Design the Future Spark the Growth Value our Stakeholders CSR Policy & Performance Appendix 99 Topic-Specific Disclosure Other Disclosure Index Contents Page Reference information Index Contents Page Reference information Direct Economic Eeffect Direct economic Economic Management Approach 10-11 201-3 Appropriation of liabilities for the defined benefit pension system of the organization 92 201-1 Creation and distribution of direct economic values 86-87 Anti-Corruption Energy 205-1 Number and ratio of worksites that assessed corruption risks and major risks identified 66 Management Approach 44 205-2 Disclosure of and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 66 302-1 Energy consumed inside the organization 45-46, 92 205-3 Confirmed corruption cases and actions against them 66 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 45-46, 90 Acts of Obstructing Competition Waste 206-1 Number and outcome of legal actions against unfair transactions, including acts of obstructing competition and 67 Management Approach 44 monopolistic or oligarchic acts 306-2 Total weight of wastes by type and treatment method 89 Raw Materials 301-1 Weight or volume of raw materials used 89 Occupational Health and Safety Management Approach 36 301-2 Ratio of raw materials input after recycling 89 403-4 Safety and health issues subject to formal agreement with the labor union 92 Safety and health issues Energy for union members are 302-2 Energy consumed outside the organization 90 included in the agreement. 302-3 Energy intensity 90 Education and Training 302-5 Reduction of energy required for products and services 45, 90 Management Approach 36 Water Resources 404-1 Average training hours in a year per worker 92 303-1 Total volume of water intake by source 88 404-3 Ratio of employees whose performance and career development have been examined periodically 92 Emissions into Air Evaluation of Human Rights 305-1 Direct emissions of greenhouse gases(Scope 1) 90 Management Approach 36 305-2 Energy indirect emissions of greenhouse gases (Scope 2) 90 412-1 Number and percentage of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or human rights impact 74-76 305-4 Greenhouse gases emissions intensity 90 assessments 305-5 Reduction of emitted greenhouse gases 45-46 Local Communities 305-7 NOx, SOx, and other major gases emitted into the air 88 Management Approach 48 Emission into Water 413-1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and/or develop52-53, 93 306-1 Water quality and total volume discharged by destination 88 ment programs Employment Social Assessment of Supply Chain 401-1 Number and ratio of employees newly hired and those who left the organization 91 Management Approach 48 401-3 Ratio of employees returning from childcare leave to continue service 92 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 81-82 Occupational Ssafety and Hhealth 403-2 Type and rate of injuries, rate of occupational diseases, rate of leave days, rate of absence, and number of work-re92 lated deaths 403-4 Safety and health issues subject to formal agreement with the labor union 42-43 Diversity and Equal Opportunity 405-1 Composition of governance organizations and status of employees by category(by gender, age, minority group, and 91 other diversity indicators) 405-2 Basic pay and reward ratio of pay of female to male employees 91 Protection of Customers' Personal Information 418-1 Number of violations of regulations for protecting customers' personal information and complaints concerning veri71 0 case fied leaks of customer information 100 Doosan Corporation CSR Report 2019 Introduction Design the Future Spark the Growth Value our Stakeholders CSR Policy & Performance Appendix 101 Independent Assurance Statement Introduction Conclusion Doosan Corporation(“Doosan”) commissioned DNV GL Business cess; DNV GL performed our work using AA1000AS 2008 with 2018 On the basis of the work undertaken, nothing comes to our attenperformance but also the impact on all stakeholders. As a result, Assurance Korea Ltd.(“DNV GL”), part of DNV GL Group, to underaddendum and DNV GL's assurance methodology VeriSustainTM tion to suggest that the reported data and information disclosed in Doosan discloses corporate social value as an effort to upgrade the take independent assurance of Doosan corporation CSR Report 2019 2(Version 5.0) which is based on our professional experience, interthe Report do not give a fair representation of Doosan' sustainability level of social responsibility management. (the “Report”). The directors of Doosan have sole responsibility for national assurance best practices. DNV GL provides Type 1 and the performance. Further opinions with regards to the adherence to the the preparation of the Report. The responsibility of DNV GL in permoderate level of assurance. But some environmental performances Principles are made below; Quality on sustainability performance information forming the assurance work is to the management of Doosan in have been verified by Type 2. The assurance was carried out from May DNV GL have reviewed the reliability of the disclosure data water accordance with the terms of reference. DNV GL's assurance engageand till July 2020. The site visit was made to Doosan's Headquarters The Principle of Inclusivity consumption, general and hazardous waste generation. We have ments are based on the assumption that the data and information in Seoul, Korea. We undertook the following activities as part of the Doosan has identified 6 internal and external stakeholder groups interviewed the person in charge, reviewed the process of gathprovided by the client to us as part of our review have been provided assurance process: such as Shareholders and Investors, Customers, Employees, Supering and processing data and test information on a sampling basis. in good faith. pliers, Local Communities and Regulators. Doosan engages with the The person in charge can explain the source and process of the •challenged the sustainability-related statements and claims stakeholders at the company and business unit levels through vardata identified above, which is considered traceable. The intentional Scope and basis of assurance made in the Report and assessed the robustness of the underious channels. The Report provides the definition of stakeholder, error or misstatement is not noted from the data and information Based on non-financial data and sustainability activities and perlying data management system, information flow and controls; expectations and requests by key stakeholders, and communication disclosed in the Report. Data owners were able to demonstrate the formance data generated in 2019 from Doosan's headquarters and •interviewed representatives from the various departments; channels. Doosan reflects the results of its stakeholder engagement origin and interpretation of the data in a reliable manner. The data domestic facilities, we have evaluated the adherence to AA1000 •conducted document reviews, data sampling and interrogation activities in its management activities. The activities and perforwas identifiable and traceable. Accountability Principles(AP) 20181 and assessed the quality of of supporting databases and associated reporting system as mance of key stakeholders are disclosed through the Report. sustainability performance information. We have reviewed that they relate to selected content and performance data; Competence and Independence the Topic-specific disclosures of GRI Sustainability Reporting StanThe Principle of Materiality •reviewed the materiality assessment report. DNV GL applies its own management standards and compliance dards 2016 which are identified in the materiality determination proDoosan has conducted the materiality assessment to prepare the policies for quality control, in accordance with ISO/IEC 17021:2015 Limitations Report. 35 various issues have been derived by analysing the topics Conformity Assessment Requirements for bodies providing audit The engagement excludes the sustainability management, perforcovered in various global initiatives and standards, media research, and certification of management systems, and accordingly mainmance and reporting practices of Doosan' subsidiaries, associated global benchmarking and internal data analysis. The issue pools tains a comprehensive system of quality control, including docucompanies, suppliers, contractors and any third-parties mentioned were used to rate the material topics in terms of business relevance mented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical in the Report. DNV GL did not interview external stakeholders as and impact on the stakeholders. 13 material topics are prioritized requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regNo Material Topics GRI Disclosure part of this Assurance Engagement. Economic performance based accordingly. Doosan has divided material topics identified in the ulatory requirements. We have complied with the DNV GL Code of 1 Securing new growth engines N/A on the financial data is cross-checked with internal documents, materiality assessment into 3 reporting categories(People, Planet, Conduct3 during the assurance engagement and maintain inde2 Highest level of quality management N/A the audited consolidated financial statements and the announceSuppliers) and presented the management approach and major pendence where required by relevant ethical requirements. This 3 Increased investment in R&D N/A ment disclosed at the website of Korea Financial Supervisory Serperformances for each stakeholder issue in the Report. Doosan disengagement work was carried out by an independent team of sus4 Development of environment-friendly products N/A vice(http://dart.fss.or.kr) as well as Doosan's website(www.doosan. closes the prioritized material sustainability topics in a comprehentainability assurance professionals. DNV GL was not involved in the and services com). These documents, financial statements and the announcesive and balanced way. preparation of statements or data included in the Report except for 5 Realization of a desirable organizational culture for N/A workplaces ments are not included in this Assurance Engagement. Limited this Assurance Statement. DNV GL maintains complete impartiality depth of evidence gathering including inquiry and analytical proceThe Principle of Responsiveness 6 Workplace safety management 403-4 toward stakeholders interviewed during the assurance process. DNV 7 Creation of economic performance and improve201-1 dures and limited sampling at lower levels in the organization were The 'CSR Achievements and Plans' section of the Report in which GL have no other contract with Doosan and did not provide any serment of financial security applied. The baseline data for Environmental and Social perforDoosan's 2019 activities, plans, and performance indicators are vices to Doosan in 2020 that could compromise the independence or 8 Efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and 302-1, 4 mance are not verified, while the aggregated data at the corporate addressed helps stakeholders understand Doosan' sustainability impartiality of our work. energy use level are used for the verification. DNV GL expressly disclaims any liamanagement. In addition, the Report discloses the key performance 9 Development of director and employee capabilities 404-1, 3 bility or co-responsibility for any decision a person or an entity may and results in 2019. The Report is prepared in a comparable, com10 CCI activities aligned with business 413-1 make based on this Assurance Statement. prehensive, and timely way using the reporting principles. July 2020 11 Support for shared growth and strengthening 414-2 CSR activities 12 Increased resource circulation and recycling 306-2 The Principle of Impact Seoul, Korea 13 Respect for Human Rights 412-1 The Report presents the direct and indirect impacts of material topics identified materiality assessment. Doosan identifies, mon1) A  A1000 AccountAbility Principles 2018: Internationally accepted, four principles-based framework and guidance that organisations can use to identify, prioritise and respond itors and assesses the impacts of material topics to stakeholders. to sustainability performance and responsibility. Doosan has presented business relevance and key stakeholders corJang Sup Lee 2) The VeriSustain protocol is available upon request at DNV GL Website(www.dnvgl.com) 3) DNV GL Code of Conduct is available from DNV GL website(www.dnvgl.com) responding to the respective material topics. In addition, Doosan Country Representative measures social values by taking into account not only financial DNV GL Business Assurance Korea Ltd. 102 Doosan Corporation CSR Report 2019 Introduction Design the Future Spark the Growth Value our Stakeholders CSR Policy & Performance Appendix 103 Greenhouse Gas Verification Statement Scope of verification Doosan Corporation's GHG Emission and Energy Consumption Statement in 2019 External Review of Report The verification was performed based on the Administrative Guidelines for the Greenhouse Gas Target Management System(Ministry of Environment Notice No. 2016-255), the Greenhouse Gas and Energy Target Management System Operating Guidelines(Ministry of Environment Notice No. 2016-104), and implementation plan and relevant criteria distributed to NGMS. Verification Procedure The verification was planned and performed according to the procedure set forth under the Administrative Guidelines for the Greenhouse Gas and Energy Target Management System. In particular, the verification was performed at a reasonable level of assurance. Limits of Verification Based on the above verification, the sampling method was applied according to the verification plan recognized by the National Institute of Environmental Research for the greenhouse gas emission statement, related data, information, systems provided by Doosan Corporation. The verification implies inherent limits that may occur in the process of applying the standards and methods. Verification Opinion(Qualified/Conditional/Disqualified) 2019 Doosan Corporation's GHG Emission Statement contains errors due to the above verification limits. The materiality test of Doosan Corporation's greenhouse gas emissions revealed that they satisfy the criteria for 5% or less based on their volume. Therefore, we hereby present a qualified opinion on the Doosan Corporation's greenhouse gas emissions. ※ Materiality Calculation Method = [Total amount of greenhouse gas emission due to uncorrected errors(%)/Total greenhouse gas emissions reported in the statement] ×100 Comprehensive opinion Doosan Corporation's GHG Emission and Energy Consumption in 2019 were appropriately collected, prepared, and reported in accordance with relevant guidelines. We confirmed through verification that emission of major emission facilities(facilities that account for more than 95% of the total amount of greenhouse gas emissions) and small emission facilities were calculated without omission. 29 April 2020 Korea Foundation for Quality, Inc KiSeung Jung Volume of greenhouse gas emissions of Doosan Corporation Unit: tCO 2e Scope(Based on the Definitions under the Administrative Guidelines for the Greenhouse Gas Target Management System) 2019 CSR Team, Business Division, Doosan Corporation Volume of directly emitted greenhouse gases(Scope 1) 25,046 17th floor, Doosan Tower, 275 Jangchungdan-ro, Jung-gu, Volume of indirectly emitted greenhouse gases(Scope 2) 59,297 Seoul, Korea 04563 Total volume of greenhouse gas emissions 84,343 E-mail doosancsr@doosan.com Phone 02-3398-3737 *There is a difference between the total emitted volume of greenhouse gases and the total emitted volume of worksites(trimmed amounts of total volume of greenhouse gases Website www.doosan.com from worksites are added up.)
