MURABAHA CAPITAL LTD COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS _COP_ 2019-2020 Mission and Strategy Of Murabaha Capital Ltd • To provide the highest level of specialized advisory, financial and investment services. • To focus on sustainable projects that support environment, governance and transparency, and that are characterized by quality and accuracy. • To exceed the expectations of our customers in Syria and the Middle East. Mission • Murabaha Capital's strategy is to build long-term relationships with its customers and society by adhering to its 22-year CSR program through its policies of service commitment and community protection Strategy Page_1 MURABAHA CAPITAL.LTD • Murabaha Capital Ltd is managed by a group of experts at the highest level of experience in the field of advisory and financial investments. Murabaha adopts Business Environment Sustainability Policy in accordance with the principles of UN Global Compact and international sustainability standards. Murabaha’s investment structure is a group of companies distributed in four regional centers (Syria, Lebanon, Sudan and Dubai). Murabaha expands locally through Achievements of opening branches in some Syrian governorates, and considers the possibility of opening more branches in other provinces to achieve its sustainable Murabaha Capital development goals in Syrian territory. Group Companies Page_2 MURABAHA CAPITAL.LTD Page_3 MURABAHA CAPITAL.LTD MURABAHA CAPITAL MEMBERSHIP IN THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT SINCE 2011 Page_4 MURABAHA CAPITAL.LTD Geographical locations of Murabaha Capital SOME CUSTOMERS IN VARIOUS ECONOMIC SECTORS Oil , Gas & Power Universities Governmental Projects Fund Raising Food Industries Pharmaceutical Industries Companies Page_6 GLOBAL COMPACT WE COMMITTED OUR SELVES The strategy of MURABAHA CAPITAL is driven by a commitment to do the right thing in our own business and to be a catalyst for change in the world around us. Doing the right thing means playing our part in responsible business issues that are central to our businesses – from the quality of services and the diversity of our people, to our engagement with communities and our environmental footprint. Being a catalyst for change means that we use our skills, voice, and relationships to work with others and influence activities that make a difference, create change and have a lasting impact on the world around us. Page_7 MURABAHA CAPITAL.LTD GLOBAL COMPACT WE COMMITTED OUR SELVES We have four focus areas to bring this strategic intent to life locally: Responsible business, Diversity and inclusion, Community engagement, and Environmental management. We describe our work in each of these areas within this report. The overlaps and intersections of these four areas with the UNGC four areas of Human Rights, Labour Rights, Environment and Anti-Corruption, should become apparent throughout. Page_8 MURABAHA CAPITAL.LTD Chairman's Statement about Corporate Support for Social Responsibility and Global Compact We are committed to sustainable development to help in building communities where people prefer to live and work. MURABAHA CAPITAL supports the United Nations Principles so that we regard social, educational, healthy development and environmental responsibility as complementary factors to economic development. In addition, MURABAHA CAPITAL focuses its activities on our country Syria by supporting all needed services in the present situation of Syrian’s crisis and continue our initiatives to help and take care of people who are affected. We want to enhance the value of MURABABAH CAPITAL in various aspects of Syrians’ life in the long run. Therefore, we view creation in holistic manner because we believe that economics, environmental, and social responsibility go hand in hand. Regards Hassan Hamwi Chairman Page_9 MURABAHA CAPITAL.LTD The Importance of Joining the Global Network  MURABAHA tries to fulfill our social responsibilities in the most favorable conscious manner.  MURABAHA aims to achieve a more powerful organizational structure.  MURABAHA intends to be a part of a freshly blooming culture in the international business platform.  MURABAHA seeks to become a business partner preferred by multinational business platforms.  MURABAHA undertakes risk management by means of being proactive against risks. Page_10 MURABAHA CAPITAL.LTD ACTIVITIES AND PROGRAMS IN SERVICE COMMUNITY DURING 2019-2020  Training more than 595 Syrian university students who have been affected by war, especially in the subjects related to quality standards.  Launching free e-learning programs to help Syrian students who have been displaced by war around the world.  In continuation of the Murabaha Capital project to sponsor the families of martyrs of the Syrian Arab Army launched in 2014, financial and material support was provided to 52 martyrs’ families. Murabaha seeks to expand its financial, material and moral support to 60 families.  Providing material assistance to those affected by war through charities to reduce harmful effects.  Communicating videos, manuals and brochures to raise awareness about CORONA, Covid 19.  Supporting some Syrian emigrants to Sweden to integrate in Swedish society and to get suitable employment opportunities. Page_12 MURABAHA CAPITAL.LTD Murabaha Capital's Social Achievements during 2019-2020 Mr. Hassan Hamwi, the first IRCA Principal Auditor in the Arab World, paid the fees of a Lead Auditor Course for six Syrians and sponsored them to be Lead Auditors or Auditors registered in IRCA. Page_13 MURABAHA CAPITAL.LTD Murabaha Capital's Social Achievements during 2019-2020 Workshops, conferences, and activities about Quality in several Arab and Middle East countries Kurdistan International Islamic Bank for Development and Investment consulted Mr. Hassan Hamwi to implement the International Standards of Quality Management System ISO 9001 and Business Continuity System ISO 22301 Page_14 MURABAHA CAPITAL.LTD A scientific Conference held in Iraq about “Auditor/ Lead Auditor according to Swedish educational standards, SVENSK, and ISO 21001:2018 by Arab Quality Makers and Smart Business Academy AB Sweden Page_15 Mr. Hassan is invited to Cihan University in Kurdistan to explain about the implementation of Hassan’s Approach& ISO 21001 in academic organizations Page_16 A Conference about “Performance Quality and Governmental Institutional Development according to ISO 9001:2015 Dara’a City Page_17 A conference attended by Hama Governer about “Institutional development Approach and Performance Quality to enhance rebuilding according to International Standards ISO/MSS” Mysiaf city 16-17 June 2019 Page_18 Quality Makers for HealthCare Academy held a conference about Medical Quality Standards in Al-Sweda’a and then held the same conference in other Syrian cities 25 June 2019 Page_19 A Conference about “Quality Management, documentation, archiving, and indexing of governmental documents and national libraries according to ISO/MSS standards Damascus 15-16-17 July 2019 Page_20 A Syrian Iraqi Conference about “Quality Assurance, Quality Control, testing, Inspection, and accreditation of Laboratories according to international standards” in Homs 27282930 July 2019 Page_21 A course to train and examine “Lead Auditors of HACCP & GMP according to the standards of American food and medicine FDA” Damascus 242526 August 2019 Page_22 A workshop about “Educational Quality Management System ISO 21001 to improve educational organizations in Syria” in Hama 19 September 2019 Page_23 Quality Makers of HealthCare Academy participates in a scientific day held by Ministry of Health and Syrian syndicates for Pharmacists and Physicians for food supplements by presenting a lecture titled “Best Practices of transferring and saving food supplements according to GTP/ GSP/ FDA. Damascus 15 October 2019 Page_24 Continual training for our staff Page_25 A conference held in the presence of Syrian Minister of Industry: “The efficiency and proficiency of our food industry and exports according to ISO 22000/HACCP/ GMP and the ITC International Trade Centre and National German Institute for Metrology PTB” Damascus 12, 13, 14 November 2019 Page_26 A Scientific Conference about “The Medical Services in the Hospitals of Ministry of Interior according to ISO and ISQua Standards” Aleppo 13-14 November 2019 Page_27 Establishing Quality Makers Center for negotiation, arbitration and alternative dispute resolution, & launching its business in a celebration attended by Syrian Minister of Justice on 25 November 2019 Page_28 A programme titled “Mind Maps Technique as a planning tool”. Moustafa Hamwi, a coach in MURABAHA, advised us to use mind maps to go from quality to excellence. Tony Buzan called Moustafa Hamwi (Master of Passion). 22 June to 22 July 2019 Page_29 An initiative to measure the performance of public organizations This initiative was launched by Murabaha Capital community service program to enhance performance improvement in Syrian public sector. Measuring government performance will be done by citizens via a web questionnaire according to the International Standard of Customer Satisfaction and Complaint Handling ISO 10002. This initiative will measure the citizen's satisfaction about the services of public organizations, companies and directorates. The first attempt to implement this initiative was on the website of Syrian Ministry of Industry. Page_30 Principle 1: Support and Respect for the Protection of Internationally Recognized Human Rights. Murabaha provides a suitable working environment for its employees based on its belief in the importance of human resources as one of its main resources. It seeks to attract and develop the qualified workforce through focusing its attention on the following aspects: Scientific and intellectual: Murabaha has a yearly plan to train its team members according to their specializations, qualifications, the nature of their work and tasks. It also encourages technical and professional training; helps its team to acquire management skills; and provides several types of courses such as: archiving and record control. Its team attends its free courses and workshops. Murabaha has achieved 85% of its plan this year. In addition, Murabaha is interested in the involvement of all its team in training programs (internships) organized by other institutions and academies. Page_32 Believes in the importance of internal education (self development), so it enhances knowledge exchange and experience transfer among its team members. Enrolls its team members in programmers about Sustainable Development Goals. Murabaha's library contains 1200 books of various disciplines (administrative, computer and internet, economy and trade, quality, occupational health and safety ...). Health: Provides health care to employees through health insurance and sick leave grants. Has published and communicated instructions and warning signs for environment, occupational health and safety, and precautions against Corona virus. Social: Provides social services to its employees, such as subsidies and incentives. Encourages employees to innovate. Enables working women to obtain their rights: female workers constitute 90% of the total employees in Murabaha. Page_33 Administrative and Legal: Murabaha developed a record of conduct labor laws, sought equality in salaries and bonuses to employees, and paid fair wages. Murabaha has provided a healthy environment for employees such as allowing an hour break per work day. Murabaha has implemented a flexible work policy by enabling employees to work part-time or to choose their work days, giving this advantage to 50% of its employees Page_34 Principle 2: Murabaha is not involved in violations of human rights: Murabaha is committed to ethical conduct in terms of honesty and justice in the dealings either towards its employees or interested parties (customers or suppliers). -Murabaha respects the rights of its team members regarding their occupational safety, and it offers them rewards and incentives according to their performance. . -Murabaha evaluates its team members to measure their performance and to recognize the necessary training needs. Consequently, it trains them continually and provides equal opportunities for all of them to develop their work. It performed more than 60% of its training plan during 2019-2020. Murabaha achieves gender equality for its employees. Page_35 LABOUR Principle 3: respect for freedom of association and effective recognition of the right to collective participation Murabaha follows Syrian labour laws. It respects the right of negotiation, including guild admission. Murabaha encourages team members to participate in decision making because of its belief in their effective role in development and improvement. It is convinced that development starts at the bottom of work hierarchy. Therefore, it holds consecutive meetings to discuss difficulties, obstacles and problems in order to find suitable solutions. It motivates its team members to communicate with their directors about all work issues especially social responsibility. Page_37 Principle 4: Elimination of all forms of forced labor: Murabaha has an administrative system that defines the relationship between it and its team members. Both parties sign a contract that identifies items of agreement including: type of work, office-hours, workdays, and vacations according to the members’ own circumstances. Murabaha gives fair salaries to its team members to grant them the minimum level to their living. It asks them if their salaries are not adequate. It provides them with necessary facilities (work-hours, leaving permissions, vacations…) Page_38 Principle 5: actual abolition of child labor Murabaha complies with the labor laws relating to the non-employment of children under the age of 18 years. Page_39 Principle 6: Elimination of discrimination in the field of employment and occupation: Murabaha follows the policy of indiscrimination with its team members by: Enhancing workforce in selecting team members according to their specializations and scientific capabilities without discrimination in any of: race, gender, religion, nationality, or handicapping. Providing equal opportunities to all team members in occupational training and developing, paying the fee suitable to effort, and granting rewards, incentives, vacations, and health care. Enabling women to work and to obtain their right in having high positions. Providing all facilities to enable employees to perform their work in the best conditions. Page_40 ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: promote a precautionary approach to all environmental challenges: Murabaha enhances environment protection in its activities and services, through enhancing team awareness about the significance of environment protection from all types of pollution (noise, visual pollution…). It acknowledges its team about energy, water resources and renewable energy. It automatizes all its works, mails and correspondences to decrease paperwork to minimize paper work. About 70% of Murabaha’s archive has been saved on hardware and electronic applications. Also, it does not employ smokers. Page_42 Principle 8: initiatives to expand responsibility for the environment Promoting a culture of environmental protection for its team, customers and all interested parties by delivering free awareness seminars. Taking the necessary procedures to conserve and optimize the energy sources. Joining the Syrian environmental society in 2002 and participating in its activities. Managing the Arab Center for Environmental Management Systems. Implementing ISO 14001 Environmental Management Systems in many companies. Conducting training courses in the field of environmental management in cooperation with the Arab Organization for Industrial Development, in addition to many courses in this field. Page_43 Principle 9: promote the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Murabaha protects environment from pollution as it provides a suitable context without noise or smoke. Murabaha has contributed in supporting Syrian Inventors’ Association to invent new technologies to protect environment and to participate in training courses and seminars about protecting environment. Page_44 Principle 10 combating corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery: Murabaha is committed to ethical conduct, especially in combating corruption in all its forms both inside and outside Murabaha, especially with regard to the parties that deal with them, realizing that these parties are partners in the work of Murabaha. Murabaha capital and its companies are proud that they are a group of businesses that have not been involved or accepted business for paying bribes and have repeatedly abandoned tenders and private and government contracts because of their demands for amounts and privileges. Murabaha is committed to international efforts to strive all kinds of curption in order to achieve sustainable development goals. We proudly announce that we are a clean business group of any practices in accepting bribes or extortion Page_46 • Cares about its poor employees and always provides them with SDG 1 financial aids. NO • Helps the families of Syrian Arab Army Martyrs to achieve its faith POVERTY on sustainable development seeking better life for them. • Contributes to the provision of employment opportunities for young people in Murabaha Capital and its partners. SDG 2 ZERO • Murabaha tries to end hunger by providing some free meals HUNGER for poor families in Ramadan Page_48 SDG 3 • Murabaha cares about its employees’ health by providing health GOOD insurance and health awareness programmers, and sick leave. HEALTH • Murabaha puts hygiene & health care criteria, improves its AND WELLservices continually, and distributes it to all health institutions & programmes in accordance with the international associations BEING requirements of health care quality to help them understand that and to be implemented. SDG 4 • Murabaha is interested in Quality Education, it ensures quality QUALITY education for all and promotes lifelong learning. EDUCATION • Murabaha participates in a lot of conferences to achieve high level in education through its activities in 2019-2020. Page_49 • Murabaha increases the number of women at the Board and at senior management levels. The proportion of SDG 5 working women at Murabaha reaches 90% of employees. GENDER EQUALITY • Murabaha never differentiates between women and man in terms of treatment, remuneration, salaries and facilities. SDG 6 • Murabaha cooperates with some water companies to help them provide pure water for their customers, and helps CLEAN them provide free clean water for people in most needy WATER AND areas. SANTATION Page_50 SDG 8 DECENT • Murabaha achieves that when it helps companies to WORK & implement ISO. ECONOMIC GROWTH SDG 10 • Murabaha achieves this goal by applying business REDUCED etiquette conduct, allowing women to accomplish the INEQUALITIES right of working, and protecting children's’ rights. Page_51 SDG 12 RESPONSIBLE • Murabaha cooperates with a lot of ministries and CONSUMPTION companies to help them reduce energy consumption and & to produce good products. PRODUCTION • Murabaha makes partnership in local, Arabic and international regions with governmental, private, SDG 17 social and public sectors in Syria in order to PARTNERSHI strengthen the UN principles. Murabaha has PS FOR THE partnership with local communities to enhance GOALS GCUN goals especially those related to sustainable development in regions and providence's. Page_52 We are committed to go on in our social responsibility Results of Commitment and our Next Plan The impact of our commitment to the Global Compact has been very positive: First, increasing communication with community and its organizations; second, team satisfaction; third, more recognition of our transparency and environmental protection programs by 22% compared to the last year. We affirm that we will keep our commitments, increase our activities, provide financial and moral support to our local community according to the principles of social responsibility in Global Compact. We will also launch educational programmes and campaigns to increase social development to achieve the inclusion of all social classes in all geographical areas. Page_53 Murabaha Contact Information • Murabaha Capital Group BVI-LTD • Damascus: +963 953680368 • Beirut: +961 7145029 Mob, Viber &WhatsApp • Dubai: +971 5583550 • Stockholm: +46 729415488 • Email: hamwi55@gmail.com hassan@murabahacapital.com • Website: www.murabahacapital.com • Skype: Hassan Hamwi
