Our commitment to the UN Global Compact Communication on progress November 2019 October 2020 In February 2017, Fay was born. She was, like so much in life, quite unexpected. And she is fantastic. She makes a vast contribution to our organization: Fay is our leitmotif. She shows us that things can be done differently. That there is always a different perspective. That everything sounds different when you add consonants. Ftrprf. It could just have been her first words. In 2030, Fay will be 13. In 2030, we want to have realized the sustainable development goals. In 2030, we’re pretty sure Fay will ask us, “What have you done to make a difference?” We will tell her that we made a huge difference. That we changed every change we could get our hands on. That we did it with everything we got. That we inspired people. That we wrote stories, designed concepts, developed strategies that made tomorrow a little better than today. We will tell Fay that we tried, with everything we got. To answer her question, “What have you done ...?” In 10 years, it will be 2030. Shall we? To our stakeholders I am pleased to confirm that ftrprf b.v. reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the Global Compact's integration and its principles into our business strategy, culture, and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, D. Hemels, CEO Introduction The story of Fay was the first story we ran in the newspapers and on the internet. With decades of history in marketing and organizational change, we started futureproof with Fay in our minds. We prepare for her question in 2030. So on a daily basis we ask ourselves: “Does this change things for the better?” We see it as our goal to make a change in everything we do. And inspire others to make a bigger difference. We dream of a future proof planet. How do you ensure that your organization is futureproof? We inspire companies and NGO’s to make a change, to think about the difference they can drive. We create perspective, impact, and change. With the ten principles of the UN Global Compact and the SDGs as our guiding principles. Our mission Our mission is to make the world tomorrow a better place than today. In everything we do. Our guideline: will the next generation benefit from what we do today? If so, proceed. If not, change. In practice, we create perspective. This means that we inspire organizations to take a different, sustainable, and relevant path, we fight injustice, we support those who need support and we involve our environment in what we do. A few examples on the next pages: Start to talk Bullying, abuse, aggression: critical elements that cripple society and harm people in an unthinkable manner. We have to fight these elements in every area where they pop up. One of these areas is sports. That is why we are strong supporters of ‘start to talk’, the campaign the European Council developed to fight abuse. We developed it from the ground up and helped to create visibility, influence, and legislation. Fight abuse We help the Dutch Olympic Committee NOC*NSF to fight these elements as hard as possible. We support Centrum Veilige Sport Nederland (Center for Safe Sports the Netherlands), to fight sexual abuse, and other excesses in sports. Make ﬂex more sustainable We developed ‘de Werkbeweging’ (movement on work) to create a dialog about the impact and consequences of rapidly becoming more flexible and self-employed workforce. The dialog resulted in a code of conduct, signed by eight organizations and unions working in the financial sector, to make flex more sustainable. Fight poverty Although in our society prosperity rises, so does poverty. The number of homeless people doubled in the last ten years. The number of homeless kids grew by 400%. The gap between rich and poor is widening hand over hand. In a society as prosperous as ours, that’s totally unacceptable. That’s why we support Kansfonds, a leading NGO in the fight against poverty, in any way we can: we’re part of their board, we support them with advice, we raise money and build influence. Our commitment to the UN We love the UN. We believe that it’s of the utmost importance to formulate targets on a global scale and solve problems with the broadest perspective possible. Together. That's why we are an active participant in UN Global Compact, the world's biggest corporate sustainability initiative. More than 10.000 organizations participate. We support the UN Global Compact goals on subjects such as human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. That’s why we actively participate in the Dutch Board on UN Global Compact, invite organizations to participate, use this signature in our mail, and integrate the principles in everything we do. Our ambition: change perspective The SDGs and the ten principles are literally present in everything we do. We fight to change the course of our planet. We fight for the people in need. We fight ‘can’t do’. And that’s why we run the biggest campaign in our history, to change perspective. Every week, we’re in the most influential Dutch newspaper and on social media, with ads like these: We commit ourselves to The Ten Principles: Human Rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Human Rights We acknowledge the importance of supporting and protecting the UN Human Rights Charter and continues in developing and renewing internal procedures. The respect for human rights is integrated into the Human Resource Policy, which clearly describes the rights and obligations of employees and management. Activities implemented ● Ftrprf respects and protects human rights in all our daily operations. ● Ftrprf provides a safe and pleasant working environment to all its employees. ● Ftrprf actively trains all employees on social behavior and personal development. ● Ftrprf meets with the General Data Protection Regulations on privacy/data protection and data leaks. ● Ftrprf respects and takes into account the traditions and rituals that are connected with the various religions and cultures of her employees Measurement of outcomes Ftrprf has not received any complaints from employees, business partners, or clients in relation to (potential) human rights violations, nor was the Ftrprf organization involved in any human right incidences before or during the reporting period. Labour Our primary objective is to be an outstanding and inspirational employer for all employees and people we work with. Our employment procedures and internal culture are built on the following principles: ● Non-discrimination between employees of potential employees and equal opportunities for all ● Recruitment, promotion and development of employees based on each individuals attitude, abilities and skills ● Provision of suitable training according to role and responsibilities ● Employee remuneration that meets international legal standards ● Personal communication with our employees ● Safe working conditions for all our employees, including customers that come into contact with our business Measurement of outcomes Since we are a relatively small company, employees can report any irregularities directly to the management or via a third party. We have received no grievances of complaints from employees or others in relation to labor rights violations, nor was the organization involved in any labor rights incidences before or during the reporting period. Ftrprf puts her awareness of cultural differences into practice by employing a staff of different cultural and religious backgrounds. Periodically we do a survey among our colleagues to measure their satisfaction and work pressure. Environment We support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges, undertaking initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility, and encouraging the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. We are actively working on reducing the negative impacts of our organization's actions on the environment. Actions implemented: ● Extension of digital production (drastic reduction of printing to almost zero) ● Promotion of public transportation and electric cars (ban all non-electric verhicles) ● We only use ‘green energy’ ● We recycle as much as possible ● We compensate for the CO2 emission for all our flights ● We actively prefer ‘green’ purchasing ● We use only CO2 neutral IT Anti-corruption We acknowledge the importance to work against corruption. We do not offer either receive any gifts, loan, fee, reward or other advantages to or from any person as an inducement to do something which is dishonest, illegal or a breach of trust, in the conduct of the enterprise’s business. We do not tolerate the direct, or indirect offer, payment, solicitation, or acceptance of bribes in any form. Facilitation payments are also prohibited. We have total transparency on our purchase costs for all our customers, without any hesitation. Should we discover that bribery or fraud allegations are imposed against any third party performing work for ftrprf, we will review our relationship with that party and take appropriate action. Measurement of outcomes There have been no cases of corruption in the line of our work over the course of the organization’s existence. If such a situation might arise, ftrprf will take appropriate action and withdraw from the assignment. Talking SDGs Our eﬀort on the Sustainable Development Goals All the 17 SDGs are important. We use them as guidelines for the transition we realize for clients and for ourselves. We especially focus on the following four SDGs: SDG 8: Sustainable economic growth will require societies to create conditions that allow people to have quality jobs. With our own knowledge lab, we do in-depth research and develop new knowledge on the future of work and the impact of the flexibilization of work. We are deeply involved in the dialogs about the value of work. SDG 10: To reduce inequalities, policies should be universal in principle, paying attention to the needs of disadvantaged and marginalized populations. So we focus on creating opportunities for minorities and focus on inclusion, inand outside our own offices. SDG 15: Sustainably manage forests, combat desertification, halt and reverse land degradation, halt biodiversity loss. It’s the reason why we support Greenpeace en Bomen op de Kaart. SDG 17: Revitalizing the global partnership for sustainable development is essential to realize the 2030 goals. That’s the reason why we actively invite organizations to participate and always aim for partnerships, in anything we do. More information? ftrprf.com info@ftrprf.com
