Contents President’s Message 09  E stablish Foundations for Sustainable Growth Measures to Reinforce the Operating Foundations 29 Measures to Reinforce the Operating Foundations 31 Environment 37 Human Resources Profile Corporate Information 41 Corporate Governance 03 Corporate Philosophy and 63 Consolidated Financial and Management Policies Non-Financial Highlights 05 Fuji Electric’s Energy and 65 Corporate Data Environment Businesses Growth Strategy 66 History 07 Value Creation at Fuji Electric 13 Progress of Management Reforms Round-table discussion among Outside Officers 14 FY2023 Medium-Term Management Plan “Reiwa Prosperity 2023” 53 Compliance 15 Fiscal 2019 Review of Operations 55 Risk Management 17 Review of Segments 60 Supply Chain Power Electronics Systems 62 Social Outreach Energy/Industry 23 Electronic Devices 25 Food and Beverage Distribution 27 Power Generation Regarding the Fuji Electric Report Editorial Policy Information Disclosure Venues About the Front Cover Disclaimer Regarding Forward-Looking Statements Fuji Electric Report is an important communication tool that is prepared Fuji Electric Report includes highlights of financial information as well Fuji Electric aims to contribute to achieving the SDGs through its Statements made in this report regarding estimates or projections are and published for the purpose of facilitating understanding of the as non-financial information pertaining to social and environmental and energy and environment businesses. The front cover of this report forward-looking statements based on the Company’s judgments and Company’s corporate activities among its shareholders, investors, and governance issues. More detailed financial information can be found reflects Fuji Electric’s attitude towards achieving the SDGs through its assumptions in light of currently available information. Actual results various other stakeholders. in the Company’s financial results summaries and securities reports four businesses working together as one. may differ materially from those projected as a result of uncertainties Fuji Electric places great importance on clear communication of its (Japanese only) on its investor relations website. Additional noninherent in such judgments and assumptions as well as changes initiatives to create mediumto long-term value and key issues on the financial information is available in the form of detailed explanations of in business operations or other internal or external conditions. environment, society, and governance. Fuji Electric’s social and environmental initiatives and governance on Accordingly, the Company gives no guarantee regarding the reliability the Company’s corporate website. of any information contained in these forward-looking statements. Covered Organizations Investor Relations Website: Investors are encouraged to also reference documents submitted In this report, Fuji Electric collectively refers to Fuji Electric Co., Ltd. and https://www.fujielectric.com/ir/ by the Company in accordance with the Financial Instruments and its consolidated subsidiaries in Japan and overseas. Exchange Act of Japan and other disclosure materials.  nvironmental, Social, and Governance Website: E https://www.fujielectric.com/company/csr/ 1 Fuji Electric Report 2020 Fuji Electric Report 2020 2 Corporate Philosophy and Management Policies Profile Fuji Electric’s corporate philosophy hinges on a mission to contribute to prosperity, encourage creativity, Corporate Philosophy and seek harmony with the environment, while the Company’s management policies are centered on the notion of contributing to society through its energy and environment businesses. We, Fuji Electric, pledge as responsible corporate citizens in a global society to By putting this corporate philosophy and management policies into practice based on its Corporate strengthen our trust with communities, customers and partners. Code of Conduct, which sets forth guidelines for the conduct of employees, Fuji Electric and its employees, together with customers and business partners, will aim to resolve social and environmental issues, Seek harmony with Contribute to prosperity Encourage creativity the environment create customer value, achieve the SDGs, and contribute to the creation of a responsible and sustainable society. Slogan To be enthusiastic, ambitious and sensitive. Management Policies 1. Through our innovation in energy and environment technology, we contribute to the creation of a responsible and sustainable society. 2. Achieve further growth through our global business expansion. 3. Maximize our strengths as a team, respecting employees’ diverse ambition. The Creation of a Responsible and Sustainable Society Fuji Electric Code of Conduct Resolution of Social and Creation of In order to practice our corporate philosophy to fulfill social responsibility and act with high ethical standards while understanding and complying with relevant laws, regulations, international rules, and Environmental Customer Value the spirit of such regulations and rules, both domestically and abroad, Fuji Electric and its employees Issues have defined this code as a foundation for decision-making and behavior. 1 Respect and value all people 6 Respect and value interaction with society 2 Respect and value our customers 7 Make global compliance a top priority 3 Respect and value our business partners 7 -1 Thorough compliance Corporate Philosophy 4 Respect and value our shareholders 7 -2 Thorough risk management and investors 8 Top management will thoroughly practice 5 Respect and value the global environment this standard Seek harmony with Contribute to prosperity Encourage creativity the environment Brand Statement Management Policies Fuji Electric’s Energy and Environment Businesses Brand Promise Through our pursuit of innovation in electric and thermal energy technology, Fuji Electric Code of Conduct we develop products that maximize energy efficiency and lead to a responsible and sustainable society. 3 Fuji Electric Report 2020 Fuji Electric Report 2020 4 Fuji Electric’s Energy and Environment Businesses Social and Global warming Aging industrial Increasingly Demographic Profile and frequent Resources and informationchanges driven Numerous changes are taking place in the environment that envelops Fuji Electric, including global Environmental and social occurrence of energy problems oriented society by an aging Problems natural disasters infrastructure (IoT, AI, etc.) population warming, the frequent occurrence of natural disasters, problems surrounding resources and energy, and aging industrial and social infrastructure. We will ceaselessly pursue synergies between our core power semiconductor and power electronics technologies and combine high-quality equipment employing key devices with our engineering services, Priority SDGs optimal control technologies, and IoT know-how honed thus far. In this way, we aim to help solve issues for customers in industrial and social infrastructure fields, address social and environmental problems, and contribute to the achievement of a sustainable society. Automation Value Created Clean energy Stable supply of energy Automation Energy saving Energy saving Four Businesses Power Electronics Systems Power Electronics Systems Electronic Food and Beverage Power Generation Five Segments Energy Industry Devices Distribution Business Fields Energy Power supply and ED&C Social Vending Store Power and new energy Factory automation Semiconductors management facility systems components solutions machines distribution System Solutions Optimal Control IoT Engineering Services Technologies Components Uninterruptible Magnetic Molded-case Smart meters Transformers Inverters Motors Servo systems Controllers Measuring instruments power systems switches circuit breakers World-leading power semiconductors Sensors utilizing various applied technologies that Key Devices for regulating electricity underpin safe operations Power semiconductors Sensors Internet of Things (IoT): A new framework for fundamentally revolutionizing business and lifestyles by connecting various objects to networks and enabling them to achieve optimal, autonomous control of one another. 5 Fuji Electric Report 2020 Fuji Electric Report 2020 6 Value Creation at Fuji Electric Profile Ever since our establishment in 1923, Fuji Electric has been an innovator of electric and thermal energy saving. Going forward, we will continue to address the energy and environmental issues of our customers technologies. By capitalizing on the technology with which we can wield control—i.e., creating, measuring by leveraging the technological and engineering capabilities we have honed thus far together with our (sensing technologies), controlling (control technologies), converting (power electronics technologies), and extensive track record of deliveries to a broad range of customers. optimizing electricity—we contribute to clean energy, stable supply of energy, automation, and energy Clean energy Stable energy supply Automation Energy saving Stable CO2 supply Never CO2 reductions High stops reductions efficiency Muara Laboh Geothermal Power Plant in Indonesia All-inclusive provision of highly We delivered an assembly process data collection system to the We delivered main power Power generation capacity equivalent to the power usage of reliable and highly efficient variable compression ratio engine (VC-Turbo) production line of converters equipped with 420,000 households on the Indonesian island of Sumatra electric equipment for data Nissan Motor Co., Ltd. Data from each process a next-generation power CO2 reductions (FY2019)*1 (Source: Sumitomo Corporation website) is collected automatically. semiconductor (SiC) for centers, from system design through to installation and Central Japan Railway Power The OnePackEdge assembly process data Company’s latest highmaintenance services semiconductors collection system contributes to productivity speed rail model, thus Large-capacity UPS. improvements through cause analysis for lightening the weight of Compared with Si, SiC power Approx. 5,000 Highly efficient and compact. problems with their production equipment the railcars. and generation of defects. semiconductor modules contribute to a 30% reduction in CO2 emissions caused by thousand t-CO2 CO2 reductions (FY2019)* 1 This system is capable of achieving a production line that never stops power loss. through cause analysis for problems with their production equipment and Geothermal Hydro power generation of defects. We help customers make quality and productivity Fuel cells power generation generation improvements in automated production lines by providing a single Approx. Approx. Approx. package for collecting and analyzing various data, such as temperature, 5,000 1,000 50 pressure, vibration, operation, and quality information. thousand t-CO2 thousand t-CO2 thousand t-CO2 Stable supply Labor CO2 Boasting the leading global share*2 in geothermal power generation, an Substation equipment saving reductions extensive domestic delivery track record in hydro power generation and GHG solar power generation systems, and the first-ever commercialized fuel reductions We delivered a set of around cells for industrial application, we deliver a whole host of clean energy Environmentally friendly C-GIS Two-way case 700 inverters to Singapore’s sources and contribute to the local production and local consumption of Outram Community Hospital. CO2 reductions (FY2019)*1 (Gas-insulated switchgear) energy from distributed power sources. We also have the equipment and The inverters control the fans and pumps used for air Low-voltage systems capable of achieving optimum operation of renewable energy, We contribute to the stable supply of energy for customers in various conditioning and ventilation inverters and we contribute to the effective utilization of energy by harnessing the to optimize airflow and water power supply/demand prediction technology and know-how cultivated industries mainly with uninterruptible power systems (UPSs) for data consumption, saving energies. Approx. 1,800 centers, large-capacity rectifier transformers (top global share) for nonthrough numerous demonstration projects. ferrous metals, and substation equipment for steel, chemicals, electrical The FRENIC-HVAC low-voltage inverter is the first in the machinery, precision equipment, and railway industries. We also contribute Showcase side Vending machine side industry to be accredited as environmentally friendly by Key • Geothermal power generation: 85 units (approx. 3.2 GW) thousand t-CO2 a third-party organization (UL/EPD). delivery track • Hydro power generation: 444 units (approx. 5.2 GW) to the prevention of global warming by providing environmentally friendly record • Fuel cells: 99 units cubicle-type gas-insulated switchgear (C-GIS) products that help reduce Convenience stores are currently struggling to secure enough Power semiconductors efficiently control electricity. They are mounted greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions without the use of SF6 gas. manpower. We contribute to labor saving by offering two-way cases inside power electronics systems, such as inverters that control motor Key •M icrogrid system for isolated islands (six islands in demonstration Kagoshima Prefecture; three islands in Okinawa Prefecture) Key • Substation equipment: that function as a showcase when the store is open and as a vending rotation, thereby contributing to energy saving in industrial equipment projects • Industrial parks (India, Indonesia) delivery track Transformers: 2,450 units or more; machine after hours, as well as automatic change dispensers for selfand factories. In the power semiconductors industry, Fuji Electric • Kitakyushu, Fukuoka Prefecture record Switchgear: 11,000 units or more checkout registers. ranks third in terms of the global share of IGBT modules for industrial • Soma IHI Green Energy Center (Soma, Fukushima Prefecture) • Large-capacity rectifier transformers: Approx. 27.5 GW applications and commands the top share of inverters in Japan. *1 CO2 reductions (FY2019) are based on 12 months of operation for products delivered between FY2009 and FY2019 *2 Since 2000 7 Fuji Electric Report 2020 Fuji Electric Report 2020 8 President’s Message FY2019 Sales and Income Down, but Still Investing in Future Growth In fiscal 2019 we kicked off our Medium-Term Management capacity for power semiconductors for electrified vehicles (xEVs). Plan—Reiwa Prosperity 2023—which calls for net sales of ¥1.0 As was the case previous year, we decided to pay a dividend of trillion and an operating margin of 8% or more by fiscal 2023, the ¥80 to shareholders and the same level of bonuses to employees. final year of the plan. The plan incorporates our aim to achieve The decision to keep shareholder returns and employee bonuses President’s Message prosperity with society through our energy and environment unchanged owes to nothing more nor less than stronger businesses. We have also positioned the power electronics profitability and steady improvements in our financial position ever systems and power semiconductor businesses as growth drivers since operating income slipped into the red in the aftermath of the Establish Foundations through fiscal 2023. Looking at fiscal 2019 consolidated results, both sales and global financial crisis. This has been achieved mainly thanks to business restructuring, including the abolishment of the holding for Sustainable Growth income declined sharply owing mainly to the lingering impact of company system and integration of business management, US-China trade friction since last year, as well as the effects of clarification of business domains, and the realignment of travel restrictions and temporary factory closures in response production bases, as well as a strict adherence to local production to the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic. Net sales decreased for local consumption, the strengthening of manufacturing ¥14.3 billion year on year to ¥900.6 billion, operating income capabilities, and a change in mindset among employees. What fell ¥17.5 billion to ¥42.5 billion, and net income attributable to is disappointing, however, is the occurrence of some product owners of parent shrank ¥11.5 billion to ¥28.8 billion. However, defects. Product quality is the basic premise for earning the trust despite the tough operating environment, we continued to invest and confidence of our customers and we will adopt thorough in future growth; in our focus region of Southeast Asia, we laid measures to prevent the recurrence of such issues. the foundations for business growth by erecting a third building at our factory in Thailand for manufacturing switchgear and control Michihiro Kitazawa FY2023 gear systems, while in India we acquired a leading power supply FY2018 FY2019 Medium-Term President and Chairman of the Board of Directors Results Results Management Plan manufacturer. We also invested in the expansion of production (Billions of yen) (Target) Net Sales 914.9 900.6 1,000.0 FY2023 Medium-Term Management Plan Key Issues Operating Income 60.0 42.5 80.0 Operating Margin 6.6% 4.7% 8.0% Establish Foundations for Sustainable Growth Net Income Attributable 40.3 28.8 55.0 Promote Growth Strategies Further Improve Profitability to Owners of Parent • Concentrate resources on growth fields Financial Indicators (power electronics systems • Augment global manufacturing capabilities Net Debt-to-Equity Ratio* 0.4 times 0.4 times 0.1 times and power semiconductors) Equity Ratio 37% 37% 50% • Expand overseas businesses ROA (Return on Assets) 4% 3% 5% Ongoing Reinforcement of Operating Foundations ROE (Return on Equity) 12% 8% 11% Environment Human Resources Governance Dividend Payout Ratio 28% 40% 30% *1 Net interest-bearing debt / Shareholders’ equity Evolution of Companywide Pro-7 Activities *2 Assumed exchange rates for fiscal 2023: ¥105 to the U.S. dollar; ¥123 to the Euro; Fuji Electric’s Reason for Existence in Society ¥16 to the RMB First of all, I express my heartfelt sympathy to those afflicted by the Central to our management policy is the notion of contributing COVID-19 pandemic. I would also like to specially acknowledge to the achievement of a sustainable society through our energy the healthcare professionals and everyone else working so hard to and environment businesses, which reflects Fuji Electric’s FY2020: Establishing New Foundations toward Our Medium-Term Management Plan Targets keep us safe. corporate philosophy of “contribute to prosperity,” “encourage The business environment that envelops the Company has creativity,” and “seek harmony with the environment.” This is Even though we faced difficulties in the first fiscal year of the the spread of COVID-19 infections, we expect to see greater grown increasingly complex of late and the world faces a whole certainly in line with the international community’s aspirations Medium-Term Management Plan, at this juncture I do not intend demand up ahead for labor savings through automation, remote host of uncertainties stemming from not only climate change, for integrated improvements in economies, societies, and the to revise our fiscal 2023 management targets of ¥1.0 trillion in monitoring, and non-contact services. urbanization, and demographic changes driven by aging environment, and also represents a universal vision even in a net sales and operating margin of at least 8%. This is because This fiscal year is positioned as the year to establish new populations, but also geopolitical risks such as trade disputes, and post-coronavirus world or in an age in which we will be forced to I firmly believe that our energy and environment businesses foundations geared toward achieving the targets in the FY2023 the impacts caused by COVID-19. Above all, the global reach of coexist with COVID-19. Fuji Electric will promote the SDGs in all of possess the technology and products that will be sought after Medium-Term Management Plan. We will devote managerial the pandemic has brought the international movement of people its business activities, work on finding solutions to global warming globally in the medium to long term. As demand grows for resources to the core growth areas of power electronics systems and goods to a standstill, disrupted supply chains, and affected and other social and environmental issues with a special focus on clean energy, stable energy supply, and energy conservation for and power semiconductors, and also continue to work on societies and economies on an unprecedented scale. supply chains, and contribute to the creation of a responsible and the purpose of realizing a low-carbon society, more business strengthening our manufacturing capabilities with the goal of sustainable society. opportunities are emerging through which we can harness further boosting profitability. our strengths in power semiconductor technology and power Our financial policy for the time being is to secure plenty of electronics technology. Given the problems surrounding labor liquidity on hand in preparation for emergency situations. Over shortages in Japan, and now measures aimed at stopping the medium term, we will allocate the cash to growth investments 9 Fuji Electric Report 2020 Fuji Electric Report 2020 10 aimed at business expansion, while for shareholder returns business in markets outside Japan where there is strong growth Advancing Fuji Electric Environmental Vision 2050 engage in a style of management that lets employees in their 70s we will continue to emphasize stable and continuous dividend potential. Infrastructure development for business expansion has Being able to contribute to a reduction in CO emissions in society 2 lead an active working life and guarantees that female employees payments. As for capital efficiency, in addition to boosting steadily emerged in India and Southeast Asia, where demand for through our mainstay energy and environment businesses is Fuji in management positions can participate in decision making whilst profits and reducing working capital, we will continue to take stable power supply and energy savings is expected to increase Electric’s biggest strength. Business negotiations are also picking balancing their work and life duties. Furthermore, the adoption of steps toward the qualitative improvement of ROE with a view to as social and industrial infrastructure comes onstream. Having up thanks to an increase in enquiries from customers actively teleworking we started as a measure to stop the spread of COVIDPresident’s Message effectively utilizing cross-shareholdings. realigned and expanded our manufacturing, sales, and service pushing ahead with global warming countermeasures. Guided by 19 has been well underway and we consider this development Due to the impact of COVID-19, it is currently very difficult to centers in India, and reinforced our manufacturing and engineering our Environmental Vision 2050, we aim to lower CO2 emissions to be an opportunity through which we can promote a work-life predict future trend in capital investment and production by our structure for plant systems in Southeast Asia, we will make every generated by production activities and in society overall with the balance backed by workstyle reforms geared toward employee customers, so we have decided to postpone our fiscal 2020 effort to globally expand the systems business in the future. use of certain products, and advocate the effective utilization safety, health, and greater productivity. At the same time, we run earnings forecasts for now. That said, we will make preparations to of resources by reducing, reusing, and recycling products and an employee awareness survey every year so that our Executive announce our full-year forecasts when we disclose interim results. Digital transformation of manufacturing; materials. Across supply chains, we seek to realize a low-carbon Officers, who also serve as General Managers, stay well informed human resource development aimed at greater and recycling-oriented society. Also, in June this year we expressed of any issues and can implement measures accordingly from a Aggressively investing in power semiconductors autonomy of production bases outside Japan our support of the recommendations of the Task Force on ClimateCompany-wide perspective in an effort to create more friendly for xEVs Since taking office as President, I have continued to stress related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) and we intend to further workplace environments. Leveraging our world-class technological know-how and the importance of manufacturing capabilities—our origins as enhance our disclosure of information concerning the environment reliability, we will continue to make aggressive investments a manufacturer and the source of profits. I have consistently and bolster our ability to cope with climate change risks. Improving the effectiveness of governance so as in the power semiconductors business in light of the growth communicated this matter to employees and taken steps to to achieve sustainable growth opportunities in the ongoing shift to electrified vehicles and bolster our capabilities. Alongside in-house manufacturing and Respecting human rights and promoting the Management risks have continued to diversify in recent times the expanding uptake of renewable energy. In particular, as we standardization that we have pursued thus far, we have managed activities of diverse human resources and the pace of this change is accelerating. As such, the practice expect to see stronger demand for electrified vehicles over the to improve productivity by automating tasks that require a high Based on the thinking that people are the source of a company’s of risk management is growing increasingly important. More so medium to long term as countries around the world enforce more level of skill, hard work, and testing and inspection processes. competitiveness, “respect and value all people” is stated in our than ever before, we must counteract management risks with a stringent environmental regulations, and considering that our Furthermore, with the goal of achieving groundbreaking productivity Corporate Code of Conduct and we promote respect for human multifaceted approach and swift action. This is why we are taking reverse-conducting IGBT (RC-IGBT) has been favorably received enhancements, we are addressing the digital transformation of rights and the active participation of diverse human resources. steps to further strengthen our business continuity capabilities, by customers for being smaller and more reliable than competitor manufacturing using IoT and promoting cooperation between The issue of human rights in supply chains is also indispensable including how we respond to large-scale disasters or the spread products, we will look to ramp up our production capacity all the processes and between production sites by visualizing and sharing to our global business expansion. We endeavor to have our of an infectious disease. Also, in July last year we established a while gauging xEV market trends and keeping a close eye on the information on designs, purchasing, manufacturing, and testing. We subsidiaries and business partners in Japan and overseas Nomination and Remuneration Committee. This Committee— diversification of investment risks. will also spare no efforts in improving the quality of development and understand our policy on human rights, and we also undertake comprising a majority of Outside Directors, one of which serves testing by digitizing our quality records. human rights due diligence. as Chairman—enhances transparency and objectivity surrounding Business expansion of Power Electronics As we expand our overseas operations over the medium to In addition, empowering senior and female employees is mainly the appointment, dismissal, and the remuneration of Systems outside Japan long term, we will further drive home our policy of local production growing increasingly important. We have put in place systems and Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members and strives to In the power electronics systems business, which boasts a client for local consumption and help boost the autonomy and support structures to facilitate this, so in terms of implementation, improve the effectiveness of corporate governance overall as we base spanning a broad range of industries, we are working to competitiveness of our overseas production bases by transferring we will do everything we can going forward to ensure that our seek to achieve sustainable growth. strengthen the systems business by combining competitive Japan’s manufacturing capabilities and technologies and diverse pool of employees find their work meaningful. We intend to components with engineering services, optimal control continuously nurturing local leaders. technologies, and IoT. The key lies in how we can expand this Pursuing Prosperity by Being Enthusiastic, Ambitious, and Sensitive Promoting the SDGs as a Company-Wide Activity In 2012, with the objective of improving profitability, we launched families. This sensitivity is the very DNA of Fuji Electric handed our Companywide Pro-7 Activities. The program aims to boost down over successive generations and is manifested in our Undertaking activities that contribute to the achievement of the SDGs Promotion Structure work efficiency and quality by having employees form teams and unshakable values. I have continued to convey to employees in SDGs and sustainable growth overall is something we choose to review the way they work from the ground up with the ultimate various settings my intention of attaching considerable importance Board of Directors do on a Company-wide basis. Thus, we seek to enhance longgoal of achieving Prosperity (prosperity as a company, returns to to this DNA. I also believe that our operating foundation will be term corporate value from two perspectives: creating business shareholders, the happiness of employees). These activities have further strengthened by the evolution of Pro-7 Activities made by opportunities and minimizing management risks. Executive Committee permeated all corners of frontline operations, including indirect one team of all employees that share our corporate slogan. In April of this year we formed the SDGs Promotion Committee departments, and changed employee mindsets. In fact, our Pro-7 Fuji Electric will celebrate its 100th anniversary in 2023. So for the purpose of discussing, deciding, and evaluating the Activities are now well entrenched in our business operations. that we remain a corporation capable of developing sustainably measures related to the promotion of the SDGs at a management The SDGs Promotion Committee At the root of our employees’ behavior and mindset is our in the future, our team of diverse employees will leverage their level. The Committee will discuss key issues and evaluate corporate slogan: To be enthusiastic, ambitious and sensitive. comprehensive capabilities and further refine the Company’s measures from the perspective of the SDGs. For the near term, By “enthusiastic,” we mean the desire to contribute to society technological prowess in the fields of energy and the environment. Human Rights Promotion Environmental Vision it will tackle initiatives concerning the environment, human rights, and Human Resources by creating new technologies and products; being “ambitious” In this way, we will continue to contribute to the creation of a Promotion Subcommittee encouragement of employees’ success, and workstyle reforms Empowerment Subcommittee means setting lofty goals and working hard to achieve them, no responsible and sustainable society. across the entire supply chain. matter what the challenges; and being “sensitive” means we must I look forward to the continued understanding and support of be thankful for and care about our customers, colleagues, and our shareholders, investors, and other stakeholders. 11 Fuji Electric Report 2020 Fuji Electric Report 2020 12 Progress of Management Reforms FY2023 Medium-Term Management Plan “Reiwa Prosperity 2023” Following the global financial crisis in 2008, Fuji Electric initiated business restructuring to enable generation Under our Medium-Term Management Plan for Fiscal 2023, we aim to establish a foundation for sustainable of profits even without growth in sales. Since then, we have taken steps to implement management reforms growth with net sales of ¥1 trillion and an operating margin of 8% or more. As for financial indicators, we will aimed at achieving targets set in our medium-term management plans, in order to deliver growth and further emphasize a balance between growth potential, profitability, efficiency, and financial soundness in order to improve our profitability. further improve capital efficiency. Main 2010–2012 2013–2015 2016–2018 2019– Promote Growth Strategies FY2023 Management Targets FY2023 Strengthen a profitable structure Promote growth strategies Further renovation of Establish foundations for initiatives FY2018 Medium-Term FY2018–FY2023 through business restructuring Proactive management Fuji Electric sustainable growth F  ocus on our businesses in power electronics Results Management Plan Change (Billions of yen) • Integrated business operational • Partial cancellation of • Established Nomination and systems and power semiconductors (Target) management by abolishing cross-shareholdings Remuneration Committee Net Sales 914.9 1,000.0 +85.1 From fiscal 2019 to 2023, we plan to allocate about 90% +20.0 the holding company system • Formulated Environmental Operating Income 60.0 80.0 Reinforcing of plant and equipment investments of ¥220 billion and Operating Margin 6.6% 8.0% +1.4pt • Expedited management Vision 2050 operating foundations decision-making about 80% of R&D expenditures of ¥200 billion to expand Net Income Attributable 40.3 55.0 +14.7 Growth Strategy (reduced executive officers to Owners of Parent from 53 to18) our businesses in power electronics systems and power • Revised our management policies semiconductors. Financial Indicators Net Debt-Equity Ratio 0.4 times 0.1 times -0.3 • Clarified business domains • Overseas business expansion [Plant and equipment investment] We will make Equity Ratio 37% 50% +13pt as energy and environment  romoted M&As and collaborations to secure human resources and sales channels (six companies in Asia and other P • investments to expand the system business of our power ROA 4% 5% +1pt businesses regions, two in China, two in the United States, and one in Europe) Promoting electronics systems while reinforcing production facilities for ROE 12% 11% -1pt growth • Strengthened our businesses • Strengthened our power • Actively invested in power Dividend Payout Ratio 28% 30% +2pt in power electronics systems electronics systems business semiconductor business power semiconductors aimed at increasing sales of those for strategies Note: A  ssumed exchange rates for fiscal 2023: ¥105 to the U.S. dollar; ¥123 to the Euro; and power semiconductors and •  eorganized social engineering R electrified vehicles. ¥16 to the RMB maximized synergies systems, industrial infrastructure, and [Research and development] In addition to stepping up Net Sales • S  tepped up research and development power electronics businesses (Billions of yen) (FY2018–FY2023 Change) incubation development, we will deploy our strength in the 914.9 1,000.0 • Implemented business • Strengthened a profitable Ratios for Power Others restructuring structure mobility field where we can utilize synergy between the power Electronics Systems and Electronic Devices 200.0 Electronic Devices +62.7 R  eorganized production bases S  trengthened mother factories in 137.3 • • electronics systems and the power semiconductors, and (magnetic disks and vending Japan (Suzuka, Kobe) 71% 75% 600.0 Power Electronics Systems +53.4 machines) • Reorganized production model lineup competitive components to develop global products, such as 546.6 • Reduced costs through • Promoted local production for FA systems, IoT solutions, transformers, and switches. We Elimination and Corporation FY2018 FY2023 global procurement and local consumption will also develop next-generation power semiconductors for Results Medium-Term Management Plan (Target) centralized purchasing •  stablished production bases E (Thailand, India, and United States) electrified vehicles. Overseas Sales (Billions of yen) Ratio of Overseas Sales 25% 35% (FY2018–FY2023 Change) • Reduced inventories through Expand overseas businesses Total +117.6 Improving 350.0 profitability supply chain reforms Amid growing demand for electricity, energy savings and 27.0 Americas +11.2 232.4 30.0 Europe +13.5 • Reinforced manufacturing automation for industrial and social infrastructure, as well as 15.8 135.0 China +56.6 capabilities 16.5 the spread of renewable energy, we will raise the overseas 78.4 •  onsolidated production and C • Improved value-added productivity 158.0 Asia and others +36.3 engineering departments and through in-house production, sales ratio from 25% in fiscal 2018 to 35% in fiscal 2023 by 121.7 strengthened human automation, and standardization resource development increasing sales mainly in Southeast Asia, India, and China. FY2018 FY2023 Results Medium-Term Management Plan (Target) • Promoted companywide Pro-7 Activities to improve profitability Further Improve Profitability Operating Income (Billions of yen) (FY2018–FY2023 Change) • Improved operational efficiency by • Improved business efficiency • Improved productivity through reviewing all costs from the ground up and quality through inventory increased introduction of RPA 80.0 Reinforce global manufacturing capabilities Ratios for Power 60.0 Others reassessments across all businesses • Promoted workstyle reforms Electronics Systems and We will work to strengthen our global manufacturing Electronic Devices 22.0 Electronic Devices +6.4 15.6 capabilities with an emphasis on local production for 80% Business Performance Trends 79% 36.2 48.0 Power Electronics Systems +11.8 (Billions of yen) local consumption. At the same time, we will step up Elimination and Corporation 893.5 914.9 900.6 development of local leaders at our overseas production FY2018 FY2023 Results Medium-Term Management Plan (Target) 813.6 837.8 (6.6%) 810.7 (6.3%) bases and promote their autonomy. We will also deploy IoT Note: Ratios for Net Sales and Operating Income are calculated based on amounts 745.8 759.9 703.5 before elimination and adjustment of inter-segment transactions 691.2 689.1 (5.5%) (5.3%) technologies to advance digital reforms of our manufacturing (4.8%) 60.0 (4.7%) Plant and Equipment Investment (4.4%) 56.0 and achieve innovative productivity improvements by (Billions of yen) (FY2018–FY2023 Change) 45.0 44.7 promoting collaboration across processes and bases through 220.0 Total +66.4 (2.9%) 41.0 40.3 42.5 Ratios for Power 39.3 37.8 visualization and sharing of information on design, purchasing, Electronics Systems and Others Net Sales (2.7%) 33.1 153.6 28.0 30.6 28.8 Electronic Devices Electronic Devices Operating Income (1.7%) 26.4 manufacturing, and testing. 120.0 (power semiconductors) +54.2 19.3 22.0 19.6 65.8 90% Net Income Attributable 78% (0.1%) 15.1 11.8 11.9 to Owners of Parent 6.8 Ongoing Reinforcement of Operating Foundations 53.7 78.0 Power Electronics Systems +24.3 Operating Margin 0.9 FY2014–FY2018 FY2019–FY2023 Cumulative Results Cumulative (Target) FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Targeting sustainable growth, we will continue reinforcing Net Debt-Equity Ratio our operating foundations with a focus on the environment, R&D Expenditures 1.9 1.4 1.4 1.1 0.9 0.7 0.8 0.5 0.4 0.4 0.4 (Billions of yen) (FY2018–FY2023 Change) (Times) human resources, and governance. In addition, we will Ratios for Power 200.0 Total +24.8 Equity Ratio (%) 20 19 21 25 28 32 27 33 36 37 37 revitalize our companywide Pro-7 Activities and promote Electronics Systems and 175.2 Others Electronic Devices ROA (%) 1 2 2 3 3 3 4 5 4 4 3 workstyle reforms aimed at improving work efficiency, work 74.0 Electronic Devices +11.6 62.4 (power semiconductors) ROE (%) 4 9 7 15 9 11 12 16 12 12 8 80% 80% quality, and productivity. 85.0 +7.8 77.2 Power Electronics Systems Dividend Payout Ratio * For more details, please refer to Environment (page 31), Human Resources (page 37), 16 19 24 14 26 23 23 19 27 28 40 FY2014–FY2018 FY2019–FY2023 (%) and Corporate Governance (page 41). Cumulative Results Cumulative (Target) * Figures for R&D expenditures are classified by segment according to theme and therefore differ from figures stated in the consolidated financial report. 13 Fuji Electric Report 2020 Fuji Electric Report 2020 14 Fiscal 2019 Review of Operations In fiscal 2019, ended March 31, 2020, Fuji Electric posted year-on-year declines in consolidated net sales and operating income amid curtailment of economic activities stemming from the spread of COVID-19, as well as slowdown in markets outside Japan, centered on China, due to the trade friction between the United States and China. Nevertheless, we continued actively investing in production facilities for our power electronics systems and power semiconductors and in R&D aimed at expanding our business. Fiscal 2019 Performance Plant and Equipment Investment For the year, consolidated net sales amounted to ¥900.6 billion, FY2018 FY2019 Approximately 90% of total plant and equipment investment Plant and Equipment Investment Change (Billions of yen) Results Results down by ¥14.3 billion year on year. Factors in the decline was allocated to our businesses in power electronics systems (Billions of yen) (Change) Net Sales 914.9 900.6 -14.3 Total +4.9 included delays in deliveries and curtailment of plant and and electronic devices, such as expanding production capacity Operating Income 60.0 42.5 -17.5 0.8 48.2 Others -0.2 equipment investments stemming from restrictions placed on and streamlining production lines. During the year, in the -0.1 Growth Strategy 43.3 1.0 Power Generation 1.0 2.3 Food and business activities to combat the spread of COVID-19, as well Operating Margin 6.6% 4.7% -1.8% Power Electronics Systems segment, we completed the third 1.1 Beverage Distribution 0.0 as the absence of large-scale orders recorded in the previous facility at the Thai Factory for the manufacture of switchgear 2.3 Net Income Attributable 40.3 28.8 -11.5 fiscal year and the impact of the trade friction between the to Owners of Parent and controlgear systems. We also started construction of United States and China. However, we benefited from strong an engineering facility at the Chiba Factory to strengthen 31.3 Electronic Devices +3.2 28.1 demand in Japan to upgrade or replace aging equipment. Financial Indicators energy-related products. In addition, we invested to streamline Despite the efforts to reduce costs, earnings were production lines at the Suzuka Factory and Tokyo Factory Net Debt-Equity Ratio 0.4 times 0.4 times +0.1 times affected by lower sales and production volumes for major in order to expand in-house production and strengthen the Power Electronics Equity Ratio 37% 37% -0% 4.3 Systems Industry 0.0 components*, as well as foreign exchange factors, upfront competitiveness of our inverters and measuring instruments. 4.3 Power Electronics investments, and increased costs related to product defects. ROA 4% 3% -1% In the Electronic Devices segment, we increased the capacity 8.5 6.5 Systems Energy +2.0 As a result, operating income declined by ¥17.5 billion, to ROE 12% 8% -4% of the 8-inch chip production line (front-end process) at FY2018 FY2019 Results Results ¥42.5 billion. Sales in substation equipment, switchgears and our Yamanashi Factory in order to expand our power controlgears in the power electronics systems for energy, and semiconductor business for electrified vehicles. In back-end plant system projects such as power plants increased, but processes, at our bases in Japan and overseas, we invested demand for major components declined. to increase production of large-capacity IGBT modules for * Major components: ED&C components (Power Electronics Systems Energy); lowautomotive pressure sensors and power converters. voltage inverters, rotating machines, FA components, measuring instruments (Power Electronics Systems Industry); semiconductors (Electronic Devices); and vending machines (Food and Beverage Distribution). Sales by Major Components and Plant Systems (Billions of yen) (Change) Research and Development 914.9 900.6 <Reasons for decrease in sales of major components> Seeking to advance product development and strengthen global R&D Expenditures From the first quarter through the third quarter of fiscal 2019, competitiveness, we allocated around 80% of R&D expenditures (Billions of yen) (Change) economic slowdown in China due to the trade friction between to power electronics systems and electronic devices. the United States and China led to ongoing investment 572.2 580.5 +8.4 33.7 34.5 Total +0.8 Plant Systems, others In the Power Electronics Systems segment, we developed 3.2 Others 0.0 restraint. Meanwhile, demand for machine tools and industrial some of the world’s most compact substation equipment, 3.2 1.6 1.5 Power Generation -0.1 equipment declined in Japan and overseas, and sales of ED&C which enables significant cost reductions. Other developments 2.6 2.8 Food and Beverage Distribution +0.2 components and low-voltage inverters also decreased. In included an uninterruptible power system for large data addition, worsening the Chinese economy caused closure of 342.7 320.1 -22.7 centers, an induction furnace that delivers energy savings in 12.9 Electronic Devices -0.3 Major components 13.2 factories, and demand for new vending machines decreased the casting process, and an exhaust gas cleaning system for because the vending machines which had been installed in large ships. We also developed SignAiEdge, on-site diagnostic FY2018 FY2019 closed factories are reused. From the fourth quarter, demand Results Results equipment that utilizes IoT to visualize problems at production 8.7 Power Electronics 9.3 Systems Industry -0.6 for machine tools and industrial equipment declined in Japan sites, as well as analytics and AI (MSPC*) technology to and overseas due to the spread of COVID-19, while ED&C contribute to productivity improvements. Power Electronics 3.8 5.3 Systems Energy +1.5 components, low-voltage inverters, FA components, and the In the Electronic Devices segment, we focused on FY2018 FY2019 like were also down. In addition, sales of vending machines for Sales Outside Japan developing power semiconductors for electrified vehicles. Results Results the Japanese and Chinese markets declined, as did sales of (Billions of yen) (Change) Fiscal 2019 developments include RC-IGBTs that reduce Note: Figures for R&D expenditures are allocated by research theme and therefore differ Ratio of semiconductors for the Chinese market. Sales outside Japan 25 % 25 % power loss compared with conventional devices to achieve from those in the consolidated financial report 232.4 smaller, lighter, and more efficient electrified vehicles. 220.9 Total -11.5 Sales outside Japan 15.8 16.5 14.7 Americas -1.2 * Abbreviation for “multivariate statistical process control” Sales outside Japan declined by ¥11.5 billion year on year, to 19.0 Europe +2.5 ¥220.9 billion. This was due to falling demand in China for major 78.4 62.6 -15.7 components, such as vending machines, semiconductors, China Fiscal 2020 Outlook and low-voltage inverters. By contrast, we enjoyed an increase The Company has chosen not to release consolidated from the global COVID-19 pandemic. We will disclose our in sales elsewhere in Asia thanks to large-scale projects for 121.7 124.6 Asia and others +2.9 performance forecasts the fiscal year ending March 31, 2021, forecasts promptly when we are able to estimate the impacts switchgears and controlgears, as well as higher sales in the as it is currently difficult to project future trends in capital of this situation on economic activities with a sufficient degree industrial semiconductor sector in Europe. The overseas sales investment and production by customers amid restrained of accuracy. FY2018 FY2019 ratio was 25%, unchanged from the previous year. Results Results economic activity in Japan and other countries stemming 15 Fuji Electric Report 2020 Fuji Electric Report 2020 16 Review of Segments Overseas Business Expansion (Fiscal 2019 and 2020) Power Electronics Systems Energy / Industry In Southeast Asia and India, we are expanding orders by to provide drive control and monitoring control systems, utilizing our sales channels developed through M&A and as well as energy management systems, to material and engineering capabilities. By establishing a system factory beverage factories, allowing them to save energy by and integrating local subsidiaries, we will expand our local improving productivity and optimizing energy usage. In design capabilities in addition to local production for local North America, we will collaborate with Fuji SEMEC Inc. Medium-Term Management Plan Policy consumption to build an integrated manufacturing system. to further strengthen our manufacturing and engineering In these segments, our aim is to create competitive also promote standardization and packaging of software In China, we will deploy the sales channels of local partners systems and expand our rolling stock business. components and reinforce our system business by and hardware for the social and industrial infrastructure bringing together our engineering services, optimal fields and attract increased orders for our comprehensive Southeast Asia Growth Strategy control technologies, and IoT. At the same time, we electrical equipment business. In the transportation field, FMT as Core Base in Asia Coordinates with All Other Bases will utilize local partners and sales channels developed we will work to accelerate development of products that In 2019, we established a new switchgear and controlgear India Vietnam Philippines through M&A to expand our overseas business. We will differentiate us from other companies. system factory and engineering center at Fuji Electric Manufacturing (Thailand) Co., Ltd. (FMT), which will serve Value as our core production site in Asia. By reinforcing our local Created Stable Supply of Energy Automation Energy Saving engineering and manufacturing systems, we will build a FMT Switchgear and Segment system business that contributes to electric power supply controlgear system Power Electronics Systems Energy Power Electronics Systems Industry factories and stability and energy savings for data centers and the engineering center electricity and materials fields. Customers Social Infrastructure Field Industrial Field Transportation Field (Power / Telecommunications) (Assembly Processing / Materials) Drive Control / Monitoring Substation Equipment / Monitoring and Energy Management Systems for Railcars Control Systems for Malaysia Singapore Indonesia Control Systems Systems Material Plants Passenger door systems Drive systems for high-speed railcars India Strengthening the Business Structure in India Major Components Principal Systems Fuji Electric Consul Neowatt Private Limited (FCN), which (Reorganizing and Expanding Bases) became a consolidated subsidiary in 2019, and Fuji Fuji Electric Fuji Electric Consul Neowatt India Pvt. Ltd. Electric India Private Limited will join forces to facilitate Private Limited Comprehensive Data Operational Information reorganization and expansion of our manufacturing, Merger of 2 companies Electricity Storage Switchgears and Ship Exhaust Gas Cleaning Systems (scheduled for October 2020) Center Systems Collection Systems for Assembly Control Systems Modular data centers Controlgears and Processing Equipment SOx scrubbers Laser type gas analyzers sales, and service bases in India. We will leverage the New company sales channelsand product-related strengths of both companies to grow our business and strengthen our Fuji Electric India Pvt. Ltd. service system, while also expanding localization of design and procurement to enhance product competitiveness. Head Office Manufacturing base : 2 Sales base : 27 Service Center : 80 Optimal Control Engineering Services IoT Technologies China System Proposal Centered on an EMS in Collaboration Control Equipment In fiscal 2019, Dalian Fuji Bingshan Control Systems Co., with Local Partners Ltd. (DFBCS)—a joint venture with the Dalian Bingshan Priority target industries Group, a major Chinese refrigeration and air conditioning Beer industry Dairy industry equipment manufacturer—introduced energy management Controllers Programmable displays Major Components systems (EMSs) to the Dalian Bingshan Group and our Transmission and ED&C Components Drive Equipment Measuring Instruments Wuxi Factory. Positioning this factory as our “model Distribution / Power Supplies factory” in the Chinese market, we will focus on the beer and dairy industries as our top-priority targets. Here, we Fuji Electric will demonstrate to customers the energy-saving benefits • Electrical and control technologies, Dalian Bingshan Group components and equipment • Cold and thermal technologies • Software packages of EMSs and give concrete examples, while proposing (Energy Management Systems and equipment • Engineering (EMS) and other package) Transformers Uninterruptible power Magnetic Molded-case Inverters Motors Servo systems Ultrasonic Gas analyzers various solution to facilitate EMS adoption and thus expand • Sales network • Sales Network systems (UPSs) switches circuit breakers flowmeters our system business. DFBCS (Offices) 17 Fuji Electric Report 2020 Fuji Electric Report 2020 18 Power Electronics Systems Energy We will use our integrated proposal capabilities and Major Initiatives in Fiscal 2019–2020 abundant engineering experience, cultivated in Japan, Strengthening our plant system business Expanding our comprehensive electrical to expand our overseas businesses in transmission and Amid growing demand for switchgears and controlgears equipment business distribution systems and comprehensive electrical equipment. and substation equipment for data centers and railways, The proliferation of 5G and IoT technologies has buoyed we are working to rebuild our development and demand from large-scale data centers and semiconductor Masashi Kawano production system to improve profitability. factories, boosting orders in our comprehensive electrical Executive Officer Corporate General Manager, In fiscal 2019, we started building an engineering equipment business. Power Electronics Systems Energy Business Group center within the Chiba Factory, our mother factory for In fiscal 2019, we developed and launched a series of substation equipment. The new center will bring together large-capacity uninterruptible power systems (UPSs) to Net Sales Operating Income the development, design, and engineering functions, which address the increasing size of data centers. The new units Business Areas Growth Strategy (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) were previously dispersed over multiple locations. In fiscal have capacities ranging from 330 kVA to 1,000 kVA, making • Energy management 224.1 235.0 218.0 2020, we will consolidate our standardized switchgear and it possible to build large-scale systems with maximum Power distribution, Smart meters, Operating Margin Industrial substation, Railway substations, controlgear design and evaluation functions at the Tokyo capacity of 8,000 kVA by operating the devices in parallel. Industrial power supplies 7.5 % 5.7 % 8.3 % Factory, and start construction of a dedicated systems In addition to our wide product lineup, we can handle • Power supply and facility systems 19.5 16.8 Data centers, Uninterruptible power 12.3 building aimed at improving productivity. In addition integrated projects covering everything from facility design systems (UPS), Electrical facilities, to integrating functions to facilitate standardization of to equipment procurement and construction. This enables Switchgears and control gears • ED&C components products and systems, we will work to improve our testing us to swiftly construct data centers and make them energy FY2018 FY2019 FY2023 FY2018 FY2019 FY2023 Power distribution and control equipment Results Results Medium-Term Results Results Medium-Term capabilities. Utilizing testing equipment that can simulate efficient. For this reason, we are receiving more and more Management Plan Management Plan Supplied to (Target) (Target) local environments enables us to achieve greater product orders each year from foreign-affiliated companies that are Power companies, quality perfection at the time of shipment, which reduces expanding globally. Material plants (steel, chemical, etc.), the need for onsite reworking and shortens testing times. In fiscal 2020, we will take advantage of our strong Data centers, Machine manufacturers Plant and Equipment Investment R&D Expenditures (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) Through these efforts, we will accelerate the development domestic track record to broaden our comprehensive Strengths of new competitive products, while further expanding electric equipment business across Southeast Asia. • Package proposals from a wide range of 49.0 products and systems, to maintenance standardization and streamlining production and testing services, contributing to stable power 31.0 processes, resulting in lower costs and shorter delivery times. supply and power optimization 30.3 28.8 40.5 • Extensive delivery record and engineering experience in stable power 25.7 supply and power optimization FY2019 FY2019 8.5 Results 5.3 Results Close Up! • Energy-saving expertise developed FY2014 2018 FY2019 2023 FY2014 2018 FY2019 2023 at Fuji Electric’s factories in Japan Cumulative Results Cumulative Target Cumulative Results Cumulative Target and overseas Contributing to development of global transformers and stable power supply In Southeast Asia, India, and the Middle East, where We have developed a global transformer that power demand is strong, construction of power is among the most compact in the world and has Medium-Term Management Plan Policy plants and substations continues unabated. achieved significant cost reduction. We will make these We will introduce globally competitive products, such as time, we will deploy our integrated proposal capabilities, Transformers, switchgears, and other substation transformers locally at our production base in Thailand. substation equipment, power supply equipment, cultivated in Japan, to expand our overseas businesses in equipment play an important role in power plants Going forward, we will develop and commercialize and switchgears and controlgears, to strengthen our transmission and distribution systems and comprehensive and substations and thus need to be highly reliable. competitive global products, such as transformers, manufacturing and engineering systems. At the same electrical equipment. However, substations are often constructed in urban and switchgears and controlgears. In this way, we will areas where land acquisition is difficult, leading to contribute to the stable supply of electricity and the calls to build “smaller and lighter” facilities. stable operation of equipment in overseas markets, Awareness of Market Needs and Business Opportunities such as Asia and India. In Southeast Asia, India, and the Middle East, which are enjoying railway companies in the 1970s and 1980s—aimed at strong economic growth, demand continues to grow for electric preventing accidents and improving efficiency. power and investments in social and industrial infrastructure, Meanwhile, the need to save energy and reduce CO2 such as substations and data centers. Accordingly, demand emissions has led to increased demand for visualization has remained firm for substation equipment, switchgears and and optimization of factory-wide energy usage, from the controlgears, etc. for power companies, factories, and buildings perspective of growing environmental awareness and efforts requiring stable power supply. to lower energy costs. In addition to introducing products with In Japan, we look forward to ongoing steady high power conversion efficiency, customers will have more investments—to replace aging facilities, including opportunities to use energy management systems (EMSs) to substation equipment delivered to material plants and achieve optimal energy supply and demand control. Global transformer Fuji Tusco Co., Ltd. (production base in Thailand) 19 Fuji Electric Report 2020 Fuji Electric Report 2020 20 Power Electronics Systems Industry We will accelerate overseas business expansion by further Major Initiatives in Fiscal 2019–2020 promoting partnership strategies, mainly in Southeast Asia Promote partnership strategies to expand Expansion of the systems business and India, while strengthening local production, consumption, overseas business leveraging IoT and design systems. In Southeast Asia, we are leveraging the engineering In the industrial field in Japan, we are increasing efforts capabilities and sales channels of Fuji CAC Joint Stock to improve operations and productivity. Here, we use Hiroshi Tetsutani Company in Vietnam to increase sales of monitoring and IoT to visualize equipment operational status and predict Executive Officer Corporate General Manager, control systems for production equipment at cement and analyze equipment failure, with the aims of raising Power Electronics Systems Industry Business Group plants. In fiscal 2020, we will emphasize development of competitiveness and preventing equipment stoppages. standardized software and hardware packages to improve In fiscal 2018, we launched OnePackEdge, a data Net Sales Operating Income cost competitiveness and further increase orders. collection system that bundles all types of production Business Areas Growth Strategy (Billions of yen) 365.0 (Billions of yen) In India, Fuji Electric Consul Neowatt Private Limited floor data to support factor analysis of equipment • Automation systems 322.5 317.5 Operating Margin (FCN) and Fuji Electric India Private Ltd. will join forces abnormalities and defects. In fiscal 2019, we developed Inverters, Motors, 6.0 % 5.2 % 7.8 % FA components (servo and controller), 28.5 to build an integrated manufacturing system covering and launched SignAiEdge, a field-based diagnostic Measuring instruments and sensors, design, production, and testing of inverters, UPSs, power device that detects and analyzes signs of equipment FA systems, Drive control systems, 19.4 16.5 Measuring and control systems conditioning systems (PCSs), and other components. abnormalities. It is the first in the industry to incorporate • Social solutions By combining the sales channels of FCN with the batch-process MSPC* technology. Electrical equipment for railcars, Radiation monitoring systems engineering capabilities and sales channels of Fuji Gemco In fiscal 2020, we will introduce these IoT products into FY2018 FY2019 FY2023 FY2018 FY2019 FY2023 • Equipment construction Results Results Medium-Term Results Results Medium-Term Private Limited, we will work to expand our systems our own production lines to help improve profitability, and Management Plan Management Plan • IT Solutions (Target) (Target) business in the renewable energy and food and beverage we will use know-how acquired through this process to Supplied to fields, in addition to the materials field. facilitate horizontal rollouts to our customers. Meanwhile, Air conditioning and water treatment facilities, we will work to increase orders for IoT products by Machine manufacturers, Plant and Equipment Investment R&D Expenditures Material plants (steel, chemical, etc.), (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) combining them with a remote equipment monitoring Railway companies, Shipbuilding companies, service, which is expected to attract demand as a measure Public agencies and local government 54.0 48.4 to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Strengths 29.0 * Abbreviation for “multivariate statistical process control” 23.4 • Early development of power 45.3 electronics equipped with power 24.7 semiconductors FY2019 FY2019 • Extensive product lineup tailored to 4.3 Results 8.7 Results customer applications FY2014 2018 FY2019 2023 FY2014 2018 FY2019 2023 Close Up! • Engineering capabilities built up over Cumulative Results Cumulative Target Cumulative Results Cumulative Target a substantial delivery track record Contributing to energy savings at Indian steel plant Medium-Term Management Plan Policy In India, the third-largest emitter of CO2 in the world, deploy energy usage across all of the plant’s there is a campaign to improve energy efficiency of production equipment. We will leverage our automation business—which combines at expanding our systems business. At the same time, we plants in nine industries that consume a lot of energy, Utilizing the results of the field tests, we will IoT with drive equipment, measuring instruments, and will broaden our business in ships and railways by utilizing including thermal power generation, steel, and promote rollouts to other Indian steel plants and step control equipment—to promote partnership strategies aimed unique products that differentiate us from other companies. cement, in order to meet that nation’s greenhouse up proposals in other Asian regions to help reduce gas reduction targets. CO2 emissions through energy savings. Awareness of Market Needs and Business Opportunities Steel plants use large amounts of energy from multiple sources, such as electricity, gas, and steam, In Japan, the industrial field is witnessing a wave of In Southeast Asia and India, marked by strong economic in the production process. In order to save energy, it production reform initiatives aimed at addressing labor growth, we expect an increase in demand to stabilize is necessary to optimally combine and control each shortages and increasing competitiveness. To combat power supplies, improve energy-efficiency of facilities, type of energy. COVID-19 and meet the need for workstyle reforms, and automate production lines. We also look forward to Using our own optimization technology, cultivated meanwhile, we expect companies to increasingly new capital investments and equipment renewal demand through our achievements in Japan, as well as past adopt automation, labor saving, and remote control in various materials fields, including steel and cement. operational data and production and operational technologies at their manufacturing sites. In the materials Meanwhile, companies in China are investing in energy plans, we provided an energy management system field, companies in some industries are reorganizing savings to protect the environment while working to (EMS) to a major Indian steel plant and started their production bases. Nevertheless, we anticipate that address labor shortages and taking steps to stop COVIDfield tests. Our aim is to help predict and optimally Monitoring and control room (steel plant in India) investments in renewal of aging production equipment and 19. Against this backdrop, we expect investments in in energy savings will remain steady. automation and labor-saving to remain solid going forward. 21 Fuji Electric Report 2020 Fuji Electric Report 2020 22 Electronic Devices We aim to expand our business by expediting efforts to Major Initiatives in Fiscal 2019–2020 increase our production capacity for power semiconductors Expanding sales of power semiconductors Accelerating increases in production capacity for electrified vehicles. for xEVs To address rapidly increasing demand for power In fiscal 2019, we started mass production of semiconductors for xEVs, we are investing actively to 4th-generation direct liquid cooling modules that feature boost production of 8-inch wafer production equipment. In Toru Housen lower losses and higher cooling performance than before. fiscal 2020, we will continue investing to raise production Managing Executive Officer Corporate General Manager, We posted a significant year-on-year increase in sales of while strengthening the assembly process capacity of our Electronic Devices Business Group automotive products, which accounted for 35% of total production bases in Japan and overseas. power semiconductor sales, up from 29% in fiscal 2018. Net Sales Operating Income In 2020, global production of automobiles, especially Expanding sales of large-capacity IGBT Business Areas modules for the renewable energy and Growth Strategy (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) gasoline-powered vehicles, will remain on a downtrend • Power semiconductors Industrial field, Automotive field 200.0 due to shutdowns of overseas factories stemming from electric railway markets Operating Margin • Magnetic disks 11.4 % 7.1 % 11.0 % the COVID-19 pandemic. Nevertheless, we expect In fiscal 2019, we launched sales of 7th-generation 137.3 137.4 22.0 demand for xEVs to grow in the medium and long terms IGBT modules (large-capacity series) equipped with Supplied to 15.6 as environmental regulations tighten. 7th-generation IGBT chips that reduce losses by around • Power semiconductors 9.7 Industry: Our aim is to expand sales of power semiconductors for 30% compared with existing chips. We are selling these Inverters, Machine tools, Air conditioners, xEVs by consistently providing high-quality products. modules, which boast high levels of heat dissipation and Solar and wind power, Electric railways FY2018 FY2019 FY2023 FY2018 FY2019 FY2023 Automobile: Results Results Medium-Term Results Results Medium-Term reliability, mainly to the renewable energy and electric Management Plan Management Plan Motor drives for electrified vehicles (Target) (Target) railway markets. Sales by Fields (EVs, HEVs, etc.), 175.0 Engine control, Brake control (Billions of yen) In these markets, devices are increasing in capacity • Magnetic disks and decreasing in size while generating lower losses. HDD (Data center, PCs) Plant and Equipment Investment R&D Expenditures 50% 110.9 Emphasizing the features of our products, we have (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) Strengths expanded sales to manufacturers of wind and solar power Industry 65% Power semiconductors 120.0 generation equipment. • Proprietary devices that greatly 50% 74.0 In fiscal 2020, we will continue increasing sales to the improve power conversion efficiency Automobile 35% 65.8 62.4 • Packaging technologies that achieve 88.7 robust renewable energy market, while capturing new FY2019 FY2019 2023 high levels of heat dissipation and 61.1 Results Cumulative Target orders from the electric railway market with the aim of reliability FY2019 FY2019 • Product development capabilities 31.3 Results 12.9 Results further increasing our market share in the industrial field. of IGBT modules that contribute FY2014 2018 FY2019 2023 FY2014 2018 FY2019 2023 Cumulative Results Cumulative Target Cumulative Results Cumulative Target to increasing the efficiency, miniaturization, and reliability of power electronics Close Up! Medium-Term Management Plan Policy Helping xEVs reduce the environmental impact and improve driving distance Against the backdrop of steady global demand for semiconductors for industrial use. To this end, we will In the xEV field, the focus is on reducing Image of electric vehicle (EV) electrified vehicles (xEVs) and proliferation of renewable invest aggressively to increase production capacity and environmental impact and improving driving 4th-generation distance, which requires components that are direct liquid cooling module energy, we will focus on automobiles (xEVs) and power boost sales and profits. smaller, lighter, and more efficient than ever before. To address these requirements, in fiscal 2019 Awareness of Market Needs and Business Opportunities we started mass production of a 4th-generation Electric vehicle direct liquid cooling module featuring improved Inverter Power semiconductors help save energy thanks to their countries around the world, and demand for power heat dissipation performance compared with high levels of conversion efficiency and power control. semiconductors is expected to grow, including for conventional products. This module, which is fitted Demand for these devices in various fields and applications inverters used to drive xEV motors. with RC-IGBTs* for better compactness and lower is rising due to various factors. These include increases In the industrial field, there is an ongoing shift to losses, is for use in motor drive inverters that are in energy consumption due to economic growth and renewable energy sources, such as wind and solar, due to indispensable for xEVs. Motor Battery technological progress, growing investments in automation rising demand for clean energy. We also expect companies *RC-IGBT: A  cronym for “reverse conducting insulated gate bipolar transistor.” in the manufacturing sector, and environmental regulations to continue investing in automation to solve labor shortages An RC-IGBT arranges two types of semiconductors with differing functions—IGBTs and freewheeling diodes (FWDs)—alternately aimed at preventing global warming. and improve productivity, and the demand for machine in a straight line on a single chip. This permits much greater miniaturization compared with arranging the IGBTs and FWDs on In the automotive field, the shift from gasoline-powered tools and robots will increase as a result. two separate chips. vehicles to xEVs is gaining momentum in various 23 Fuji Electric Report 2020 Fuji Electric Report 2020 24 Food and Beverage Distribution In response to a growing need for better hygiene through nonMajor Initiatives in Fiscal 2019–2020 face-to-face and contactless interaction, as well as labor savings, Offering new vending machines that meet In fiscal 2020, we will step up collaborations with major we will swiftly offer new products that make full use of social needs beverage manufacturers in each country while introducing automation and heating and cooling technologies. In fiscal 2019, we made proposals for high-value-added new models to meet diversifying customer needs and demand machines in Japan, but the postponement of the Olympic for contactless solutions in the “With Corona” era. Yasuhiro Takahashi Games and the COVID-19 pandemic led to a decline in demand. Managing Executive Officer Corporate General Manager, The needs of consumers and customers are changing Offering new products that meet store needs Food and Beverage Distribution Business Group drastically in the “With Corona” era. With this in mind, in for sales growth and labor-saving fiscal 2020 we will deploy antibacterial materials and make In fiscal 2019, we proposed and advanced various new Net Sales Operating Income our products and services more contactless, thereby offering products, including counter fixtures that contribute to increased Business Areas Growth Strategy (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) new models that consumers can use with peace of mind and store sales and systems that help save energy and labor. • Vending machines systems that improve the efficiency of our customers’ vending In Japan, there is a growing need among store operators Beverage vending machines, Operating Margin Vending machines for food and 113.6 120.0 5.1 % 3.7 % 7.1 % machine operations. to save labor and shorten business hours. In fiscal 2020, 104.4 other goods 8.5 therefore, we will utilize our automation technology to • Store distribution 5.8 Store fixtures and equipment, 3.8 Creating vending machine markets and develop new products and contribute to the convenience automatic change dispensers expanding sales in China and Southeast Asia of consumers and the profitability of our customers. These Supplied to Fiscal 2019 saw a decline in demand in the Chinese market include two-way case, which functions as a showcase in FY2018 FY2019 FY2023 FY2018 FY2019 FY2023 Beverage manufacturers, Results Results Medium-Term Results Results Medium-Term due to economic downturn triggered by U.S.-China trade the daytime and a vending machine at night, as well as a Management Plan Management Plan Vending machine operators, Convenience stores, Supermarkets, (Target) (Target) friction. In Southeast Asia, by contrast, we boosted sales by positive pressure control system that maintains healthy store POS manufacturers capturing demand for vending machines on the back of rising environments by controlling the air supply and exhaust and Strengths consumer income and labor costs. enhances the energy efficiency of air conditioning. Japan and Overseas Sales Overseas Sales by Region • Top share of the vending machine (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) market in Japan, China and Southeast Asia • Heating and cooling technologies that 113.6 120.0 Close Up! 104.4 30.0 efficiently heat and cool products 10.4 30.0 6.7 6.5 • Automation technologies built up Using AI to enhance vending machine through vending machines that contribute to labor saving 103.2 97.7 90.0 10.4 6.7 23.6 operational efficiency AI-powered proposal of optimal sales and delivery 1.8 plans based on vending machine information 8.6 2.6 Due to serious labor shortages, beverage manufacturers and 4.1 Vending machine Operation/management FY2018 FY2019 FY2023 FY2018 FY2019 FY2023 vending machine operators in Japan are faced with an urgent need Delivery Results Results Medium-Term Results Results Medium-Term Management Plan Management Plan to improve the efficiency of product replenishment operations and (Target) (Target) other processes. In response, we have developed various systems Japan Overseas China Southeast Asia and other that use AI to address the requirements of vending machine operators, including product demand forecasts, remote setting Remote configuration of vending machines, sales plans, and delivery route settings. We Medium-Term Management Plan Policy are currently making proposals to our customers, encouraging (Lighting, temperature, price, etc.) replenishment order We will reinforce our sensing technology and business that supports customer needs, such as labor them to apply the new systems to our vending machines, which communications and information coordination saving. Outside Japan, we will strengthen our vending account for the majority of the market. By reducing losses of Inventory information, sales opportunities and shipping costs due to products being Sales information, etc. technology, centered on vending machines and store machine business in China and Southeast Asia and build sold out, we will streamline the vending machine operations of our Vending Machine Operation System equipment. Our aim is to transition into a system a optimal global production system. customers and help improve their profitability. Awareness of Market Needs and Business Opportunities Contributing to maintaining healthy in-store environments and energy saving in air conditioning by preventing outside air influx In Japan, against the backdrop of labor shortages due to need for automation of the beverage and commodity We have developed a system for controlling air pressure inside Positive-pressure control system a declining working population and measures to prevent sales process. Meanwhile, the vending machine market in stores. This system uses sensors to control the balance of air Before installation: Influx of dust and particles After installation: No influx global warming, we are promoting advances in labor Southeast Asia is expanding rapidly, especially in Thailand, intake and exhaust by ventilation fans and other equipment to saving and energy efficiency for our customers—beverage triggered by the entry of major beverage manufacturers. prevent influxes of outside air when automatic doors are opened manufacturers, convenience stores, and supermarkets. In addition, there is a growing need for non-face-to-face, and closed. Furthermore, the system achieves a 10% reduction in energy consumption by lowering the burden placed on air Influx of Outside air Overseas, we expect demand for vending machines to contactless products and services in Japan and overseas outside air influx controlled conditioners while also cutting particle matter influx by 30%, grow, even in our priority Chinese market, due to increasing as a countermeasure against COVID-19. thereby decreasing the amount of cleaning work needing to be • 10% energy saving* done by employees. It has earned great praise from customers for • 30% reduction in particle matter influx* its contribution to labor and energy savings in stores. *Figures based on a verification test 25 Fuji Electric Report 2020 Fuji Electric Report 2020 26 Power Generation To address changing market conditions, we will focus on Major Initiatives in Fiscal 2019–2020 renewable energy and distributed power sources while Expanding orders for renewable energy geothermal resources all over the world. expediting the transformation of our business portfolio to Solar and wind power Hydro power strengthen our after-sales business and enhance profitability. For solar and wind power generation, using storage Recent years have seen growth in demand for hydro power batteries and further combining them with our power generation as a low-cost, stable power source in Japan, Tadao Horie conditioning systems and controllers, we are forging ahead and scrap-and-build*2 projects for aging equipment are Executive Officer Corporate General Manager, with solution-driven proposals that contribute to power increasing as a result. Power Generation Business Group system stabilization and peak shifts. To address this demand, we will continue strengthening In fiscal 2019, in collaboration with an overseas our frontline response capabilities. At the same time, we will Net Sales Operating Income subsidiary, we received an order for our first overseas solar strive to increase orders by making full use of our distinct Business Areas Growth Strategy (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) project, and we also received two orders in Japan. and differentiated product lineup, including our hybrid servo • Renewable and new energy In fiscal 2020, we will continue working to increase system*3, which won a New Energy Award in 2019. Geothermal power, Hydro power, 107.0 109.9 Solar power, Wind power, Fuel cells Operating Margin orders to meet growing demand for renewable energy in 80.0 4.4 % 2.1 % 7.0 % • Thermal Power Japan and overseas. Expanding our after-sales business 5.6 • Nuclear power-related equipment 4.8 Geothermal power In maintenance and replacement services, we will continue 2.3 Supplied to In geothermal power generation, where we have a leading promoting onshore and onsite projects that bring together Japanese and overseas power generation market share* , we are proceeding with construction of a 1 all functions in each customer’s region, from sales to companies FY2018 FY2019 FY2023 FY2018 FY2019 FY2023 Results Results Medium-Term Results Results Medium-Term facility in Kenya, our first geothermal project in Africa. procurement, installation, and after-sales service. Management Plan Management Plan Strengths (Target) (Target) In fiscal 2019, we received an order from the Onikobe In fiscal 2019, we enhanced our maintenance service • Engineering capabilities across the Geothermal Power Plant in Japan and an order for a new proposals and achieved a year-on-year sales increase of whole plant Sales Ratio by Carbon free / Sales Ratio by Service / project in Kenya, as we did in the previous year. around 10%. • One-stop proposal capabilities in Carbon emitting New Installations geothermal power, and industry (%) (%) In fiscal 2020, we will aim to expand business In fiscal 2020, we will expand our after-sales business by leading delivery track record opportunities by adding a small-capacity-generation strengthening our local networks, centered on our bases in • Extensive delivery track record in 26 hydro power 38 44 37 package to our lineup for Japan to support a wide range the Middle East, the Philippines, Vietnam, and Indonesia. • Power storage control technologies 72 69 *1 Based on actual figures for the past 20 years (Fuji Electric research) of geothermal resources. Overseas, we will continue and economic efficiency in solar and *2 Entails disposal or decommissioning of aging and inefficient equipment and replacing wind power focusing on Southeast Asian and African regions as priority it with new equipment to achieve better efficiency 74 *3 A turbine operation mechanism in a hydro power generation facility 62 56 63 targets and accelerate marketing activities in countries with 28 31 FY2018 FY2019 FY2023 FY2018 FY2019 FY2023 Results Results Medium-Term Results Results Medium-Term Management Plan (Target) Management Plan (Target) Close Up! Carbon free Carbon emitting Service New Installations Expanding orders for solar power generation facilities with storage batteries Medium-Term Management Plan Policy In Southeast Asia, a major challenge is to develop Deploying our abundant know-how and track record, infrastructure in areas that are not serviced by electricity we collaborated with overseas subsidiary Fuji Electric Responding to changes in the market environment as will capture replacement demand for power generation due to weak power grids. This has prompted numerous (Thailand) Co., Ltd. to win two EPC* contracts for our the world moves toward decarbonization, we will focus equipment while expanding our after-sales business and plans to utilize solar power generation as a distributed first overseas solar power generation projects. With this on renewable energy and distributed power sources to improving profitability. power source. Solar power become increasingly cost achievement as a foothold, we will continue aggressively transform our business portfolio. At the same time, we competitive because it is inexpensive to operate. expanding sales in Southeast Asia to foster the However, using solar as the primary power source proliferation of renewable energy. requires installation of storage batteries that can supply * Abbreviation for “engineering, procurement, and construction.” EPC contracts Awareness of Market Needs and Business Opportunities electricity at night when solar cannot generate power. To cover everything from design to construction, installation, and test operation. ensure stable power supply, there is growing demand to Since the enactment of the Paris Agreement, an international economic growth in Southeast Asia and Africa, which have use storage batteries for optimal control. framework for addressing climate change, moves toward abundant geothermal resources. In Japan, meanwhile, By combining storage batteries with our power decarbonization have gathered pace worldwide, and the aging hydro power generation facilities are being replaced conditioning systems, we have amassed strengths in market for renewable energy sources, which do not emit and upgraded to enhance generation efficiency, reflecting power control optimization. Moreover, we have a solid greenhouse gases, is growing as a result. expectations that hydro power generation can help reduce track record in the production of power generation In addition to rising demand for mega solar power in environmental impact and risk. equipment. These include equipment for the Suzuran Southeast Asia, demand is growing for solar as a smallIn the maintenance and renewal of power generation Kushiro-cho Solar Power Plant, one of Japan’s largest scale distributed power source. Demand for geothermal equipment, the need to enhance capacity utilization ratio solar power stations with storage batteries. Suzuran Kushiro-cho Solar Power Plant (Hokkaido, Japan) power generation is also increasing on the back of and operability is growing. 27 Fuji Electric Report 2020 Fuji Electric Report 2020 28 Measures to Reinforce the Operating Foundations We are reinforcing our operating foundations from the perspectives of the environment, society, Initiatives to Address the Main Environmental, Social and Governance Issues and governance to improve our corporate value over the long term. To enhance our long-term corporate value, we are reinforcing our operating foundations and supply chain by Society: Promote respect for human rights and activities Fuji Electric Corporate Activities and SDGs/CSR identifying material issues to be addressed in the practice of diverse human resources and reform our workstyles Fuji Electric’s corporate philosophy is to “contribute to Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Fuji Electric of our Corporate Code of Conduct from the perspectives Governance: Ensure global compliance and further prosperity,” “encourage creativity,” and “seek harmony with the Economics Social Environmental Corporate Philosophy of the environment, society, and governance. strengthen risk management in response to increasing environment,” and the Company bases its management policies Management Policies Material issues variety of management risks on contributing to the creation of a sustainable society through Environment: Address global warming through all of our its energy and environment businesses. This is in line with the corporate activities guided by the Environmental Vision 2050 international community’s efforts to integrate economic, social, and environmental improvements to achieve the SDGs. Our corporate Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Fuji Electric Code Field Code of Conduct Key Issues Major Initiatives Relevant SDGs Relevant Pages social responsibility is to take corporate action to contribute to of Conduct Environment  educe society’s CO2 emissions through provision R achieving the SDGs and to put our Corporate Code of Conduct Realization of a lowEnvironment Society of energy-saving products Respect and carbon society into practice, there by promoting initiatives for material issues from R  educe greenhouse gas emissions during production Environment Governance value the global the perspectives of the environment, society, and governance (see P31 environment Creation of a recyclingP  romote 3Rs (reduce, reuse, recycle) in relation to the next page). oriented society products and production activities Human rights Implement human rights due diligence Measures to Reinforce Promoting the SDGs Improve occupational health and safety awareness In June 2019, we announced nine SDG targets that we will focus among employees SDGs to be Addressed through Safe and healthy Health and safety audits to eliminate occupational on in all of our corporate activities to contribute to achieving the workplaces Fuji Electric’s Companywide Activities the Operating Foundations accidents SDGs. We followed this in April 2020 by establishing the new Ensuring employee health and mental health care SDGs Promotion Committee for deliberating, deciding, and Priority SDGs to be Addressed through Energy and E  xpand areas in which female employees make Human Resources evaluating the promotion of the SDGs at the management level. Environment Businesses P37 contributions We identify from an SDG perspective the key issues along with Respect and value Activities of diverse Utilize employees over 60 the business risks and opportunities for our company, incorporate all people human resources Website Broaden scope of duties performed by differently (Refer to the following them into our strategies, and evaluate our efforts to implement abled employees website) them. Our environmental efforts are focused on fulfilling our  dvance workstyle reform A Environmental Vision 2050, which is mainly focused on realizing a Work-life balance Offer work-life balance support and foster Society low-carbon society; and our social efforts prioritize the promotion conducive workplace environments of human rights and human resources development. We have set E  nhance development of future management Human resources candidates up subcommittees dedicated to each topic that will deliberate our development Strengthen global human resources development policies and strategies, supervise, and evaluate our efforts. Website The committee’s discussion content is reported to and Respect and value Improvement of customer Improve product and service quality (Refer to the following deliberated by the Executive Committee and the Board of Directors. our customers satisfaction Enhance customer support and service systems website) Respect and value P  ractice fair and impartial procurement Value chains for supporting Supply Chain SDGs Promotion Committee Roles and Material Issues our business Fulfill social responsibilities together with business P60 a sustainable society • Committee Members Executive officers of the business, sales, and corporate divisions partners partners • Roles 1. Identify the company’s material issues, business opportunities and risks from an SDG perspective C  ontribute to communities through activities for 2. Incorporate the material issues into strategies, implement and evaluate the strategies (PDCA management) Respect and value protecting the natural environment and promoting Social Outreach • Material Issues 1. Promote the Environmental Vision 2050 interaction with Community outreach youth development (Local Communities) society Engage in community outreach at major sites of P62 2. Promote human rights and human resources development overseas operations  stablish, revise, and abolish internal rules and E Board of Directors conduct oversight, audit, and education based on Effective compliance Compliance Make global the Fuji Electric Compliance Program program implementation P53 Executive Committee Cultivate mindset of strict compliance among compliance a top priority employees President Executive Officers Deliberation R  einforce business continuity capabilities Risk management Governance Report Standing Audit & Supervisory Risk management Board Members Strengthen data security P55 Top management will Improvement of Corporate Governance Fuji Electric Compliance thoroughly practice management transparency Reinforce corporate governance framework SDGs Promotion Committee P41 Promotion Committee and oversight function this Code of Conduct Environmental Vision Promotion Subcommittee Human Rights Promotion and Human Resources Empowerment Subcommittee C  onduct timely, fair, and impartial information Respect and value Constructive shareholder disclosure Corporate Governance Deliberate and evaluate policies and measures and manage the progress to Deliberate and evaluate the policies and measures and manage the progress our shareholders realize the Environmental Vision 2050 and Investor engagement Enhance shareholder and investor engagement P48 to incorporate respect for human rights into management measures and investors • Realize a low-carbon society activities • Realize a recycling-oriented society Deliberate, supervise, and evaluate policies and measures to promote • Realize a society in harmony with nature diversity and increase job satisfaction Environmental, Social, and Governance https://www.fujielectric.com/company/csr/index.html 29 Fuji Electric Report 2020 Fuji Electric Report 2020 30 Environment Environmental promotion system and Science-based Target (SBT) Certification Project The Environmental Vision Promotion Subcommittee submits each have teams with members from throughout our We will use the energy and environment technology the environmental activities it deems as priorities to the organization to create policies and strategic plans. Fuji we have cultivated to help address environmental issues SDGs Promotion Committee, which examines the issues Electric is continuously taking various approaches to across the supply chain. and reports to the Executive Committee, which further resolve environmental issues. deliberates the issues and reports to the Board of Directors. Michio Abe The Environmental Manufacturing Working Group, Fuji Electric Environmental Promotion System Senior Managing Executive Officer composed of environmental managers from the Board of Directors Corporate General Manager, Production & Procurement Group Permanent operating sites, promotes initiatives aimed at fulfilling the Environmental Manufacturing Executive Committee Working Group Environmental Vision 2050. The members incorporate Environmental Management System the environmental goals and initiatives into their individual The SDGs Promotion to fulfill environmental goals and The expanding efforts of the international community Basic Environmental Protection Policy divisions and are responsible for managing and fully Committee reduce environmental risks to fulfill the SDGs is making it increasingly important carrying out the initiatives. Special Purpose Offering products and technologies that contribute to Environmental 1 to engage in environmental activities such as global environmental protection We have also established individual projects to focus Vision Promotion • TCFD Study Project • Green Supply Chain mitigating global warming, efficiently using natural the full force of our abilities into our initiatives for the Subcommittee Construction Project 2 Reduction of environmental burden throughout product lifecycles resources, and preserving biodiversity. environmental issues identified as important. The TCFD • SBT Certification Project 3 Reduction of environmental burden in business activities Based on these social movements, in June 2019 Study Project, Green Supply Chain Construction Project, Respond to priority environmental issues Fuji Electric created the Environmental Vision 2050 4 Compliance with laws, regulations, and standards Measures to Reinforce to clarify the direction of environmental activities Establishment of environment management systems and Supply Chain Initiatives for Environmental Vision 2050 5 that we should work for the long term. continuous improvements of the systems (Upstream) Supply Chain (Downstream) We will use our full array of energy and Improvement of employees’ environmental awareness and the Operating Foundations 6 Business Partners Fuji Electric Customers social contribution environment technology to create a supply chain Raw Materials and Products During Production Product Usage fully dedicated to achieving the goals to realize a 7 Promotion of communication Mining, manufacturing, disposal, 1. CO2 from fuel burning and other greenhouse gases Disposal, transport, etc. transport, etc. 2. Power plant CO2 emissions due to our electricity usage low-carbon society, a recycling-oriented society, and a society in harmony with nature. Fuji Electric’s Environmental Vision 2050 In fiscal 2019, we successfully achieved each of our primary environmental targets for reducing Fuji Electric’s Environmental Vision 2050 Target a reduction of 80% or more in greenhouse gas emissions across the supply chain LowFiscal 2030 Target greenhouse gas emissions, promoting the 3Rs We aim to achieve a “Low-Carbon Society,” Carbon Reduce greenhouse gas emissions during production Reduce 50 million tons of CO2 emissions through (reduce, reuse, and recycle), and reducing the Society “Recycling-Oriented Society,” and “Society in Harmony with Nature” by 31% products annually impact on ecosystems. by expanding use of Fuji Electric’s innovative clean energy Clean energy, energy-saving products technology and energy-saving products. For fiscal 2020, we created the Environmental RecyclingEco-friendly products (Product 3R) Oriented Vision Promotion Subcommittee under the newly Realize a Low-Carbon Society Society Green procurement Waste reduction, water recycling during production Target a reduction of 80% or more in greenhouse gas emissions across Cooperation with Eco-friendly products established the SDGs Promotion Committee and a Society in Reduction of environmentally hazardous the supply chain business partners Harmony chemical substances framework enabling steady advancement toward with Nature Environmental preservation activities the Environmental Vision 2050. In addition, in June Realize a RecyclingRealize a Society in we declared our support for the Task Force on Oriented Society Harmony with Nature Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TFCD). Promote green supply chains and Aim for zero influence on 3R* activities to reduce the ecosystem by corporate Close Up! Fuji Electric will continue the global development environmental impact to zero activities contributing to biodiversity of its energy and environment businesses to Declaration of support for the TCFD Selection to the CDP A List contribute to addressing environmental issues and Fuji Electric has declared its support to the Task In fiscal 2019, the CDP* certified Fuji Electric as an “A help realize a sustainable society. Fiscal 2030 Target Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures List Company” with excellent climate change initiatives Reducing Environmental Burden Creating Environmental Value (TCFD), an international framework for analyzing and and information disclosure. Fuji Electric was one of 38 • Reduce greenhouse gas emissions • Reduce 50 million tons of disclosing the financial impact of climate change. Japanese companies on the A List. during production by 31% CO2 emissions through (Greenhouse gas emissions’ base products annually As we pursue the Environmental Vision 2050, the * The CDP is an international NGO engaged in environmental activities, such as related to climate change. The CDP collects, analyzes, and evaluates year: Fiscal 2013) Company will analyze the risks and opportunities that information on environmental activities conducted by major companies and * Reduce, reuse, recycle climate change brings to its business and value chain disclose the results to institutional investors. along with the financial impact that accompanies them. The information will be actively disclosed and incorporated into our management strategies. 31 Fuji Electric Report 2020 Fuji Electric Report 2020 32 Realize a Low-Carbon Society Reduction of society’s CO2 emissions market for clean energy (geothermal power generation, Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions Environmental Vision 2050. In fiscal 2019, we prioritized through products solar power generation, biomass power generation) and during production investing in energy-saving production equipment and Our total CO2 emissions from our product operations energy-saving products (general-purpose inverters, power We manage and seek to reduce the CO2 and other achieved our targets for the year. We are aiming to declines when customers use our clean energy and semiconductors). greenhouse gases (GHG) generated during the production achieve our fiscal 2020 targets by investing further in energy-saving products. This is part of the goal in our The contribution from our leading products, or power process at our factories. We set annual target values abatement apparatus to reduce GHG emissions from the Environmental Vision 2050 to “contribute to reducing electronics systems and electronic device products is 62%, designed to lead us to achieve the 2030 targets in the manufacturing lines of our semiconductor factories. society’s CO2 emission volume through our products.” We which is relatively low compared to their sales composition calculate the contributions to CO2 emissions reductions ratios. And we are working to increase their contribution to Fiscal 2019 Result for the Year made over a full year of operation by all products shipped reducing CO2 emissions. In fiscal 2020, we aim to increase Environmental Vision 2050 FY2019 Target FY2019 Result FY2020 Target since fiscal 2009 (products within their average life spans). the contribution by mainly expanding sales of low-loss (FY2030 Target) 488,000 tons/year This year’s target achieved 479,000 tons/year GHG Emissions During Production 456,000 tons/year In fiscal 2019, we achieved our goals by supplying the insulated-gate bipolar transistor (IGBT) modules. Reduce by 31% (from fiscal 2013) (down 12% from the previous year) (down 15% from the base year) Fiscal 2019 Result for the Year * Power coefficient Environmental Vision 2050 FY2019 Target FY2019 Result FY2020 Target Japan: 0.463 kg-CO2e/kWh Overseas: IEA emission factors (latest average power coefficient for each country) (FY2030 Target) 32.10 million tons annually This year’s target achieved 34.00 million tons annually Contribute to reducing society’s CO2 36.51 million tons annually Reduction of Greenhouse Gas Emissions during Production emission volume by 50 million tons (Exceeded the target by 14%) (Thousand tons) annually through our products 540 -60,000 tons Environmental activities -40,000 tons (year on year) 520 Measures to Reinforce 10 20 10 480 Main Measures 20 490 10 460 10 Calculation of CO2 Emissions Reduction Contribution 20 10 20 • Energy saving measures (7,000 tons) Main Contributing Products 20 CO2 Emissions Reduction Contribution = CO2 reduction effect when product is in use x number of units 370 • Increased purchase of renewable electricity (1,000 tons) being used in the market for the fiscal year P  ower Electronics Systems General-purpose inverters 10 [Wuxi and Shenzhen factories] 20 the Operating Foundations The CO2 emissions reduction effect when a product is in use is: and top runner motors • Increased private power generation of renewable energy (1,000 tons) 410 390 • Clean energy: Average CO2 emission volume during thermal power generation minus CO2 emission volume Electronic Devices Power semiconductors 360 360 [Addition of solar power equipment at the Thailand factory] 350 • GHG offsetting (20,000 tons) when the product was introduced Food and Beverage Distribution Vending machines 280 [Elimination of solvents at the Tsugaru and Changshu factories] • Energy-saving products: CO2 emission volume prior to introducing the product minus after introducing the product P  ower Generation Geothermal and hydro power • Power coefficient reduction effect (8,000 tons) * Calculated based on the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry Guideline for Quantifying Greenhouse Gas Emissions generation Reduction Contribution (stock-based) Figures in parentheses are the volume of the reduction in greenhouse gases 100 100 90 80 90 70 Effect of reduced production -20,000 tons (year on year) Contributions to CO2 Emissions Reductions through Products Net Sales and Contributions to CO2 Emissions Reductions 2013 2018 2019 2019 2020 2030 (FY) (Million tons) through Products (FY2019) Result Result Target Result Target Result Net Sales Contributions to CO2 emissions reductions Power Electronics Systems Electronic Devices Food and Beverage Distribution Power Generation 54.74 ¥900.6 billion 36.51 million tons 60.8 15.96 109.9 35% 36.51 1.78 68% 75% 104.4 34.00 31.62 32.10 8.75 62% Close Up! 137.4 3% 12.62 10.59 10.31 13% 10.34 0.94 3.95 0.89 4.08 0.96 4.88 4.43 1.08 Addition of solar power generation equipment at the Thailand factory cuts CO2 28.25 535.5 49% Total of Power Electronics emissions by 22% 6.01 16.44 16.74 18.07 17.91 Systems and 0.20 3.74 Fuji Electric Manufacturing (Thailand) Co., Ltd. added a solar power generation facility 0.44 1.60 Electronic Devices Segments 2013 2018 2019 2019 2020 2030 (FY) (47.4) with capacity of approximately 900 kW to the switchgear and control-gear system factory Result Result Target Result Target Target Power Electronics Systems Electronic Devices Food and Beverage Distribution Power Generation established in 2019, raising the factories total power generation capacity to 1,400 kW. Power Electronics Systems Electronic Devices Food and Beverage Distribution Power Generation Other Elimination Solar power now comprises approximately 36% of the electricity the company uses, which Fuji Electric Manufacturing reduced its CO2 emissions by 22% from the previous year. (Thailand) Co., Ltd. Close Up! Fukiage Factory Saving energy using our ZEBLA software Solar power with storage batteries reduces CO2 emissions by approximately 60,000 tons Our efforts to save energy include actively using our own products. The Fukiage Factory, which mainly produces Fuji Electric delivered power generation equipment with storage batteries to the magnetic switches and molded-case circuit breakers, began using the ZEBLA power prediction system to reduce Suzuran Kushiro-cho Solar Power Plant, which began commercial operation in its energy consumption in fiscal 2015. In fiscal 2019, the system helped the factory lower its energy consumption by February 2020. Incorporating storage batteries to a mega solar operation provides 9.1% and CO2 emissions by 22.4% from fiscal 2013. The ZEBLA system saves energy by output fluctuation control and ensures a stable supply of clean energy. The power predicting the amount of electricity that will be needed during peak consumption and other plant reduces annual CO2 emissions by 59,864 tons*1 and provides electricity that is periods. Automating the calculations for predicting power volume needs enables energy equivalent to the annual consumption of approximately 21,300 households*2. saving in real time. The Energy Conservation Center, Japan (ECCJ) awarded the Fukiage Suzuran Kushiro-cho Solar Power Plant *1. Calculation of CO2 emissions reduction: Annual power generation x CO2 emission factor (Hokkaido, Japan) Factory the Chairman Prize of ECCJ at the Fiscal 2019 Energy Conservation Grand Prize for The ZEBLA power prediction Output 92 MW, CO2 emission factor: 0.619 kg-CO2/kWh (weighted average of thermal power generation) *2. From the website of Tokyu Land Corporation Excellent Energy Conservation Equipment in recognition of its energy conservation efforts. system 33 Fuji Electric Report 2020 Fuji Electric Report 2020 34 Realization of a Recycling-Oriented Society Realizing a Society in Harmony with Nature We aim to realize the 3Rs across the supply chain from plastic in Japan and steady progress improving our final We design and manufacture our products to have no All our operating bases also conduct environmental product development to procurement, use, and final disposal processes overseas. adverse impact on ecosystems so our customers can preservation activities catered to specific local biodiversity product disposal. Our main issue at present is the lack of progress in use our products with peace of mind. We set indicators preservation needs. Preservation activities in fiscal 2019 The indicators we use to measure our progress are working with our business partners and customers to apply for reducing the use of chemical substances (VOCs: include planting mangroves (Fuji Electric (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd.). the reduction of the amount of waste sent to landfills and the 3Rs. Our first step will be to strengthen the cooperative Volatile Organic Compounds) that lead to environmental In fiscal 2020, we will promote the CSR Procurement water consumption. These indicators we use to evaluate efforts with our business partners aimed at creating degradation and incorporate the targets into our annual Guidelines to raise the awareness of our suppliers about our performance encourage us reuse the surplus materials sustainable resource recycling. In fiscal 2020, we created goals and evaluate the result. reducing the environmental impact of business operations. and water generated in our production processes. And we the Green Supply Chain Construction Project in which our evaluate the achievement based on the annual targets. procurement and environmental departments will work Fiscal 2019 Result for the Year We continued minimizing the amount of waste sent together to promote environmental preservation efforts for Environmental Vision 2050 FY2019 Target FY2019 Result Major Measures to landfills in fiscal 2019 and lowered the ratio of waste our business partners. We are also continuing efforts to Volatile organic compounds (VOCs) Under 1,704 tons This year’s target achieved • Reduction of solvent paint usage Discharge volume 1,803 tons (Mie Factory, Food and Beverage Distribution) sent to landfills in Japan and overseas to 1.1%. We vastly reduce the amount of waste sent to final landfills overseas Under 1,694 tons exceeded our targets due to progress reusing waste with the aim of further lowering the final disposal rate. Fiscal 2019 Result for the Year Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) Discharge Volume (Tons) Environmental Vision 2050 FY2019 Target FY2019 Result Major Measures 1,738 (FY2030 Target) Ratio of waste sent to This year’s target achieved • Promote recycling of waste plastic (for producing cement) 76 8 Measures to Reinforce Ratio of waste sent to landfills Amount of waste sent to landfills (Mie Factory, Food and Beverage Distribution) landfills Under 2.1% 345 tons • Promote reuse of semiconductor packaging materials 1,257 Under 1.0% Ratio of waste sent to landfills (Fuji Electric Power Semiconductor Co., Ltd., 10 54 1,083 1.1% Electronic Devices) 9 48 the Operating Foundations 1,495 (FY2030 Target) Per unit of sales This year’s target achieved •C  ountermeasures for filter membrane blockage in Water consumption per 1,800 tons / ¥100 million Consumption water recycling equipment 1,090 915 unit of sales 13,398,000 tons (Matsumoto Factory, Electronic Devices) 1,800 tons / ¥100 million Per unit of sales •P  romote water conservation 1,500 tons / ¥100 million (Fuji Electric (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd., Electronic Devices) 159 103 111 2013 2018 2019 (FY) Power Electronics Systems Electronic Devices Food and Beverage Distribution Power Generation Amount and Ratio of Waste Sent to Landfills Water Consumption and Water Consumption per Unit of Sales (Tons) Water consumption Water consumption per unit of sales (Thousand tons) (Thousand tons / ¥100 million) 3.2% 1.8 1.5 1.5 1.6% 1.1% 13,348 13,478 13,398 907 839 340 928 376 926 433 Close Up! 1 32 543 Advance examination of regulated substance content 1 10,505 10,824 790 152 10,895 345 We acquire materials with low environmental impact from our business partners in accordance with Green Procurement 3 198 73 113 Guidelines and manage them. 192 156 84 1,664 1,350 1,143 With the increase from six to ten of the regulated substances subject to the Restriction of the Use of Certain 2013 2018 2019 (FY) 2013 2018 2019 (FY) Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment (RoHS)* in fiscal 2019, the Suzuka Factory, which Power Electronics Systems Electronic Devices Food and Beverage Distribution Power Generation Power Electronics Systems Electronic Devices Food and Beverage Distribution Power Generation Result: Ratio of waste sent to landfills Result: Per unit of sales manufactures inverters, surveyed 381 of its business partners regarding the inclusion of regulated substances. The survey confirmed that none of the 381 companies use regulated substances. * RoHS regulated substances: Specific hazardous substances with restrictions for use in electrical and electronic equipment Close Up! Contribution to SOx removal from ship exhaust gas Lower final waste disposal volume by 18 tons by reusing semiconductor Sulfur oxide (SOx) is an environmental pollutant present in ship fuel packaging materials that is considered to be a cause of acid rain. The Hokuriku Factory of Fuji Electric Power Semiconductor Co., Ltd., which assembles power semiconductor packages, The SOx scrubber we launched in fiscal 2018 contributes to is reusing materials (sticks) for storing and safekeeping electrical module semiconductors. In fiscal 2019, it collected, preventing air pollution by over 98% of the sulfur oxides contained cleaned, and reused approximately 140,000 used sticks that would previously have been disposed of, which is in ship exhaust gas. We had delivered over 40 of the SOx scrubbers SOx scrubber equivalent to roughly 18 tons of plastic disposal. Prior to implementing the recycling program, it conducted a thorough as of July 2020 and are currently expanding our lineup of products investigation about the viability of reusing the sticks and verified that there would be no adverse effect on our products. designed for large vessels. 35 Fuji Electric Report 2020 Fuji Electric Report 2020 36 Human Resources Promoting the advancement of women Major Initiatives Among our diversity initiatives, we are especially focused on We are actively investing in our human resources to A  ctive recruitment of female science and engineering students strengthening our efforts to promote the active participation of through the female employee science and engineering project team achieve the targets of the Medium-Term Management Plan women in the workplace. In a society with a declining birthrate, Systematic development of female managers aging population, and diversifying values, demonstrating our and to establish our foundations for sustainable growth. comprehensive strength as a company is essential to generating Implement mentor system for junior and senior female employees sustainable growth, and further boosting the contributions by Implement career continuity support system Takeshi Kadoshima female employees are critical. (registration system for requesting reemployment, Managing Executive Officer We are promoting women’s active participation by stepping overseas transfer/leave system for spouses) General Manager, Human Resources and General Affairs Office up our hiring of women and actively providing training to increase the number of female employees in supervisory positions. We Female Employees and Managers Promoting Active Participation of set a target for 20% of our hires to be women. To achieve this, (FY) 2018 2019 2020 2023 One of Fuji Electric’s management policies states we created a project team of female employees with science (Target) Diverse Human Resources that we will “maximize our strengths as a team, and engineering backgrounds to actively recruit female university Ratio of females hired*1 20% 21% 22% 20% respecting employees’ diverse ambition,” and students, and ultimately women accounted for 22% of our new The Fuji Electric Code of Conduct declares that we “respect Ratio of female managers*2 1.9% 2.3% 2.5% 3.0% respecting human rights, ensuring occupational hires in April 2020. and value all people,” and we are implementing measures Initiatives to increase the number of female employees in No. of female employees in health and safety, and protecting employee health and constructing employee treatment systems to support 225 249 268 400 supervisory positions*3 are fundamental for everything. We are proactively supervisory positions include annual supervisor interviews with employment and success of diverse human resources. Data collected from Fuji Electric, Fuji Electric FA Components & Systems, Fuji Office & working on initiatives that include promoting junior staff to identify employees with strong career ambitions. Life Service, Fuji Electric IT Center, Fuji Electric Finance and Accounting Support, Measures to Reinforce active employee participation, cultivating our The employees are registered as eligible to participate in the Fuji Architects and Engineering, and Fuji Electric Frontier Revising the treatment system for employees Data for females hired collected from Fuji Electric and Fuji Electric FA Components human resources, and properly deploying Company’s priority career development program, under which over 60 and highly skilled employees & Systems detailed career development plans are created for accumulating *1 Graduates from universities or technical colleges our personnel for mediumand long-term In order to promote active employee participation, we revised our *2 Managerial positions or above the Operating Foundations development of our business. on-the-job experience and receiving selective training to further *3 Assistant manager or above system for handling employees, of which measures were geared to their advancement to higher positions in the Company. We believe it is important that our human employees aged 60 and over and highly skilled employees. resource measures encompass a broad range Japan’s declining birthrate and aging labor force composition of issues inside and outside the Company and are making it increasingly important to retain older employees with that they are implemented in a timely manner advanced skills and experience. We have introduced the Senior Workstyle Reforms reflecting the responses in our annual employee Task System in which management-level employees aged 60 and We seek to provide a balanced approach to workstyles through management of their subordinates. These activities are raising awareness surveys. over receive treatment matched to the value of their work. The the Companywide Pro-7 Activities aimed at enhancing work awareness among all employees and encouraging them to revise We responded to the changing composition of aim is to boost motivation of individuals who continuously show efficiency and quality to improve productivity and by embracing their work practices while also ensuring compliance with the laws. the labor force and need for stronger manufacturing significant performance by paying as high compensation as when a perspective on work-life balance characterized by “focusing on In addition to recommending they take five consecutive days off as capabilities by revising how we handle employees they were under age 60. We have also outlined the “Employment one’s job while at work and resting properly outside of work.” in the past, our initiatives to encourage employees to use vacation with special skills and who are aged 60 or over, Guidelines for Employees over 65” to create an environment where In fiscal 2019, following the government’s law amendments time include a system strongly supporting the planned use of paid employees with advanced skills and expertise can continue to play so that employees with strong performance could in April for mandatory annual paid leave and an upper limit on leave. These efforts have increased the average number of annual an active role in the Company up to age 75. be better rewarded. Furthermore, to promote the overtime work hours, we intensified efforts to reduce overtime paid leave days being taken by employees. We have also introduced the Manufacturing Meister System to active participation of diverse human resources, work and to encourage employees to use vacation time, both of In addition, in fiscal 2017 we introduced the Location Flexible highly evaluate and treat technicians with specialized expertise and particularly female employees, we are continuously which had been promoted under companywide policies. work systems enabling employees to work in satellite or home skills who are excellent at improvement and streamlining. While seeking to acquire individuals with science and Measures to reduce overtime work include creating visualized offices with the aim of providing flexibility so employees can providing clear examples of consummate technicians, the program engineering backgrounds and providing training for tracking of actual work hours and improving productivity maintain balanced and efficient workstyles. We also have a flextime provides bonus payments to the designated Manufacturing career advancement. at worksites with challenges and issues by practicing selfsystem, and at the headquarters are testing a “sliding work hours” Meisters with the aim of boosting employee motivation and In addition, we are implementing workstyle reforms monitoring of their work and reviewing the way they work. We system allowing employees to set multiple start and finish times in strengthening the manufacturing capabilities of the entire factory. to improve their work efficiency by creating work are also strengthening the management support function of advance and shift the times they arrive and leave work. We are also creating a training system for ambitious technicians systems and environments that will give employees the companywide time management system and setting no This flexibility proved advantageous during the COVID-19 to acquire the skills needed for high-level improvement and greater flexibility to make the best use of time and overtime days. In addition, we are providing training, posters, and pandemic, and we will continue to develop other systems to streamlining capabilities. location. At the same time, we are proactively broadcasting to help managers become more aware about time support the new workstyles of our employees. developing future management candidates essential Review of Employee Treatment System for sustainable business growth and the global Paid Vacation Days Acquired Annually and Use of the Flexible Location Work System Senior task Treated according to job content Overtime Work Hours (Total Number of Users) human resources in Japan and overseas that system after age 60 strengthen our business worldwide. Employees (FY) 2018 2019 (FY) 2018 2019 over 60 Employment Create environment for hiring skilled These efforts are aimed at enhancing and guidelines after and knowledgeable employees up Average overtime work hours 24.04 23.83 Home office 1,940 2,893 activating our human resources as part of our age 65 to the age of 75 Average number of days of paid Satellite office 457 314 “ongoing reinforcement of operating foundations” Develop highly skilled employees vacation days acquired annually 14.5 16.5 Skilled Manufacturing with the capabilities to improve and Data collected from Fuji Electric, Fuji Electric FA Components & Systems, Fuji Electric for our sustainable growth. employees Meister System Finance and Accounting Support, Fuji Office & Life Service, Fuji Electric IT Center, streamline work Fuji Architects and Engineering, Fuji Electric Frontier, and Fuji Electric F-Tech 37 Fuji Electric Report 2020 Fuji Electric Report 2020 38 Recognizing the Status of Employee Awareness and Responding to Issues We conduct annual employee awareness surveys to remain in touch through a training system for line managers to refresh their Close Up! with employee perspectives and perform fixed-point observation understanding of the line manager’s role and necessary skills and on employee views on company and workplace satisfaction, senior expertise through group training sessions and e-learning repeated Human rights due diligence measures management, work motivation, and trust for superiors. The survey once every two years. results are reported to the Executive Committee, and the analysis We conduct human rights due diligence in our relationships by the Japan Electronics and Information Technology results for each organization are delivered to the senior manager within all corporate activities to recognize, prevent, and Industries Association (JEITA). In fiscal 2020, we plan to of each department and representatives of subsidiaries, who Plan deal with adverse human rights harm based on the United develop guidelines for all operating sites and subsidiaries in implement improvement measures. (Pose questions) Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. Japan and overseas and create self-inspection checklists The results of the employee awareness survey in fiscal 2018 In fiscal 2019, we formulated the Guidelines for Respect based on the guidelines. The results of the checks will be indicated a need to strengthen the line management carried out by of Human Rights of Employees for all domestic and reported back to the operating sites and subsidiaries so middle managers (manager rank). overseas consolidated companies with the aim of making they can take steps to make any necessary improvements. Action Do Using these results, in fiscal 2019, we constructed a mechanism (Perform tasks) (Conduct surveys) all employees aware of our Policy for Human Rights of the We have also established the Fuji Electric CSR for superiors and subordinates to share their medium-term career Employees, which is based on international standards for Procurement Guidelines for human rights due diligence objectives and created a visualization scheme at the workplace human rights. The guidelines, which clarify specific actions initiatives in our supply chain and are conducting selffor a year-by-year goal management system to monitor progress Check to take, were formulated in reference to materials including assessment CSR surveys at our major business partners. and apply a PDCA cycle of setting a target, performing the job, (Analyze survey results) the Guidelines for Responsible Business Conduct created * Please refer to page 60 for details about our supply chain initiatives assessment, and setting a new target for the next fiscal year. We also set up a system to raise the level of middle management PDCA Cycle for Understanding Employee Awareness Activities •E  stablish and roll out the Guidelines for Respecting Employee Human Rights Measures to Reinforce Development of Human Resources •C  hecks by way of self-check sheets for domestic and overseas offices the Operating Foundations Employees and subsidiaries The Fuji Electric Code of Conduct declares our commitment as well as overseas businesses. We also have them participate in • Implement improvements based on results of checks to strengthening our human resource development to support training both inside and outside the company in a program designed the growth of each employee and realize the full potential of to provide experience and nurture skills that are difficult to acquire •E  stablish and roll out the Fuji Electric CSR Procurement Guidelines teams, enhance the ability of employees to fulfill their potential, through on-the-job training, such as learning management skills by Supply Chain (for business partners) •C  onduct CSR surveys (self-assessment) and increase investment in education to cultivate a workforce experiencing different management styles and by working in teams •F  eedback survey results to business partners of individuals that are highly professional, demonstrate strong with other training participants to formulate business proposals. A leadership, and capable of working anywhere in the world. total of 531 people have been trained since fiscal 2017, and about 30% of the registered employees are currently participating in the Fostering next-generation management next stage of management development. Succeeding in the Southeast Asia and India markets with our human resources We are also taking active measures to foster future management candidates who will lead our sustainable growth. Our human Global human resources Once we have a full understanding of the customer’s contribute to engineering at our customers’ plants. resource development focuses on carefully selected young We develop global human resources by sending employees out of equipment and production processes, which is critical We are also increasing our support system for our employees, effective on-the-job training, and participation in their home countries of Japan or elsewhere and develop the ability in the industrial plant business, we have accelerated overseas bases by actively dispatching Japanese engineers selective training. We carefully select talented young employees to create new value by working with local employees and teams localization of sales staff who grasp the customers’ issues to support and educate engineers at overseas sites. Since from the three levels of general manager, manager, and assistant through both work and life experience. and propose systems that meet their budgets and needs, 2016, we have been assigning engineers to full-time manager and register them as management candidates. From Our development of global human resources is primarily as well as human resources with the systems engineering positions at overseas bases, mainly in Southeast Asia and early in their careers, these registered individuals are systematically promoted through three initiatives: systematically assigning capabilities to set up, design, install, start up, and maintain India, such as Fuji Gemco Private Limited, Fuji Electric India trained through a job rotation plan designed for them to accumulate talented employees from Japan to other countries, assigning the systems on site. Private Limited. and Fuji CAC Joint Stock Company. the required experience in multiple businesses and job categories talented employees from overseas bases to Japan, and We strengthened our plant sales capabilities in November * Fuji Electric Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd., Fuji Electric (Thailand) Co., Ltd., Fuji Electric strengthening the communication skills of employees in Japan. 2019 by appointing a plant sales chief to oversee the sales Vietnam Co., Ltd., PT Fuji Electric Indonesia, Fuji CAC Joint Stock Company, Fuji Electric Sales Malaysia Sdn. Bhd., Fuji Electric Sales Philippines Inc. Human Resources Capable of Becoming Executive Officers The assignment of talented human resources in Japan is activities of our sales companies in Southeast Asia. The performed by registering talented employees with global potential new post serves as the center point for representatives from as candidates for overseas assignments and providing them our seven companies in Southeast Asia* and enhances with systematic training, which creates a resource pool for global information sharing among the bases while improving our General Manager Level personnel. The assignment of talented overseas employees to ability to train and strengthen our local sales staff with Japan includes selecting about 20 individuals each year with on-the-job training. promise to become local leaders and training them at the primary We are also strengthening our engineering capabilities by Manager Level business site in their country to acquire product knowledge and bringing engineers from Fuji CAC Joint Stock Company of technical skills. Our programs to strengthen the communication Vietnam to the Tokyo Factory to deepen their familiarity with Fuji CAC sales staff and engineers participating in skills of employees in Japan include language training for about 500 our systems, products, and all of our plants by having them product study sessions for industrial plants Team Leader Level people annually centered on employees who interact with overseas bases and focusing on establishing strong communication skills. 39 Fuji Electric Report 2020 Fuji Electric Report 2020 40 Corporate Governance As we work towards realizing our corporate philosophy, we are currently strengthening our corporate List of Officers (As of October 1, 2020) governance in an effort to enhance management transparency and oversight functions. Directors Basic Policies In strengthening our corporate governance, our basic policies stakeholders, ensure proper information disclosure and are to protect shareholder rights and ensure their equal transparency, execute the duties of the Board of Directors, and treatment, cooperate appropriately with non-shareholder engage in dialogue with shareholders. President and Chairman of Elected Corporate Director Outside Director Outside Director Outside Director the Board of Directors Kenzo Sugai Toshihito Tamba Naoomi Tachikawa Yoshitsugu Hayashi Michihiro Kitazawa Director, Tokyo Century Corporation Professor and Director, Center for Corporate Governance Framework Sustainable Development and Global Smart Cities, Fuji Electric’s corporate governance framework consists (see page 43) comprising a majority of Outside Officers as an Chubu University of the Board of Directors, which performs the functions of advisory body to the Board of Directors. management supervision and making important decisions, Also, in order to clarify the roles of management and and the Audit & Supervisory Board, which is in charge of the execution, we have introduced an executive officer system in management audit function. As a company employing the an effort to clearly define the responsibilities of each business corporate auditor system, Fuji Electric’s Audit & Supervisory and streamline business execution. We are endeavoring Director Director Director Measures to Reinforce Board suitably undertakes audits of the Company’s Directors to build an effective corporate governance framework with Michio Abe Masatsugu Tomotaka Junichi Arai and Executive Officers and guarantees objectivity and neutrality. the use of the Executive Committee, which discusses and The Company actively appoints Outside Officers that reports on important matters related to management as an Audit & Supervisory Board Members the Operating Foundations satisfy the requirements for Independent Directors / Audit advisory body to the president and chairman of the Board of & Supervisory Board Members, endeavors to strengthen Directors, as well as other committees tasked with planning management supervisory and auditing functions, and has and promoting key business strategy issues and key external established the Nomination and Remuneration Committee issues, such as legal compliance. Corporate Governance Framework General Meeting of Shareholders *Committees Standing Audit & Standing Audit & Outside Audit & Outside Audit & Outside Audit & Key issues for Fuji Electric from Supervisory Board Member Supervisory Board Member Supervisory Board Member Supervisory Board Member Supervisory Board Member Appointment/ Fuji Electric Appointment/Dismissal Appointment/Dismissal Dismissal an SDGs perspective Chairman of the Audit & Junichi Matsumoto Tetsuo Hiramatsu Hirohiko Takaoka Yuko Katsuta Supervisory Board President, Chuo-Nittochi Group Partner, Natori Law Office Board of Directors Audit & Supervisory Board Accounting Auditors • SDGs Promotion Committee Yoshio Okuno Co., Ltd. Comprising 8 Directors Comprising 5 Audit & Audit Supervisory Board Members Cooperation President & Representative Director, (including 3 Outside Directors) Chuo-Nittochi Group Co., Ltd. Consultation (including 3 Outside Audit & Legal compliance and Recommendations Supervisory Board Members) President & Representative Director, Oversight other key external issues NIPPON TOCHI-TATEMONO Co., Ltd. Nomination and Report Audit Remuneration Committee • Fuji Electric Compliance Promotion Committee Executive Committee • Health & Safety Committee Executive Officers Position Name Division President Executive Officers Key business strategy issues President and Chairman of Deliberation Michihiro Kitazawa General Management Report Standing Audit & • Skills Development Committee the Board of Directors Supervisory Board Members • Production Technology Committee Executive Vice President and Kenzo Sugai Assistant to the President, Corporate General Manager, Sales Group • Technology Development Committee Elected Corporate Director Internal Auditing Divisions • International Standardization Committee Senior Managing Executive Michio Abe Corporate General Manager, Production & Procurement Group, In charge of Power Generation Business Committees* Officer Senior Managing Executive In charge of Power Electronics Systems Energy Business, Masatsugu Tomotaka Officer In charge of Power Electronics Systems Industry Business Subsidiaries Senior Managing Executive Corporate General Manager, Corporate Management Planning Headquarters, General Manager, Export Junichi Arai Audit & Supervisory Officer Administration Office, In charge of compliance management and crisis management Board of Directors Accounting Auditors Board Members Managing Executive Officer Toru Housen Corporate General Manager, Electronic Devices Business Group Executive Committee Managing Executive Officer Takeshi Kadoshima General Manager, Human Resources and General Affairs Office Managing Executive Officer Yasuhiro Takahashi Corporate General Manager, Food & Beverage Distribution Business Group President Executive Committee Managing Executive Officer Shiro Kondo Corporate General Manager, Corporate R&D Headquarters Members Executive Officer Kenji Goto Deputy Corporate General Manager, Power Electronics Systems Energy Business Group Executive Officer Masahiro Morimoto President and Representative Director, Fuji Electric FA Components & Systems Co., Ltd. Internal Auditing Divisions Executive Officer Tadao Horie Corporate General Manager, Power Generation Business Group Executive Officer Masashi Kawano Corporate General Manager, Power Electronics Systems Energy Business Group Major Regulations and Committees Comprising Internal Control Systems Executive Officer Hiroshi Tetsutani Corporate General Manager, Power Electronics Systems Industry Business Group Corporate Philosophy Fuji Electric Compliance Program Fuji Electric Rules for Prevention of Insider Trading Fuji Electric Code of Conduct Business Ethics Whistle-Blowing System Fuji Electric Group Contingency Plan for Executive Officer Yoshitada Miyoshi General Manager, President’s Office, In charge of SDGs Promotion, In charge of Public and Investor Relations Fuji Electric Job Authority Rules Fuji Electric Risk Management Rules Emergency Situations Executive Officer Masato Miyake General Manager, Legal Office, Corporate Management Planning Headquarters Fuji Electric Compliance Promotion Committee Auditor Liaison Committee Executive Officer Keiichi Asano Deputy Corporate General Manager, Food & Beverage Distribution Business Group 41 Fuji Electric Report 2020 Fuji Electric Report 2020 42 Nomination and Remuneration Committee Training Policy for Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members Established in fiscal 2019, the Nomination and Remuneration a succession plan for the President and Chairman of the Before taking office, Standing Officers undergo compliance Committee enhances the Company’s corporate governance Board of Directors training, which also encompasses legal and taxation matters. by reinforcing the fairness, transparency, and objectivity of (5) Policies and criteria regarding the remuneration of Directors They are also provided opportunities after taking office to procedures concerning the nomination and remuneration and Audit & Supervisory Board Members acquire necessary knowledge on an ongoing basis. of Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members. The (6) Details of remuneration for Directors and Audit & Before taking office, Outside Officers are briefed on the state committee comprises at least three Directors as members, Supervisory Board Members of the Company and the roles they are expected to perform. the majority of which are elected from among the Company’s In fiscal 2019, the committee had five members, three of which After taking office, they have the chance to deepen their Outside Directors. The chairperson is elected from among the were Outside Directors. During the period July 2019 through July understanding of the Company’s business by attending internal Outside Director Tachikawa listening to explanations Outside Directors that sit on the committee as members. 2020, the committee convened on three occasions to deliberate technology presentations and inspecting production sites. about products at the internal technology presentations The committee deliberates on the following matters and matters and report the results to the Board of Directors. reports its findings to the Board of Directors. (1) Policy on the composition of the Board of Directors (2) Policies and criteria regarding the appointment or dismissal Nomination and Remuneration Committee Activities of Outside Officers in Fiscal 2019 of Directors, the President and Chairman of the Board of The committee Chairman Outside Director Toshihito Tamba Outside Directors Directors, and Audit & Supervisory Board Members (3) Appointment or dismissal of Directors, the President Committee members Status of Attendance at Name Board of Directors Meetings Main Activities and Chairman of the Board of Directors, and Audit & Outside Directors Naoomi Tachikawa, Yoshitsugu Hayashi (Meetings Attended/Meetings Held) Supervisory Board Members Standing Directors Michihiro Kitazawa, Kenzo Sugai Measures to Reinforce (4) Matters regarding the formulation and implementation of Mr. Tamba offered opinions as necessary on all areas of Fuji Electric’s management at the Board of Directors meetings, including on the following matters, based on his Toshihito Tamba 13/13 professional standpoint and considerable insight as a manager of listed companies. Appointment of Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members the Operating Foundations • Formulation of a business plan taking into account changes in the market environment • Methods of evaluating the effectiveness of the Board of Directors Fuji Electric’s policy on nominating candidates for Directors understanding of Fuji Electric’s management are appointed as and Audit & Supervisory Board Members is to decide on Outside Directors. For instance, managers of listed companies Mr. Tachikawa offered opinions as necessary on all areas of Fuji Electric’s management at the Board of Directors meetings, including on the following matters, based on his candidates by taking into account such factors as the overall or experts in academic fields closely related to Fuji Electric’s Naoomi Tachikawa 13/13 professional standpoint and considerable insight as a manager of listed companies. balance of qualifications and experience on the Board of business domains. • Managing progress of management plans Directors, and other viewpoints like diversity. Directors are Persons familiar with the Company’s operations in general • Situation concerning management of fixed costs appointed for a single-year term so that their management who also possess expert knowledge and experience are responsibilities for each fiscal year can be clearly defined. This appointed as Standing Audit & Supervisory Board Members. Mr. Hayashi offered opinions as necessary on all areas of Fuji Electric’s management at the Board of Directors meetings, including on the following matters, based on his also creates a management structure capable of responding to Persons equipped with the expert knowledge and Yoshitsugu Hayashi 13/13 professional standpoint and considerable insight as an environmental engineer. changes in the operating environment. experience required to undertake audits who also have an • Appropriate ways to carry out research and development Persons with the qualifications, experience, and other understanding of Fuji Electric’s management are appointed as • Initiatives aimed at reducing Fuji Electric’s environmental footprint attributes required to execute the Company’s management Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members. For instance, policies are appointed as Standing Directors. corporate managers, persons with experience as a standing Persons equipped with the insight and experience required auditor of a listed company, or legal experts. Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members to make multilateral business decisions who also have an Status of Attendance at Board of Directors Meetings Name Status of Attendance at Main Activities Independence Criteria for Outside Officers Audit & Supervisory Board Meetings (Meetings Attended/Meetings Held) The Company judges the applicable candidate to be fully (3) Major lender, etc. Mr. Sato confirmed and offered opinions as necessary at meetings of the Board of independent from the Company when he/she does not fall A financial institution, other major creditor, or a person Directors concerning agenda items and the status of Fuji Electric’s business activities 11/13 under any of the conditions listed below in addition to criteria executing the business of these institutions that is Yoshiki Sato based on his extensive experience and considerable insight as a manager at financial 9/9 institutions. At meetings of the Audit & Supervisory Board, he confirmed and offered of independence stipulated by domestic financial exchanges indispensable for the Company’s funding and on which the opinions on the legal compliance of the overall business activities of Fuji Electric. including the Tokyo Stock Exchange. Company depends to the extent that it is irreplaceable. (1) Major shareholder (4) Accounting Auditor Ms. Kimura confirmed and offered opinions as necessary at meetings of the Board of A major shareholder of the Company (who owns 10% or A certified public accountant who belongs to an auditing Directors concerning agenda items and the status of Fuji Electric’s business activities 13/13 more of the voting rights) or its executor of business. firm that serves as the Accounting Auditor of the Company Akiko Kimura based on her expert knowledge as an attorney. At meetings of the Audit & Supervisory 9/9 Board, she confirmed and offered opinions on the legal compliance of the overall (2) Major business partner or employee, etc. of such auditing firm. business activities of Fuji Electric. A business partner (consultants such as lawyers, (5) Donee certified public accountants, and tax accountants, as A person executing the business of an organization which Mr. Hiramatsu confirmed and offered opinions as necessary at meetings of the Board well as consulting firms such as law firms, audit firms, receives a donation exceeding 10 million year per year that of Directors concerning agenda items and the status of Fuji Electric’s business activities 12/13 and tax firms) or a person executing its business whose is greater than 2% of its annual income from the Company Tetsuo Hiramatsu based on his extensive experience and considerable insight as a manager at financial 9/9 institutions. At meetings of the Audit & Supervisory Board, he confirmed and offered transactions with the Company exceed 2% of the annual for the past three fiscal years. opinions on the legal compliance of the overall business activities of Fuji Electric. consolidated net sales of the Company or the other entity in the past three fiscal years. 43 Fuji Electric Report 2020 Fuji Electric Report 2020 44 Executive Remuneration Evaluation of Effectiveness of the Board of Directors We have established a remuneration system and remuneration Company earnings (operating income, net income, dividends, The evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board of Directors Based on the results of this effectiveness evaluation, levels for Fuji Electric’s Directors and Audit & Supervisory etc.) the previous fiscal year. was conducted with the use of a third-party survey for the the Board of Directors will continue to work on enhancing its Board Members that are deemed appropriate for their Note that the operating margin in fiscal 2019 was 4.7%, first time in fiscal 2019 in order to verify whether the Board of role by properly examining the issues that have been shared respective duties and in accordance with shareholder short of the 6.7% target called for in our management plan. Directors is properly fulfilling its expected roles and functions and addressing each one in turn according to a clearly mandates, giving due consideration to the aims of securing and to facilitate further improvements thereof. The results of the defined schedule. and maintaining competent personnel and providing incentives Authority for determining officer remuneration survey was reported to the Board of Directors and issues that for the improvement of business performance. amounts and calculation methods require improvement going forward were shared with everyone. We routinely verify that the system and levels are The Nomination and Remuneration Committee receives appropriate or whether they need reviewing in light of changes and discusses inquiries from, and reports back to, the Fiscal 2019 Board of Directors in the operating environment or objective external data. Board of Directors with regard to mainly policies and Scope of evaluation (13 meetings in total) Officer remuneration comprises mainly performance-linked criteria concerning remuneration of Directors and Audit & remuneration and remuneration other than performance-linked Supervisory Board Members. All Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members Subjects remuneration, but there is no policy in place for determining While the Board of Directors discusses the details of the (13 people in total) payment ratios. As for indicators pertaining to performancecommittee’s report, the actual decision on remuneration Evaluation method Anonymous survey conducted by a third party linked remuneration, the amount of performance-linked amounts is left to the discretion of President and Chairman Evaluation period January to February 2020 remuneration is determined mainly in line with the consolidated of the Board of Directors, but within the limit resolved at the ratio of operating income to net sales—a key target in the General Meeting of Shareholders and with reference to the (1) Board of Directors make-up, administration, discussions, and monitoring functions Measures to Reinforce Medium-Term Management Plan—and in light of consolidated details of the committee’s report. (2) Support structure and training for Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members Main question categories (3) Dialogue with shareholders Classification-Based Remuneration System (4) Initiatives implemented by Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members themselves the Operating Foundations Classification Remuneration System (1) Subjects answer a survey conducted by a third party Base Remuneration Evaluation process (2) The third party identifies issues based on a results report and advice Base remuneration is a predetermined amount that is paid to executives according to their position. (3) Board of Directors analyzes, discusses, and assesses the findings A portion of the base remuneration is contributed to the director shareholding association to share the Summary of The administration of the Board of Directors and its discussions earned mostly positive economic interests of shareholders and as an incentive to make management aware of share value. evaluation results assessments, thereby assuring the overall effectiveness of the Board of Directors. Standing Directors Performance-Linked Remuneration Performance-linked remuneration is paid only in instances in which dividends are paid to all In light of the opinions in the survey calling for more in-depth discussions about longer-term topics, shareholders from retained earnings. The total amount of executive performance remuneration shall be such as the Medium-Term Management Plan, ESG issues, and workstyle reforms, as well as the Issues to address within 1.0% of consolidated net income for the fiscal year prior to the date of payment in order to make need for reports on dialogue with institutional investors, it was recognized that challenges lie ahead the link with consolidated results for each fiscal year more clearly. in order to further improve the Board’s functions and invigorate discussions. Standing Audit & Supervisory Board Members A predetermined amount is paid as base remuneration and stock in the Company may be acquired at Outside Director and their own discretion. Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members Remuneration Amounts by Classification (Fiscal 2019) Remuneration by Type (Millions of Yen) Total Remuneration Classification Performance-Linked Number of Recipients (Millions of Yen) Base Remuneration Remuneration Standing Directors 348 240 108 5 Standing Audit & 58 58 — 2 Supervisory Board Members Outside Directors and Outside Audit & 50 50 — 6 Supervisory Board Members Amount of Contributions to Officer Shareholding Association and Shares of the Company Acquired (Fiscal 2019) Amount of Contributions to the Director Shareholding Association Shares of the Company Acquired Classification (Millions of Yen) (Hundreds of Shares) Directors 20 61 Audit & 3 10 Supervisory Board Members 45 Fuji Electric Report 2020 Fuji Electric Report 2020 46 Internal Control System With the aim of complying with laws and regulations, managing Risk management system Strengthening collaboration between audit functions the risk of loss, and securing the efficiency of the execution of (Please refer to page 55 for details.) We ensure the effectiveness of Fuji Electric’s audit functions We will continue to strengthen this cooperation going duties, the Fuji Electric Board of Directors determines basic Based on regulations and other systems pertaining to by reinforcing collaboration between statutory audit forward, with a particular focus on project management policies concerning the establishment of an internal control managing the risk of loss, Fuji Electric has developed an functions (Audit & Supervisory Board Members, Accounting for large-scale projects, compliance audits, and audits at system as stipulated in the Companies Act of Japan, and appropriate risk management system in order to manage Auditors) and internal audit functions (Internal Audit Office). overseas subsidiaries. the Company discloses those policies. Fuji Electric discloses business risks in a coordinated, systematic manner. In regard information on the implementation of its internal control system, to specific cross-sectional risks, the Company determines Main Initiatives for Strengthening Collaboration thereby taking steps to respond promptly and accurately to departments to put in charge of each risk, thereby establishing the demands placed upon the Company by society. Such a risk management system. Fuji Electric information includes descriptions of provisions for ensuring that Key matters shared by Directors and employees perform their duties in a manner that is Preventing reoccurrence of fictitious transactions Statutory audit functions Auditor Liaison Committee Internal audit functions (once yearly) compliant with laws and the articles of incorporation. On January 30, 2020, we released the Statement Regarding Audit & Supervisory Board Allegations of Fictitious Transactions Against Subsidiary. So Accounting Auditors Audit & Supervisory Internal Audit Office Main Systems Based on the Internal Control System that such an incident never happens again, we amended the Board Members Information shared between Compliance system Group’s internal regulations to clearly stipulate that employees Audit & Supervisory Board Members and the Internal Audit Office (Please refer to page 53 for details.) must not undertake transactions that cannot be confirmed as (once yearly) Based on systems for ensuring that Directors and employees real. The subsidiary in question is currently adopting measures Information shared by Group Auditor Committee (every quarter) Auditor Liaison Committee (monthly) Measures to Reinforce perform their duties in a manner that is compliant with laws aimed at preventing a reoccurrence mainly by rebuilding its risk Subsidiary, which is a large company and the articles of incorporation, Fuji Electric has established management framework for workflow of ordering and accepting under the Companies Act and promotes a compliance system in order to secure the goods, including checking and examining sales channels, its own Statutory audit functions Internal audit functions the Operating Foundations transparency and soundness of business execution. role, and the existence of transactions. It is also implementing exhaustive risk awareness training for sales divisions. Audit & Supervisory Accounting Auditors Internal Audit Office Board Members Audits by the Audit & Supervisory Board Members and Internal Audits Audits by the Audit & Supervisory Board Members Audit & Supervisory Board Members conduct audits in Audit & Supervisory Board Members communicated to the accordance with the audit policies and duties assigned and Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members. in compliance with the standards for audits established by Dialogue with Shareholders and Investors the Audit & Supervisory Board. They report the details and Main tasks Basic policies Opinions of analysts and institutional investors results of their audits to the Audit & Supervisory Board. • Attending and offering opinions at meetings of the Board We disclose information in accordance with various laws We actively engage in dialogue with analysts and institutional In fiscal 2019, the Audit & Supervisory Board convened of Directors, the Executive Committee, the Compliance and regulations so that we might earn the trust of our investors and the information shared at briefings and the nine times in total. Every meeting was attended by all of the Promotion Committee, and other important committees shareholders and investors and ensure they have a proper principal feedback and requests we receive during private Company’s Audit & Supervisory Board Members. • Reviewing documents pertaining to important resolutions understanding of the Company. We also strive to disclose meetings are always reported to the executive officers and During the meetings, the Audit & Supervisory Board mainly • Receiving explanations on the status of operational corporate information thought to have a significant impact on Board of Directors. The main requests received from analysts execution from Directors and internal auditing divisions reviewed audit policies and plans, the appropriateness of investment decisions in a timely, fair, and equitable manner, and institutional investors in fiscal 2019 are as follows. • Investigating the status of operations and assets at Fuji auditing methods and results of the Accounting Auditors, and even if we are not required to do so by law. Electric, consolidated subsidiaries in Japan and overseas, undertook an assessment of the Accounting Auditors. It also and companies undertaking M&As We emphasize dialogue with shareholders and investors General management and business reported on and reviewed important matters that the Standing in our investor relations activities, and we are dedicated to • Disclosure of KPIs that demonstrate productivity improvement enhancing reciprocal communication in these activities. Internal audits • Disclosure of rationale for holding cross-shareholdings Every second year, the internal auditing divisions perform A total of 44 bases were audited in fiscal 2019. No risks or • More opportunities to engage in dialogue with top management the following audits on Fuji Electric’s business divisions and inadequacies with the potential to seriously affect management • Disclosure of information about the progress of the subsidiaries in accordance with internal auditing standards and were discovered. measures of the Medium-Term Management Plan for the annual audit plans. power electronics systems business • Disclosure of information about the progress of measures Type of Audit Main Tasks Major initiatives in fiscal 2019 for the power semiconductor business Evaluating the appropriateness of management and administration (development of regulations, approval Organizational management procedures, performance management, etc.) • Financial results briefings (quarterly) ESG Risk management Evaluating the effectiveness of risk management systems and risk response • Management plan briefing • Clarification of key issues (materiality) Checking for compliance with laws and regulations based on the Fuji Electric Compliance Program and • FY2023 Medium-Term Management Plan briefing Compliance • Expectations for CO2 reductions in the supply chain confirming legal compliance • ESG Explanatory Forum • Ongoing disclosure of information from employee Evaluating the appropriateness, efficiency, and effectiveness of business execution (booking of sales and Business execution • Factory tours for shareholders (three plants) awareness surveys purchases, investments, cash flow, etc.) Accounting Evaluating the appropriateness of cost accounting and the soundness of assets and liabilities 47 Fuji Electric Report 2020 Fuji Electric Report 2020 48 Round-Table Discussion among Outside Officers Working toward Highly Effective Governance The evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board of Directors was conducted with a third-party survey for Tachikawa Hiramatsu the first time in fiscal 2019 in order to verify whether the Board is functioning properly and sufficiently and I applaud the point that sufficient time is allotted to It’s understandable that we receive the materials for Board to further improve its functions. fully discuss matters in detail. Board meetings at other meetings at the very last minute, but I think the content Centering on the topic of realizing highly effective governance, this round-table discussion sought companies sometimes have too many agenda items, and of materials can be more resourceful. An improvement to elicit the opinions of Fuji Electric’s Outside Officers—all of whom hail from different backgrounds— on some occasions, there isn’t enough time to get through measure I hope to see implemented up ahead is the them all. While agenda item criteria probably plays a part in accurate relaying of information regarding issues concerning the administration and discussions of the Board of Directors, as well as their this, I believe there is a correlation between fewer agenda about what was discussed at expectations for the Company going forward. items and more in-depth discussions. internal committee meetings or by the Executive Committee. Hayashi This would complement the It’s really great that the atmosphere of Board meetings reasons behind discussion items is conducive to free speech. Audit & Supervisory Board and reports and facilitate more Members often point out issues and express their views, constructive dialogue. Measures to Reinforce which the Company’s Directors always listen intently to and make an effort to take on board. As for agenda items, however, non-financial information from an ESG the Operating Foundations perspective needs to be discussed more, in addition to financial matters. Toshihito Naoomi Yoshitsugu Tetsuo Junichi Topics that Aim to Further Invigorate the Board of Directors Tamba Tachikawa Hayashi Hiramatsu Arai Outside Director Outside Director Outside Director Outside Audit & Supervisory Director Key points (appointed June 2016) (appointed June 2016) (appointed June 2017) Board Member Senior Managing Director, Professor and Director, (appointed June 2016) Executive Officer • Board involvement in the formulation of long-term vision and medium-term management plans at an early stage Tokyo Century Center for Sustainable Representative Director and Corporate General Corporation Development and President, Chuo-Nittochi Manager, • Enhancement of opportunities to discuss mediumto long-term issues with corporate general managers Global Smart Cities, Group Co., Ltd. Corporate Management • Discussions about environmental and social contributions through corporate activities Chubu University Representative Director and Planning Headquarters President, Nippon TochiTatemono Co., Ltd. Arai Tamba We will do our best to send out meeting materials as early I’d certainly like to see us, Administration and Discussions of the Board of Directors as possible and also make every effort to enhance their Outside Officers, play a part in content, for example, by including explanations of the the discussions regarding the Key points main points discussed up until submission to the Board. next medium-term management Also, Directors Tamba and Hayashi expressed their views plan when it is being formulated, • Sufficient time is allotted for an appropriate number of agenda items allowing lively discussions just now about the agenda items, but in the survey too, either from the phase 1 or • Agenda items are mostly performance reports and resolution matters; not enough discussion about the same thing was pointed out that there isn’t enough phase 2 stage. I’d also like us mediumto long-term issues and ESG topics discussion about mediumto long-term issues and ESG to discuss major propositions; topics. Exactly what kind of items do you think the Board for example, how we view the Company in 10 years from Arai Tamba needs to discuss more of? now. Given that we are a manufacturer, we are unlikely This was the first time we had a third-party organization The survey identified issues that we had failed to pick up to see the fruits of our efforts in one or two years. It is conduct the survey and as a result of their objective on ourselves, so in that sense, I think it worked really well. probably best if we adopt a backcasting approach to analysis and assessment, a number of issues were Compared to other companies, our Board of Directors formulating our medium-term management plans by identified. I’d first like to hear everyone’s opinions on the engages in extremely lively debate. That said, at present we discussing what kind of company we want to be in the operation of our Board of Directors meetings and the mostly discuss performance results and resolution items long term with a view to 10 or 20 years into the future. discussions that take place. and there seems not enough discussion about mediumto This is easier said than done, but I hope this point of view long-term issues. can at least be given some consideration. 49 Fuji Electric Report 2020 Fuji Electric Report 2020 50 Tachikawa example, is just as important as the environmental point policies, enriching the lives of people worldwide through issues such as climate change. The key challenges for the I feel the same way about of view. It would be good if the Board of Directors could our energy and environment businesses is after all the most Company up ahead will therefore be further strengthening discussions concerning report on, and discuss, these initiatives. So far, I have been important thing, so I’d like to see an even faster pace of its risk response capabilities, and also further utilizing IT medium-term management fortunate enough to visit each of the Company’s factories global expansion in these businesses. and adapting to digitalization in a post-coronavirus world plans. The meetings of the Board and during those visits I was really impressed by how Fuji Electric’s biggest strength lies in its human or in an age in which we have to coexist with coronavirus. of Directors need reports and teams were able to liberally give shape to numerous ideas resources. I’d like to see the Company harness this And in order to become a truly global company, we need to discussions about the concept of that could nearly be considered inventions. I sense that this advantage, embrace more challenges, take risks, and set hire a first-rate international workforce. the Medium-Term Management kind of corporate culture is well entrenched, so it would be its sights on the much larger dream of enriching the lives of Plan and how the Company can wonderful if it could be aptly harnessed and taken up for people around the world and achieving a responsible and Hiramatsu go about realizing its corporate philosophy. For initiatives discussion in all of the Company’s workplaces. sustainable society. I certainly believe the Company has the Continue to be a company that places value on pertaining to the SDGs and the environment, we do receive prowess to make this happen. manufacturing reports from a fairly long-term perspective and have the Hiramatsu Employees need to keep in mind that Fuji Electric is opportunity to discuss them, but I think it would be nice if The main duties of an outside officer are probably the Tachikawa engaged in a dream-inspiring business we could discuss the business side of matters a bit more. monitoring of risk governance and the offering of advice Delve deeper into energy and I want Fuji Electric to be a company that has manufacturing from a mediumto long-term perspective. Last year we environment technology at its core. Over the course of its long history, the Company Measures to Reinforce Hayashi heard from each corporate general manager about the The Company’s very business contributes to energy and has brought forth numerous products and businesses and As for how we contribute overall to ESG issues, particularly policies in the Medium-Term Management Plan after it the environment and a track record of nearly 100 years in the spirit of placing utmost importance on manufacturing the environment and society, we can enhance the was formulated, but going forward, I hope that we can get this field is a hallmark of its strength. I believe the future has been passed down unbroken. The global environment the Operating Foundations Company’s corporate value going forward by further the opportunity to discuss mediumto long-term issues will open up for Fuji Electric if it is even more devoted is one of the biggest issues the international community ramping up our initiatives. For example, in the same at a more suitable and appropriate time, which will help to this field going forward. In order to further advance currently faces and Fuji Electric can help solve problems way we report net sales and profits, we should visualize to deepen our understanding. I myself, as an Audit & globalization, I’d like to see the Company plumb the depths through its business of pursuing the efficient use of and share the positive and negative contributions each Supervisory Board Member, make a habit of monitoring of energy and environment technology and assume a electricity. I hope all employees keep in mind that they are business group has on the global community in terms of risk when participating in Board of Directors meetings, but leading role in this domain. engaged in a dream-inspiring business and continue to greenhouse gas emissions generated by our production I think it has become increasingly important that we bolster place value on manufacturing. processes when raw materials the Company’s business continuity capabilities across Hayashi and energy sources are used, entire supply chains so that we can respond to disasters Strengthen risk response capabilities Arai as well as the reduction in CO2 on an unprecedented scale, as well as the COVID-19 Hire talented global personnel Thank you everyone for your valuable comments and emissions when our products are pandemic. Reports and discussions about the Company’s Fuji Electric’s strength is its ability to roll out various opinions today. We will take your comments on board in used. I also believe our economic situation do take place at Board meetings, but up ahead, products in multiple regions around the world. an effort to further invigorate the Board of Directors. We contributions to regional leveraging opinions and knowledge from outside the Nevertheless, the Company is susceptible to numerous will also continue to accelerate the pace of our initiatives communities and the nation Company would likely prove useful. global risks of not only a political and economic nature, but toward achieving sustainable growth. overall through employment, for Measures for preventing the spread of COVID-19 were enforced during this round-table discussion. Director Hayashi, therefore, participated via a video conference call. Expectations for Fuji Electric in Pursuing Sustainable Growth Arai Tamba With the aim of achieving growth for the Company as well The Company’s management approach is clear; as solving social and environmental issues, Fuji Electric further accelerate globalization continues to implement initiatives aimed at realizing Fuji Electric’s biggest strength is its human capital sustainable growth. So finally, what are your future The Company has been commended for its extremely expectations for the Company? proactive efforts, including employee training, to address the SDGs, ESG, and especially the environment. I hope this approach will be taken to the next level. As for my expectations, while it is clearly spelled out in the Company’s corporate philosophy and management 51 Fuji Electric Report 2020 Fuji Electric Report 2020 52 Compliance Fuji Electric employs thorough measures to ensure compliance with laws and corporate ethics and always acts with the highest ethical standards to achieve sustained corporate growth. Fuji Electric Business Ethics Whistle-Blowing prohibiting disadvantageous treatment and retaliatory or Systems discriminatory acts on the grounds of whistle-blowing. In Basic Policies To prevent infractions of laws and regulations and ensure addition, we take all necessary steps to resolve issues raised Fuji Electric has a basic policy that gives top priority to guideline for compliance. We also promote compliance early detection, we have introduced and are operating the by whistle-blowers, including fact-finding investigations, global compliance. Based on this policy, we established the through the Fuji Electric Compliance Program and the Fuji Fuji Electric Business Ethics Whistle-Blowing Systems. corrective actions, and recurrence prevention measures. Fuji Electric Compliance Regulations, which is a concrete Electric Business Ethics Whistle-Blowing Systems. Under these systems, internal and external parties can report real or suspected violations of laws, regulations, In fiscal 2019, there were 25 reports made to the or internal rules including matters related to bribery and whistle-blowing systems. Compliance Promotion System corruption to the president of Fuji Electric via contact points We established the Fuji Electric Compliance Promotion to deliberate on compliance execution and planning and (anonymous reporting is also possible). Framework of the Business Ethics Whistle-Blowing Systems Committee to ensure full compliance with laws and social reports the results of these deliberations, including matters Business Ethics Whistle-Blowing Systems norms globally. The Committee is headed by the Chairman related to preventing corruption, to the Board of Directors. Business ethics helpline Partner Hotline Business Ethics Helpline of the Board of Directors and consists of the managers In the event of a compliance infraction, the Committee The Business Ethics Helpline handles notifications from (corporate general managers and general managers) has a system in place to take any necessary measures our employees in Japan and overseas (including dispatch Whistle-blower Whistle-blower responsible for regulating laws and acts, with Standing after deliberating on fact-finding investigations, corrective employees). It is promoted among employees at all (external) (internal) Measures to Reinforce Audit & Supervisory Board Members and outside experts actions, recurrence prevention measures, internal compliance training sessions and through postings on the (attorneys) as observers. It meets twice each fiscal year punishments, and internal and external disclosures. Company’s intranet and internal bulletin boards. In addition, General manager of External lawyer Inform details of the legal office we made a special feature article on it in the company whistle-blowing the Operating Foundations Fuji Electric Compliance Regulations magazine in fiscal 2019. Report of whistle-blowing President Board of Directors Determine the department to deal with (reports from employees) Partner hotline Report results whistle-blowing case (taking whistle-blower President and Chairman of the Board of Directors (Executive Committee) protection into account) The Partner Hotline handles notifications from our suppliers Department to deal with the whistle-blowing case Business Ethics Whistle-Blowing Systems about Fuji Electric’s materials procurement operations. Fuji Electric Fuji Electric Report results Business Ethics Helpline (reports from employees) We spread awareness of the system among business Compliance Program Compliance Promotion Committee Share results Partner Hotline (reports from materials suppliers) General manager of the legal office Note: Hotline contact points are in-house points partners through postings on the Company’s website and Feedback (except for cases of and external lawyers External lawyer at explanatory forums. anonymous whistle-blowing) We also work meticulously to protect whistle-blowers Whistle-blower (internal/external) Status of Compliance Promotion Feedback (except for cases of anonymous whistle-blowing) by keeping their personal information confidential and Fuji Electric Compliance Program Fuji Electric established and implements the Fuji Electric Compliance education Results of Compliance Promotion Compliance Program bringing together five aspects (see We promote wide-ranging compliance education and numbers 1 to 5 below) of domestic and overseas laws instruction through level-specific and job-specific group Initiatives related to anti-corruption Initiatives related to competition laws (including those related to anti-corruption, fair competition, training and e-learning programs, as well as displaying The Fuji Electric Code of Conduct and a directive on Through our Antimonopoly Act Compliance Manual, labor, human rights, product safety, the environment, posters internally and distributing pamphlets. the prevention of corruption established a rule that the Foreign Competition Law Compliance Manual, and taxation, accounting, information security, and export no employee is to offer or receive bribes to or from other regulations, we are enhancing measures to prevent management) for the Company and other Group companies publicor private-sector officials in any country or region. the violation of competition laws. We also perform daily in Japan and overseas including new ones, without delay. Examples of Training Conducted in Fiscal 2019 Prevention of corruption is reinforced through thorough monitoring by confirming quotations and estimates via And the Fuji Electric Compliance Promotion Committee Participants Details daily monitoring, auditing, and training. For officers and an extensive bidding information management system continuously reviews the program and makes revisions. Newly appointed employees involved in corruption, our policy is to consider and extensive record-keeping. In addition, our auditing Important laws and regulations, executives such as anti-corruption disciplinary action based on our work rules and take strict divisions perform audits in accordance with auditing 1. E  stablishment, revision, abolition, and dissemination of LevelPoints to consider when measures accordingly. In fiscal 2019, however, there guidelines, and we conduct extensive level-specific and internal rules Newly appointed specific performing duties were no incidents of officers or employees violating antijob-specific training. managers 2. C  onstant monitoring of status of compliance with laws training corruption rules, and no fines, surcharges, or settlements and internal rules Overview of compliance and related to corruption were incurred. 3. Auditing of status of compliance with respect to 1. and 2. New employees important laws and regulations 4. Compliance education regarding laws and internal rules Violations of laws and regulations 5. Acquisition of external certifications* JobSales and administrative Compliance framework and In fiscal 2019, there were no compliance infractions with laws that warranted disclosure, including notifications * As part of our efforts to verify and review the effectiveness of our compliance specific department employees important laws and regulations program, we started initiatives to acquire certifications in fiscal 2019. training the potential to seriously impact management or serious received through the Fuji Electric Business Ethics problems related to anti-corruption and competition Whistle-Blowing Systems. 53 Fuji Electric Report 2020 Fuji Electric Report 2020 54 Risk Management Fuji Electric is strengthening its risk management to maximize corporate value and minimize the potential Major Risks impact of risks. Fuji Electric prepares Risk Management Sheets for each Currently, the major risks that may affect Fuji Electric’s business division and affiliated company to help them business performance and financial position are Basic Policies address risks. described below. Based on the Fuji Electric Risk Management Rules, the in order to prevent risks from materializing (crisis situations), Risk Item Risk Details Initiatives to Address Major Risks Company manages risk in a coordinated, systematic thereby minimizing the impact on management in the event manner. We practice appropriate management and counter that risks materialize. •F  uji Electric concentrates management resources • For semiconductor-related plant and equipment investments, we various risks that could affect the Company’s management on businesses earmarked for growth while making make decisions based on negotiations with customers regarding appropriate plant and equipment and R&D physical quantities and pricing. investments. However, the semiconductor field requires • For R&D investments, we emphasize consistency with our large amounts of money and is characterized by short business strategies and contribution to our businesses. Risk Management System and Process Management product cycles, major fluctuations in product supply Based on our roadmap, we pursue R&D on fundamental and and demand levels, and intense competition. In some advanced technologies that support Fuji Electric’s future. Risk management system Strategies cases, therefore, there is a risk that we may be unable Here, management engages in regular deliberations about Fuji Electric’s business divisions and affiliated companies Audit & Business Board of Accounting to recover our investment. key development themes and constantly reviews the roadmap Supervisory Strategies are responsible for managing risk related to their business Directors Audit Cooperation Auditor according to market changes. Board Business activities as a part of their business duty, developing •T  here is a risk that stricter enforcement of the Paris • Fuji Electric considers protection of the global environment Oversight Environment Agreement and other environmental regulations, as to be an important management priority and announced its appropriate risk management systems, and implementing Report Measures to Reinforce well as assessments by ESG evaluation institutions, support for the recommendations of the Task Force on Climaterisk countermeasures. Internal Auditing may lead to stronger criticism of Fuji Electric’s coal-fired related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). In addition, we created Executive Committee Additionally, significant risks, such as those related to Report Divisions power generation business and affecting the reputation our Environmental Vision 2050. In these and other ways, we business plans and large-scale investments, are reported Report of Fuji Electric itself. continuously convey our commitment to realizing a sustainable the Operating Foundations Each Group and Each Office society through our energy and environment businesses. at the Executive Committee as appropriate to facilitate the (General Manager)* Audit sharing of information. • An unprecedented event may lead to deficiencies • We are working to strengthen corporate governance by Report Corporate in our internal control and audit functions, resulting improving management transparency and auditing functions The internal auditing divisions conduct regular audits to Business Divisions, Branches, Governance in the risk of corporate governance breakdown and during normal times. confirm whether or not risk management is being properly Factories, Subsidiaries consequent business disruption. performed at each business division and affiliated company. * Please refer to page 42. •W  e actively engage in collaborations with third parties •W  e share our corporate philosophy, management policies, code Business in order to strengthen our competitiveness. Due to of conduct, business plans, business strategies, and so on to Reorgadifferences in systems and cultures, however, there is facilitate integration of our business strategies, technologies, nizations, a risk that we may be unable to achieve the desired products, and personnel. Through the Executive Committee and Risk management process Alliances, and outcomes of such collaborations. other meetings, we strive to maintain close communication with When annual budgets are formulated, business divisions Annual Risk Management Process Withdrawals partners and build good relationships with them. and affiliated companies understand and evaluate • In our overseas business, we face the risk of • We have sales offices in various world markets to better understand risks related to their business activities. Policies and Plan deteriorating market conditions in each country— customer trends and centrally manage the information we collect countermeasures in response to risks (aversion, mitigation, Understand and including private plant and equipment investments for analysis and consider countermeasures and otherwise strive evaluate risks relocation, retention, and so forth) are considered based on Orders, and public expenditures—as well as sudden changes not to miss business opportunities. We also work to reduce costs Action Do Marketing, in supply and demand of products, intensifying and expenses in order to minimize the impact of Japanese and their impact on management and frequency of occurrence, Improvement and Address risks and Sales competition, and the resultant significant falls in prices. overseas market trends on our business performance. implementation of risk Consider policies and and each division and affiliated company appoints a person countermeasures countermeasures Promotion • After receipt of orders for large-scale plant projects, any • In every large-scale plant project, we work to secure appropriate in charge of policy and countermeasure execution. number of events including unanticipated specification profits by improving the accuracy of our quotations at the time of We also conduct mid-year progress checks at the end Check changes, process delays, and natural disasters could order receipt and strengthening project management afterwards. Mid-year lead to risk of deterioration in profitability. of the second quarter of each fiscal year to improve and progress check • Results of education drills •D  ue to rapid technological advances, there is a risk • We have established an R&D system to accelerate research effectively implement risk countermeasures. • Organizational changes, personnel reassignments that we may lose our advantage over other companies, and development, and we constantly monitor market and • Revision of laws, and product development may not proceed as customer needs and the latest technological trends. At the regulations, etc. Development • Apply experiences of planned, making it impossible to launch a new product same time, we conduct R&D aimed at creating competitive and Design addressing risks at the right time. components and systems, centered on power electronics and Engineering power semiconductor technologies, while also focusing on R&D to develop solutions that generate customer value through combinations of fundamental technologies. • Depreciation of the yen may lead to rising raw •W  e deploy various means, including product swaps, to reduce material and component prices, while sharp the risk of rising raw material prices. increases in demand in emerging countries may Procurement cause circumstances to change, resulting in a tighter supply and demand balance for raw materials and components and the risk of significant increases in their prices. 55 Fuji Electric Report 2020 Fuji Electric Report 2020 56 Risk Item Risk Details Initiatives to Address Major Risks Risk Item Risk Details Initiatives to Address Major Risks • An unprecedented event could result in increased/ • We keep track of the latest physical quantity flows by sharing •T  here is a risk that the intentions of stockholders and • We attach great importance to disclosure of financial information, decreased demand and other changes in physical information between our sales and business departments at the Trends of other investors may differ from those of the Company’s active disclosure of non-financial information, and communication Production & quantity flows, leading to the risk of delayed responses Executive Committee. We have also built an optimal production Shareholders management, which could result in a vote against with shareholders and institutional investors. We also strive to foster Manufacturing and inventory shortages/surpluses. management system that can respond to changes in physical and Other the election of officers. There is also a risk that a understanding of our management through sincere and accurate Shipping & quantity flows by improving productivity and promoting local Investors shareholder proposal against management could disclosure of information according to our Disclosure Policy. Distribution production for local consumption. cause disruption of our operations. Installation & • An unprecedented event could result in restrictions • Through reforms of our supply chain, we work to promote • There is a risk that certain events, such as large-scale •W  e are committed to fulfilling our responsibilities to customers Delivery on human and commodity movements and “completely localized” manufacturing via local production for local disasters or accidents at our business sites, could and society by continuously supplying products and services in disruptions to our distribution network. This could consumption while also emphasizing global procurement. Services Natural cause damage of production equipment, interruption of the event of disaster or accident. To this end, we established a prevent our supply chain from functioning and lead Disasters and operations, and delays in product shipments. dedicated crisis management team to spearhead fire safety and to risk of delays in deliveries. Accidents disaster-preparedness initiatives, formulate a business continuity • There is a risk that an unprecedented event could • We have established a quality control system for the products plan (BCP), and adopt necessary insurance arrangements in cause quality-related problems to arise. we manufacture and sell, and we strive to ensure high quality order to “strengthen our business continuity capabilities.” • In addition, we have received reports of a defect in standards while making appropriate insurance arrangements. •T  here is a risk that certain events, including system • To address increasingly diversified and sophisticated cyber-security Quality some of our power semiconductors used in specific malfunction and information leakage due to external threats, we have established a computer security incident response Assurance fields. We are currently examining the degree of attacks (such as cyber-terrorism), could result in loss of team and a security operation center (CSIRT/SOC), through which potential risk and will make appropriate disclosures External social trust. we monitor and control any attacks. We also take ongoing steps Measures to Reinforce if we identify any significant impact on our business Attacks to respond more effectively to the continuous emergence of new performance and financial position. threats. For example, we are stepping up defense, reinforcing our • There is a risk that we may be unable to attract and • We focus on cultivating professional human resources who will detection systems, and providing cyber training. the Operating Foundations Human train the human resources required for Fuji Electric’s help strengthen our global competitiveness. We also actively • There is a risk that COVID-19 infections may occur in • We have established the “Contingency Plan” to implement in Resources business activities. conduct employee education and training and are expanding the workplace (of the Company, customer, or business times of emergency resulting from various risks that may affect our and Labor mid-career recruitment and other measures to attract exceptional partner), which could force us to suspend production, operations. Based on this Plan, we set up the “New Coronavirus human resources. sales, and various other business activities. Infection Prevention and Business Continuity Promotion • There is a risk that an unexpected increase in interest • To minimize fund-raising costs, we constantly examine the Countermeasures Headquarters,” chaired by the president, to rates could raise the interest rate burden on our optimal mix of corporate bonds, commercial paper, and shortIndividual address the COVID-19 pandemic. The stated policy of the new interest-bearing debt. term and long-term borrowings, in order to ensure flexible and Event entity is to “take prompt and appropriate measures with top priority Finance and stable financing arrangements. (Impact of on respecting human life, preventing the spread of infections, Accounting • There is a risk that restrictions on economic activities • We work to strengthen credit management, including by COVID-19) and minimizing damage.” Under this policy, we are gathering and and economic downturn could cause business monitoring long-overdue receivables and the financial status of collating information related to COVID-19 and taking measures to partners’ cash flows to deteriorate and prevent us from business partners, in order to enhance our collection of trade prevent the spread of infections (for example, enforcing rules, such recovering debts. receivables. as disinfecting hands and fingers; avoiding confined spaces, large gatherings, and close interactions; and adopting teleworking and • Fuji Electric’s social credibility, business performance, • The Fuji Electric Compliance Promotion Committee spearheads staggered work hours), while also emphasizing business continuity. and financial position could be affected if violations of efforts to ensure rigorous compliance with laws and regulations. laws and regulations occur. We also have a compliance program that clearly identifies roles * For more details on our risk management system, please refer to our 144th Annual Securities Report. and responsibilities covering each aspect of legal regulations— namely, internal rules, monitoring, auditing, and education—and our compliance structure that includes whistle-blowing systems. Legal Affairs • There is a risk that lawsuits and other legal proceedings • In preparation for lawsuits and other legal disputes, we have Close Up! and Ethics could result in orders to pay unexpectedly large formed an appropriate task force aimed at building a system to amounts of damages. ensure that necessary procedures (fact-finding investigations, Responding to COVID-19 corrective actions, recurrence prevention measures, internal punishments, and disclosures) are conducted promptly. To deal with the COVID-19 crisis, we set up a response our bases in Japan and overseas. To minimize infections • Due to the speed of technological innovation and the • We strive to effectively protect intellectual property rights and headquarters, headed by President Kitazawa, based on and fulfill our social responsibilities, we are rigorously global expansion of our business activities, there is a develop products and technologies respecting the rights of other the Fuji Electric Risk Management Rules. The mission of implementing infection prevention measures targeting all risk of intellectual property disputes arising. companies. the new entity is to simultaneously “prevent employee employees to ensure safety and security of themselves • There is a risk of changes in exchange rates, • We engage in currency exchange contracts, based on certain infections and the spread thereof” and “promote and their families. We are also increasing work flexibility especially the yen against the U.S. dollar. criteria, to minimize the impact of the risk of foreign exchange business continuity.” It collects and collates internal and by expanding teleworking and other systems. We fluctuations on our business performance. • Any of the following events in foreign countries may • We always closely monitor the latest information on geopolitical external information related to COVID-19, determines remain committed to achieving business continuity while Political and have an impact on our business performance and risks, and we are diversifying our production and sales bases in measures to prevent infections and procedures to preventing the spread of infections. Socioeconomic financial position: preparation for unexpected risks. prevent the spread of the disease if an employee gets Given the ongoing unpredictability of the pandemic, we Trends •U  nexpected enactment of laws/regulations and infected, and rigorously implements disease-prevention will need to continue working together, united as a group. changes in tax systems with adverse effects measures at Group companies in Japan and overseas. We will disclose information on our efforts related to •D  isadvantageous political situations •S  ocial turmoil due to social upheaval, terrorism, war, Employee infections have been confirmed at some of COVID-19 on our corporate website as appropriate. and the like 57 Fuji Electric Report 2020 Fuji Electric Report 2020 58 Supply Chain Strengthening Our Business Continuity Capabilities We believe it is important to instill corporate social responsibility (CSR) throughout the supply chain, and In order to uphold its social responsibilities as a company, parts and components based on their location, and assign we are promoting efforts to prevent compliance violations and human rights violations, such as forced labor Fuji Electric aims to continue core operations even if natural them one of five risk rankings. We will then gradually adopt and child labor. disasters, accidents, and other unexpected events occur a multi-sourcing policy for procurement of highly important by providing a stable supply of high-performance, highitems. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, meanwhile, we had Sustainable Procurement Activities quality products and services required by its customers. time to grasp its impact on parts procurement in our supply In addition to fire safety and disaster-preparedness chain, which has been expanding worldwide. Based on In fiscal 2019, we asked 500 major business partners industrial standard, and the Guidelines for Responsible initiatives, we have formulated a business continuity plan this, we started strengthening our BCP system in Japan. in Japan to cooperate in a CSR survey and provided Business Conduct of the Japan Electronics and Information (BCP*) at the head office, which acts as a command By inputting information on both primary and secondary feedback based on the results. We also created the Fuji Technology Industries Association (JEITA). center during disasters, and at factories that house a business partners into our BCP system, we aim to speed Electric CSR Procurement Guidelines for specific items We will follow these guidelines as we work with our large number of key management resources, as well as at up information gathering in times of emergency. pertinent to our company, based on the Responsible business partners to build a responsible supply chain in branches that serve as contact points with customers. Business Alliance (RBA*) Code of Conduct, which is Japan and worldwide. We have also established Companywide BCPs for our IT risk reduction regarded as the international CSR guidelines and the procurement sections, which manage our supply chain, and In fiscal 2019, we added cyber attacks as a new risk to for IT sections, which manage our information systems. be addressed in our ongoing IT-BCM* initiative, which is Fuji Electric CSR Procurement Guidelines In fiscal 2019, we once again worked to strengthen our designed to help restart and restore information systems 1. Human Rights and Labor 4. Fair Trade and Ethics 7. Business Continuity Plan disaster response capabilities. For example, we conducted necessary for business and operation continuity within the 2. Health and Safety 5. Quality and Safety 8. Establishment of Management Systems Measures to Reinforce simulation training assuming a large-scale earthquake for required time in preparation for disasters and accidents. 3. Environment 6. Information Security 9. Social Contribution business divisions, managers of each base, and business To address increasingly diversified and sophisticated continuity promotion staff, and safety confirmation training cyber security threats, we have established a computer the Operating Foundations Further information is available at our website. for all employees. Going forward, we will continue enhancing security incident response team and a security operation https://www.fujielectric.com/company/procurement/csr_procurement.html our BCP to strengthen our business continuity capabilities. center (CSIRT/SOC), through which we monitor and * Business continuity plan control any attacks. We also take ongoing steps to respond more effectively Close Up! Fuji Electric received Resilience certification under to the continuous emergence of new threats. In addition to the program established by the Cabinet Secretariat’s National Resilience Promotion Office in recognition of minimizing damage to information systems, for example, we Environmental activities with our business partners active efforts to ensure business continuity. are stepping up defenses to ensure early recovery, reinforcing We are working with our business partners to at the partners, and where it was deemed necessary our detection systems, and providing cyber training. strengthen our activities aimed at realizing a the factory (1) helped partners acquire ISO certification * Business continuity management sustainable society throughout the supply chain. and (2) conducted environmental risk surveys. Fire safety and disaster-preparedness initiatives In fiscal 2019, the Matsumoto Factory, which In fiscal 2019, on-site audits at two business Based on the Disaster Prevention and Procedural Manual, Implementation of security measures produces semiconductors in the Electronic Device partners confirmed that the environmental all of Fuji Electric’s bases have developed disaster-response To protect confidential and personal information properly, Segment, supported environmental protection management at both was in good status. In fiscal systems and put in place comprehensive measures to Fuji Electric has formulated and is implementing a policy and activities of its main business partners. The factory 2020, we plan to conduct on-site audits at business ensure that structures and facilities are earthquake resistant. regulations related to information security with consideration began by reviewing the status of the environmental partners for which environmental risks are a concern. They also stockpile emergency goods, conduct regular drills, for the laws of relevant countries. We have also established management (ISO certification, guideline compliance) and take other preventive measures. information management systems in each Group company and instituted various safety protocols, including operational Procurement BCP site access and information access management systems. Promoting RBA at Fuji Electric (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. By identifying, assessing, and addressing supply chain Meanwhile, we endeavor to prevent information leaks In the Electronic Device Segment, Fuji Electric system and conducting thorough in-house training risks that could affect our business continuity, we aim to while maintaining and strengthening information security (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd., which produces to maintain the positive results of its RBA audits. build a stable production system over the medium and by instituting annual training programs for employees and semiconductors and magnetic disks, underwent an We plan to apply the measures taken at Fuji Electric long terms. conducting inspections and improvements through effective on-site audit of RBA at the request of customers (Malaysia) to other factories in Asia. In fiscal 2019, we officially introduced our BCP system. management and audits of workplaces. in fiscal 2019. It obtained RBA certification in 2013 This has enabled us to automatically identify primary Group companies that handle customers’ confidential and has maintained the certification through external business partners in Japan (more than 4,000 companies) and personal information and require high-level information audits every two years. who are located in areas prone to natural disasters, security management have acquired external certification. After the first year’s audit indicated that Fuji Electric such as earthquakes and typhoons, and quickly grasp As of April 1, 2020, a total of five departments at three (Malaysia) had not met the criteria for prescribed the potential impact of a disaster on their safety and Group companies have acquired information security work hours and evacuation drills, it mobilized its production operations. management system (ISMS) certification. In addition, Fuji employees to raise awareness through education. In fiscal 2020, we will conduct natural disaster risk Electric Co., Ltd. and four subsidiaries have acquired It followed up by creating an annual internal audit Fuji Electric (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. diagnoses of business partners who produce important Privacy Mark certification. 59 Fuji Electric Report 2020 Fuji Electric Report 2020 60 Social Outreach Fair and Equitable Procurement Practices We are using our human resources and technologies developed through our business to build stronger Fuji Electric bases its procurement activities on action outlines the high ethical standards for our trading activities relationships and foster ties between our operational sites and local communities, aiming to contribute to guidelines for fair and equitable transactions and seeks not just for legal compliance but also in the areas of the resolution of global social and environmental issues. We will contribute to developing and revitalizing business partners in Japan and worldwide, which are anti-corruption and respect for intellectual property. local regions through activities including promotion of youth development and environment preservation. committed to sustainable procurement activities, as well The divisions responsible for procurement at the head as quality, pricing, deliveries, and services. We strive to office and other operating sites in Japan provide staff Promotion of Youth Development build better partnerships, deepen mutual understanding, training to support full legal compliance. The procurement and maintain and improve cooperative relationships with departments of overseas affiliate companies formulate rules Employees from our operational sites in Japan serve as donating Fuji Electric laboratory equipment to science all our business partners through free, fair, and equitable and standards that comply with the laws and regulations of instructors of science classes for elementary and junior and technology universities in Southeast Asia, where competition. The Fuji Electric CSR Procurement Guidelines their respective country. high school students to share the wonders of science and economic development is rapidly progressing. We also the importance of manufacturing. invite instructors from overseas vocational training schools Overseas, we are actively helping to develop to Japan to learn equipment operation and maintenance professional engineers through programs including methods and effecting instruction techniques on site. Employee Training In fiscal 2019, we held 54 sessions nationwide on the Major initiatives in fiscal 2019 Subcontract Act, internal control system, and procurement • Science classes for elementary school and junior high school students (learning about CSR, and provided education to more than 1,400 Measures to Reinforce how power is generated and electricity conversion using experiment kits) employees, an increase of 40% from the previous year. • Work experience for junior and senior high school students We also deepened understanding by introducing our • Technical training for vocational school instructors (Cambodia) first e-learning course on the Subcontract Act, with over the Operating Foundations • Donated Fuji Electric laboratory equipment for science and technology universities Science class learning how power is 10,000 employees taking the course. In addition, we Asia IPO / Internal control system training (Vietnam) generated (Suzuka Factory) created the Legal Compliance Working Group to foster a corps of experts on compliance through participation in class lectures and exercises in practical application. Environmental Preservation The China and Asia International Procurement Offices* conducted training sessions on internal control system We participate in various activities to preserve biodiversity, Our environmental conservation activities include through operation checking at seven sites in China and such as planting mangroves and cleaning beaches, with planting, thinning, and clearing forests, which help absorb six sites in greater Asia. the aim of helping expand habitats of living organisms and carbon dioxide and thereby prevent global warming. The Legal Compliance Working Group * International Procurement Offices (IPOs) locate new first-rate suppliers in their countries protecting the natural environment. and serve as procurement service bases for the company’s overseas business sites. Major initiatives in fiscal 2019 • Mangrove planting (Fuji Electric (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd.) • Beach cleaning (Fuji Electric (China) Co., Ltd., Fuji Electric Taiwan Co., Ltd., and others) • Biodiversity conservation initiatives using the Musashino no Mori green space on factory site (Tokyo Factory) • Environmental conservation with forest thinning in collaboration with NPOs Mangrove planting (Chubu Area Operation) (Fuji Electric (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd.) Communication with Local Communities We communicate with the local neighborhoods of our Overseas, we communicate with local communities operational sites and with employees and their families in various ways, including visiting child welfare facilities through factory festivals and other events as well as and supporting education by providing stationery and community activities, such as local cleanup campaigns. learning supplies. Supporting Disaster Recovery and Reconstruction Efforts Fuji Electric provides reconstruction support to areas We also donated Fuji Electric emergency generators to the impacted by natural disasters in Japan and overseas. We local government in Chiba Prefecture, which was severely provided monetary donations to help accelerate recovery damaged by the typhoon. efforts and aid victims from typhoons and torrential rains. 61 Fuji Electric Report 2020 Fuji Electric Report 2020 62 Consolidated Financial and Non-Financial Highlights Financial Highlights Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars*1 Fiscal Year 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2019 Operating Results Net sales 703,534 745,781 759,911 810,678 813,550 837,765 893,451 914,915 900,604 8,338,926 Japan 525,096 567,314 582,223 605,763 597,757 632,723 674,744 682,503 679,719 6,293,695 Overseas 178,437 178,466 177,688 204,915 215,793 205,042 218,707 232,412 220,885 2,045,231 Operating income 19,252 21,992 33,136 39,316 45,006 44,709 55,962 59,972 42,515 393,658 Net income attributable to owners of parent 11,801 26,368 19,582 27,978 30,644 40,978 37,763 40,267 28,793 266,606 R&D and Capital Investment R&D expenditures 32,247 31,160 32,029 35,023 35,949 34,910 35,620 33,669 34,457 319,047 Plant and equipment investment*2 24,989 31,771 26,916 29,041 27,650 27,149 26,465 43,338 48,208 446,377 Depreciation and amortization*3 29,755 31,054 30,849 33,615 29,723 29,445 30,151 30,906 32,319 299,256 Cash Flows Cash flows from operating activities 28,314 55,342 53,651 51,459 48,450 58,185 53,146 54,949 46,087 426,737 Cash flows from investing activities (13,489) (24,286) (9,649) (22,750) (19,410) 9,748 (14,550) (21,448) (27,621) (255,752) Free cash flow 14,825 31,055 44,002 28,708 29,040 67,934 38,596 33,501 18,466 170,984 Cash flows from financing activities (32,592) (56,827) (50,569) (33,828) (31,566) (56,083) (46,887) (38,174) 16,917 156,646 Financial Position Total assets*4 792,848 765,563 810,774 904,522 845,378 886,663 914,744 952,659 996,827 9,229,885 Total net assets 183,217 215,672 251,225 319,636 260,980 323,863 366,546 392,061 406,002 3,759,282 Shareholders’ equity 163,576 194,572 227,181 290,339 230,399 291,215 330,635 352,921 365,619 3,385,368 Net interest-bearing debt 225,227 217,417 200,340 194,579 189,374 141,578 130,177 124,850 153,617 1,422,387 Interest-bearing debt 289,489 257,105 233,753 226,474 220,213 183,465 163,507 153,985 217,364 2,012,630 Financial Indicators Ratio of operating income to net sales (%) 2.7 2.9 4.4 4.8 5.5 5.3 6.3 6.6 4.7 — ROE (Return on equity) (%) 7.4 14.7 9.3 10.8 11.8 15.7 12.1 11.8 8.0 — ROA (Return on assets) (%)*4 1.5 3.4 2.5 3.3 3.5 4.7 4.2 4.3 3.0 — Equity ratio (%)*4 20.6 25.4 28.0 32.1 27.3 32.8 36.1 37.0 36.7 — Net debt-equity ratio (times)*5 1.4 1.1 0.9 0.7 0.8 0.5 0.4 0.4 0.4 — Debt-equity ratio (times)*6 1.8 1.3 1.0 0.8 1.0 0.6 0.5 0.4 0.6 — Per Share Data*7 Yen U.S. dollars*1 Net income 82.58 184.50 137.03 195.80 214.48 286.82 264.34 281.89 201.57 1.866 Corporate Information Net assets 1,144.54 1,361.46 1,589.79 2,031.97 1,612.59 2,038.40 2,314.50 2,470.65 2,559.60 23.700 Cash dividends 20.00 25.00 35.00 45.00 50.00 55.00 70.00 80.00 80.00 0.741 Dividend payout ratio (%) 24.2 13.6 25.5 23.0 23.3 19.2 26.5 28.4 39.7 — Non-Financial Highlights Fiscal Year 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2019 Employees (Headcount) 24,973 24,956 25,524 25,740 26,508 26,503 27,009 27,416 27,960 — Japan 17,933 18,271 18,022 17,814 17,635 17,716 17,704 17,647 17,681 — Overseas 7,040 6,685 7,502 7,926 8,873 8,787 9,305 9,769 10,279 — Total greenhouse gas emissions from production activities (10,000 t-CO2) 54.0 50.2 53.6 53.8 51.9 46.7 48.4 52.1 45.6 — Reductions in CO2 emissions through products (10,000 t-CO2)*8 233 392 601 1,043 1,598 2,230 2,579 3,162 3,651 — *1 The U.S. dollar amounts represent the arithmetic results of translating yen into dollars at ¥108 = U.S. $1, the approximate exchange rate at March 31, 2020. *6 Debt-equity ratio is the ratio of interest-bearing debt to shareholders’ equity. *2 Plant and equipment investment is the total of investment in tangible fixed assets, including acquisition amounts for lease contracts. *7 Effective October 1, 2018, the Company conducted a one-for-five common stock consolidation. Amounts for net income per share and net assets per share have been calculated assuming *3 Depreciation and amortization expense is the total of the depreciation of tangible fixed assets and amortization of intangible assets. that the stock consolidation took place on April 1, 2010. When the interim dividend of ¥8 per share for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019, is recalculated to take into account the one-for*4 Effective April 1, 2018, the Company has adopted “Partial Amendments to Accounting Standard for Tax Effect Accounting” (ASBJ Statement No. 28, revised on February 16, 2018). five reverse stock split, the dividend per share is ¥40. Therefore, the dividend per share for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019, is equivalent to ¥80, including the interim dividend. As such, major management indicators in consolidated accounting period as of March 31, 2018 have been adjusted to retroactively apply said accounting standards. As for annual dividend per share, the amounts of dividends paid before the reverse stock split are presented to reflect the impact of the reverse stock split retrospectively. *5 Net debt-equity ratio is the ratio of net interest-bearing debt (interest-bearing debt + lease obligations – cash and cash equivalents) to shareholders’ equity. *8 The contributions to CO2 emission reductions refers to CO2 emission reductions from products shipped in and after fiscal 2010 that were in operation for a year. Calculated based on the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry’s Guideline for Quantifying Greenhouse Gas Emission Reduction Contribution. Detailed financial information is available on our website. https://www.fujielectric.com/ir/library/financial_results/contents_05_19.html 63 Fuji Electric Report 2020 Fuji Electric Report 2020 64 Corporate Data History Fuji Electric continues to evolve in step with the times and with society, with technology as our driving force. Company Technology Company Information (As of March 31, 2020) Company Name FUJI ELECTRIC CO., LTD. 1923 1924 1920~ Established August 29, 1923 Fuji Electric Manufacturing Co., Ltd., established Began manufacturing electric motors Established as a capital and technology alliance between 1925 Consolidated Subsidiary 73 (Japan 23, Overseas 50) Japan Furukawa Electric Co., Ltd., and German Siemens Began transformer production AG. The result was a company with characteristics inherited Equity method Affiliate 4 1927 from industry in both countries Began electric fan production Head Office 1-1, Tanabeshinden, Kawasaki-ku, Kawasaki-shi, Kanagawa 210-9530, Japan 1925 1936 Began operation of Head Office Business Address Gate City Ohsaki, East Tower, 11-2, Osaki 1-chome, Shinagawa-ku, Tokyo 141-0032, Japan Built first hydraulic turbine, the Kawasaki Factory 4,850 HP Francis Turbine Capital Stock ¥47.6 billion 1942 Francis Turbine 1937 Employees (Consolidated) 27,960 (Japan 17,681, Overseas 10,279) Began operation of the Matsumoto Factory Began watt-hour meter production 1943 Net Sales (Consolidated) ¥900.6 billion (Year ended March 31, 2020) Began operation of the Fukiage Stock Code 6504 and Toyoda factories Company emblem, 1944 “FS” mark Began operation of the Mie Factory 1961 1954 1950~ Ultra-compact Began operation of the Chiba Factory Began ultra-compact magnetic electromagnetic switch switch production Stock Information (As of March 31, 2020) 1968 Merged with Kawasaki Denki Seizo Co., Ltd., 1959 Issued and Outstanding Shares 149,296,991 and commenced operations at the Kobe Began manufacturing silicon diodes The first and Suzuka factories 1969 Number of Shareholders 36,028 vending machines 1973 Began production of vending machines Began operation of the Otawara Factory 1971 Major Shareholders Began manufacturing hybrid ICs Number of shares Voting rights 1976 Shareholders’ names (1,000s) (%) Began manufacturing Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust Account) 16,369 11.46 general-purpose inverters General-purpose inverters The Master Trust Bank of Japan, Ltd. (Trust Account) 15,546 10.88 FUJITSU LIMITED 4,066 2.85 1984 1985 1980~ Changed company name to Fuji Electric Co., Ltd. Released the programmable logic controller “MICREX-F Series” Asahi Mutual Life Insurance Company 3,955 2.77 1991 1987 Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust Account 7) 2,960 2.07 Began operation of the Yamanashi Factory Developed IGBT module Corporate Information FANUC CORPORATION 2,684 1.88 2002 1991 Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust Account 5) 2,457 1.72 Introduced Company Began manufacturing 2.5-inch magnetic disks Mizuho Bank, Ltd. 2,250 1.58 symbol mark 1996 Symbol mark JP MORGAN CHASE BANK 385151 2,218 1.55 2003 Won order for IGBT main conversion Changed company name to Fuji Electric Holdings Co., devices used in electric railways FURUKAWA CO., LTD. 2,205 1.54 Ltd., owing to shift to pure holding company system (The world’s first large-capacity flat IGBT) Notes: 1  . Treasury stock of 6,454,259 shares is excluded from the above list of top 10 shareholders. 2008 1998 Flat IGBT 2. T he ratio of shareholding is calculated by deducting the number of treasury stock from the total number of shares outstanding based on the provisions of the Ordinance for Fuji Electric FA Components & Systems Co., Ltd., merged Delivered 100 kW phosphoric acid fuel cell Enforcement of the Companies Act. operations with Schneider Electric Japan Ltd. (Power distribution and control equipment joint venture) Share Distribution by Shareholder Type SiC module 2011 2010 2010~ Type Number of shareholders Number of shares Holding (%) Changed company name to Fuji Electric Co., Ltd. Developed next-generation Financial institutions / securities firms 148 70,744,791 47.39 SiC module power semiconductor 2014 Inverters equipped with Other corporations in Japan 451 14,066,492 9.42 Created new corporate brand emblem for products 2012 power semiconductor Foreign corporations 609 41,025,745 27.48 Developed inverter equipped with SiC-SBD Individuals and others 34,820 23,459,963 15.71 next-generation power semiconductor SiC-SBD, a first in Japan Total 36,028 149,296,991 100.00 2014 Note: “Individuals and others” includes treasury stock. Emblem Launched power electronics equipped with SiC power semiconductors Power conditioning systems for 2015 high-capacity mega solar use Launched steam-generation heat pumps 2018 Exhaust gas Began manufacturing exhaust cleaning systems gas cleaning systems for ships for ships 65 Fuji Electric Report 2020 Fuji Electric Report 2020 66 This mark symbolizes the commitment of Fuji Electric to environmental protection External Evaluation Fuji Electric has been selected as a component of the following socially responsible investment (SRI) indexes, as a company with outstanding CSR performance. We have received the following awards and certification in recognition of our outstanding initiatives to promote diversity. We have received the following certifications as a company exhibiting excellence in health and productivity management. Based on the universal design (UD) concept, we have adopted fonts that are easy to read (and difficult to misread) by more and more people. Gate City Ohsaki, East Tower, 11-2, Osaki 1-chome, Shinagawa-ku, Tokyo 141-0032, Japan Contacts: Public Relations and IR Dept., President’s Office TEL: +81-3-5435-7111 https://www.fujielectric.com 00A9-E-0002b Published in Japan 2020.10
