ESG Report 2019 Contents Introduction | 7 Abris and Abris portfolio companies in coronavirus pandemic period update | 10 About us | 13 Abris as a responsible investor | 15 ESG – our approach and impact | 16 Responsible Investment Policy | 18 ESG 2020 Universe – our ESG strategy | 19 Abris as a model ESG organization | 19 End-to-end processes | 21 Building a reputation as an ESG thought leader | 26 Abris as a responsible and active owner | 29 Portfolio overview | 33 Introduction Abris Capital Partners ESG Report 2019 Abris has navigated the CE region with the eyes on the horizon and the world in mind for the last decade. We know these waters by heart — and we responsibly steer companies towards remarkable growth and great value. Dear Limited Partners and friends, Some say change is the only constant in life. This is exemplified by the Covid-19 The Value Enhancement Team established last year, represents that philosopandemic. Here at Abris, we have safely navigated through this time with a phy and our mission. Their role is to bring ESG standards, internal controls, and sense of responsibility and purpose from our teams. By teams, I mean the risk management into our daily portfolio management standards and proceAbris, portfolio and investors’ teams, but most importantly our families, who dures to augment our impact. I am convinced that they can forge our experistood behind us with encouragement and a much-needed supporting smile. ence and hard-won lessons into an invaluable asset for all our stakeholders. I want to thank them for their strength, contributions and their kindness. Abris has selected carbon footprint management as the new theme for our 2019 was a very busy year for our Abris ESG practice as we continued to incorESG 2020 Universe program. As a responsible investor, we intend to invest porate ESG principles into our investment activities. heavily in developing an emission-neutral portfolio. Despite the challenges, we are determined to support the UN Sustainable Development Goals, with a In line with our commitments to sustainability, ethical stewardship and ESG disclear 2020 focus on SDG 13 Climate Action. I know that pursuing such ambiclosure, corporate governance was our 2019 ESG priority. We devoted the time tious targets can be a never-ending journey and it will not happen overnight, and effort required to rethink our approach, study legislative changes, and but I believe that whenever opportunity shows itself – we are there. review our collective experiences. As a result, our new Corporate Governance Committee developed a comprehensive model based on two central princiI hope readers will gain an appreciation for the 2019 edition of our ESG report ples building investment value and mitigating risks. The Corporate Governand the work we do to promote responsible business and community susance Model has not only broadened our transparency, control, and distribution tainability. To everyone at Abris, our partners and friends, please stay safe and of competencies among the three corporate lines of defense, it has streamhealthy. lined the pivotal coordination between management and supervisory roles at all our portfolio companies. Sincerely, I am proud of the deep creative thinking process we have undergone in that Pawel Gierynski project. The first step in “creative thinking” is always “thinking.” Yet, no single Managing Partner idea is flawless. Like a rough diamond, all new ideas have some defects. They must be scrutinized and refined to fulfill their true promise. Therefore, we understand that unlearning, relearning, and unceasing questioning are key to that process. In fact, these are some of our core strengths at Abris. They help us to continue evolving into a better, more resilient organization. 8 9 Abris Capital Partners ESG Report 2019 | Abris as a responsible investor Abris and Abris portfolio companies in coronavirus pandemic period update The Coronavirus pandemic has All deal teams shared their portfolio Our priority was to secure human imposed an unprecedented best practices to accommodate any resources availability. All necessary global crisis, materially affectchanging legislative or administrameasures were defined to protect all ing both Abris’ activities and tive measures, as well as optimizing employee groups, especially those “The illiterate of the 21st modus operandi. The scale business solutions. on the production lines. Special care and depth of the impact on has been taken for the most vulbusiness and everyday life Open and proactive investor comnerable employees, assuring social century will not be those exceeded all scenario planning munications are key to Abris IR acdistancing and medical help. All included in the most visionary tivity, therefore, a biweekly Covid-19 management teams reviewed and risk management systems. Newsletter was introduced immeidentified liquidity risks, established This situation should be condiately. This included portfolio risk emergency action plans and sewho cannot read and write, sidered as a competence and assessment, categorizing all comcured an extension of bank facilities responsibility test, both for Abris panies into four groups: risk, concern, when necessary. Since international or our portfolio teams. Even potential concern & no concern, logistics remained a significant chalthough the test differed greatly while delivering clear data on risk lenge for all production companies, but those who cannot depending upon the business specifics, the challenge was significant for all. evolution. Team status, the economic measures undertaken by each government and valuation variations increased raw materials stocks were guaranteed and alternative suppliers identified. learn, unlearn, and relearn.” were described whenever available and relevant, receiving a positive Despite the challenging business Abris reception from all limited partners. circumstances, most portfolio teams Our immediate reaction to the crisis In parallel, all internal business prodemonstrated their responsible was reorganizing the firm’s operating cesses were run in an uninterrupted social commitment by launching model to protect the team and semanner, including the Investment numerous projects supporting both cure continuous business processes. Committee and Partners’ meetings, local communities and healthcare Alvin Toffler Therefore, all team members moved regular monthly reporting, investinfrastructure. Those initiatives to remote working and meetings ment, and ESG activities. consisted of direct financial aid, as migrated to online video conferencwell as providing hygiene products ing platforms such as Zoom and MS Portfolio and medical devices, confirming the Teams. We extended our business Following the Abris ESG Corporate teams’ solidarity and responsibilities. continuity plan with an internal Governance Model and well before policy on the Coronavirus disease, the pandemic emerged, all portfoPost Covid-19 introducing strict rules on hygienic lio companies were requested to The Abris team regards this current standards, travel, interactions and prepare and implement a Business crisis as an opportunity to stresscommunications. The new approach Continuity Plan. The key focus of such test all portfolio business models, included regular internal coordiplans was to secure the relevant level proactively looking for new oppornation meetings for the leadership of crisis management, sufficient litunities to modify and strengthen group, weekly situation reporting, quidity and supply chain contingency our investments. Learning from each daily interactions with the portfolio planning. Therefore, when confronted experience is an essential element of management and constant monitorwith the new reality, all crisis managethe firm’s philosophy and approach ing of governmental responses in CE ment teams were formed overnight, to business. Therefore, a comprecountries. Some team members asassuming decision making responsihensive review process has been sumed specific, new responsibilities, bility and ready to react quickly. conducted and transformed into actively contributing to the building strategy enhancements for several of a common knowledge database. portfolio companies. 10 11 Abris Capital Partners ESG Report 2019 | About us About Us Business looking for more – We are there Reaching your destination with capital is one thing, but our investments run deeper than that. We believe in having our ears to the ground and always working in the spirit of collaboration, rooted in strong partnerships. Because together, we can dream bigger and conquer the extraordinary. Abris Capital Partners is an inCapital Partners. Over the past 14 Europe, the Middle East and Australia. dependent private equity fund years, the firm has built a deep We are working every day to build manager focused on mid-marregional presence with a highly value in our investments through ket buyout and growth opporrespected, multinational team united close collaboration with our mantunities in the major countries by a shared vision and our core agement teams. To date, Abris has of Central Europe. Abris seeks ethical values. Today, Abris is led by invested in 27 businesses across five to identify and partner with the Managing Partner Pawel Gierynski countries in Central Europe. most successful and dynamic and a 10-strong group of Partners, businesses in the region that with a team comprising 13 investcan benefit from investment ment professionals and 15 operations capital and management and administration employees. expertise at both the strategic and operational levels. Since inception, Abris has secured nearly €1.3 billion in capital commitments across three funds, from The firm was established in 2007 in many of the world’s most prestigious response to the structural changes financial institutions. This invesaffecting Central and Eastern Eurotor group includes both state and pean economies at the time. Foundprivate pension funds, endowment ers Neil Milne and George Swirski funds and charities and commercial partnered with two long-standing asset management companies. Our colleagues Pawel Gierynski and investors are located around the Stephen Richmond to launch Abris world, with representation in the USA, 12 13 Abris as a responsible investor Abris Capital Partners ESG Report 2019 | Abris as a responsible investor Vilnius Kartoszyno Gdynia ESG – our approach Wejcherowo Gdańsk Tczew Kukinia Zduny and impact Batorowo Poznań Warsaw Zgierz Nowy Konik Piaseczno Lublin Wrocław Katowice Klucze Prague Gliwice Kraków Sanok At Abris, there is no distinction between investing Žabčice and responsible investing. This means that Banská Bystrica Bratislava Iași Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) factors Budapest Dej are present throughout the full investment process. Câmpia Turzii Petrești Buzău Mišićevo Lugano Urziceni Bucharest Milan Belgrade Our entire team views ESG as an For this reason, responsible manour culture while it serves the wishes integral element of today’s fiduciary agement of financial and ESG risks of our investors and employees. duty. We commit to deploying the and opportunities is one of our core capital entrusted to us responsibly values. Our international team located and to achieve best-in-class returns in Warsaw, Bucharest, Nicosia and by building our portfolio companies Abris invests in companies that are in London takes particular pride into leading sustainable businesses. trustworthy when it comes to enviin partnering with extraordinary We are keenly aware of our economronmental, ethical, governance and entrepreneurs and supporting their Brindisi ic, social and environmental impact. social criteria. This objective reflects business ideas. Our impact $1.3B 3 Up to $1.9B of committed capital investment funds of total portfolio sales Locations of headquarters and main branches of Abris’ portfolio companies AURES Holdings Poland: Piaseczno; Czechia: Prague; Hungary: Budapest; Slovakia: Bratislava CADM Automotive Poland: Kraków, Katowice, Wrocław, Sanok, Lublin, Gdynia, Gliwice 13,500 2,350 400 CARGOUNIT DOT2DOT Graal Poland: Wrocław Poland: Batorowo, Nowy Konik, Gdańsk Poland: Wejcherowo, Kukinia, Kartoszyno, Tczew, Zduny employees in our new jobs created headquarters, branches and ITP Poland: Warsaw, Wrocław, Poznań; Italy: Milan, Brindisi; Switzerland: Lugano offices of our portfolio companies portfolio companies under our stewardship PATENT CO. Serbia: Belgrade, Mišićevo strengthening employment and Velvet CARE Poland: Warsaw, Klucze; Czechia: Žabčice local communities in 2019 WDX Poland: Warsaw, Gdańsk, Katowice, Zgierz, Poznań, Wrocław Global Technical Group Romania: Bucharest; Serbia: Belgrad Dentotal Romania: Bucharest Pehart Romania: Dej, Petrești Green Group Romania: Buzău, Bucharest, Iași, Câmpia Turzii, Urziceni; Slovakia: Banská Bystrica; Lithuania: Vilnius 16 17 Abris Capital Partners ESG Report 2019 | Abris as a responsible investor Responsible Investment ESG 2020 Universe Policy – our ESG strategy We apply the same level of committhe PRI, applying its Six Principles as continually strive to contribute toWe affirm our belief that business Abris ESG 2020 ment to responsible investing as we a framework for ESG policy developwards the United Nations Sustainable must play a vital role in improving life Universe consists of do to all of our activities. The Abris ment across all of our investments. Development Goals (SDGs) through for everyone on the planet through three pillars: Responsible Investment Policy proves Abris has also committed to the UN our own activities and those of our our ESG strategy “Abris ESG 2020 Abris as End-to-end it. This policy defines our responGlobal Compact corporate responportfolio companies. Abris has an Universe.” a model ESG ESG sibilities, presents our investment sibility initiative and its principles important part to play in achieving organization processes process path, and defines the rules of regarding human rights, labor, the these goals for a more prosperous, Through this program, we launched a transparency. Abris is a signatory to environment and anti-corruption. We equitable, and sustainable world. mission to develop a comprehensive Building plan to accomplish value creation a reputation of through prioritizing ESG, while buildan ESG thought ing our reputation as an industry role leader model. Abris as a model ESG organization Compliance Manual Abris Corporate Governance WhistleModel blowing Equal Treatment Policy Anticorruption program Corporate governance Treatment Policy. To make it easy At Abris, it’s simple. Everything begins for everyone at Abris to have imporwith corporate governance. First, in tant information on ESG policies, we 2018, we initiated an anti-corruption issued the “Abris Capital Partners program encompassing detailed Compliance Manual Policies & procedures. This was followed by a Operating Procedures” containing whistleblowing scheme, including exa clear set of guidelines. Then we ternal, independent, and anonymous launched the Abris Corporate Govreporting. We also instituted an Equal ernance Model In 2019. 18 19 Abris Capital Partners ESG Report 2019 | Abris as a responsible investor Value Enhancement Team risk management and digitization as ESG Team & ESG governance Education ESG Academy. In 2019, we conducted attend numerous training sessions The ESG Team is now part of the new well as IT security. The team’s main structure Being a responsible investor requires corporate governance and internal and study at both the MBA and postValue Enhancement Team, estabobjectives are: Building additional value using ESG all of us to understand and act in audit training for our team. Practical graduate level. They also participate lished in 2019. The team reflects the • Support Deal Teams with specialis a joint effort between Abris and accordance with ESG principles. That first aid training was also organized. in many conferences and industry importance we place on our fiduized knowledge the portfolio companies. That is why is why we have extended our efforts We encourage our team to conmeetings with experts throughout ciary duty to investors. The Value • Documenting of our investment Abris has extensive ESG policies in raising awareness and knowledge tinually make the effort to develop the year. Enhancement Team works to support and portfolio experience and procedures, with tasks divided of ESG, in particular, by launching the their competencies. Team members Deal Teams in risk management and • Continuous professionalization of between the Investment Committee, value creation. The primary areas Abris Capital Partners Investment Team and ESG Team. Fursupported by the Value Enhancethermore, each company possesses ment Team include ESG, portfolio a sound ESG management structure. End-to-end processes ESG in process process, from the initial due diligence ESG governance We actively integrate ESG factors through monitoring and value creaat each stage of the investment tion to the exit. Abris level Investment • Instills RI principles in investment procedures and portfolio companies Committee • Analyzes ESG information in investment documentation • Provides guidance on a wide range of ethical, governance, social and environRisk management Value creation through ESG mental challenges Investment • Executes on the ESG rules Team • Ensures ESG due diligence • Identifies and manages ESG issues throughout the transaction process Initial stage Due diligence Investment decision Monitoring and Exit • Monitors execution of ESG standards in the portfolio companies • Exclusion List • ESG categorization • DQM value creation • ESG check-list • ESG Due diligence • Investment • Post-acquisition • ESG vendor due • Red Flag Report Committee ESG DD diligence ESG Team Dedicated • Directly responsible for ESG integration • 100-day plan • ESG plan execution • ESG buyer Partner • Coordinates the Abris ESG efforts • ESG action plans • Quarterly calls questionnaires • Leads ESG communication with the Abris Limited Partners • Annual monitoring & site visits ESG Director • Implements and develops the ESG process, i.e., Fund investment and portfolio monitoring I Investment process II Monitoring and value creation process • Develops ESG best practices • Cooperates closely with Investment Teams to review ESG progress • Promotes the Abris ESG approach and methodology via industry I Investment process conferences and ESG articles, brochures, etc. • Manges ESG external reporting, especially to the LPs • Supervises ESG Coordinators Exclusion List • Drift net fishing using nets in excess port to the Investment Committee. If At Abris, every potential portfolio of 2.5 km. in length the deal is nearing its closing stage, a company is checked against the • Material / systemic corruption final report is provided and reviewed. ESG • Monitor progress of ESG action plans Abris Exclusion List, based on interA Deal Qualifying Memorandum with Administrators • Develop Abris ESG standards national standards and all contracESG due diligence an ESG action plan is then sent to the tual terms included in our LPAs. This The ESG due diligence procedure Investment Committee. The ESG plan means we will not do business with pertains to each new and add-on inis further developed into a post-inPortfolio ESG • Sets ESG goals and action plan companies involved in: vestment. For new target companies, vestment 100-day plan. company level Coordinator • Oversees the implementation of ESG goals and projects • Activities that contravene UN or EU the Investment Teams work with ESG • Coordinates ESG activities conventions on fundamental rights colleagues to determine the scope of • Reports internally such as child labor, racial, trade ESG due diligence required. When the embargo, environmental protecprocess is completed, ESG advisors tion submit reports to the Investment and ESG Team • Ongoing management of ESG areas • Production or trade of alcohol ESG Teams for discussion. Significant • Executing on ESG goals • Production or trade of tobacco issues are revealed in a red flag re• Raising management standards in ESG • Reports ESG incidents to the ESG Coordinator The full criteria are available from the Exclusion List on the Abris website. http://www.abris-capital.com/sites/default/files/attachments/Abris-Capital-Partners_Exclusion-List.pdf 20 21 Abris Capital Partners ESG Report 2019 | Abris as a responsible investor ESG due diligence case study In 2019, Abris invested in the Global Technical Group (GTS). GTS is a leadCompliance, Environment, Health & Safety and the Supply Chain. An experienced advisory firm was apInvestment Committee. The outcome of the process proved the company was capable of complying with the Abris ESG Scoring Abris has developed the Abris ESG Scoring application, an IT tool ment and value creation, allowing for practical execution of the Abris Responsible Investment Policy. 500 ing end-to-end building managepointed to complete the process. highest ESG standards and resulted that supports investment decision ESG measures ment solution provider in Romania. in building a detailed action plan to making and ESG portfolio oversight. in Abris ESG Scoring The Group uses its deep engineerDue to the complex nature of comachieve that objective. The key objectives are risk manageing expertise in design, installation, pany operations and specialized maintenance and operations to knowledge required, a team of six Diagnostic 70 offer clients innovative solutions for experts was appointed. The team converting to modern, technolowas assisted by our ESG Team during questions and gy-enabled systems. They deliver their site visits. A full 70-hour audit indicators comprehensive security systems, was carried out. Up to 30 hours alone A set of An analysis of facility management and building was dedicated to data managehours in one ESG due analytical progress towards administration to a wide range of ment, identified as the most relevant diligence tools pre-defined goals industries. The company’s unique of ESG risks. Abris offering is complemented by propriESG Scoring etary software platforms. Our ESG Team members particicomponents pated in revision of documents and Prior to investing, our ESG due dilevidence, site visits and interviews are: A review of current igence was focused on the legal with employees responsible for An ESG action ESG problems and compliance, risk and best practices ESG. The due diligence results were plan manager perspectives in the following areas: presented in a red flag report and challenges Human Resources, Cybersecurity the conclusions included in a DQM & Data Management, Anti-Bribery, from the Investment Team to the Abris ESG Scoring application – sample screenshots II Monitoring and the value creation process Monitoring and value creation chosen upon the priorities contained At the beginning of each year, the Our Investment and ESG Teams within the ESG Action Plan. ESG Team visits all portfolio compaclosely cooperate with the portfolio nies. A comprehensive ESG analysis, 90 companies. Following an investment, summary of the previous year and the ESG Team performs post-acquiESG Action Plan are finalized for the sition in-depth analysis. Based on the coming year. The ESG Action Plan is results, both a long-term and an analso discussed with the Investment nual ESG Action Plan are formulated. ESG calls with portfolio Team. companies per year ESG priorities for Abris portfolio com28 panies: • Corporate governance best pracProgress is checked during quarterly tice ESG calls where the current situation • Remuneration and motivation number of ESG visits in and any ESG incidents are discussed. • Anti-corruption and whistleblowing portfolio companies in 2019 This information is presented to • Adaptation to climate change and the Supervisory Board in quarterly managing carbon footprint reports. • Products and services security • High HR and H&S standards • 250 We want to make it easy for our Cybersecurity companies to join us in this effort. The ESG team meets with the The ESG Team prepares guidelines, company management to present training, solutions and templates to our approach and the ESG manual number of interviews with help better manage these areas. is passed on to the Management members of ESG teams in Board. An ESG Coordinator who seportfolio companies lects the company ESG Team is appointed. The ESG Team members are 22 23 Abris Capital Partners ESG Report 2019 | Abris as a responsible investor Abris ESG Scoring application – sample screenshots ESG Promotion & Education Abris strives to develop the progress among our portfolio comegories. The Grand Prix Award is ESG knowledge and skills of our panies. The awards celebrate the presented for a joint effort of the portfolio companies. The two exceptional work of our companies’ Management Board and Deal Team most outstanding activities in ESG teams and the commitment of to integrate ESG best practices into this area for 2019 were the Abris our Deal Teams to work with them the strategy, management, and suESG Awards and ESG Training on taking sustainable action. The pervision. The nominees for the three Workshops. winners exhibited the best continuspecific subcategories of Environous development of ESG practices ment, Social and Corporate Governthroughout the year. ance are recommended by the Deal Abris ESG Awards Teams. All winners are selected by In 2019, we established the Abris ESG The competition consists of a Grand a jury of in-house and independent Awards to recognize innovation and Prix category and three subcatexperts. The winners of Abris ESG Awards 2019 ESG GRAND PRIX: Patent Co. for its comprehensive approach to ESG SOCIAL CATEGORY: Green Group for promoting the benefits of recycling ENVIRONMENT CATEGORY: Pehart for using raw materials with FSC certification CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CATEGORY: Velvet CARE for operational execution of its commitment to ESG Modules of the Abris ESG Scoring tool Abris ESG training for portfolio ESG priorities. Climate change is a companies pressing global issue that poses an Diagnostic module Monitoring module Analytical module We want to build strong relationships imminent threat to our planet. That with our partners, so it is essential is why we organized training for our • Sets of questionnaires forming • Monitors ESG action plans broken • Assesses risk to support education of portfolio companies devoted to measuring a comprehensive, in-depth down into tasks, deadlines, respon• Checks progress companies on the most important carbon footprint and exposing cliapproach to ESG sible officers • Identifies key areas requiring focus mate-related risks and opportunities. • 10 ESG areas of analysis: • Measures the progress towards • Presentation of ESG activities The participants were the ManageEnvironmental Issues, Human pre-defined goals • Conclusions summary ment Boards, ESG Coordinators and Resources, Human Rights, Health • Tracks value creation all persons responsible for environThis provided an opportunity for ex& Safety, Product/Services Safety, mental sustainability. changing experiences one year after Corporate Governance, Anti-Bribwhistleblowing systems were estabery, Sanctions & Anti-Trust, CyberA special session was offered for lished across the portfolio. During the security and GDPR, Marketing Compliance Officers regarding the training, we also raised the issue of • Nearly 500 diagnostic measures EU Whistleblower Protection Directive. machine safety. 24 25 Abris Capital Partners ESG Report 2019 | Abris as a responsible investor Building a reputation as an ESG thought leader The Polish Private Equity and Venture Capital Association (PSIK) represents the private equity industry in Poland. Abris Partner Monika Nachyła is a Vice PresiFor Abris, responsible investing also responsibility, sustainability, transa panel on ESG at the Venture Capital dent of the association. Abris is the founder of the ESG Committee at PSIK. means sharing our knowledge and parency, and investment steward& Private Equity conference in Tallinn. experience with the industry. The ship. The Ethical Corporation has challenges we face are just too big shortlisted us for the 2019 ResponWe promote responsible investing The United Nations Global Compact is an initiative supporting global compafor one company alone to solve. We sible Investment Awards. We were in the media nies committed to responsible business practices. The UN Global Compact can learn from one another in the privileged to be nominated for the Business media plays a significant is based on its Ten Principles defining a value system and approach to doing search for new ways to take better Responsible Investment Award, recrole in promoting ESG. We work with business. Abris Partner Monika Nachyła sits on the Program Board of Global informed decisions and actions. So, ognizing initiatives delivering measjournalists in Poland, Romania and Compact Network Poland. we engage at all levels of dialogue: urable results on key environmental the UK to publish articles on numerlocally, nationally, and internationand social issues with innovative, ous PE topics and provide regular ally. We interact with policymakers transformational, long-term outsocial media posts concerning Abris is an active partner of the Family Business Institute (IBR) in Poland. The and researchers, non-governmental comes. responsible investment. IBR is a platform for exchanging knowledge and experience amongst business organizations and other businesses, • We have met with leading Euroowners and experts of international standing. We have been participating as and especially with our investors to We promote responsible investing pean private equity journalists a speaker at IBR events and conferences for many years. Wojciech Jezierski, develop policies and practices supamong Polish PE community in London to discuss our strateAbris Partner, serves as a mentor to IBR members. porting sustainable returns. We organized a meeting for the Polgy, impact, and responsibility as ish Private Equity & Venture Capital investors Association members dedicated • We contributed to the annual Level 20 is a non-profit organization working to exto responsible investing and ESG report of United Nations Global pand opportunities for women in private equity. The Ethical Corporation issues, with speakers from PRI, Andra Compact Network Poland aim is to increase the percentage of women acting AP-fonden (AP2) and Environmen• Abris’ CFO was interviewed in in senior roles from 6 % to 20%. Abris is a leader of the has shortlisted tal Resources Management (ERM). Private Funds CFO concerning our Polish Committee. Over 80 representatives of the Polish recent efforts to advance the ESG Abris for the investment industry attended this agenda in European private equity. 2019 Responsible event. The mission of the Humanites Foundation is develWe are actively working with oping a conscious, self-awarded, happy and socially Investment Award Abris’ ESG Director was invited to independent organizations sensitive person. By supporting the development of participate in The Ethical CorporaWe join with others in working to individuals and leaders, the foundation improves the tion’s “Sustainability Reporting and develop the investment industry and evolution of society and social capital. As a partner, Communications Summit 2019” as responsible investment. As a memAbris sponsors the leadership program for school Abris shortlisted by The Ethical an expert speaker at the ESG data ber of important industry organizaheadmasters. Corporation in The Responsible workshop. He participated in the “ESG tions, we share knowledge and good Business Awards Data What Should We Really Be practices. We also work with organAbris Capital Partners was recogMeasuring?” webinar and, also, joined izations committed to sustainable nized for our leadership in corporate development and social well-being. The PRI provides a global standard for responsible investing through a set of six principles relating to ESG factors. Members support the optimum long-term A and A+ score interests of investors, financial markets, of Abris’ PRI report the economy, the environment and society as a whole. For our PRI public report, we received a high A and A+ score. Invest Europe is the main information source for the venture capital and private equity industries. Abris co-founder George Swirski is a member of the Invest Europe Mid-Market Platform. Robert Sroka, Abris ESG Director, sits on the Invest Europe Responsible Investment Round Table. 26 27 Abris as a responsible and active owner Abris Capital Partners ESG Report 2019 | Abris as a responsible and active owner panies using suppliers from countries with a high risk of human rights violations require specific certificates monitor and facilitate progress toward inclusion and diversity within the workforce. 100% and audits in this area. number of portfolio The key principles of our responsibilities Amongst the many of social issues Particular consideration is devoted to companies trained in assessed, we pay strict attention to Health & Safety. Abris recognizes that machinery safety are robust and primarily people oriented. Human Resources, Health & Safety, the provision of basic employee procompliance Product/Service Safety and social entection measures and the eliminaWe maintain a two-way flow of ESG information gagement issues. In the social arena, tion of accidents are key elements of between Abris and our portfolio companies, we are managing risk and building building a Health & Safety culture. For value by using over 150 measures. example, we recommend reporting working with them to identify potential ESG process procedures for near misses to those We expect our portfolio companies companies in the production indusenhancements across all business activities. to incorporate comprehensive Hutry. “Safety at work” also means “safe man Resources processes, formalwork tools.” That is why we conductize topics such as working hours, ed a training on machinery safety overtime, salaries, holidays, the right compliance in 2019. to associate, outsourcing, labor law compliance and to counteract mobbing/sexual abuse. We also closely Environment long term. In 2019, following TCFD and systems, new investments to reduce PRI, we upgraded our ESG Scoring Tool to advance the management energy consumption, new technologies and innovative product packagCorporate The Corporate Governance Model is important to us for many reasons. Our Responsible Investment Policy gives guidelines on identifying enviof emerging risks and opportunities. Moreover, Abris implemented the ing to reduce waste. governance Primarily, we see an insufficient level of corporate governance in the Cenronmental risks, ensuring legal compliance, minimizing negative impacts and contributing to a sustainable following: • • Training and workshops Tools for measuring carbon footAt Abris Capital Partners, we remain steadfast in our commitment to tral European region. This brings a number of management challenges, above all, putting negative pressure 1 world. print and analyzing the climate ethical corporate governance at our on potential exit valuations. Abris Corporate change risk companies and throughout the supGovernance Model There are 107 separate measures for • Pilot project to measure and set ply chain. This vow is expressed in our The Abris, Corporate Governance analyzing key environmental vulreduction goals in carbon footprint new Corporate Governance Model, Model: nerabilities. We examine emissions, developed by the Abris Corporate • Introduces an obligatory two-tier waste, energy & water consumpThese measures will be extended to Governance Committee in 2019. governance structure tion, soil pollution, climate change all portfolio companies from 2020. • Regulates work and interactions and environmental requirements We have also developed the first The model was a flagship project for of Supervisory and Management for companies and their suppliers. phase of a carbon footprint tool for Abris in 2019. Corporate governance Boards Based on the results, each company evaluating our entire portfolio of lays the foundation for effective • Gives clear guidance on areas receives an action plan. companies. Based on these results, a management and secures a relesuch as internal control, risk man100% net-zero strategy will be created for vant level of corporate oversight. Our agement, accounting, audit Climate change and greenhouse Abris and our companies. team is constantly raising the bar in • Sets the standards for preventing gas emissions are pressing chalEach portfolio company worked hard building strong and sustainable corcorruption, HR abuse, IT and cyberlenges for the planet. It is vital that to reduce their 2019 environmental porate cultures. We recognize that security we understand and mitigate these impact. These activities included improper governance: • Provides guidelines for implementportfolio companies risks and opportunities in the short to proving environmental management ing, developing, and supervising of covered by the Abris Corpo• Adds value through quantifiable corporate structure rate Governance Model performance (lower procurement costs) and qualitative measures The Corporate Governance Model Social treating them with dignity and respect. Abris examines human rights the risk is high, we introduce mechanisms and oversight to ensure • (valuation multiples) Constitutes an effective defense applies to all Abris portfolio companies. The scope of governance measissues in each portfolio company. accountability for any violations. mechanism against possible irregures includes business ethics, GDPR & Responsibility for social criteria beThrough ESG Scoring, we check the Portfolio companies have added huularities and crimes that may be cybersecurity, marketing, sanctions, gins with a commitment to upholdrisk of human rights violations for man rights compliance clauses to all committed by employees anti-monopoly legal compliance and ing the human rights of workers and every vendor in our supply chain. If partnership agreements. Those comanti-corruption. 30 31 Portfolio overview Fund II Abris Capital Partners ESG Report 2019 | Portfolio overview II Fund Key project: Better corporate governance In 2019, AURES Group continued its (i.e., anti-money laundering rules) in work on a durable internal ESG strucall countries of operations, a whistleture, introducing blowing policy and a Code of Ethics 1. a brand new set of internal regulafor employees and business partners. AURES Holdings tions and processes, Complex international operations 2. the function of Compliance Officer require effective supervision and and control. From the committee’s view28 yrs 54 86k 3. an ESG Committee, involving department heads from Internal Aupoint, it is most important to develop a strong internal audit function. Interdit, Legal, Human Resources, Public nal audits were carried out on proIn the market AAA AUTO used car outlets Used cars sold annually Relations and Operations. cesses that could potentially pose in Czech Republic, Slovakia, 2.4M The committee held regular meetsignificant risks. The resulting recContribution to the UN’s Poland and Hungary ings throughout the year. The ESG ommendations were implemented, sustainability goal 16 Committee has initiated updates of serving to strengthen and safeguard Customers served selected key internal regulations the shareholders’ value. The AURES Holdings Group has been annually and is the largest used car The company regularly ranks among active on the market for 28 years. It dealer in Central and Eastern Europe. the Czech Top 100 largest compaoperates a network of 54 AAA AUTO It also sells ‘nearly new’ cars under nies. The AAA AUTO and Mototechna used car outlets in the Czech Repubthe revived Mototechna brand. The brands are an official partner of the lic, Slovakia, Poland and Hungary. company intermediates various adtop Czech football league. Over its lifetime, it has served over ditional products and services, such 2.4 million customers. The group sells as consumer loans for car purchases approximately 86,000 used cars and TPL and CASCO car insurance. E We are firmly committed to operating sustainably, reducing our impact on climate change, S We are a socially responsible employer, fostering a culture of diversity and inclusion across our G We use our best efforts to build a culture dedicated to ethical business behavior and responsible conserving natural resources and business. HR is pushing the corporate corporate activity. To achieve our fully complying with environmental culture toward greater openness goals, we are introducing a comWe believe our commitment to pursuing regulations. We initiated a change to and transparency. We develop exterpliance system with clear rules for LED technology for outdoor lighting at nal and internal training programs, key areas and activities, focusing on ESG initiatives can be achieved existing branches to achieve energy support diverse work styles wherever data protection, an anti-bribery polsavings and set a higher standard for possible and create employee beneicy, a Code of Ethics and a whistlein parallel with building long-term our new branches. fit programs to promote professional blowing policy. and personal development. shareholders’ returns. As an innovative mobility provider ties for cost savings, risk mitigation with strong support in IT and technoland revenue growth. ogy, we recognize innovation as the best way for us to achieve growth in Karolína Topolová the years ahead. As such, ESG tools CEO Aures Holdings a.s. have become very useful in our efforts to increase operational efficiency, helping to identify the opportuni34 35 Abris Capital Partners ESG Report 2019 | Portfolio overview II Fund Key project: Effective compliance The most significant ESG project The company hired an internationof 2019 was the implementation of al, specialized firm Whistle B, an IT internal compliance regulations. solutions provider for anonymously Our efforts to maintain the greatest reporting violations. System operaCARGOUNIT possible scrutiny in compliance and tions began in May. business ethics led to preparation of clearly written procedures. PreBoth the compliance procedures and 17 yrs PLN 48.5M 470k cise regulations provide necessary protection for our image, managing a Whistle B manual were distributed to all employees following a proper legal and financial threats. The proworkshops and training. Of experience The amount of EU funding Horsepower for rent cess was preceded by Compliance Contribution to the UN’s 346k 171 Supervisor and Compliance Officer training. sustainability goal 16 Kilowatts for rent Locomotives for rent Industrial Division, owner of the in Europe and one of the few Polish and special cargo. The company Cargounit brand, has been operatentities offering a rolling stock lease owns two brands: Cargounit and ing on the market since 2003 in the independently of a vehicle manufacPowerunit. Cargounit handles freight acquisition, rental and maintenance turer. Industrial Division specializes in transport vehicles while Powerunit of rail rolling stock. It is one of the the petrochemical industry, as well covers passenger transport. largest ROSCO companies operating as in the transport of raw materials E Minor change technique. In 2019, various activities were undertakS Driving training. Most employees use cars as a part of their duties. G Gift policy. Following the implementation of compliance proESG helps us to steer the company en to reduce our long-term impact To increase safety, we organized a cedures, we supplemented it with gift on the environment: installing a new safe driving training in December at policy. All employees and members in a way that meets our financial goals garbage sorting system, using glassthe Skoda Center in Poznań. Particiof the company’s governing bodies es rather than plastic cups, avoiding pants were given instruction in comwere informed of the responsibilities and supports society and the planet. unnecessary printing (paperless mon and dangerous traffic situations and resulting obligations. Supervisory Board meetings), etc. under controlled conditions and learned useful techniques on how to handle them. As the person responsible for the financial goals and supports socieperformance of the company, I conty and the planet. We are happy to sider implementation of ESG to be a contribute to the greener economy must. This is highlighted by the curthrough rail transport. We are also a rent turmoil that we are facing due proud sponsor of Weronika Baszak, to the COVID-19 pandemic. As the the young Polish tennis player who company builds value for shareholdreached the Junior Girls’ Singles Final ers, we never forget our responsibilat the Australian Open in 2020. ities to all stakeholders: our shareholders, employees, their families, our Łukasz Boroń community in Wrocław and society CEO Industrial Division. Sp. z o.o. in general. ESG helps us to steer the company in a way that meets our 36 37 Abris Capital Partners ESG Report 2019 | Portfolio overview II Fund Key project: Health & Safety Management System When Dot2Dot was formed by the We began by using a safety alert merger of independent manufacform to create a reporting system turers, many standards, solutions for accidents and near misses. The and procedures varied from factory results of the reports were then used DOT2DOT to factory. The health and safety of to develop robust preventive acour employees has always been a tion plans. We also provided first aid priority for the management team. training for 30 employees, published 30 yrs 450 2.5B To create a consistent Health & Safety Management System (HSMS), we an accidents manual and implemented Health & Safety training began by aggregating the number of procedures. In the market Employees Packages produced annually accidents and resulting lost days. During the first quarter of 2020, the Contribution to the UN’s The new HSMS system was based system successfully achieved a 70% sustainability goal 8 Dot2Dot is a leader in the premium personal care to alcohol, food and tion facilities are located in 3 plants upon the Training Within Industry reduction in average days lost per packaging sector in Poland. For over non-food products. We consistently with over 450 employees and a total Job Safety program. This program accident. We will continue develop30 years, we have produced packdeliver the most innovative and annual output capacity of 2.5 billion creates a simple and logical frameing the Health & Safety Management aging of the highest quality across sophisticated packaging solutions packages. work from which supervisors prevent System as we further improve the a range of sectors from beauty and to top global brands. Our producaccidents by learning how to analyze safety culture within all of our factotheir root causes and eliminate them ries. before they happen. We believe that a company E At Dot2Dot, our environmental policy is based on continually improving production through the S We aim to constantly develop our employees’ skills and to ensure agreeable working condiG Protection and recovery of networks, devices and programs from a cyberattack was our main not only needs to generate profits, use of modern and environmentaltions. Last year, we expanded the focal point in 2019. We created new ly friendly technologies, as well as motivation system for our employpolicies to strengthen the prevenbut also needs to influence the sustainable materials such as paper ees by implementing new healthtion and handling of data loss. These with PEFC and FSC certificates. In 2019, care programs. We instituted a Skills included setting network permissions ecosystem in a positive way. all of our factories implemented a Matrix for workers and added clear and policies for both data storage new waste segregation process, aljob descriptions for all positions and backups. We also upgraded aplowing us to reduce waste by 12%. We within the organization. Completing plication security, including antivirus have already begun work on carbon the Skills Matrix and discussing the programs and encryption, across the footprint measurements and soluresults helps employees gain insight company. Another top priority in our tions to help us further reduce neginto their own competencies. It helps cybersecurity program was educatative environmental impact. We are employees become more aware ing the end-user and providing trainalso developing innovative product of the particular skills they need to ing in how to follow best practices. Therefore, ESG is a fundamental part high standards of working conditions ideas in the form of environmentally do their job well. Based on our Skills of the Dot2Dot long-term strategy. for our employees. Our ESG approach friendly cardboard packaging that Matrix work, we also established a Our aim is to recognize potential is one of the primary methods we will be at least 75% biodegradable. training program in each factory. We ESG benefits and provide them to use to bring value to the company. can already see the results reflected all stakeholders, local communities in the employee turnover rate. In the and to the environment. We care Krzysztof Rosłaniec second half of the year, turnover was about sustainable development and CEO Dot2Dot 10% lower and it decreased by anothtransparency throughout every area er 51% in the first quarter of 2020. of our operations. We wish to be a desirable employer by maintaining 38 39 Abris Capital Partners ESG Report 2019 | Portfolio overview II Fund Key project: Circular Buzau Plastic pollution is one of the most tion chains to increase systems significant challenges of our time adaptability, and Green Group is pioneering a 5. New business models for produccleaner future by taking sustainable tion, distribution and consumption Green Group action. Circular Buzau was initiated to shift consumer behavior from by Green Group in partnership with ownership to services, the Circular Economy Coalition, Bu6. More closely targeted logistics sys360k tons €170M 2.5k zau Municipality and the Institute for Circular Economy (IRCEM). tems through offering dedicated services, 7. Social systems evolve to contribute Waste recycled annually Consolidated turnover Employees The project’s goal is to identify the toward the protection of ecosysseven principles of the circular econtems and the restoration of natural Contribution to the UN’s omy and decide how to implement capital. sustainability goal 11 Green Group is a major player in the types of waste, from PET to glass, Baltic countries and headquartered them in Buzau: European recycling industry market, from batteries and bulbs to WEEE in Romania. With a 2019 consolidated 1. All materials enter a sustainable The municipality wants to stimulate integrating five companies to reduce equipment. The group produces susturnover of €170 million and more reuse loop, economic activity, research and Buzau will become the first circular pollution and keep materials in use tainable products such as: r-PET, synthan 2500 employees, the group 2. All energy comes from renewable innovation. Therefore, the Buzau Circity in Romania with an infrastrucby closing the recycling loop and thetic polyester fiber and PET strap. has embraced a circular economy sources, cular Working Group will carry out an ture that encourages the use of conserving resources and energy. We have capacities to recycle over model to create a more sustainable, 3. Resources (financial, implemenanalysis of all citywide activities and renewable and non-polluting energy Green Group companies specialize in 360,000 tons annually. Our main faefficient and resilient future. tation or materials) can generate map the main infrastructure flows. sources to facilitate a cleaner, more the recycling and recovery of various cilities are located in the CEE/SEE and added value, The research results will be applied to pleasant urban environment for citi4. Modular and flexible product the opportunities and challenges of zens and stakeholders. design and reimagined produccreating a circular city. Green Group is like a forest. E In October 2019, Greentech SA retired 15 VERs (Voluntary EmisS The ‘Pay With PET’ campaign was financed and organized in Buzau G Active Directory Implementation. The main purpose of this It makes a positive contribution to the sion Reduction) on behalf of OMV by Green Resources Management project is to effectively consolidate Petrom for the carbon offset of the SA in collaboration with its partners: security and control, to assure unineconomy, our community and, National Convention OMV PETROM, Buzau City Hall, Carrefour Romania terrupted access, business continuity Sinaia. Greentech has over 62,500 and RER Sud SA Buzau. From Novemand recovery in cases of emergenultimately, the environment. VERs obtained through a CO2 emisber 8-17, 2019, the residents of Buzau cy. The project has three important sion reduction project with help from exchanged PET bottles for fruits dimensions addressing standardized the Gold Standard International Orand vegetables sourced from local network infrastructure, hardware and ganization, using the United Nations producers. The campaign included software. During 2019, we put in place Framework Convention on Climate the promotion of the Yellow Bag for a project description and action plan. We started our journey in 2002 in importantly, they are loyal – we pride Change (UNFCCC) methodology: collecting recyclable waste. The purThis was approved and financed. ImRomania and have since grown into ourselves on a high retention rate of Recovery and recycling of materipose of ‘Pay With PET’ was to reduce plementation was begun in Decema pivotal recycling presence in the personnel. We also try to improve the als from solid wastes. The project is improperly deposited plastic packber after purchasing the core items Baltic and Central & South-Eastern lives of the people in our community now available on the Gold Standard aging and direct it into a responsifor equipment and software. Europe. With over 360,000 tons/year with what we know best. That is why platform. ble circuit of reducing, reusing and capacity for recycling various types we have a committed team engagrecycling. A record 36,000 PETs were of waste, we save over 100,000 tons/ ing with local and national authoricollected, as well as 8.11 tons of fruits CO2 emissions annually, being the ties to rapidly develop circularity, i.e., and vegetables exchanged. Buzau first plant in Europe certified Gold Circular Buzau – the first circular city was ranked in the top 3 cities in the Standard for reducing CO2 emissions in Romania. national tour organized by Carrefour. throughout our operations. We value The people of Buzău proved that our greatest asset, our employees, Constantin Damov the small choices we make each who are highly skilled and committed CEO Green Group day can sustain a healthy planet for to our group Code of Conduct. Most tomorrow. 40 41 Abris Capital Partners ESG Report 2019 | Portfolio overview II Fund Key project: Safety first Investing in new buildings and As for internal fire protection, we modern equipment makes no sense installed fireproof panels in all the unless you can ensure their longcontrol rooms in the feed and premix term, safe use. The construction of additive factories. In 2019, the feed PATENT CO. new silos for grains and oilseeds and premix factories were also storage necessitated fire protection equipped with the most modern fire at the highest possible level. Last alarm system available, as well as a 27 yrs 150k tons 58 year, we drilled a well and built a 100m3 reservoir to provide a secure gas leak detection system. supply for the water hydrant network. In terms of prevention, all employees In the market Feed produced annually Operated countries We became completely independent received the annual fire protection from the city supply system, which training and we conducted a fire Contribution to the UN’s is unstable. Now, fire extinguishers simulation to check the response of sustainability goal 8 PATENT CO. is an animal nutrition panies. Annually, we produce more of naturally based products to offer have the necessary water presemployees in emergency situations. company with a strong focus on than 150,000 tons of premixes, prosustainable and effective solutions sure to reach a fire at tremendous Our close collaboration with local quality and development of innotein-concentrates and compound for current and emerging problems heights. Powerful aggregates provide fire brigades and their high state of vative products. We started manfeed for the regional market along in pig, poultry and ruminants prohydrants with water under high operational readiness further ensure ufacturing products and providing with a portfolio of feed additives for duction. Our know-how is constantly pressure, even during a power failure. safety at our facilities in Mišićevo. solutions for the livestock Industry the international market. PATENT CO. improving by working together with Also, we installed a completely new from a small factory in Serbia in 1993. employs experienced nutrition and farmers the world over, along with hydrant network throughout the facSince that time, we have grown to health specialists with considerable co-operating with leading academic tory grounds. become a key animal feed producer expertise in providing practical soluinstitutions. From 2019, our products in our region and one of the world’s tions to poultry producers. One of our are present in 58 countries on all most respected feed additives comkey objectives is to develop a range continents. E PATENT CO. has always sought to ensure that our products S As a company with “quality” in its motto, we are constantG To ensure legal compliance when entering new markets, A company’s success is intrinsically tied are beneficial and safe for animals, ly improving quality control of our we have implemented a background cost-effective and sustainable. products. In 2019, we installed High check procedure for potential busito its ability to navigate changes We enthusiastically endorsed the Performance Liquid Chromatography ness partners. The first step is to redecision to focus on ecology in 2019, (HPLC) for daily analysis of vitamins view all available online information. in the communities on which it relies. especially to reduce greenhouse gas in vitamin-mineral premixes. We also Then we consult with the national emissions. The first step was measurimplemented a new Quality Policy authorities in order to get complete ing our carbon footprint. We discov(regarding quality and safety of and accurate information about the ered that the manufacturing process animal feed and premixtures) and company, its actual owners, related and supply chain needed the most a new Complaints Policy. We took companies and relevant people. Companies are more interdependadapt to emerging ESG trends and improvement. We designed an our expertise to the fields, as we now After that, we review the databases ent than ever, supply chains are challenges in the societies to which upgrade to the packing process by monitor mycotoxin levels in grains at of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the more complex and interconnected we belong. We need that flexibility to applying a thin layer of biodegradaseveral sites before harvest. We were Republic of Serbia, European Comthan ever, social and environmental respond to key future trends, global ble glue, thereby stabilizing the bags among the first in the world to sucmission and Security Council of the tensions are more visible than in the developments and changing market on the pallet and eliminating plastic cessfully implement the new FAMI-QS United Nations, to determine whether past, while regulation is accelerating requirements. We are convinced stretch film packing. We added new Feed Fraud Prevention and Defense any states, persons or entities are to address growing imbalances bethat companies must always act trucks of a higher emission class and Module, thereby mitigating the risk of under sanctions. Also, we take actween corporate success and social responsibly, seek the public’s trust replaced our LPG-powered forklifts feed fraud and terrorism. count of USA sanctions. While they do needs. Environment, social, and govand remain open to continuous with modern electric forklifts. We subnot pertain to us, their presence can ernance was more prominent than improvement to be successful in the stantially increased the sale of bulk cause major problems (banks refusever in 2019, as issues such as climate long term. animal feed, reducing the amount of ing money transfers, carriers refusing change and corporate responsibility packaging required. This year, we will to deliver goods, etc.). appeared worldwide on a daily basis. Radivoje Perovic be working to further reduce energy Our success reflects our ability to CEO PATENT CO. and water consumption. 42 43 Abris Capital Partners ESG Report 2019 | Portfolio overview II Fund Key project: Reducing of CO2 emissions for inbound pulp logistics by using “smart” transport PEHART TEC GRUP S.A. annually two different transportation routes: consumes approx. 105,000 tons of inland rivers and intermodal trans100% FSC certificated pulp at its two port. Thereby, giving us a range of production facilities in Romania. options within a diversified transport Pehart Tec Three out of four of the pulp types mix while reducing emissions. used in the production varnish are purchased from the Scandinavian The project is fully implemented and 100 yrs 50 yrs 312% Peninsula, the Iberian Peninsula or South America and represent 60% of has the following results: 1. During 2019, a total of 46,600 tons the total pulp consumption. were loaded in Vlissingen (NL) and Of tradition in paper For tissue paper and finite sale growth compared transported to our production manufacture products with 2016 To reduce our impact on climate facilities using river barges or inContribution to the UN’s sustainability goal 13 Pufina 90% change, we optimized the logistics termodal transport, while a total of for long routes in order to lower CO2 12,200 tons where purchased from emissions and service costs, increase Finland and transported using the 2nd place on Romanian coverage of the Romanian reliability and achieve a high level of Nordic transport channel, sustainability. 2. The new strategy, when measured market market against the previous road transIn 2019, we chose Vlissingen Pulp portation, has reduced our CO2 Terminal as the key hub for pulp emissions by 3,100 tons. Pehart Group is the largest tissue ganization with an excellent geooperates on two production sites transactions. This offers us access to producer in SEE and the largest tissue graphical position to cover the entire located in Petresti (Alba County) and converter in Romania. The company region including Romania, Hungary, Dej (Cluj County) with sufficient tissue has grown from an entrepreneurial Slovakia, Ukraine, Serbia, Croatia, capacity to cover further growth in business to a professionally run orBulgaria and Greece. The group converting. E IFS-HPC Certification. Our products have been IFS-HPC certified since 2014 and year-by-year we S Measuring noise at the Petresti site. Our oldest company site is in a residential area of Petrești, so G Implementing a security system, electronic timekeeping and a data network for the Dej site. consistently raise our standards to we are adding extra measures to In 2019, this project strengthened our At Pehart, we prioritise the safety align with client and auditor expecprevent disturbances. Each year we Health & Safety and fire protection, tations. In 2019, a new team of audiconduct measurements at up to 20 production, security (including emof our people, the quality & safety of tors from DNV-GL carried out a 5-day points on the site. Some measureployees and assets), HR and cyberinspection. Following the visit and ments in 2019 slightly exceeded the security. We upgraded surveillance our products and sustainability for interviews, we are proud to say that limits, so we prepared a noise reduccameras, image storage in parwe received a rating of 98.5 points, a tion plan which included transport ticular. The entire site security was our growth. higher rating than the previous year. limits during nights and holidays, improved, including: hard to access speed limits, usage of electric forklifts areas around equipment, an intruand ramps and equipment-mounted sion alarm system with motion sennoise reducers. Our biggest prosors, access control and timekeeping ject for 2020 is a study for installing based on proximity cards and license sound-absorbing panels. plate recognition, in-plant computer data network (tissue, converting, warehouses), data network for manWe are also committed to guidal player with respect for the enviufacturing equipment. ing the paper business to a new ronment and ethical business. standard of ethical, environmentally friendly development as we enter Gabriel Stanciu new foreign markets and to strengthCEO Pehart Tec Grup ening our position as a major region44 45 Portfolio overview Fund III Abris Capital Partners ESG Report 2019 | Portfolio overview III Fund Key project: TISAX Implementation The Trusted Information Security has been introduced. Our employees Assessment Exchange (TISAX) has regularly receive training, including been the standard for the German cybersecurity. Also, an external ISMS automotive industry since 2018. audit was carried out by an accreditCADM Automotive TISAX compliance expands CADM’s ed auditor. The audit returned a posipresence on the German automotive appraisal of our compliance with tive market. The TISAX standard has high security standards: assessment 5 177 1,321,128 proven the quality of our information security procedures. We have level 3 for Information with Very High Protection Needs and Connection reviewed 26 company policies and to 3rd Parties with High Protection Employees in 2012 Employees in 2020 Design hours worked associated procedures. A new busiNeeds. ness continuity management policy Contribution to the UN’s sustainability goal 16 Since 2018 CADM Automotive Group exhaust systems, sealing systems, CADM Automotive operates both has combined three business divilamps, sheet metal and vehicle domestically and internationally sions: CADM Automotive sp. z o.o., bodies & interiors. CADM is based on (Germany, in particular). Foreign CADOR Consulting sp. z o.o. and the belief that steadily innovating contractors constitute over 80% of DES ART sp. z o.o. CADM Automotive of trend-setting solutions, delivering the company’s business. Our clients is a leader in automotive systems outstanding quality and astutely include 30 of the largest, most adengineering. Our range of expertise investing into emerging areas of vanced and prestigious automotive includes specialized, high-caliber client demand are the determinants companies in the world. Our mission engineering services (R&D, design, of global success. Design projects is to design safe, lightweight soluproduction, modeling) for automoare the most profitable field for the tions from environmentally friendly tive and railway original equipment company. However, we also provide materials while reducing materials manufacturers. We use an intercomprehensive services in prototypconsumption. This, in turn, allows us disciplinary approach to develop ing, tool production, optical analysis to improve the production process innovative components, modules, systems and fault-free assembly for the automotive industry in a varieand analysis of tolerance chains, as well as, tolerances and gaps (GD&T consultations). by using less milling time and steel, lowering costs and assembly time and optimizing the use of space. E The main reason we introduced office water dispensers was to minimize the number of plastic S One of the measures of successful staff recruitment is a rapid response to incoming CVs and G We had three internal audits last year at CADM Automotive Sp. z o.o.: ty of applications: interior finishing, bottles in use. It was also influenced applications. This allows us to quickly 1. networks, workstations and servers, by our employees, who suggested select candidates and schedule information security analysis and CADM Automotive provides unique services to installing dispensers due to their interviews in advance of the compedata protection processing, concern for the environment. The tition. Therefore, we chose to use ATS 2. protective data processing and our customers. From day one, we have strongly decision was based on the following software in order to save time when 3. external control processes and criteria: creating a positive environmanaging recruitment and hiring. services, including monitoring and adhered to a unique set of values. mental impact by eliminating plastic E-Recruiter enables total automation assessment of their risk to data waste and reducing costs through a of our recruitment process and is security. fixed monthly fee. GDPR compliant. The software quickly To ensure business continuity, CADM registers all applications, automatAutomotive has updated emergency Our values are key criteria for all all guarantee CADM’s quality. Quality ically assigning them to specific repolicies and procedures: Business CADM employees during their daily to us symbolizes the engineering cruiters responsible for their verificaContinuity Management Policy; challenges and interactions with our services we provide and, importanttion and contacting the candidates. Crisis and Emergency Management customers, but these values also ly, the ecosystem we have created. E-Recruiter also has security with a Procedure; Disaster Recovery Plan help to shape the internal ecosystem ESG summarizes and reinforces our strength comparable to online bankprocedure; Procedure for conducting we have built over the years. This is values by giving us an opportunity to ing: it has a special password policy business continuity tests. why customers often share their spebetter extend our code of conduct to and guarantees the protection of cific and confidential R&D knowledge all locations. candidate data using SSL encryption with us, trusting in our professionaland enhanced layers of security. ism and code of conduct. We believe Michał Laska that trust, accountability, communiCEO CADM Automotive cation, responsibility and creativity 48 49 Abris Capital Partners ESG Report 2019 | Portfolio overview III Fund Key project: Professionalization raising HR management standards This project includes: support and To extend the HR framework of Graal development of top managers in Capital Group, procedures have their current roles, support of embeen implemented for the following ployees and leaders in their actions processes: recruitment, employment Graal to promote efficiency and rapidly & on-boarding, training, talent manachieve goals, creating HR tools agement (leadership and expert), and systems as well as supporting appraisal interviews, termination 220M 4 2k increased efficiency, maintaining and developing a friendly working of cooperation. Standardization of these processes has contributed to atmosphere. To implement these better efficiency, as well as building Cans per year Production plants Employees objectives, we have introduced the the “One-face” GC Graal approach. following: Contribution to the UN’s • Graal Capital Group values To drive purposeful management of sustainability goal 8 GRAAL S.A. is the No. 1 producer of USA & Canada to South Africa, Europe gluten-free and low glycemic (safe • Code of Ethics Policies and Whisefficiency improvements, we have canned fish in Europe and the largto Australia & New Zealand and in for diabetics) options as part of our tleblowing System (Policies: introduced: the Manager’s toolpost at risk / critical positions, an exit est, fastest-growing fish processor Japan. We specialize in a wide range healthy product range. Our goal is Anti-Mobbing, Discrimination and box (department org. chart, KPI, job interview and an employer branding in Poland. The Company operates of fish products that provide many be the leading firm in Europe, build a Sexual Abuse, Anti-Forced Labour descriptions, processes, risk assessstrategy. from four modern production plants vitamins and minerals essential to sustainable business using our enviand Child Labour, Anti-Fraud and ment, employee appraisal system), a in northern Poland. Our products can a healthy diet, including Omega-3 ronmental resources responsibly and Corruption) lean matrix for job evaluation, a new be found on the shelves of all major fatty acids and vitamins A, B12 and to create strong relationships with • Graal Capital Group Leadership remuneration system (annual, quarinternational retail chains, from the D. In addition, we offer specialty local communities. Academy terly, monthly bonuses with attitude • Introduction of HR processes appraisal), a competence model, • Key HR Management Tools job descriptions, succession plan / Sustainability and social responsibility E Cost optimization and the reduction of environmental S Graal Capital Group Leadership Academy. An indispensable G Code of Ethics. Ethical behaviors determine the rules of conare an integral part of our approach impact & natural gas consumption in element of the professionalization duct in the Graal Capital Group. For the steam boiler plant. In 2019, Graal process supporting top managethis reason, the Code of Ethics, new to strategic objectives. purchased, replaced and adjusted ment in building attitudes and skills. policies and a whistleblowing system two burners for boilers in the steam Development Academy is devoted were created. Five implementation plant. This helped us achieve full to leadership and team building, meetings were held, to familiarize efficiency and synergy of burner opdelivering KPIs, communication and all of our employees with the ethical erations. A 9% decrease in year-onproblem-solving. There were 74 workrules of Graal and the functionalities year gas consumption was recorded, shop participants and 28 employees of whistleblowing. An instructional including a 4% decrease attributed to received on-the-job coaching. An film was produced that is now shown Last year marked a big step in furunderstand the seriousness of the the burner replacements. important aim of the program was to all employees. In fact, every new ther improving how we employ ESG impact our actions could have on to understand the psychological employee receives training on the standards in our company. At Graal, the local community, our clients and aspects of situational behavior. FurCode of Conduct, policies and whiswe know the importance of appropriour business partners. We mainthermore, participants worked with tleblowing system. Annual training in ately responding to our employees’ tained our strategy of investing in management support tools (emotion the above-mentioned fields is manneeds in building good, trustwornew production technologies that remanagement, motivational tools, datory for each employee. thy relationships. We put greater duce strain on the local environment, conversational structures, setting emphasis on raising HR principles staging a further 6% decline in our SMART goals, SWOT analysis, commuin the development of our organicarbon footprint. We appreciate our nication coherence). zation, mainly through expanding responsibilities and we will be sure to Graal Leadership Academy to new keep them as our guiding principles. management levels, improving HR processes and deploying new manBogusław Kowalski agement tools. At the same time, we CEO Graal S.A. 50 51 Abris Capital Partners ESG Report 2019 | Portfolio overview III Fund Key project: TUV Neauvia devices certificate, FDA approval Product quality is of critical imThe Quality Management System, portance in the Biomedical sector. in accordance with the European Medical devices must meet the standard ISO 13485: 2016, guarantees highest standards, ensuring their the professional and effective Quality ITP safety, quality, effectiveness and Control System at every stage of performance. Every Matex Lab Group the manufacturing process and the product meets all required standards supervision of devices sold to the end 14 yrs 62 2078 and is CE certified. Our production sites meet the highest ISO standards, user. certified by reputable, recognized The high quality standard of our In the market Distributors Worldwide Customers in Poland organizations. Matex Lab Spa (Italy) products is further supported by our and Berger & Kraft Medical (Pointernational product registrations. Contribution to the UN’s land) have each been awarded the Neauvia injectable fillers have been sustainability goal 16 Matex Lab / ITP was established in have three manufacturing sites: two third-party medical devices for CE Certificate in accordance with registered in 45 countries world2006 as an innovative distribution in Italy and one in Poland. aesthetic medicine with a brand Directive 93/42/EEC and the Quality wide. Most recently we achieved our company of aesthetic medicine and The company operates in two main portfolio including Cynosure, Alma Certificate in accordance with ISO US FDA product registration for the medical devices in Poland, rapidly areas: Lasers, Deka, Storz, LPG, Pollogen 13485:2016 for the design and develmedical devices Zaffiro and Plasma emerging as a leading supplier. In • NEAUVIA aesthetic premium brand and many others, and in the wellopment, manufacture, distribution IQ. early 2012, the company took the with own produced HA fillers using ness and fitness industry with the and service of medical devices. The strategic decision to expand internaour patented PEG technology, adTechnogym brand assessment of compliance was cartionally with our own aesthetic medvanced electro-medical aesthetic ried out by ISS Italy and TUV Rheinicine products and devices targeting devices, a wide range of cosmeOur products always represent land Poland. the medical sector. Today, Matex Lab ceuticals and dietary supplements premium quality and guarantee is present in over 60 countries with • EBD (Energy based devices) in the safety and efficiency of patient direct sales offices in Poland, SwitzerPoland, as a leading supplier of therapies. land, USA, Italy, France and Spain. We patented laser technologies and S The ESG journey for Matex Lab has begun. Firstly, the Management created a strong base by G A crucial project for the organization’s future ESG development is the introduction of numerous We empower our customers to proactively, standardizing corporate governance, security measures for cybersecurity introducing anti-bribery/corruption and GDPR safety. We chose to inteholistically and effectively take control procedures and preparing for a grate key systems by implementing whistleblowing program. Corporate multi-layered security provided by of their ageing process from the inside out. governance will be further supported the Microsoft Azure cloud platform. by transparent workforce communications and employee trainings. Taking control of the aging process The company’s vision is to always requires a combination of the best maintain the best quality of comfrom all the sciences in order to make ponents, processes, quality control a difference. Our brands represent systems, marketing and scientific the highest quality and constitute support for our products. Our vision a guarantee of safety and effecpropels us toward the most suctiveness, confirmed by our top-level cessful outcomes in the international accreditation awards. We provide a marketplace. disruptive, innovative approach to our products, always supported by Gabriele Drigo scientific and clinical data. Our unique CEO ITP S.A. products combine therapies to support age-prevention from within. 52 53 Abris Capital Partners ESG Report 2019 | Portfolio overview III Fund Key project: Carbon footprint management Mg CO2e/Mg tissue and finished goods 1,0 [Mg CO2e/Mg] 0,8 0,6 Velvet CARE 0,4 0,2 0 2014 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 123 yrs 700 100k tons In 2019, Velvet CARE measured a car3. Other indirect emissions from bon footprint for the entire organizasuppliers’ use of raw materials, raw Paper factory Employees Cellulose produced annually tion. The carbon footprint is the total materials transport, waste mansum of greenhouse gas emissions agement, products transport and Contribution to the UN’s caused directly or indirectly by the business travel. sustainability goal 13 Velvet CARE is a leading manufacturan iconic brand, is the undisputed lines, two new warehouses and, most company. This was calculated in er of cellulose hygiene goods with a market leader in Poland. Velvet CARE importantly, a new state-of-the-art three ranges: Velvet CARE has been working to increase production efficiency by workforce of nearly 700, mainly locatis also an important supplier of pritissue machine. In 2019, the company reduce greenhouse gas emissions reducing electricity consumption per ed in Klucze and Warsaw. The Klucze vate label products for the CEE and focused on an Eco Strategy and M&A 1. Direct emissions resulting from since 2016. Our initial effort was the ton of tissue paper. These measures paper factory, in southern Poland, DACH regions. From 2013 to 2019, the process that has been completed the combustion of stationary fuel installation of a new paper masucceeded in reducing greenhouse has been in operation since 1897 and company implemented 4 strategic with the acquisition of Moracell (CZ), sources, mainly gas boiler plants chine with a gas boiler located to gas emissions by 70% over a 5-year currently has an annual capacity of projects worth PLN 300 million, includthe leading tissue product producer and forklifts burning LPG gases reduce the amount of gas needed to period. The company has currently 100,000 tons of cellulose. Velvet CARE, ing installation of 7 new production in the Czech market. 2. Indirect emissions resulting from produce steam. In 2018, we installed prepared a plan to further reduce the consumption of imported another gas boiler room for an older gas emissions in 2020. electricity tissue machine. We worked hard to We sincerely believe that ESG standards E In 2019, the Management Team at Velvet CARE set up the S As a socially responsible company, in 2019, we found ways of G In 2019, Velvet CARE introduced our Anti-Corruption Policy and are among the key drivers Sustainable Development Strategy raising employee awareness of ESG the Code of Ethical Conduct. These called “Eco Agenda 2025 – Achieve projects. In particular, we focused documents specify the required of the company’s value and we are More with Less.” The strategy expresson establishing and reinforcing a standards of behavior for Velvet es our concern about the planet and clear, transparent set of rules for CARE employees both within the orvery ambitious in introducing them. is a milestone for the organization in business behavior. We introduced ganization and in their relations with creating an environmentally friendly the Code of Ethical Conduct. Emour partners and clients. Retaining landscape. The initiatives listed in the ployee workshops regarding the new the highest standards of cybersecustrategy are grouped in three main Code of Ethical Conduct focused on rity during periods of intense growth pillars: product, organisation and understanding practical application requires constant updating and The introduction of ESG standards priorities in 2019 were as follows: an inspiration. while providing a chance for emmaintenance. In 2019, we conducted at Velvet CARE was formally begun anti-corruption policy and Code of ployees to ask questions and voice a full security audit and strengthened in 2019 along with our cooperation Ethical Conduct, appointment of the doubts. To make it easy to report our cybersecurity substantially. We with Abris, although many standards Compliance Officer and Compliance irregularities and violations, we apare continuously identifying potential already had a longstanding history Committee, a new whistleblowing pointed a Compliance Officer and threats and eliminating them. We at Velvet CARE. We have plans to procedure. Additionally, we conductCompliance Committee and, also, also established a series of cyclical accelerate our transition to ESG over ed a complete measurement of the partnered with a specialized service cybersecurity training sessions for the next five years as a core strategic Velvet CARE carbon footprint and deprovider Linia Etyki. 2019 featured a employees. All of the above activities aim of our long-term “Velvet CARE veloped our new corporate strategy, strong emphasis on Health & Safety will continue in 2020. 2023” strategy. We sincerely believe “Eco Agenda 2025”. issues. Throughout the year, Velvet that ESG standards are among the CARE supported many local activities key drivers of the company’s value Artur Pielak promoting physical activity and a and we are very ambitious in inCEO Velvet CARE healthy lifestyle. troducing them. Our fully achieved 54 55 Abris Capital Partners ESG Report 2019 | Portfolio overview III Fund Key project: Fire protection Fire protection of buildings is critical 2. updating fire signage throughout to protect people and property in the the entire plant, event of a fire. It is especially impor3. construction of a 207m3 external tant at WDX, due to explosion hazard above-ground water tank for outWDX zones associated with our producdoor firefighting, tion. 4. replacement of hydrants. 25 yrs 350 2 To ensure the safety of our workers, we performed all necessary fire A fire drill was arranged with the participation of the State Fire Service. inspections (inspecting hand-held The evacuation of the entire factory In the market Employees Patent applications in 2019 fire-fighting equipment, performance took 5 minutes, all employees carried testing all hydrants, inspecting the out their tasks in line with the correct Contribution to the UN’s fire alarm system). Additionally, the procedures. sustainability goal 8 WDX S.A. has over 25 years of exdesign office, the R&D department WDX employs a workforce of 350 following major projects were impleperience in providing integrated and our modern factory (20,500 m2). people in six branches in Poland and mented in 2019: intralogistics automation solutions. WDX is also a distributor of forklifts for we are expanding our dealer net1. purchase of a gun washer for wet We manufacture and supply a verthree global brands: Crown, Comwork in Europe. Our current partners varnishing shops, with safety prosatile range of integrated solutions bilift and Doosan. Our new Europeoperate in Germany, France, Nortection features for explosion risk, for both warehouse equipment and an Service Center will open in 2020 way, Sweden, the Netherlands and storage and we design innovative with centralized servicing of new Hungary. logistics systems for internal materiand used trucks. This will drive the al flows. The high quality of the WDX dynamic development of our shortproducts and services comes from term rental business. the close cooperation between the E An energy efficiency audit was performed in 2019. All necessary S A new HR director was hired last year. The recruitment process G WDX S.A. nominated a Compliance Officer to oversee From our experience of growing the business, documents were submitted to the was improved, including upgrading legal and ethical issues while we Energy Regulatory Office. The comcommunications with candidates are meeting our business goals. The we recognize that true success is only reached pany has launched a new project to as the first step toward positioning Compliance Officer is responsible increase energy efficiency. WDX S.A. as an attractive employer, for managing compliance risk, so when you can sustain that growth. offering personal development and company activities comply with all career opportunities. internal and external regulations. For many years now, we have foenvironmental protection, corporate cused our strategies on maximizing governance, business ethics and the profits of the company and its working conditions. We consider emshareholders’ value. From our expeployees as our most valuable asset. rience of growing the business, we By incorporating ESG principles, we recognize that true success is only are sure to have the right people on reached when you can sustain that board to enable our company to growth. As the company’s growth operate at a lower cost, perform at a continues into new markets, adding higher level, and accelerate growth. new products and services, the organization must remain flexible and Dariusz Bąkowski agile. For that reason, we have begun CEO WDX S.A. to broaden our focus to include 56 57 Abris Capital Partners Abris Capital Partners continues to be a participant of the United Nations Global Compact Initiative, focusing on UNGC’s principles of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-corruption, which further emphasises the fund’s commitment to the integration of sustainability into all our businesses. This Report serves as the Group’s Communication on Progress 2019. The Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact Page number Human Rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally 11, 16, 18-24, 31, 51, 57 proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 11, 16, 18-24, 31 Labour Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective 16, 18-24, 31 recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 16, 18-24, 31 Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and 16, 18-24, 31 Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 16, 18-24, 31 Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental 16, 18-24, 30,39, 41,43, 55 challenges; Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 16, 18-24,30, 39, 41, 43, 55 Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 16, 18-24, 30, 39, 41,45, 51 Anti-Corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including 16, 18-24, 31, 37, 43 extortion and bribery. The information contained in the report refers to 2019 unless otherwise stated. Contact: Robert Sroka, ESG Director for CEE, e-mail: r.sroka@abris-capital.com DISCLAIMER This presentation (“Presentation”) was prepared by ABRIS-CEE Holdings Limited (the “Company”) for informational purposes only and no investment decisions should be made on its basis. It is not an investment instrument marketing material. It presents selected data regarding Abris Capital Group (the “Group”) in the scope of ESG and it neither derives from the Companies’ periodic reports nor has been independently verified. This Presentation contains statements regarding the future however, the Group’s financial position, business strategy, management plans and targets for future operations or ESG initiatives, shall be considered based on assumptions and therefore exposed to risks and uncertainty. Any forward-looking statements in this Presentation are not a guarantee as to future performance, financial position, business strategy, plans and objectives of the management of the Group companies. The Group’s historical results or events do not provide indication of future results or events. The Company does not undertake to publish any updates, changes or corrections to the Presentation. The only source regarding the financial results of the Group companies shall be current and periodic reports submitted by Group companies pursuant to their legal disclosure obligations. The Company does not undertake to publish any updates, changes or corrections to the Presentation. The only source regarding the financial results of the Group companies shall be current and periodic reports submitted by Group companies pursuant to their legal disclosure obligations. 58
