COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2020 2018 23 APRIL WISE GROUP AB (publ) 1 Continued support of UN Global Compact and its ten principles Wise Group continues to participate in joint initiatives at an international and national level and I am happy to reaffirm our support of United Nations Global Compact and its Ten Principles within the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and AntiCorruption which are based on international conventions. In this, our second annual Communication on Progress, we describe in what ways we continue to improve the integration of the ten principles into our business strategy as well as our culture and daily operations. We are committed to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Yours sincerely Ingrid Höög CEO 2 Human rights principles Assessment, policy and goals Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Commitment Wise Group respects and confirms its support for the Universal Declaration of human rights as well as the principles of Global Compact regarding human rights that are of utmost importance to our company as we operate within the field of HR in addition to following local laws on human rights in our operating countries Sweden, Finland and Denmark. Wise Groups goal is to be a role model to all its customers, suppliers and stakeholders and in that way encourage them to embrace the view on human rights. Policies, values and procedures Based on our commitment the following policies have been set up with the goal to be updated annually. Gender Equality & Diversity Policy Policy to Counter Discriminatory Treatment & Discrimination. The prevention anti-discrimination work portrays Wise Groups preventative and promotion work aimed at promoting equal rights and opportunities throughout Wise Group. The respect for each individual and the equal value of all human beings are fundamental to relationships. The document provides directives on how to manage and follow guidelines and laws in the area as well as clearly addressing what goals we all are responsible for working towards. Code of Conduct as an overall document with guidelines to the company’s board, management teams, employees, customers, suppliers and other stakeholders in regard to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Wise Group regularly reviews and monitors the application of its Code of Conduct. Our code of conduct is reflected in our daily operations, our core values and our company culture. It comes as an attachment to every agreement entered between Wise Group and future employees, customers, suppliers and other stakeholders to make our position clear and our approach indisputable. Wise Group Core Values Whistleblowing Policy Wise Group strives for transparency and a high level of business ethics. Our whistleblowing service enables to warn the company about suspicions of serious irregularities. Whistleblowing can be made openly or anonymous. The purpose is to encourage and facilitate whistleblowing to employees and external stakeholders, as well as ensure an adequate investigation procedure. There are two ways for external stakeholders to whistle blow: Contact the whistleblowing team with appointed persons authorized to handle cases of whistleblowing. Anonymous messages via the whistleblowing service. Measurement of outcomes Wise Group strives to achieve transparency and a high level of business ethics. Our whistleblowing service offers a possibility to alert the company about serious suspicions of misconduct in confidence. Since this service was put in place in 2018 no reports have been filed. I want to file a report 3 Labour principles Assessment, policy and goals Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Commitment Wise Group supports the principles of Global Compact regarding labour standards in addition to following local laws on labour rights in our operating countries Sweden, Finland and Denmark. Policies, values and procedures Wise Group has in addition to this created the following policies to encourage a healthy working environment: Working Environment Policy Benefits such as pension, Health Insurance, Insurance in case of Accident, travel Insurance Non-Discrimination & Anti-Harassment Policy An Employee Survey is being sent out once a year and two shorter versions, pulse-surveys twice a year. Measurement of outcomes • Result on the employee survey: 2019 2020 Benchmark Answer frequency 95 % 96 % 82 % Commitment 83 % 85 % 79 % Employee Net 46 % 47 % 11 % Promoter Score • Our whistleblowing service offers a possibility to alert the company about serious suspicions of misconduct in confidence. Since this service was put in place in 2018 no reports have been filed. I want to file a report 4 Environmental principles Assessment, policy and goals Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Commitment Wise Group supports the environmental principles of Global Compact. Policies, values and procedures Wise Group has in order to support the efforts in improving the environment put in place following policies: Travel Policy Environment and Sustainability policy Initiatives taken to improve the environment: • Partnership between Wise Group and M Volvo Cars “The promise of sustainability that smart car-sharing means for urban areas was one important factor when Wise Group decided to start a cooperation with M. The cars owned by the group were then also sold. This is in line with Wise Groups values to strive the transformation towards a more sustainable mobility in our cities.” Nathalie Berthelius Head of People & Culture Measurement of outcomes In 2013 Wise Group implemented a personalized printing key that each employee needs to use to be able to print out any documents. This, in order to be able to consciously minimize the amount of paper being printed every year and a way for us to measure this change of behaviour. Wise Group thus preventing routine and unnecessary printing. A 65% decrease in paper being used could be seen between 2012 to 2019 and the work to further minimize the use of paper is ongoing. 5 Anti-corruption principles Assessment, policy and goals Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Commitment Wise Group supports the anti-corruption principles of Global Compact in addition to following local laws on stock trading. Policies, values and procedures Wise Group has in order to prevent any form of corruption put in place following policies: Shareholding Policy Gifts Policy Measurement of outcomes Our whistleblowing service offers a possibility to alert the company about serious suspicions of misconduct in confidence. Since this service was put in place in 2018 no reports have been filed. I want to file a report 6
