DIETSMANN CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 www.dietsmann.com SMART MAINTENANCE SOLUTIONS FOR CONTINUOUS PRODUCTION PLANT DIETSMANN CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 TABLE OF CONTENTS Introduction from the CEO 6 Company profile 9 I Social responsibility 10 Health & Safety 10 Health 10 Mosquitoes-borne diseases 10 Medical check-ups 12 Safety 12 Safety culture program 12 Dietsmann Group Safety Indicators 13 Quality 17 Certification 17 Quality awareness 17 Human Resourses 17 General policy  17 HR tools software  18 HR dashboard  18 Recruitment 18 Training & Development 19 Investing in training 19 Knowledge sharing 20 Training customized to clients’ operational needs 21 Training evaluation 23 Promoting employees’ career development  24 ICMS campaign employees’ appraisal  25 Valorization of diversity  26 Gender equity  26 Generation equity  27 Nationalization plan 27 4 II Ethics and compliance 29 Preventing disasters and failures 29 Organization 29 Corporate Governance 29 Code of Conduct 30 Sustainability 30 Respecting the legality principle 32 Centralized compliance to ensure business-unit control 32 III Environmental impact 33 Environment 33 World Environment Day 35 Avoid pollution 36 IV Local content and social activities 37 Local content 37 Local purchases 37 Supporting human capacity development 37 Community development initiatives 38 Managing social impact 42 V Environmental, Social and Governance (E.S.G) 43 VI Corporate Social Responsibility overview table 44 5 INDEX INTRODUCTION FROM THE CEO Dietsmann’s employees work hard every day, not only on our core business of maintaining energy, but also on ensuring all our business is conducted in a socially, environmentally and economically responsible manner. Their actions are a direct reflection of and leave our clients and partners in no doubt about our Group’s strong commitment regarding Corporate Social Responsibility. I am, therefore, proud to present the Dietsmann 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report on behalf of every Dietsmann employee. This report is the eighth since Dietsmann became a signatory to the UNGC in 2011. Dietsmann is the world’s largest independent Operation & Maintenance specialist for continuous-production plant in the oil & gas, conventional & nuclear power generation and mining industries. Throughout 2019 our Group worked hard on preparations for its future: preparations that will enable us to remain ahead of the curve as social, political and digital transitions unfold and bring about important changes in our industry. During the course of these preparations we did not forget that “People, Planet and Profit” has been, is and will always be a priority for the Group. In fact, we went further. We saw an opportunity to strengthen our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). Dietsmann has been investing in new technologies and designing new initiatives. These new projects will not only improve clients’ financial results, they will also have a positive effect on the pillars of our CSR policy – minimizing the impact we and our clients have on the environment, maximizing local community involvement, maintaining the highest HSEQ standards and promoting nationalization and training programs. The new technologies in which Dietsmann has been investing through its Smart Labs robotics and big data analytics will improve efficiency on clients’ sites, drive costs down, take men out of harm’s way and reduce CO2 emissions. We firmly believe that, as a result, Smart Maintenance will lead to sustainable energy production. In these times of technological change it is vital that our Human Resources policies and (re)training programs keep up with our digitalization and robotization initiatives so our employees have the opportunity to acquire new skills. This means ensuring that our experienced local technicians are properly re-trained to work on providing Smart Maintenance. Promoting employees’ career development has always been a priority because our employees are our most important asset. We will also establish the Young Dietsmann Academy to train bright young people in the countries in which we work in digital skills. The Young Dietsmann Academy will promote and reinforce knowledge-sharing as well as training and nationalization programs. We have always defined Dietsmann as a multi-local company that is well-integrated in the many countries in which we are active. So, one of our goals for this year’s Report was to highlight the many and varied local Dietsmann initiatives and efforts in the area of community development, social impact, local content, partnerships and donations. 6 In 2019 we launched a Group-wide initiative that makes it easy for our employees to donate toiletries and other items to local associations. Many donations have been made. We are pleased to witness the substantial results such an initiative can have all over the world. The process of thinking about our future naturally meant reflecting on our past and our present. This led us to the conclusion that our core business and values have not changed, our commitment to maintaining the highest HSEQ standards is stronger than ever and our focus on ‘People, Planet, Profit’ is still intact. It also confirmed our belief that our new initiatives will enable us to achieve even better results. We do not fear the future, we embrace it. Even in changing, and challenging, times Dietsmann does not dilute its commitment to CSR it takes the opportunity to strengthen it. Finally, I am pleased to announce that to strengthen our commitment to and engagement in CSR even more, in 2020 Dietsmann is starting the process of integrating the Environmental, Social, and Governance criteria. Working on these three pillars will allow us to set ambitious goals. Our management will work hand-in-hand with our employees to define objectives and ensure that we achieve them. I am looking forward to sharing these new results in our future annual reports. Peter Kütemann President & CEO 7 INDEX 8 COMPANY PROFILE n Name of the organization: Dietsmann N.V. n Dietsmann N.V. is the operational holding company of the Dietsmann group of companies. The sole shareholder of Dietsmann NV is Dietsmann Corporate Holdings Ltd, the strategic holding company of the Dietsmann group of companies. n Company size: Dietsmann has offices and operations in 22 countries and a total workforce of 5143 employees n HSE awards received during the reporting period: n Nigeria: 13 years without LTI at Okpai site n Angola: Sonadiets has reached the milestone of 7,000,000 hours (13 years) without LTI at Esso Exploration Angola Limited Block n Libya subsidiary: 13,000,000 man-hours without LTI n Gabon subsidiary: 11,500,000 man-hours without LTI n Republic of Congo subsidiary: 7,500,000 man-hours without LTI n Kazakhstan subsidiary: 3,500,000 man-hours without LTI n South Sudan subsidiary: 14 years without LTI n Bolivia: 3 years without LTI on Total’s contract n Organizational structure: n Group Holding: Breda, the Netherlands n Global Support & Coordination Office: Monaco n Support & Coordination Office: Dubai (UEA) n Offices and operations worldwide: Angola, Bolivia, Bulgaria, Cyprus, France, Italy, Gabon, Ghana, Kazakhstan, Kuwait, Libya, Nigeria, Mozambique, Qatar, Romania, Russia, South Sudan, Switzerland and the Republic of Congo. 9 INDEX I SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY HEALTH & SAFETY The health and safety policies set by Dietsmann and adopted by its subsidiaries and Joint Ventures reflect the Company’s commitment to high operational standards and the well-being of its employees. Dietsmann strives for a safe workplace and a culture that complies with its health and safety commitments. The thorough training of all staff is the key to promoting Dietsmann’s health and safety culture and maintaining its operational excellence. HEALTH Workplace health programs that take into consideration local health care systems, health needs and available resources are developed in every country in which Dietsmann is active. In all cases, the benefits plans Dietsmann offers its employees and their dependents comply with, or exceed, applicable country laws or regulations. Dietsmann provides health awareness programs that meet the needs of the local environment, such as Mosquito-borne diseases for Africa and South America, or Tick-borne diseases for Central Asia and Central Europe. MOSQUITO-BORNE DISEASES Dietsmann is active in Africa, the Middle East, South America, Central Asia & Asia and Europe. Depending on the country in which they are working and/or living, Dietsmann employees may be exposed to mosquito or tick-borne diseases. Dietsmann is committed to looking after its employees’ health and in 2019 initiated a major campaign warning employees of the dangers of mosquito-borne and tick-borne diseases. The aim of the campaign was to give all Dietsmann employees and their families correct information and knowledge regarding prevention and symptom recognition. The aim of the campaign was to reduce the number of cases of malaria in 2019 by 20% compared to 2018. MALARIA CASES COUNTRIES 2018 2019 Total 129 101 10 I SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Implementation and outcomes Dietsmann employees could attend awareness sessions about yellow fever, malaria, dengue, zika & chikungunya fever and tick-borne encephalitis. MOSQUITO-BORNE DISEASES MOSQUITO-BORNE DISEASES MOSQUITO-BORNE DISEASES MALARIA YELLOW CHIKUNGUNYA, ZIKA & DENGUE MAIN SYMPTOMS FEVER HEADACHE MUSCLE SWEAT FEVER DON’T LET THEM GET AWAY WITH IT! ACHES IF YOU HAVE THESE SYMPTOMS PLEASE EITHER CONTACT YOUR HSE DEPARTMENT IMMEDIATELY OR VACCINATION IS THE BEST GO STRAIGHT TO THE CLINIC FOR A MALARIA TEST PREVENTION FOR YELLOW FEVER 390 MILLIO INFECTION NS GOT THE RIGHT REFLEX: PER YEAR GOT THE RIGHT REFLEX: BUT KEEP THE RIGHT REFLEXES: REPELLENT A.C. REPELLENT A.C. MEDICINE MOSQUITO REPELLENT A.C. VACCINE MOSQUITO REMOVE EMPTY MOSQUITO NET NET NET COVER LONG SLEEVES LONG SLEEVES LONG SLEEVES & TROUSERS & TROUSERS COVER REMOVE EMPTY & TROUSERS COVER REMOVE EMPTY The awareness sessions related to malaria, yellow fever and dengue, zika and chikungunya fever were attended by over 1500 people. This was over 90% of Dietsmann’s employees in Africa. The campaign was disseminated to all our subsidiaries via HSE meetings and video-conferences. Awareness was also addressed during the HSE induction of all new employees. The campaign was successful because a considerable improvement in behavior has been observed. For example, the workforce has become more careful in respect of the type of clothing worn at night and personal and environmental hygiene have improved. The reporting of mosquito-related disease issues has also improved. The awareness campaign led to a number of suggestions and comments, such as the fumigation of residential Distribution of mosquito nets to all the personnel in areas and the availability of self-test malaria kits and Angola mosquito nets. These issues are being dealt with at a country level. 11 INDEX I SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY In June a tick-borne disease awareness campaign was launched in TICK-BORNE DISEASES Eastern Europe and Central Asia. It focussed on the prevention of LYME DISEASE tick-borne encephalitis, Lyme disease and Crimean hemorragic fever. TICK-BORNE ENCEPHALITIS CRIMEAN CONGO HAEMORRHAGIC FEVER TICKS In addition, to reduce the risk of employees contracting tick-borne encephalitis, all Dietsmann employees at risk of exposure to the disease mainly people working out-of-doors in the Ural MONITOR THE AREA DURING 1 MONTH : IF A RED SPOT APPEARS OR OTHER FLU SYMPTOMS (FEVER, HEADACHE, MUSCLE PAIN…) : CONSULT A DOCTOR region were vaccinated. HOW TO PROTECT YOURSELF REPELLENT VACCINE LONG SLEEVES & TROUSERS WHAT SHOULD BE DONE AFTER A BITE MEDICAL CHECK-UPS Employees’ good health is a major concern for Dietsmann. This is why regular medical check-ups are provided to every employee. The check-ups are carried out every one or two years depending on the local context and the individual context (the employee’s age and type of work). All the check-ups scheduled for 2019 were completed. SAFETY Maximising the safety of its operations is a core Dietsmann commitment, which is why everything possible is done to ensure the safety of the Company’s employees, customers, subcontractors and consultants and other parties working on or living near its sites or activities. To achieve this it is vital that the right safety culture is created within the organization. It requires strong leadership and an active commitment to safe maintenance operations from all members of the workforce. To reinforce its commitment and objectives related to HSEQ aspects, in 2019 Dietsmann’s HSEQ Policies were updated. SAFETY CULTURE PROGRAM Empowering its teams to be the cornerstone of the Company’s HSEQ system is a priority for Dietsmann. To achieve this employees have to understand their HSEQ responsibilities and duties and must master HSEQ tools. Dietsmann’s Safety Culture programs classify employees into three categories according to whether they work on operational sites, in an office or are a member of the management team. In 2019 the objective was for 100% of operational personnel to be trained in accordance with the Safety Culture Program. 12 I SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Country / site People % Employees Angola 458 100% Nigeria 208 81% Gabon 243 78% Republic of Congo 419 100% France 68 60% Russia 1081 75% TOTAL 2477 85% Approximately 85% of the workforce (2500 people) in the countries in which the Safety Culture program has been developed have been trained. Although lower than planned this result is satisfactory. Implementation and outcomes Improvements in employees’ pro-activity and attitude have been noticed. To reinforce the safety at work message, in the Republic of Congo the senior HSE staff also participated in coaching sessions. The sessions dealt with advising and supporting a team on site, assessing a team’s practises and knowledge, improving communication and promoting the intervention of any team member in the case of a hazardous situation, unsafe act or sub-standard condition. The coaching sessions took place throughout the year during all the site visits by the subsidiary’s senior HSE staff. DIETSMANN GROUP SAFETY INDICATORS Dietsmann’s ambitious objectives for 2019 were to achieve a year without Fatality and with a TRIR (Total Recordable Incident Rate) < 0.70. The recordable incidents include Lost Time Injuries, Restricted Workday cases and Medical Treatment Cases. DIETSMANN GROUP SAFETY INDICATORS 15 12 9 0.78 6 0.42 0.47 0.33 Man-hours in Mln. 3 0.17 0.23 LTIFR 0 0.15 0.16 TRIR 2016 2017 2018 2019 13 INDEX I SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Global feedback from the workforce was good: the reporting of anomalies increased and there were more relevant requests in terms of PPE and other prevention actions. Each year Dietsmann celebrates the World Day for Safety and I PROTECT MY HANDS Health at Work on 28 April. The aim of this Day is to promote the SO I CAN HOLD THEIRS prevention of occupational accidents and diseases globally by raising HAND TOOLS CHEMICALS MACHINE TOOLS BURN awareness of and drawing attention to emerging trends in the field of YOUR HANDS: occupational safety and health and on the magnitude of work-related YOUR MOST VALUABLE TOOLS injuries, diseases and fatalities worldwide. PROTECT THEM FROM THE DANGERS OF EVERY DAY WORLD DAY FOR SAFETY AND HEALTH AT WORK 28 APRIL 2019 In 2019 Dietsmann chose to focus on Hand Injuries. Indeed, according MAINTENANCE IS OUR CORE BUSINESS, HSEQ ARE OUR CORE VALUES to the Company’s HSE Statistics, since 2012 40% of injuries have involved hands. Every employee received information about the safe practises to adopt to protect their hands. GET TESTED FOR HIV SUBSTANCE ABUSE POLICY AWARENESS & TRAINING On World AIDS Day 1 December – Dietsmann once again organised END MOTHER TO CHILD CONFIDENTIALITY USE CONDOMS TRANSMISSION sessions to inform all its employees about prevention and protection. USE START END FEMIDOMS TALKING DISCRIMINATION THE EN D OF HIV HELP US PUT IN THE LAST PIECE OF THE PUZZLE WORLD AIDS DAY 1 DECEMBER 2019 PREVENTION IS BETTER THAN CURE, ESPECIALLY WHEN SOMETHING HAS NO CURE MAINTENANCE IS OUR CORE BUSINESS, HSEQ ARE OUR CORE VALUES Gabon: under the supervision of Country Manager, Marc Senly, the HSEQ Manager, Ulrich Agbahoungba, led an animated session which was not only informative about AIDS but also a time of sharing and exchange. 14 I SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Client Satisfaction: a daily challenge Dietsmann strives to ensure excellent service in order to satisfy its clients every day. Satisfying clients creates opportunities to maintain the Company’s activities and remain involved in the country. In Nigeria the subsidiary is approaching 5 million man-hours without LTI and the Total OKPAI project has reached 13 million man-hours LTI free. In Angola the Exxon Mobil contract has achieved 13 For the third year in a row the Total E&P years without LTI (7 million man-hours). Angola Best Annual Anomaly award went to a Sonadiets employee: Emerson Watha, In Iraq the project ended in August with an average Integrated Control and Safety on Total’s HSE contractual KPI score of 99.7%. A letter detailing FPSO Pazflor. Dietsmann’s excellent safety performance was received from the Gazprom top management. In Kazakhstan the Q1 2019 award for HSE Leadership among KPO Operations Contractors was issued to Dietsmann. Olivier Sainrapt, Country Manager of the Rep. of Congo, hands Espoir Myssie Mathy, Dietsmann Senior Electrician working at the Djeno Terminal, the Total Performance Award that he won in the Best Anomaly Category. He won this trophy after identifying a consignment problem concerning the heating system of an electrical engine. 15 INDEX I SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Incentive programs for personnel To improve employee motivation incentive schemes have been implemented in several countries. In Nigeria a corporate incentive program has been implemented to recognize the employee who reports the most anomalies. “Last year when I witnessed the applause and handshake received by one of my colleagues for reporting the highest number of anomalies, something struck me. I decided there and then that I would like to have a handshake too and be recognized on a personal level for doing something valuable. It has been a challenge to be among the highest reporters. It has felt good to be appreciated for doing something worthwhile, and also to be rewarded for it. More importantly, the competition has increased my awareness of safety Anne Alalibo and I am glad to be one of the people who makes the general health, Chemist Assistant on Afam VI safety, security and environment of Afam VI site better” In Angola, every month the photograph of the selected anomaly reporter and his or her immediate supervisors is posted on every site at which Sonadiets is working. Jan Feb March April J. Augusto P. Edvaldo. A Vasco. T. Joao. Anomaly on Quality remark Escape door tied Potential drop Support fall on no show with a rope object on down due to due to medical exhaust WIP-A corrosion certificate May June July Aug D. Nlandu. C. Castelli. V. TOKO STOP CARD Ladder LQ Level 0 Electrical cable & Change downgraded Airlock to damage Management Outside // Door few minutes let open + Groom before planned Out of Service HVAC shutdown 16 I SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY QUALITY CERTIFICATION Since its creation in 1977 Dietsmann has been committed to continuously enhancing the quality of its services in all its branches, joint ventures and projects. Currently 9 of Dietsmann’s branches are ISO 9001 certificated and their quality management system’s conformance with ISO 9001 standards is validated by certification organizations. During 2019 the new Dietsmann branch in Romania successfully passed the certification audit. QUALITY AWARENESS Dietsmann’s HSEQ Group Support Team managed a number of quality awareness campaigns in 2019. To celebrate World Quality Day 2019, HSEQ Group Support produced and shared 2 videos. In the first video one of the Dietsmann Board members and the Group HSEQ Director were interviewed. In the second video several managers and employees from the different Dietsmann branches expressed their thoughts on what quality means for them. HUMAN RESOURCES GENERAL POLICY The Company’s Human Resources activities are organized in the same way in the subsidiaries, the Global Support & Coordination Office in Monaco and the Support & Coordination Office in Dubai. To enable the best quality of service to be provided to each country in which Dietsmann operates, the Administrative Service handles all the administration while the Development Service deals with all the activities that contribute towards the improvement and performance of the employees (Career Management, Recruitment and Training). The Human Resources challenges are: n To consistently ensure the well-being of employees and compliance with labor rights and human rights principles and the Company’s core values. n To provide projects with staff with the appropriate skills and nationalities to meet the requirements in this challenging economic situation (the Company’s recruitment network is constantly being expanded). n To handle the administrative aspects (personnel administration, payroll, insurance and logistics) with increasingly simple and efficient HR tools. n To improve Dietsmann’s human capital through optimized career management, recruitment and training. In line with Dietsmann’s general policy of promoting and maximizing local skills, the expertise of the Human Resources Administrative Service in the subsidiaries is continuously increasing thanks to a further transfer of know-how and expertise to the local staff. 17 INDEX I SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY As far as the Development Service is concerned, career management is being improved through: n Efficient mobility management: the mobility plans are drawn up on the basis of the annual assessments and the nationalization plans; n Talent identification and skills improvement: the development of an extensive and effective library of courses covering not only technical skills but also the managerial skills needed at different levels within the Company. The Group Human Resources department works hard to remain connected at a grass-roots level and to answer the practical needs of the Company’s subsidiaries. HR tools and practices have to be adapted to the actual needs, and this demands close contact between all the HR departments. RECRUITMENT Dietsmann pays considerable attention to its recruitment procedures and day-to-day human resources management (wages, career management, access to training) and does not tolerate any kind of discrimination whether based on color, gender, religion, political opinion, national extraction, sexual orientation or social origin. Recruitment must be constantly improved and adapted to meet changing requirements. In 2019 the improvements were focused on internal client satisfaction and the relationship with expatriate employees. To achieve these goals a number of measures have been introduced: n A video-conference survey among the expatriates on TOTAL Maintenance contracts in Nigeria, Gabon, Republic of Congo and Angola. The purpose is to maintain contact between HR Monaco and Dietsmann’s expatriate employees, to remain up-to-date with their positions, expectations, professional environment, client relationships and management, and to help them understand Dietsmann Group strategy and the future opportunities. n In the subsidiaries (Republic of Congo, Gabon, Nigeria, Angola) a quarterly meeting, by video conference, to discuss ongoing recruitment activities, nationalization, client decisions, job opportunities and any issues. In 2020 this type of video conference will be organized in more countries. n Measures have been taken to improve the selection of expatriate employees and to follow them during their integration phase. Two documents have been introduced to assess the improvement after three months in the position: n A Probatory Period Evaluation form: After the employee has completed three months, this form is sent to the employee’s Manager N+1 n Feedback from the employee: After three months a form for evaluating the recruitment process, position, site and subsidiaries is sent to and completed by the employee. The information collected should help indicate ways to improve. 18 I SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT The shared mission of all the Company’s Training Departments is to develop individual and collective capability in order to improve the performance of Dietsmann’s employees and teams. Towards this end all the training departments in the Dietsmann Group are involved and common management tools are used. The specifics of each subsidiary and each adjustment made are taken into account. INVESTING IN TRAINING One of Dietsmann’s objectives is to provide its national and expatriate employees with career opportunities and training programs. Towards this end, the Human Resources department has developed two successful tools: KMP and the Competencies Certification Program. The management and coordination of training courses and course participation are supported by the Employee Data Base (EDB) Dietsmann’s in-house HR management software which includes a training module. The aim of this module is to assist Training Managers throughout the Company by automating many tasks, such as training plan editing, training request management and training processing and reporting. TRAINING REALIZED PERIOD 2017 2019 3,500 3,000 2,500 2,000 1,500 1,000 500 0 Angola Rep. of Congo France Gabon Kazakhstan Libya Nigeria Russia SCO/Monaco 2017 2018 2019 The investment in training in 2019 was 4577 training courses and 9248 days. The opportunity to follow training courses appropriate to their specific job needs or projected career path is available to all employees. 19 INDEX I SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY One very important aim of training is to improve the Company’s human capital. HSE training is an important module of the training followed as it maintains an employee’s capacity to gain the accreditation necessary to work on site. Dietsmann training courses cover technical training, management training, and language training. FIELDS OF TRAINING HSEQ 89% Technical 7% Languages 1% Management 1% Other* 2% *Administration, Data processing/IT, Various KNOWLEDGE SHARING In order to ensure the continuous development of employees’ competencies and thus increase the mobility of the Company’s human resources, Dietsmann Qualification College (DQC) has a training center focused on the qualification process of Dietsmann employees from any of the subsidiaries. The objectives are to: n Provide training services to its subsidiaries’ employees; n Work closely with Dietsmann affiliates and trainers with platform experience; n Qualify Dietsmann’s technicians for specific operations, such as regular visits, controls, adjustments and tests. Dietsmann Russia awards winners of the “Best of the Best” competition In autumn 2019 Dietsmann colleagues in Russia launched the “Best of the Best” professional skills competition for workers. The aim of the competition was to identify the best workers among different professions. 76 employees from 12 professions had to tackle both theoretical and practical tasks to show their knowledge of sketching, materials science, fire safety and work at height, first aid and of the Company in general. 20 I SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY TRAINING CUSTOMIZED TO CLIENTS’ OPERATIONAL NEEDS The Dietsmann Qualification College, with its extensive experience in mechanical engineering, electrical engineering, instrumentation, HVAC and Maintenance Engineering as well as regulatory technical training (electrical qualifications, ATEX), is the expert in field maintenance. Qualification courses and programs are customized to answer clients’ needs. Even if trainees have no previous experience the College will take them all the way through from an initiation course to the required qualification. The College can also offer an All-In training program package that incorporates and encompasses all clients’ specific requirements. Dietsmann continues to develop its internal training center and training certifications. Since January 2019 the Dietsmann Qualification Center has offered a new certification: Electrical power on battery units B1T/B2T. In 2020 this accreditation will be obtained for 4 years. This new certification will contribute towards expending the offer of internal training courses in DQC and with Technical Assessment & Campaign Training (TACT). COMPETENCE IMPROVEMENT Integrated Career ■ Professional behavior appraisal Local employees ICMS Management System ■ Identify training need and expected career path Technical Assessment ■ 3 years of training concluded by a ★ ★ TACT & Campaing Training knowledge & know-how assessment ★ ★ TB KMP Nationalization ■ To select candidates and follow-up NA NaTB Tool Box improvements in their competence on OE ★ fic ati TA Training and technical C rti Technical Assesment TA Ce ★ ■ TAOE On Event assessment for new equipment ICM T S ★ ★ Key Manager ■ Management knowledge KMP Path ■ Dietsmann specific knowledge Expatriates T ICMS ICMS A ICMS ICMS ICMS O Mobilization YEAR 1 2 E 3 4 5 YEAR 6 TACT TACT NaTB KMP Junior Senior Supervisor CSR Coordinator NaTB NaTB 21 INDEX I SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DIETSMANN QUALIFICATION COLLEGE NUMBER OF PARTICIPANTS IN 2019 150 120 90 60 30 2017 2018 0 2019 Administration Electricity & Mechanical Management Atex habilitation Electrical habilitation Instrumentation The Dietsmann Qualification College conducted a worldwide census campaign to evaluate the possibility of reinforcing the College training team and to benchmark the potential for developing new training courses. Around 12 technicians were selected to be added to the Dietsmann Qualification College trainer team on the basis of their availability (rotation offshore/onshore), discipline expertise, skills and home address. This action is the result of Dietsmann’s policy of transferring know-how to internal employees so they can develop and improve their knowledge. 22 I SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY In Angola Dietsmann’s joint venture, Sonadiets, runs a training center dedicated to potential future employees. Courses are in line with clients’ requirements. Around 30% of the courses are theoretical and 70% are practical workshops in real working conditions. In 2019 the training center provided 12,220 hours of training. In Gabon a training center was established several years ago. Training courses are conducted by Dietsmann Gabon’s own trainers (instrumentation, mechanics, electricity) who share their teaching time between Dietsmann Gabon and Dietsmann Congo. TRAINING EVALUATION One of the objectives is for all employee training requests to be answered with an appropriate package of training modules proposed. Dietsmann has implemented two types of evaluation to measure the adequacy of the response to training requests. When the modules have been completed trainees complete a final on the spot evaluation. The Training Department analyses the evaluation data on the basis of four topics: n Organization n Content of training program n Trainer ability n Pertinence SPOT EVALUATION 100% 80% 60% 40% Organization Content of 20% training program Trainer ability 0% Pertinence H.S.E. Management General technical Administration Data 23 INDEX I SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY During the yearly interview campaign, a second evaluation of the pertinence of training is made by the trainee and the manager. This delayed evaluation enables two questions to be answered: n Is the employee satisfied with the training courses he/she followed last year? n Is the employee’s Line Manager satisfied with the training courses the employee followed last year? YEARLY COMPARISON EMPLOYEE TRAINING SATISFACTION This evaluation is based on the comments made during the campaign ICMS. Is the employee satisfied with the training Is the Line Manager satisfied with the training courses he/she followed last year? courses the employee followed last year? The opinion of the employees who haven’t been interviewed The Line Manager’s opinion in respect of the employees who cannot be taken into account. haven’t been interviewed cannot be taken into account. 100% 100% 80% 80% 60% 60% 40% 40% 20% 20% 0% 0% 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 Not suited to the job No evolution in the job Partially suited to the job Partial evolution in the job Suited to the job Important evolution in the job PROMOTING EMPLOYEES’ CAREER DEVELOPMENT Dietsmann operates an annual review process for employees; the number of scheduled interviews is increasing each year. The process identifies the employee’s personal development needs and training requirements for his/her current job position and expected career path. 24 I SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ICMS campaign Employees’ appraisal 2690 employees were interviewed during the 2019 campaign which ran from August to the beginning of November. Subsidiary Workforce Interviews Interviews Realized vs Realized vs 30/07/2019 Forecast Realized Forecast Workforce Angola 467 219 182 83% 39% Rep, of Congo 782 303 276 91% 35% France 147 143 110 77% 75% Gabon 313 266 134 50% 43% Kazakhstan 155 144 137 95% 88% Libya 399 397 192 48% 48% Monaco 113 106 83 78% 73% Nigeria 320 318 193 61% 60% Russia 1,525 1,390 1,373 99% 90% Ghana 9 2 2 100% 22% Qatar 44 5 5 100% 11% Kuwait 2 1 1 100% 50% UAE 7 2 2 100% 29% Grand Total 4,283 3,296 2,690 82% 63% 2019: 63% of employees 2019: 82% of the scheduled were interviewed interviews were conducted 25 INDEX I SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY VALORIZATION OF DIVERSITY Whenever possible the Company promotes national employment. As a result, the Company is continuously increasing the diversity of its employees. A total of 50 different nationalities were represented in 2019. Dietsmann is present in 22 countries and in every one of these countries it recruits employees by publishing vacancies worldwide on its website. The diversity of Dietsmann’s workforce reflects its rejection of any form of discrimination. EMPLOYEE Iraqi 0.02% Russian 29.11% NATIONALITIES Algerian 0.39% Filipino 1.26% DECEMBER Romanian 1.73% Tunisian 1.07% 2019 Italian 2.27% Serbian 0.51% Gabonese 5.25% French 8.17% South Sudanese 0.62% Libyan 2.68% Kazakh 2.10% Nigerian 5.35% South African 0.60% Bolivian 0.04% Angolan 6.73% Indian 2.20% Other 3.32% Bulgarian 13.79% Congolese 12.77% Ugandan 0.02% GENDER EQUITY The specific nature of working on-site in extreme environments has to be taken into account as it requires a robust condition of health and quite often involves a rotating work schedule which is not convenient for everyone. Office positions obviously do not involve the same constraints as operational positions and the gender ratio is significant for these positions: women represent 49% of employees working in office positions. 26 I SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY GENERATION EQUITY The breakdown of employees by age is well balanced: the average age is 43. The percentage of young (under the age of 35) employees is 22%. This high percentage highlights Dietsmann’s ambition to recruit and give opportunities to young talent. At the other end of the age spectrum, 15% of employees are over 55 years old. This is a quite significant percentage and it should be noted that 75 employees have worked for Dietsmann for more than 25 years. BREAKDOWN BY AGE GROUP BREAKDOWN BY YEARS OF SERVICE -20 20-24 0-9 25-29 30-34 35-39 40-44 10-19 45-49 50-54 55-59 Expatriate National 60-64 20-45 65-69 70+ 0 200 400 600 800 1,000 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 NATIONALIZATION PLAN Dietsmann strives for maximum local employment at every level of its organization. This benefits the economy and local communities in the countries in which it operates. Nationalization is, however, one of Dietsmann’s greatest HR challenges because the success of nationalization plans depends on a whole range of parameters, such as the level of education of the local staff, the quality of the local training centers and the mix of specific Human Resources skills required to manage this kind of project. Generally the nationalization of a position involves a substantial financial investment. To support the implementation of an increasing number of nationalization plans and to make these plans more successful, Dietsmann has developed a Nationalization Tool Box (NaTB). This tool box comprises a set of training courses, tests and support material that enables the local HR department to formulate and implement a nationalization plan fitted and adapted to the specific local situation. 27 INDEX I SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY The NaTB recommends a step-by-step nationalization process and includes support materials, such as technical, reasoning and psychological tests, general, technical and management training course support and cost evaluation software for each step as well as all the additional information that will enable the Country HR Manager to set up and implement a training plan. The NaTB has been used successfully by several subsidiaries and has resulted in efficient nationalization plans. Globally, in 2019 the nationalization process resulted in 8 positions previously held by expatriates being nationalized. The nationalization of expatriate positions is a priority in terms of career management. Typically, over 98% of administrative staff positions and 65% of management positions are filled by nationals of the countries in which Dietsmann operates. The Company remains focused on increasing the proportion of nationals employed in all categories. Dietsmann’s HR policy is reflected in the proportion of national employees across the Company overall, which is now 86%. Rate of employees by category position EMPLOYEE PROFILE TOTAL Hierarchical levels Expatriate National All % Administrative Workers 10 411 421 8.19% Middle Level Management 69 72 141 2.74% Operational Workers 628 3,817 4,445 86.43% Top Level Managament 28 108 136 2.64% Grand Total 735 4,408 5,143 100% 28 II ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE Ethics and compliance are essentially different sides of the same coin; doing what is right. Compliance means abiding by laws and regulations, while ethics is following a moral compass. Dietsmann promotes both ethical and compliance behavior in all its actions and, in addition to strictly complying with the letter of the law, also respects the spirit of the law. In providing services to its clients, Dietsmann seeks to uphold the highest level of ethical and compliance standards. Dietsmann will not tolerate corruption or other forms of ethical misconduct and has a global action framework and procedures in place that enable the identification of and compliance with all its obligations, both internal and external. PREVENTING DISASTER AND FAILURE Actively promoting ethics and compliance within the Company is aimed at protecting Dietsmann’s organization and its business relations. Sharing principles of ethics and compliance enables people inside Dietsmann’s organisation to recognize and report illegal or unethical activity. This can help to avoid waste, fraud, abuse, discrimination, and other practices that disrupt operations and put Dietsmann‘organisation at risk. By making sure all areas of Dietsmann’s organization cooperate in maintaining the highest standards, corporate compliance can help prevent major disasters and failures. ORGANIZATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Audit Committee Dietsmann’s Supervisory Board has appointed an Audit Committee from among its members. This Committee, in close cooperation with the Company’s management, endeavors to ensure that a high standard of quality, transparency and control is achieved and maintained. Ethics Committee and Compliance Department With the aim of implementing even stronger ethics and control mechanisms, an Ethics Committee was formed in October 2012. The Chairman of the Ethics Committee is the Company’s Chief Legal Officer. He has appointed representatives of the Group HR, Group Compliance, Group HSEQ (Health, Safety, Social, Security, Environment and Quality) Departments as members of the Ethics Committee. In addition, to disseminate and implement a greater compliance culture, in 2017 a Compliance Department was created under the supervision of the Audit Committee. 29 INDEX II ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE CODE OF CONDUCT Business Code of Conduct The Company‘s Business Code of Conduct serves as a guiding framework for ethical and legal business decisions. Dietsmann employees receive copies of the Company’s policies and procedures (including the Code of Conduct) and are expected to exercise sound judgment and to show fair and just behavior in their daily interactions with colleagues, customers, suppliers and other business associates. Reporting violation All employees are encouraged to report any violation of Dietsmann’s policies through a Grievance Mechanism: the “Upline e-mail”, which can be used to obtain advice and/or to report any concerns related to ethical issues and any deviation from the Code. The responsibility for this mechanism rests with the Ethics Committee. This tool also enables the Ethics Committee to identify and analyze recurring issues and implement appropriate preventive actions. It is of the highest importance to Dietsmann that employees seek guidance if they are unsure about the right way to act in a business situation and that they are willing to report concerns about suspected unethical behavior. If an employee does not feel comfortable about something he/she is asked to do, or witnesses something that seems irregular, he/she should first check that the information he/she has is accurate. No employee has all the answers. The Company wants employees and managers to know the right questions to ask, the right experts to consult and the right way to make decisions. Dietsmann employees are told that if they are in doubt they should ask assistance from and get advice from: n If the issue is sensitive: his/her local HR or HSEQ Manager; n If the issue is very sensitive: an e-mail should be sent to the upline e-mail address. E-mails can be written in the employee’s own language (they will be translated). SUSTAINABILITY Risk assessment / Risk matrix for identified business opportunities Dietsmann management’s decision to bid or not to bid on a contract is always based on a thorough analysis of a project’s risk profile. Risk assessment is done following a step-by-step procedure, identifying risks in the following areas: Technical, Resources, H&S, Commercial, Contractual, Financial, Compliance. For this purpose, the ‘Risk Matrix’ document is completed by representatives of the respective departments, each indicating how they assess the risk level from the perspective of their field of expertise. 30 II ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE Responsible practice among contractors and suppliers Doing business in an honest and fair manner with Dietsmann suppliers means that employees responsible for buying or leasing materials and services on behalf of the Company must do so objectively. Dietsmann chooses to deal with its suppliers on the basis of the price, quality and desirability of their goods and services. To further develop the supply chain Dietsmann also works with local suppliers whenever possible. Employees must not accept or seek out any benefit from suppliers or potential suppliers that would compromise their judgment or create an appearance that their judgment would be compromised. In addition, it is against Company policy to prohibit suppliers from trading with our competitors in order to continue or expand their relationship with us. In engaging with suppliers, Dietsmann endeavors to uphold ethical business conduct throughout its supply chain. All contractors and suppliers must endorse and adhere to Dietsmann’s Code of Conduct; the Code aims to enforce responsible business conduct in areas such us provision of a safe and healthy working environment, fair employment practices and environmentally-responsible business practices. It also serves as a guidance to inform and guide suppliers in dealing with potential ethical risks and establishes an avenue to report unethical business conduct should the need arise. In some instances contractors that do not meet Dietsmann’s requirements, or are unable to demonstrate improved performance, are dismissed. Dietsmann is committed to assessing its business partners’ compliance and encourages them to implement good practices. A procedure is available and provides all subsidiaries with an evaluation form for current and potential main suppliers or sub-contractors. All potential suppliers and business partners are asked to complete Dietsmann’s “Due Diligence Questionnaire” to make sure these third parties are aligned with Dietsmann values. Compliance with Import-Export controls, restriction and sanction and money laundering Dietsmann undertakes to comply with and make all efforts to follow all applicable rules and legally mandated trade controls and restrictions. Dietsmann complies with all applicable anti-money laundering laws and regulations and never engages in business aimed at financing or supporting crime and terrorism. Appropriate steps are also undertaken to identify and assess the integrity of Dietsmann’s business partners. 31 INDEX II ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE RESPECTING THE LEGALITY PRINCIPLE Dietsmann has never been the subject of any investigation, legal proceedings or incidents involving Human Rights, Labor Rights or Ethics deviances. Compliance with all relevant legislation and regulations is monitored by internal and external auditors. During the past year Dietsmann has not been subject to any statutory notice or prosecution. CENTRALIZED COMPLIANCE TO ENSURE BUSINESS-UNIT CONTROL Dietsmann is committed to applying the UNGC principles at all its operating sites. Dietsmann decided to centralize compliance issues in its Global Support and Coordination office in Monaco to ensure a high level of control over the compliance program, a consistent application of processes, and clear communication of ethical and compliance principles in Dietsmann’s subsidiaries around the world. 32 III ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ENVIRONMENT Sustainable management is fundamental to the future of the industry and the Company. Dietsmann continuously challenges itself to reduce its environmental footprint. Dietsmann manages its environmental impact by reducing energy consumption and emissions, and by improving its waste management. Dietsmann takes a proactive and precautionary approach to environmental management and strives to minimize the environmental impact of its own and its customers’ activities by providing services that are environmentally sound. Dietsmann has decided to implement environmental awareness communication and actions in all his subsidiaries. Communication The HSEQ team develops and implements training and education programs on good environmental protection practices for all the employees. One of our principal objective is to raise awareness Different types of awareness are proposed: of waste management: n Environment flash n Reduce waste production n Environment meeting n Promote and maximize recycling n Poster n Increase the traceability of ultimate waste products n Communication via the Group intranet n Raise awareness of the environmental footprint 33 INDEX III ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ENVIRONMENT NEWSFLASH N°1 WHAT IS THE ENVIRONMENT AND WHY IS IT IMPORTANT? DEFINITION OF ENVIRONMENT WHY DOES THE ENVIRONMENT ■ Surroundings in which an organization operates, including air, water, NEED PROTECTION? land, natural resources, flora, fauna, humans and their interrelationships ■ Protecting the environment is protecting ■ The complexity of physical, chemical and biotic factors (such as climate, the air we breathe soil, and living things) that act upon an organism or an ecological ■ Protecting the environment means protecting community and ultimately determine its form and survival our source of food and drinking water ■ In fact, the environment provides man with many resources that he ■ Protecting the environment means protecting needs for his existence and well-being the Earth’s climate preserving our health ENVIRONMENTAL THE ECOLOGICAL FOOTPRINT MEASURES HOW FAST WE FOOTPRINT CONSUME RESOURCES AND GENERATE WASTE The effect that a person, company, activity, etc. has on the environment, for example the amount of natural resources that they use and the amount of harmful gases ENERGY SETTLEMENT TIMBER & PAPER FOOD & FIBER SEAFOOD that they produce. COMPARED TO how fast nature can absorb our waste and generate new resources DO YOU WANT TO KNOW HOW MUCH PLANET YOUR CONSUMPTION REPRESENTS? CALCULATE YOUR CARBON FOOTPRINT CARBON FOOTPRINT BUILT-UP LAND FOREST CROPLAND & PASTURE FISHERIES 34 III ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT WORLD ENVIRONMENT DAY Each year Environment Day is celebrated in all the countries in different ways (awareness via information sessions, posters, environmental clean-ups...) In Russia, the environmental campaign was based on outdoor cleaning activities, which is also a good team-building event. Once again Dietsmann arranged cleaning sessions. These sessions have become a real tradition. Armed with brooms, rakes and bags the team of “soldiers” representing different branches went out to “fight against” never-ending trash. BEFORE AFTER The main task was to clear the debris and litter left behind the premises in winter time. In the meantime, in Reftinsky village employees eradicated an unauthorized litter site and planted trees. The result of the cleaning activity was quite tangible and concrete 200 bags full of trash and litter have been taken off the premises. The tired but joyful faces of the participants are captured by the group photos. 35 INDEX III ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT AVOID POLLUTION Dietsmann implements actions to avoid pollution on all of its sites. In 2019 the maintenance activities resulted in only minor spills. Most were small spills of hydraulic oil from pumps and other equipment and all of them were handled locally and immediately. To avoid pollution, exercises are organized to train the team to deal with emergency situations involving spills of product or oil. Fake leaks are created and the team must use the equipment to avoid the spread of the products. A campaign to make this equipment available has been implemented at all Dietsmann sites. In the offices the HSEQ team proposed a communication about reducing energy use. Every employee is encouraged to play their part by turning appliances and office equipment off at the end of the working day and turning the air conditioner down. During 2019 Dietsmann was not subject to any fines or sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations, and no grievances about environmental impact were filed. Dietsmann continuously monitors directives and regulation relating to the environment to ensure that the Company is informed of and prepared for changes. The ISO 14001 certification of four Group subsidiaries (France, Bulgaria, Russia and Romania) was renewed in 2019. The Company’s main targets and initiatives for 2020 are to n Reinforce its environmental approach: n Certificate a new subsidiary n Train 100% of employees in waste management n Decrease the Company’s gas emissions n Put in place an evaluation of greenhouse-gas emissions n Reinforce its environmental communication n 4 environmental flashes/year n Participation in World Environment Day 36 IV LOCAL CONTENT AND SOCIAL ACTIVITIES LOCAL CONTENT The term ‘local content’ describes the positive effects a foreign company or industry can have on the areas in which it operates. Companies can provide measurable benefits by: n Buying supplies and services locally n Employing and training local people n Supporting development Community development support includes social investment programs involving companies making voluntary contributions towards the positive development of the communities and societies in the region and/or country in which they are operating. Such programs typically donate to, or develop skills and resources in, local communities and local or national institutions. The assessment of Dietsmann’s level of performance in terms of local content is divided into three related sub-sections: LOCAL PURCHASES Dietsmann’s policy is to maximize purchasing from local suppliers and to help these suppliers achieve the required performance standards. As a result, in most of the countries in which it operates Dietsmann exceeds local regulations related to local purchase. In countries in which high technology equipment is not manufactured locally the required equipment is purchased through Dietsmann’s French procurement department. SUPPORTING HUMAN CAPACITY DEVELOPMENT In line with its sustainability project development axis, Dietsmann considers human capacity development to be a great motivational tool. The Company has been investing in it and collaborating with local training providers for many years. Dietsmann has built-up close relations with the communities that host its operations through long-term local initiatives and actions involving knowledge sharing. The indicators include the efforts dedicated to building and equipping Dietsmann’s own training centers as these centers are long-lasting infrastructures. The partnerships with technical schools, schools and universities reflect the Company’s involvement in supporting the future of local communities. 37 INDEX IV LOCAL CONTENT AND SOCIAL ACTIVITIES Nigeria NetcoDietsmann has continued to work with NAOC on and within the Technology Transfer Plan. More young engineers have successfully completed training courses on Gas Turbines, Piping Technology, HRSG, Electricity Generation, Transmission and Distribution. The objective is to empower the trainees by teaching them the skills they will need to become future drivers of the Nigerian power sector. Selected candidates are trained in all aspects of O&M techniques and gain practical experience working on-site at power plants. Despite the impressive results being achieved by this initiative, gaps remain within the industry and have shown the need to set up a NetcoDietsmann Training Academy. NetcoDietsmann intends to fill the existing gaps by investing in developing the world-class training courses/programs (technical and soft skills) as required by the industry. Angola In Angola, Luis Almeïda, Sonadiets’ General Manager, and Mário Botelho De Vasconcelos, INP’s General Manager, signed a Protocol of Cooperation between Sonadiets and the National Oil Institute. With this cooperation Sonadiets will share its knowledge regarding the training needs of professionals in the oil sector with the Institute. The cooperation will improve the Institute’s training infrastructures and programs and will ensure Angolans are well trained when they enter the oil industry job market. COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT INITIATIVES Angola In 2018 SONADIETS launched a Malaria Awareness Campaign with the theme “Defeat Malaria”. This initiative demonstrates the subsidiary’s commitment to supporting local communities and is in-line with the National Malaria Strategic Plan. The SONADIETS Subsidiary launched its Malaria Awareness Campaign in two primary schools (KILUNGI KIAMI and ALL –SHADDAI) in the Cacuaco and Cazenga suburbs of Luanda. These suburbs are among the areas most affected by Malaria cases due to the huge infestation of mosquitoes. 38 IV LOCAL CONTENT AND SOCIAL ACTIVITIES Bolivia Dietsmann donated a supply of EPP, Gloves, Facial mask and Safety Glasses to a volunteer fire-fighting team in Santa Cruz. Dietsmann employee Wily Alarcon Miserandino, Team Chief FMC (wearing the dark blue T-shirt in the photograph), has been a volunteer with this association for 12 years. The donated equipment will help save the forest in the Chiquitania region in southeast Bolivia where close to 6.5 million hectares has been burned to ashes. Rep. of Congo To celebrate 8 March all the women working for Dietsmann Congo gathered in the morning for a debate on women’s rights. Sylvain Loudi, the Human Resources Manager, acted as moderator. The animated debate made everyone realize that, even if things are moving in the right direction, there is still a long way to go. The participants were grateful for this initiative. The group then headed by bus to the Inzo ya bana orphanage where they handed-over donations of items collected, such as food and gasoline. A lunch wrapped up the event in a joyful atmosphere. 39 INDEX AMENITIES DONATION PROJECT In 2019 Dietsmann, as part of its social and community support policy, launched an amenities donation project in almost all its subsidiaries. The project makes it easy for employees to donate to local associations. This initiative is particularly important to Anouschka Kütemann, Dietsmann shareholder & member of the Supervisory Board, who explains her commitment: “During the past year we created a charity initiative whereby we invite all our employees to either collect items, such as the courtesy toiletries, from hotels travelling or on holiday, or to buy them. These items are collected in the special boxes placed in our offices. The amenities are donated to local charitable institutions like shelters, orphanages, homes for the elderly and other places in need of hygiene products. In this way our employees are contributing to their local communities while doing something within the “Dietsmann family” I am very proud of all our colleagues around the world who have made an effort to collect amenities. Boxes are currently set up in 12 countries and many donations have been made. In the future I will become more engaged in promoting the diversity within Dietsmann and our modern brand image. I will also keep stimulating our employees to get involved in with our charity programs.” 40 Many employees contributed towards this project during its first year and we expect a wider commitment in the coming years. RUSSIA NETHERLANDS FRANCE ROMANIA MONACO BULGARIA KUWAIT QATAR UAE NIGERIA REP. OF CONGO ANGOLA The items are gathered in donation boxes located in different selected Dietsmann offices and sites and are then donated to local organizations supporting people in need like orphanages, homeless shelters or schools. 41 INDEX IV LOCAL CONTENT AND SOCIAL ACTIVITIES MANAGING SOCIAL IMPACT To strengthen corporate cohesion and promote a good working atmosphere, events that bring employees together are organized in all Dietsmann subsidiaries. Angola In December Sonadiets employees and their colleagues from the EXXON Project (Block 15) got together to celebrate the Christmas season and to congratulate the colleagues working for Exxon on 10 years and 6,000,000 man-hours without a recordable incident: an extraordinary and world-class result. Bulgaria The annual Sports Event organized by the Union of Bulgarian Lukoil Group was held in Albena, near the Black Sea, on 27, 28 and 29 September. All the subcontractors, including DietsmannEnergoremont, were invited to participate together with LUKOIL Neftohim Burgas. The event contributed towards good partnership relationships and future cooperation. Monaco Employees in Monaco were once again invited to participate to the No Finish Line, an 8-day, non-stop charity run during which 1km walked/run equals 1 euro donated to children in need. Dietsmann, as a sponsor of the event, has a booth, at which employees met. During the 2019 run the Dietsmann team completed 4458 km. Qatar A team including one Dietsmann employee, Marc-François Duten, and one Dietsmann employee’s wife, was sponsored by Dietsmann to participate in the second Rugby Touch Francophone Tournament. Congratulations to Mrs. Mailaender for being awarded “Best Female Player” and congratulations to all participants. 42 V  ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE (E.S.G) Dietsmann has compiled a Corporate Social Responsibility Report (CSR Report) for the past three years. This Report has served as Dietsmann’s annual United Nations Global Compact Progress Report while also enabling the Company to express its philosophy and actions in terms of human rights, labor rights, the environment and anti-corruption. Dietsmann now wants to go further, which is why the Company intends embedding Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) criteria in its voluntary approach. The CSR Report explains Dietsmann’s efforts to have a positive impact on its employees, consumers, the environment and the wider community. It is a form of self-regulation that most large companies report on annually. By contrast, the ESG Report will measure these activities to reach a more precise assessment of Dietsmann’s actions. This will include focusing on strategy and objective setting and performance while remaining aware of the importance of continual monitoring and improvement. In particular ESG looks at how businesses: n Respond to climate change n Treat their workers n Build trust and foster innovation n Manage their supply chains Due to the ESG demands for metrics with targets so year on year progress can be measured, Dietsmann has decided to start this new process next year and to compile a combined CSR & ESG Annual Report for 2020. 43 INDEX VI CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY OVERVIEW TABLE SOCIAL 2019 2018 Total workforce 5,143 5,326 1 Africa 2,382 2,216 2 East Europe & Central Asia 2,351 2,613 3 West Europe 313 323 4 Middle East 69 88 5 Others 28 86 Workforce by job category position worldwide 6 Administrative 399 397 7 Operational 4467 4,651 8 Managerial 277 278 Employment 9 New hires of national employees 961 1,339 10 New hires of expatriates 433 274 11 Outflow rate 9.7% 35.3% Diversity 12 Gender rate all positions (women) 9.1% 11% 13 Average age 43 42 14 Percentage of employees over 55 15.3% 14.8% 15 Percentage of employees under 35 22% 24.1% 16 Number of nationalities represented in the Group 50 30 17 Rate of National employees (vs expatriates) 86% 87% Training & career opportunities 18 Total training days 9,248 14,437 19 Training expenses (in thousands of Euros) 827 1,094 44 VI CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY OVERVIEW TABLE SOCIAL 2019 2018 Social dialogue & cohesion 20 Percentage of employees covered by a collective bargaining agreement 100% 100% 21 Percentage of scheduled annual interviews (ICMS) carried out 82% 90% 22 Global rate of employees interviewed (ICMS) 62% 67% Health & Safety 23 Percentage of employees who benefited from a medical check-up 100% 83% 24 Total awareness-raising campaigns on health and safety issues 7 11 25 Lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR) per million man-hours worked 0.16 0.15 26 Total recordable incident rate (TRIR) per million man-hours worked 0.47 0.33 ETHICS Anti-corruption 27 Percentage of employees trained in ethics principles 83% 82% (Corporate Shared Responsibility Training) Business partner screening 28 Percentage of suppliers and subcontractors screened and followed-up 67% 60% (Global Compliance including Ethics) LOCAL CONTENT Local purchases 29 Percentage of local purchases (goods & services) 70% 80% Local employment 30 Number of key positions nationalized 8 9 31 Percentage of National employees in management positions 64% 67% 32 Percentage of training courses dedicated to national employees 93% 94% in total training provided Local community initiatives 33 Number of partnerships with schools and universities 12 26 34 Total amount dedicated to the socio-economic development of local communities € 173,575 € 218,200 45 INDEX VI CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY OVERVIEW TABLE ENVIRONMENT 2019 2018 35 Percentage of permanent facilities with a waste storage and sorting area 100% 100% Environmental protection 36 Percentage of countries in which environment awareness raising campaigns were provided to 85% 85% employees 37 Percentage of permanent facilities (offices) for which an environmental risks assessment 50% 45% has been carried out Carbon Dioxide Equivalents (CO2e) in tons 38 Road transport 1,143 1,736 39 Air travel 4,523 2,579 40 Energy consumption 416 41 Paper consumption 38 46 www.dietsmann.com Global Support & Coordination Office Gildo Pastor Center 7, rue du Gabian MC 98000 Monaco tel: +377 93 10 10 10 fax: +377 93 10 10 11
