Sustainability Report 2019 CONTENTS 04 Message from the CEO 06 Our Company and the Surbana Jurong Group 07 Our Global Footprint 08 2019 Highlights 12 Our Organisation 12 Our Board 13 Our Executive Committee 14 Stakeholder engagement 16 Core values 18 Awards and rankings 20 Corporate governance 24 Financial performance 26 People 26 Employee demographics 26 Remuneration 28 Employee benefits 28 Health and wellbeing 29 Gender diversity 30 Career development 34 Community 34 Human Rights 36 Community Development 38 Sustainability and Environment 44 Appendix A: Scope of the report 46 Appendix B: Associated and controlled entities 48 Appendix C: Company memberships 50 Appendix D: EIA scale 52 Appendix E: GRI Index Yarranlea Solar Farm • Australia Message from the CEO At SMEC, we provide sustainability services for a range of infrastructure projects to push environmental, social and economic project outcomes beyond ‘business as usual’ The work done in 2018 to revise and enhance SMEC Australia’s Graduate Development Program was also recognised by the industry, with the program winning a Gold award for Best Learning & Development Project (Induction/ Onboarding) and a Silver award for Best Learning Model (Blended Learning) at the 2019 LearnX awards. As always, we are committed to a safety-first environment, and to investing in the wellbeing of our people. In line with the strategy endorsed in 2018, SMEC’s Mental Health First Aid Network was established in 2019. There are now specially trained Mental Health First Aiders (MHFAs) in each Australian state or territory, and in New Zealand. I am proud that the SMEC Foundation was named an ABA100 Winner for Community Contribution in the Australian Business Awards 2019. The award recognises organisations that implement initiatives that have a positive MESSAGE FROM THE CEO impact on the community and generate outcomes that have a long-term benefit. This award is a testament to the dedication of our teams around the world who drive and implement many of our community initiatives. Welcome to our tenth annual Sustainability This report aims to measure our performance in providing During the reporting period, we continued to implement a safe, flexible and healthy working environment for our and enhance our Integrity & Compliance program At SMEC, we provide sustainability services for a range Report which outlines our progress people, actively contributing to community development through a number of key initiatives which aim to ensure of infrastructure projects to push environmental, social towards our sustainability objectives and and supporting sustainable outcomes across our global we are managing risk, providing ethical and safe working and economic project outcomes beyond ‘business as the environmental outcomes we influence organisation and project portfolio. conditions and building a whole-of-organisation culture usual’. Our global team of sustainability specialists, through our projects and services. of honesty and integrity. social scientists, environmental planners, environmental In 2019, we celebrated 70 years since construction scientists, ecologists, asset managers, urban designers We believe it is our social responsibility to enhance our began on the Snowy Mountains Hydroelectric Scheme. In line with our commitment to facilitate a more and engineers work collaboratively with our partners and value through innovation and sound business practices In addition to being SMEC’s namesake project, diverse, satisfying and rewarding work environment clients to deliver wholistic project outcomes. and contribute to developing a sustainable society. We recognised as one of the civil engineering wonders of for our people, and to provide career development collaborate with all our stakeholders in working towards the modern world, the Scheme provides approximately opportunities, we delivered a wide range of training and I look forward to what we will achieve as we all work these objectives, including our employees, clients, partners, 32% of all renewable energy to the eastern mainland capacity building programs around the world, covering together towards a stronger, more resilient and industries and the communities in which we operate. grid of Australia. I am proud to build on this legacy topics including leadership, project management, safety, sustainable future. through the projects and solutions that we continue to governance and client relationship management. The three pillars of our Corporate Social Responsibility deliver. An example is our involvement in Snowy 2.0, framework: People, Community, and Sustainability and the first expansion of the Snowy Mountain Hydroelectric Environment, are at the forefront of everything we do. Scheme since its completion in 1974. Snowy 2.0 will help secure a reliable energy supply, reduce emissions and cut costs for Australian families and businesses. ABA100 Winner for Community Contribution The SMEC Foundation was named an ABA100 Winner for Community Contribution in In the Australian Business Awards 2019 4 5 Our Company and the Surbana Jurong Group OUR COMPANY AND OUR GLOBAL FOOTPRINT THE SURBANA JURONG GROUP Combining the skills and experience from across the Surbana Jurong Group of companies, we have expanded our capabilities and reach, providing specialist expertise to complex projects worldwide, either independently or as combined entities. Headquartered in Singapore, Surbana Jurong Private Limited provides complete consultancy solutions across the entire value chain of urban, industrial and infrastructure domains. SMEC Holdings Limited is a progressive global company, East Asia delivering engineering excellence and design innovation on major physical and social infrastructure projects. Singapore South & South East Asia Robert Bird Group is a global structural, civil and construction engineering consultancy renowned for delivering iconic complex structural and development projects. West & Africa Central Asia Americas KTP Consultants Pte Limited is a leading multidisciplinary engineering firm with more than 40 years track record in engineering and project management. Oceania Sino-Sun Architects & Engineers Co. Limited is an awardwinning multidisciplinary design institute specialising in architectural, planning, landscape and interior design. AETOS Holdings Pte Limited is a leading safety and security solutions company, Africa East Asia South & Americas providing infrastructure protection, training Southeast Asia Ethiopia China Chile and consultancy and security management. Ghana Hong Kong Bangladesh Kenya Brunei Lesotho Cambodia Oceania West & B+H is a global, award-winning consulting + design Liberia India Malawi Central Asia Australia solutions firm. Founded on a 65-year legacy of creating Indonesia Morocco Malaysia Fiji bold and inspiring spaces for people, B+H provides core Afghanistan Mozambique Myanmar New Zealand Georgia architecture, interior design, planning, landscape, and Namibia Nepal Papua New Guinea Kazakhstan strategic consulting services. Nigeria The Philippines Kuwait Rwanda Singapore Pakistan South Africa Vietnam Tajikistan South Sudan SAA is an award-winning architecture firm of more than United Arab Emirates Tanzania 50 years which delivers comprehensive and diversified Uganda architectural services covering transportation (aviation, rail Zambia transit, maritime), mixed use, commercial (office, retail, hotel), healthcare, business park/industrial, residential, institutional and masterplan. Prostruct Consulting is a leading urban and infrastructure protection consultancy specialising in security, blast consultancy and testing. The firm offers integrated and customised solutions in infrastructure protection for planning and feasibility studies, design and build, and addition & alteration projects in various sectors. 6 7 2019 Highlights 2019 HIGHLIGHTS In 2019 we made significant progress in strengthening corporate governance and advancing our focus areas of People, Community, Sustainability and Environment. Our Organisation People Community Sustainability and Environment Continuing to enhance business integrity Building a more flexible and inclusive work culture Indigenous rights Carbon footprint reporting • In 2019, SMEC obtained certification under the In 2019, there was a significant increase (56% from • In 2019, we worked closely with Engineering Aid In 2019, we launched a project to collect data on SMEC’s IS037001 Anti-Bribery Management System. 2018) in the number of employees utilising Flexible Australia and recruitment firm Indigenous Employment carbon footprint in Australia, for example kilometers Working Arrangements Australia to recruit and place qualified candidates who travelled in company vehicles or via air transport. This • Across our organisation, we continued to improve identify as Aboriginal or Torres Strait Islander within information is shared with our parent company, Surbana our Integrity & Compliance Program through several Building capability to optimise stakeholder our organisation. Jurong, and will inform future policies and targets in relation key initiatives, including the development of a dedicated engagement to the environmental sustainability of our operations. Business Integrity Risk Register, the introduction of a • SMEC also continued our support of Engineering new Whistleblower Procedure and a third party-hosted, • A Project Management Excellence Program was Aid Australia and the Indigenous Literacy Foundation, Advancing sustainability outcomes for confidential reporting platform that allows employees launched to support more robust project governance organisations which provide educational support and infrastructure and whistle blowers to report any concern or to ask a and control practices, and deliver more consistent opportunities to children and students from Aboriginal related question anonymously. services across all projects. and Torres Strait Islander communities. Our specialists continued to provide sustainability services for a range of infrastructure projects to push • SMEC developed and implemented a comprehensive environmental, social and economic project outcomes • We continue to measure our progress and plan for SMEC Foundation recognised for community Client Relationship Management training program beyond ‘business as usual’. This included successfully further enhancement through feedback received via the contribution focusing on a consistent and coordinated approach guiding and supporting several projects through annual Employee Integrity Compliance Survey. to client interaction and sharing of information across The SMEC Foundation was named an ABA100 Winner sustainability ratings, such as Australia’s Infrastructure business units. The program is continuing in 2020. for Community Contribution in The Australian Business Sustainability (IS) Rating Scheme. Examples of our Awards 2019. services and projects are provided on pages 42 and 43. Developing the next generation of engineers The Australian Business Award for Community • In 2019, 200 graduates (up from 161 in 2018) enrolled Contribution recognises organisations that implement in SMEC’s Graduate Development Program. Female initiatives that have a positive impact on the community graduates made up 36% of program participants. and generate outcomes that have a long-term benefit. • The work done in 2018 to revise and enhance the program was also recognised by the industry, with SMEC’s Graduate Development Program winning a Gold award for Best Learning & Development Project (Induction/Onboarding) and a Silver award for Best Learning Model (Blended Learning) at the 2019 LearnX awards. Safety first • A total of 360 project and people managers completed SMEC’s Leading Safety Program. • In line with the mental health strategy endorsed in 2018, SMEC’s Mental Health First Aid Network was established. There are now specially trained Mental Health First Aiders (MHFAs) in each Australian state or territory, and in New Zealand. • We conducted 229 safety talks and issued 84 safety alerts or news items, a significant increase from 2018. 8 9 Sustainability Objectives SUSTAINABILITY OBJECTIVES Our commitment to sustainability is highlighted through this report which measures our performance in providing a safe and healthy working environment for our people, actively contributing to development in the communities where we live and work and embedding sustainable outcomes across our global organisation and broad project portfolio. People Community Sustainability & Environment Our commitment Our commitment Our commitment Create a rewarding, inclusive workplace for our people Support community and charitable programs that Eliminate or minimise any adverse impacts that SMEC’s by encouraging personal development, recognising provide long-term solutions. office activities and projects have on the environment. good performance, fostering equal opportunities and Raise employee, client and community awareness of ensuring employee health, safety and wellbeing. Our objectivtes the importance of environmental sustainability. Our objectives To deliver the best possible social and development Our objectives outcomes for people in need through small-scale grant To provide and maintain a satisfying and rewarding support provided by the SMEC Foundation. To operate energy efficient offices and reduce work environment for all employees. Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions generated by To protect and uphold internationally proclaimed human SMEC’s operations. To achieve and maintain cultural and gender balance rights, particularly in the areas of child abuse and forced and increase awareness of the importance of diversity. compulsory labour. To provide long-term environmentally sustainable project advice to clients. To provide employees with personal and career To support and encourage employee participation in development opportunities and clear career paths. local communities, particularly charity work. To educate employees, clients, partners and contractors about the importance of environmental sustainability. To eliminate or manage hazards and practices that could cause accidents, injuries or illness. 10 11 Our Organisation THE BOARD The SMEC Board is responsible for formulating SMEC’s strategic direction and maintaining corporate governance. Max Findlay Chairman Max was appointed Chairman of SMEC in 2016, after serving as Deputy Chairman since 2014, and Non-Executive Director since 2010. Max serves on the Boards of several organisations including the Royal Children’s Hospital and listed company Skilled Group Ltd. Max holds a Bachelor of Economics (Politics) from Monash University and a Postgraduate Qualification in Accounting from Swinburne University. Max is a Fellow of the Australian Institute of Company Directors. As part of the Surbana Jurong Group, we have access to a network of specialist companies providing expertise to complex projects worldwide. This means we’re better placed than ever to tackle Wong Heang Fine Teo Eng Cheong Hari Poologasundram Loh Yan Hui multifaceted challenges with connected solutions. — Hari Poologasundram CEO SMEC & CEO International Surbana Jurong Group CEO, Surbana Jurong Group CEO International, CEO SMEC & CEO International CEO and Global Lead, Aviation, Surbana Jurong Group Surbana Jurong Surbana Jurong Group THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Hari Poologasundram Andy Atkin Angus Macpherson CEO SMEC & CEO Group Chief Financial Officer, Director of Operations International Surbana Jurong Surbana Jurong Group George Lasek James Phillis Dr Uma Maheswaran Chief Operating Officer, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Operating Officer, Americas Australia and New Zealand South Asia Middle East Tom Marshall Thomas Hynes George Simic Harpley – Larapinta Wetlands 12 • Australia Chief Operating Officer, Chief Operating Officer, Director, Growth, 13 Africa Asset Management Mergers and Acquisitions Our Organisation STAKEHOLDERS SMEC’s stakeholders are identified as any Employees Clients person, group or organisation that has an interest or concern in the Company. Our people are the at the core of who we are and what We see our clients as our partners and are dedicated we accomplish. SMEC’s management has an ‘open to understanding their needs, drivers, resources door’ philosophy, whereby all employees may feel and concerns, and proactively responding to their SMEC interacts with a wide range of comfortable approaching management to discuss any requirements. We seek to not only deliver advanced stakeholders, from local community issue or idea. technical solutions but also to support our clients in members and contractors to employees, ensuring their projects positively impact communities. clients, industry bodies and opinion leaders. At a group level, employees receive regular updates from senior leaders via email, intranet, video and SMEC is an active member of key industry and trade Our primary stakeholder groups are employees office roadshows. We adopt a localised approach organisations around the world (see Appendix C). Our and clients, and we have developed policies and to employee engagement, utilising a range of employees regularly present technical papers, host procedures to ensure we are engaging regularly, safely communication methods, information sharing platforms panels and participate in speaking engagements. We also and effectively. This engagement feeds directly into the and channels that best suit the environment. distribute regular newsletters and host clients at events. ongoing development of SMEC’s business practices. Our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) framework has been developed to formalise engagement with other key stakeholders such as communities and partners. Improving communication and engagement Building on the research exercise conducted in 2018, SMEC developed and launched a comprehensive Client Relationship Management training program focusing on a consistent and coordinated approach to client interaction and sharing of information across business units. During the reporting period, 40 employees completed the program which will continue to be rolled out in 2020. A total of 435 employees attended 34 Project Management Training sessions held across Australia in 2019. Given the nature of SMEC’s work as a consultant in infrastructure projects, this training is critical in ensuring we are communicating and engaging regularly, safely and effectively with our stakeholders. 14 15 Our Organisation CORE VALUES Our core values of Integrity, People, Professionalism, Partnership and Purpose are part of our DNA, representing what we stand for, what we expect from employees, what we deliver to our clients, and how we aim to conduct our daily work. We are committed to leading by example and continuing to build a values-led global culture. Our values Integrity We act responsibly and conduct our business with the highest ethical standards, accountability and transparency. People We value our global and diverse talent by creating a safe, inclusive and supportive environment where our people can thrive. Professionalism We act in the best interests of our clients and deliver innovative solutions with high standards of excellence. Partnership We build trusted and enduring relationships with clients, partners and colleagues to achieve win-win outcomes. Purpose At the core of our business is what we call ‘The SMEC Spirit’ which is evident in our people, values and culture. ‘The SMEC We are passionate and committed to making meaningful impacts on people, environment and communities. Spirit’ captures a strong sense of identity which drives performance, technical excellence, and an innovative and determined approach to exceptional service delivery. 16 17 Our Organisation The Point • Australia Images courtesy of Moremac Property Group AWARDS & RANKINGS Our awards are a testament to our #27, Engineering News Record Atherstone Masterplanned SMEC Australia Graduate commitment to innovation, collaboration (ENR) 2019 Community Development Program with clients and partners, and the specialist • Top 225 International Design firms list. Australia Australia expertise of our talented people. • Commendation for Atherstone Project Team • Gold, Best Learning & Development Project Collaboration, Consultants’ Excellence category, (Induction/Onboarding), LearnX Live Awards 2019 Main Road 118 between Urban Development Institute of Australia (Victoria Division) Awards for Excellence. Oranjemund and Rosh Pinah • Silver, Best Learning Model (Blended), LearnX Live Awards 2019. Namibia • Commendation for Atherstone People Movement and Precinct Planning Project, Consultants’ • Commendation, Best International Excellence category, Urban Development Project category, CESA Aon Engineering Institute of Australia (Victoria Division) Awards Dr. Richard Kelly, Chief Technical Excellence Awards. for Excellence. Principal Geotechnical Engineering • Winner, Civil Engineering category, Australia Best Projects Awards. Upgrade of the Mount • Winner of Roads Australia Award for Technical Excellence 2019. Edgecombe Interchange Technical Support Services South Africa to Municipalities implementing Kate Drews, Market Director Urban • Winner, Roads & Bridges category, CESA Expanded Public Works Aon Engineering Excellence Awards. Communities Programme Infrastructure Projects Australia South Africa SMEC Foundation • Appointed Director on the Board of Consult Australia. • Joint winner (with Naidu Consulting), CommunityAustralia Based Project category, South African Institution of Civil Engineering awards. • Winner, Community Contribution category, Australian Business Awards 2019. 18 19 Our Organisation CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Risk management Business Integrity Policy and Code of Conduct The Board of Directors is responsible for ensuring there • Clarifying the roles and responsibilities of are adequate organisational arrangements for designing, management and boards SMEC’s Business Integrity Policy and Code of Conduct seek to guide the actions and behaviour implementing, monitoring, reviewing and improving risk of employees in a way that is consistent with SMEC’s company values. All employees are management throughout SMEC. • Identifying, assessing and managing significant risks required to act with honesty, integrity, in compliance with the law and most importantly ethically and opportunities SMEC is committed to: when performing their duties. Employees must also be accountable for their performance and • Maintaining an appropriate system of governance • Maintaining the integrity of SMEC’s assets, people and work collaboratively with their colleagues. and risk management applicable to all the Company’s reporting, and locations, business units and functional groups. SMEC’s Business Integrity Policy and Whistleblowing Equal employment opportunity procedure • Complying with legal obligations in all jurisdictions in Procedure, introduced in 2019, mandate that • Implementing a Risk Management System which SMEC operates. employees report any integrity misconduct which In addition to the Code of Conduct, SMEC has an Equal conforming to International Standard ISO 31000. includes any unethical, dishonest, corrupt, fraudulent Employment Opportunity Procedure to promote a positive or unlawful practices. work environment for all employees and clients. SMEC is committed to promoting an inclusive organisational culture and strives to provide a safe and flexible SMEC seeks to improve risk management through: Employees are expected to comply with the Business workplace where employees and clients are treated with Integrity Policy and the Code of Conduct, along with • appropriate charters for the Board and • the identification and management of risks, issues and dignity, respect and consideration at all times. all other SMEC policies and procedures, and any management groups (including their responsibilities opportunities at team, project, business unit, subsidiary legislation applicable to their role. to their various stakeholders) and corporate levels SMEC does not condone any behaviour which may be perceived as bullying, intimidation, discrimination, or any It is management’s responsibility to demonstrate, • a Code of Conduct recognising SMEC’s • alignment of controls with the SMEC governance and form of sexual or workplace harassment. As such, SMEC through their actions, the importance of the Business responsibilities to all stakeholders risk management policy and framework encourages the development of an inclusive and diverse Integrity Policy and the Code of Conduct and promote workforce and believes that diversity is a strength for our the highest ethical standards across all areas of the people, our clients, our partners and our communities. • promotion of workplace culture, practices and • the application of policies, controls, and review business. In addition, managers are expected to develop behaviours which value and reflect honesty, integrity processes to all business units and subsidiaries. a positive working environment, provide ongoing support SMEC is committed to attracting the best talent and and professionalism and feedback to employees, and take appropriate action if a breach of the Business Integrity Policy or Code of engages in recruitment and selection processes that Conduct (or breach of any other SMEC policies and are based on merit. procedures) may have occurred. SMEC’s recruitment activities are undertaken free of bias or discrimination, and in compliance with all relevant local legislation. Board of Directors Remuneration and Nominations Committee The SMEC Board (see pages 12-13) has a written charter The Remuneration and Nominations Committee works to outlining its responsibilities and governance framework. ensure that SMEC secures, motivates and retains highly All Directors are required to retire at the fourth Annual skilled and diverse senior executives and employees. The General Meeting following their appointment, except for Remuneration and Nominations Committee must have the Managing Director. at least three members, consist only of Non-Executive Directors, have a majority of independent Directors, and Board Committees have an independent Chair. The Board has two permanent committees – the Executive Committee Audit and Risk Committee and the Remuneration and Nominations Committee. Each has written terms of The Executive Committee (EC, page 13) is not considered reference and is subject to annual review by the Board. a Board committee but consists of senior executives appointed by the CEO. The EC has primary authority Audit and Risk Committee for the management and monitoring of the Company’s operations, and the implementation of the Company The Audit and Risk Committee assists the Board with Strategy, subject to policies and procedures approved by financial reporting, managing SMEC’s material risks the Board of Directors. SMEC’s CEO is the Chair of the and ensuring that financial information is accurate and Committee and is responsible for all matters not reserved timely. The Audit and Risk Committee must have at least for the Board or individual Directors. The EC’s terms of three members, consist only of Non-Executive Directors, reference and authority are approved by the Board. have a majority of independent Directors, and have an independent Chair (who is not the Chair of the Board) 20 21 Our Organisation CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Quality Management 1 SMEC’s Quality Management System Business Integrity We Comply – communication and Compliance Leadership awareness program Developed to meet the requirements of AS/NZs ISO In 2019, SMEC continued to enhance its Integrity & We believe that compliance is our collective responsibility. 9001:2016, SMEC’s Quality Management System (QMS) Compliance Program, making several key improvements In 2019, SMEC’s leadership team continued to We believe in acting withintegrity in everything we do. 2 enables systematic control and optimisation of business across policies, systems, processes and communication, communicate with employees on various integrity and activities, as well as review processes to monitor and including: compliance related topics, through activities including Protect measure performance and identify improvements. emails, presentations at townhalls and roadshows, • Development of a dedicated Business Integrity Risk infographics, videos and Frequently Asked Questions We protect our employees from retaliation for speaking up. SMEC’s QMS covers all stages of the project lifecycle, from Register at regional and local levels. (FAQ) documents. Ongoing communication is We keep company intellectual property and records confidential. 3 inception through to handover, and provides a formalised prioritised to ensure employees are aware of their and structured approach to project quality management. • Strengthening the role of the Divisional Compliance compliance obligations and relevant policies and Act rather than React Delegates, who fortify the relationships between procedures and understand how to apply these the group-level corporate governance team and We discuss, disclose and manage personal and organizational The QMS ensures: processes to their everyday activities. geographically dispersed divisions. conflicts of interest at all times. We have oversight of our partners and suppliers by performing • development of project quality objectives • Updating SMEC’s Business Integrity Policy and ongoing due diligence and monitoring. incorporating client operability, maintainability and 4 creating or updating several relevant procedures, work delivery requirements instructions and guidelines. Speak Up • quantification of project risks through assessment • Replacing SMEC’s internally-hosted anonymous We raise questions and concerns when we see misconduct, reporting portal with a third party-hosted, confidential fraud or corrupt practices. • implementation of design management and review reporting platform to allow employees and whistle 5 processes to manage critical design quality aspects blowers to report any concern or to ask an integrity Transparency • communication of risks and responsibilities through related question. planning workshops We create transparency through disclosure and reporting. • Introducing a new Whistle-blower Procedure to We keep proper and accurate records of all activities and expenses. • development of risk auditing regimes. strengthen the protection of whistle-blowers’ identities 6 as well as against retaliation. Gifts and Entertainment • Launching mandatory online refresher Business We avoid giving or receiving gifts. Integrity Compliance training. We entertain only in an appropriate manner, and not to • Conducting the second Employee Integrity improperly infuence Compliance Survey. 2019 highlights Looking to 2020 SMEC Australia as part of a global SMEC group initiative In addition to continuing the above programs in 2020, received its certification under the IS037001 Anti-Bribery SMEC is preparing to apply for ISO37001 certification in Management System. some of the Southeast Asia locations where it operates. During the reporting period, SMEC maintained certification to ISO 9001 (Quality Management), ISO 14001 (Environmental Management) and AS/NZ 4801 (OHS Management) in all major Australian offices from third party certifier, Global-Mark. Led by SMEC’s Executive Project Managers, a Project Management Excellence Program was launched to support more robust project management governance and control practices and deliver more consistent quality of services across all projects. This program covers 22 systems, processes, training and governance. 23 Our Organisation FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE SMEC continued to grow steadily during Figure 1: Economic value generated in Australia (all figures are in A$'000) the 2019 financial year, maintaining our Generated Southern Central Northern Australia sound financial position, with total revenue, including fees and other income increasing Revenue 105,806 148,224 107,294 361,324 from AUD 648.1 million to AUD 677.7 million. Net operating profit after tax 28,710 Our financial performance is the result of our continued focus on sustainable growth, a significant increase in infrastructure development around the world, and collaboration with our parent and sister companies to Figure 2: Economic value generated in Australia (all figures are in A$'000) leverage our global capabilities and provide better value to our clients. Distributed Southern Central Northern Australia SMEC has solid work-in-hand for the year ahead (and Operating costs 11,690 16,377 11,855 39,922 subsequent years), and the Australian business is expected to perform particularly well with the help of major transport Employee compensation 81,800 114,594 82,950 279,343 infrastructure projects in key Australian states. With near record levels of work-in-hand, strategic partnerships and a Payments to providers of capital dividend — focus on attracting and retaining strong technical talent, the outlook for the 2020 financial year is very positive. Government (Tax) 13,349 Total 332,614 Economic value generated and distributed During the reporting period, revenue in Australia increased to AUD 361.3 million. SMEC’s net operating profit after tax in Australia increased to AUD 28.7 million. SMEC’s operating costs increased by 2% to AUD 39.9 Figure 3: Economic Value Generated internationally (all figures are in A$'000) million, with employee compensation increasing by 7% to AUD 279.3 million South East South Asia Generated North Asia Africa Americas International Asia Middle East Remuneration of Directors Revenue 9,308 70,759 111,708 105,21 5,055 301,851 Non-Executive Directors are paid annual fees, which Net operating profit after tax 1,407 in total fall within the fixed amount, currently set at AUD 1 million. During the 2018–2019 financial year, remuneration of Non-Executive Directors totalled AUD 171,465. Non-Executive Directors are not eligible for bonuses or incentive schemes, and only statutory retirement benefits are payable. Figure 4: Economic Value Generated internationally (all figures are in A$'000) South East South Asia Distributed North Asia Africa Americas International Asia Middle East Operating costs 1,764 13,410 21,171 19,904 958 57,207 Employee compensation 9,343 45,848 86,415 89,544 — 231,149 Payments to providers of capital dividend — Government (Tax) 12,088 Total 300,444 24 25 People PEOPLE Our Commitment Our Objectives Create a rewarding, inclusive workplace • To provide and maintain a satisfying and rewarding work environment for all employees. for our people by encouraging personal development, recognising good performance, • To build a flexible, inclusive and diverse workplace fostering equal opportunities and ensuring where our people, clients and communities feel trusted, employee health, safety and wellbeing. safe, confident, valued and understood. • To attract, engage, develop and grow the capability of our people. • To eliminate or manage hazards and practices that could cause accidents, injuries or illness. Employee Demographics As at 1 January 2020, SMEC, as part of the Surbana Figure 5: Employment type Turnover Jurong Group had over 16,000 employees across more than 130 global offices in over 40 countries. Of these The overall turnover for ANZ employees during the reporting period was 12.78%. This is comprised of 11.43% voluntary Business Unit Full Time Part Time Casual Fixed Term Total employees, 1,782 were based in the Australia and New turnover (resignation or retirement) and 1.35% involuntary turnover (dismissal or redundancy). A breakdown of the reason for Zealand (ANZ) division. Infrastructure 977 78 158 26 1239 employee turnover in ANZ is displayed in Figure 7. Figure 8 shows the breakdown of employee turnover by age and gender. Urban 203 18 27 4 252 Most employees from SMEC’s ANZ Division (80%) are Development Figure 7: Reason for employee turnover Figure 8: Employee turnover breakdown by age contracted on a full-time basis, followed by casual (11%), Management (Australia & New Zealand) and gender (Australia & New Zealand) 83 4 14 3 104 part time (7%), and fixed term (2%) as shown in Figure 5. Services Office of CEO 82 14 12 1 109 60 54 Remuneration 53 Office of COO 19 3 — 1 23 Male 45 SMEC has different levels of consulting professionals, Female Corporate 32 being Graduate, Professional, Experienced, Senior, 47 7 1 0 55 Services 30 28 25 Associate, Senior Associate & Principal. 87% Resignation 17 Total 1411 124 212 35 1782 8% Dismissal 15 10 4% Redundancy 5 5 4 The results of our annual gender parity analysis for the 3 1% Retirement 0 Australia & New Zealand division is shown in Figure 17-24 25-34 35-44 45-55 55-64 65+ 6. The analysis incorporated the remuneration and compensation offered to male and female employees in similar roles for 2019. Based on results, there was no Figure 6: Remuneration benchmark results evidence to suggest that SMEC has pay parity issues relating to gender or a gender pay gap. Gender parity Professionals % Difference Female % Difference Male across professional roles are at equal approximations ENG, PLN, ARC, SCI to Benchmark to Benchmark across each career level. Graduates 0-4 Years 98.35% 98.43% Figure 6 compares actual remuneration at each Experienced 94.24% 94.13% professional level (with gender breakdown) with the Senior 90.90% 91.20% average industry benchmark, which is based on Aon Hewitt’s Consult Australia Remuneration Report. Associate 92.21% 92.06% Senior Associate 90.24% 90.05% Principal 100.35% 100.41% 26 27 People Employee Benefits Health and Wellbeing Objective Flexible Working Arrangements Employee Assistance Program To build a flexible, inclusive and diverse workplace where our people, clients and SMEC’s Flexible Working Arrangements (FWA) support SMEC’s Employee Assistance Program (EAP) is provided communities feel trusted, safe, confident, employees in balancing their work and personal by Benestar, a leading national provider of employee commitments through options to vary work hours, assistance, corporate psychology, critical incident valued and understood. work from home and job share. As flexible working is training, and health and wellbeing services. increasingly embedded into our culture and ways of working at SMEC, we are seeing increased take-up of Through the EAP, SMEC employees (and their families) Gender Diversity In Australia and New Zealand, 26% of SMEC’s workforce FWA, with a total of 74 employees in Australia or New can access short-term confidential counselling and is female. Of these female employees, the majority are Zealand participating in a formal FWA in 2019. This is a advice on a broad range of personal, financial and workSMEC is committed to promoting gender diversity, aged between 25-34 years (33%), followed by 35-44 56% increase from 2018 and comprises 50 females related issues. In 2019, SMEC had a participation rate establishing an inclusive working environment and years (32%), as shown in Figure 10. (67%) and 24 males (32%). of 5.9%, an increase of 0.2% from 2018. A comparison promoting female participation in engineering through of SMEC’s participation rate against the industry average active industry representation and participation. SMEC Leave benefits is displayed in Figure 9. continues to implement programs to increase awareness Figure 10: Employee breakdown by gender and age of gender diversity, and to create cultural change by SMEC offers a range of leave benefits in addition to Figure 9: EAP annualised utilisation aligning work practices, processes and systems with 400 statutory leave entitlements, including: diversity initiatives. 350 6% 5.9% • Purchased Additional Annual Leave – Employees 300 Number of Employees Australia & New Zealand Inclusion Male can salary package an additional four weeks of annual 5% & Diversity Committee 250 Female leave per year, on top of their normal annual leave 200 entitlement. In 2019, 347 employees took advantage of 4% 3.8% The Australia & New Zealand Inclusion & Diversity 3.7% 150 purchased additional annual leave, an increase of 82% 3.3% 3.2% Committee has been established to help drive strategic 3% 3.0% 100 compared to 2018. objectives and lead initiatives designed to promote an 50 inclusive and diverse workplace. Dec 2014 Dec 2015 Dec 2016 Dec 2017 Dec 2018 Dec 2019 • Parental Leave – SMEC offers 14 weeks of paid 17-24 25-34 35-44 45-55 55-64 65+ parental leave to the primary carer of a new child, in Customer Industry All Customers Made up of a diverse range of employees from all levels of addition to their annual leave, long service leave and the business, from graduates through to ANZ CEO James government-funded entitlements. During the reporting Corporate Health Plan Phillis (Committee Chair), members volunteer for the period, 51 employees commenced a period of paid committee in addition to their day-to-day responsibilities. SMEC offers employees a Corporate Health Plan through parental leave, 36 commenced primary carers leave and Bupa, which includes benefits such as discounted health 15 commenced secondary carers’ leave. cover, waived waiting periods on extras and a three-year loyalty provision for new members. During 2019, 279 • Australian Defence Force (ADF) Leave – SMEC employees took advantage of SMEC’s corporate health provides up to 10 days ADF leave annually. No plan through Bupa, a 22% increase from 2018. employees took ADF Leave in 2019. As part of the company’s 70th anniversary celebrations in 2019, we sponsored a 70-day health and wellness challenge for all employees in Australia. Employees earned points by participating in activities such as exercise, nutritional eating and meditation. Feedback for this program was extremely positive and we plan to run the challenge again in 2020. 2019 highlights Other corporate health initiatives in 2019 included • In September 2019, SMEC applied to the Australian • Developed an action plan to support employees providing free flu shots to employees and subsiding Workplace Gender Equality Agency (WGEA) for the returning to work from parental leave. various team and community sports activities in which Employer of Choice citation. SMEC employees participated. • Created a plan for promoting and normalising flexible • A notable increase in employees taking up flexible working at all levels of the organisation. working arrangements and parental leave benefits. • Reviewed a number of policies and procedures, • Expanded our recruitment policies and procedures to including SMEC’s Gender Action Plan, with further include gender equality guidelines. updates and improvements planned for 2020. 28 29 People PEOPLE Objective To attract, engage, develop and grow the capability of our people. Career Development Leadership Development Program Held in Singapore, the 2019 global Leadership Tertiary Education Assistance Development Program hosted 41 participants from SMEC employees can apply for Tertiary Education SMEC and its sister companies in the Surbana Jurong Assistance in support of their continued professional Group. Nominated by senior leadership, participants in development. SMEC will reimburse participants 50% of the program were provided with a unique opportunity for course fees, up to a maximum of AUD 10,000 per calendar collaboration and learning in the areas of leadership and year. During the reporting period, two new applications culture, leading change and digital innovation. were supported, and eight current recipients were reimbursed for course fees. Since the program’s inception Management Development Program in 2009, SMEC has supported more than 40 employees The Management Development Program is aimed at to achieve qualifications ranging from Certificate IV to building on and enhancing people management and selfpostgraduate degrees in a broad range of study fields. Client Relationship Management Training Chartership Support Program leadership skills for new and experienced leaders. The program was delivered across the SMEC group globally, In 2019, SMEC developed and launched a comprehensive SMEC supports employees in their professional Career Pathways with a total of 160 graduates – 39 females and 121 males. Client Relationship Management training program, development through sponsoring the attainment of SMEC’s Career Pathways system provides employees focusing on a consistent and coordinated approach chartership through Engineers Australia, including funding with a range of career paths for technical and business Key outcomes from post program evaluation to client interaction and sharing of information across the cost of registration and ongoing assessment fees – a progression. Career Pathways also provides targeted reports include: business units. The program consisted on on-line and total of over $35,000 in 2019. To support achievement of learning and development programs and an equitable face-to-face sessions and was presented to 40 employees chartership, managers are required to monitor employees’ • Employees reporting to program graduates indicated reward and recognition framework. In 2019, SMEC (35% female). We plan to continue this training in 2020 to progress, provide development opportunities, offer an 80% increase in engagement. offered employees training in Project Management enhance the quality of our interaction and engagement with mentoring and guidance, and encourage the submission and Client Relationship Management, in addition to our clients, who form a key stakeholder group for SMEC. of Engineering Competency Claims. During 2019, 19 • Program graduates reported an 80% increase in employees (up from nine in 2018) applied for chartered Leadership and Graduate Development programs. feeling valued by their employer. status through Engineers Australia. Equal Employment Opportunity Training Talent Management • 85% of program graduates felt they were equipped to SMEC's Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) Graduate Development Program SMEC’s approach to talent management combines be a better leader. framework promotes a safe, inclusive and flexible talent identification (building employee leadership work environment for all employees and clients. This In 2019, SMEC’s Graduate Development Program (GDP) capability and capacity for long term continuity) and Project Management Training comprehensive framework covers training, policy provided 200 graduates (up from 161 in 2018) with succession planning (establishing a leadership pipeline development and review, and is designed to encourage development opportunities related to building personal and identifying successors for key roles). This is A total of 435 employees attended 34 Project mutual respect in the workplace and reinforce SMEC’s and professional skills. Female graduates made up 36% reinforced by open conversations between employees Management Training sessions held across Australia in company values. Equal Employment Opportunity training of program participants. The GDP combines classroomand managers that foster trust, promote transparency 2019. This one-day training session covers the principles, is a compulsory part of SMEC’s online induction process based learning, self-directed online modules, networking and aim to ensure a balance between individual success practices and processes of project management at in Australia and New Zealand. events and mentoring to help graduates plan and and organisational performance. SMEC and was developed in conjunction with Engineers establish their careers with SMEC. Education Australia. Given the nature of SMEC’s work Performance and Development Review as a consultant in infrastructure projects, this training is The work done in 2018 to revise and enhance the In 2019, we strengthened our talent management and critical in ensuring we are communicating and engaging SMEC conducts annual performance reviews for all program was also recognised by the industry, with succession planning framework, with a more structured regularly, safely and effectively with our stakeholders. permanent employees through a Performance Appraisal SMEC’s GDP winning a Gold award for Best Learning & and consistent succession planning process for critical System (PAS) in which employees are assessed against Development Project (Induction/Onboarding) and a Silver leadership positions, as well as a development framework agreed upon goals and KPIs, as well as SMEC’s values. award for Best Learning Model (Blended Learning) at the for employees identified as key talent. At the executive This process considers not only what our employees 2019 LearnX awards. level, we completed succession planning for roles achieve, but how they achieve it, and is intended to identified as business-critical, in alignment with our parent encourage a value-based approach to what we do. The company Surbana Jurong. training and development needs of employees are also reviewed twice annually as part of PAS. 30 31 People PEOPLE Safety in Design SMEC invests in its people to enhance their knowledge 2019 Year in Review – Australia and New Zealand Division and encourage the implementation of safety principles in In 2019, SMEC continued to improve proactive health the design and delivery of projects. We work closely with and safety initiatives, including regular Safety Talks in all clients to ensure that the safety needs of their projects Australian and New Zealand offices. are well documented within Scope of Works and Project Management Plans. SMEC facilitates Safety in Design Proactive reporting accounted for 85% of all work health Objective training and awareness programs to educate employees and safety reporting during the period, with 53 hazard and clients on local legislation requirements; potential cost reports received. We also conducted 229 safety talks To eliminate or manage hazards and savings; and the ability to eliminate or reduce hazards. and issued 84 safety alerts or news items, a significant practices that could cause accidents, increase from 2018. injuries or illness. Figures 11 and 12 display a breakdown of incidents by region and activity. Work Health and Safety Zero Harm Culture SMEC has implemented policies, procedures, guidelines, Figure 11: Safety incidents by activity type Figure 12: Safety incidents by location type Health and Safety Commitment work instructions and reporting tools to measure progress Our commitment to safety is demonstrated through a towards Zero Harm objectives: 35 40 fully-integrated Health and Safety Management System 31 32 and a company-wide Strategic Plan. • zero incidents that cause a fatality 25 30 23 26 25 20 To provide safe and healthy working conditions for all • zero incidents that cause a permanent disability 15 12 13 20 17 9 10 9 15 employees, contractors, visitors and the public, SMEC: 8 8 6 10 10 • zero incidents that cause permanent health issues 5 4 10 3 3 4 3 1 1 1 1 1 3 • Maintains a safe work environment (including work 1 1 0 0 conditions, practices and procedures) • zero long-term psychological injury due to the work LTI MTI First aid Near miss Hazard QLD/NT NSW/ACT VIC/TAS SA/WA NZ environment QLD/NT NSW/ACT VIC/TAS Office Project Travel • Ensures full compliance with all applicable statutory SA/WA NZ and licensing requirements • zero long-term detrimental impact on the environment • Undertakes proactive reporting of near misses, • year-on-year reductions in workplace injuries. hazards, drills and inspections to ensure that all incidents are accurately reported, recorded and lessons Our Zero Harm objectives are embedded in SMEC’s learnt are shared company culture through: • Involves all employees and management in health and • Training and development: All SMEC employees safety management through consultation complete a mandatory company induction, which includes a Health and Safety module. All employees 2019 highlights 2019 highlights • Develops safety awareness throughout the company receive ongoing training as required. via formal and informal training Based on the results of a workforce safety culture survey • Fatigue management framework was reviewed to • Management commitment: Lead by example, and analysis, SMEC ANZ launched the Safety Culture provide clarity around managing lower and higher risk • Minimises or eliminates hazards within the workplace eliminate unsafe work practices, and recognise that Action Plan in October 2018. We continue to implement situations. through risk identification, assessment, control and healthy workers are productive workers. the initiatives agreed upon through this plan, with some of monitoring. the highlights for the reporting period outlined below: • A new safety award was established under the ANZ • Monitoring and evaluating performance: Encourage values recognition program. a culture of openness and proactive reporting amongst • 360 project and people managers completed SMEC’s all employees. Leading Safety Program. This initiative aims to create a • Developed a ‘one stop’ safety portal on the step-change in how our leaders and managers engage company intranet, which provides all employees with staff about safety and risk. access to safety-related policies, procedures and • Rehabilitation and return to work services: Ensure employees can return to work as soon as possible. other useful documentation. • In line with the mental health strategy endorsed in 2018, SMEC’s Mental Health First Aid Network was Looking to 2020 • Effective consultation: Involve stakeholders in established. There are now specially trained Mental Health workplace safety decisions. First Aiders (MHFAs) in each Australian state or territory, In 2020, we plan to increase awareness of our existing and in New Zealand. These employees’ role is to provide safety programs and procedures, as well as review their informal and confidential support to their colleagues, effectiveness through another workforce safety culture including guiding them towards other support services, survey. Improvements will be documented through such as SMEC’s Employee Assistance Program (EAP). 32 updating our Safety Culture Action Plan. 33 Community COMMUNITY Our Commitment Our Objectives Support community and charitable programs To deliver the best possible social and that provide long-term solutions. development outcomes for people in need through small-scale grant support provided by the SMEC Foundation. To protect and uphold internationally proclaimed human rights, particularly in the areas of child abuse and forced compulsory labour. To support and encourage employees to participate in and contribute to the development and wellbeing of their communities. Objective Child Protection Policy SMEC has a zero-tolerance policy towards corruption, fraud or To protect and uphold internationally SMEC maintains a zero-tolerance policy in relation to bribery of any form, as set out in our Code of Conduct, Business child exploitation and abuse. Child Protection Policy proclaimed human rights, particularly training and police checks for those working with children Integrity Policy, standard commercial agreement templates and in the areas of child abuse and forced is mandatory for all SMEC employees. We continue to review our Child Protection Policy and associated other business instruments. compulsory labour. processes and practices to ensure rigorous compliance with the standards set out by the Australian Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade. Forced and Compulsory Labour SMEC is committed to the elimination of all forced and Human Rights compulsory labour, complies with all national employment legislation, and ensures the highest standards of 2019 highlights Looking to 2020 Through a broad range of policies, procedures and frameworks, SMEC fully supports and advocates for the protection for employees. Our Code of Conduct ensures that ethical employment and labour practices are • Worked closely with Engineering Aid Australia and In 2020, we will review and address cultural awareness protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. implemented across our organisation. recruitment firm Indigenous Employment Australia to training needs at SMEC, increase the representation of SMEC’s Employee Assistance Program (EAP) is provided recruit and place qualified candidates who identify as Indigenous businesses in our supply chain and continue by Benestar, a leading national provider of employee Indigenous Rights Aboriginal or Torres Strait Islander within our organisation. to work closely with our clients to ensure the rights and assistance, corporate psychology, critical incident heritage of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples training, and health and wellbeing services. At the end of 2019, we submitted Phase 2 of our • Sponsored the SMEC Indigenous jersey for the are protected in the planning and execution of projects. Reconciliation Action Plan (RAP) to Reconciliation Northern Pride’s first match at the Intrust Super Cup We will also work closely with employees across our Corruption and Bribery Australia for endorsement. SMEC’s RAP formalises games in Cairns, Australia. organisation and in partnership with Reconciliation SMEC has a zero-tolerance policy towards corruption, our commitment to implement and measure practical Australia to implement our RAP. fraud or bribery of any form, as set out in our Code of actions that create opportunities for, and build respectful • SMEC offices in Melbourne and Brisbane engaged with Conduct, Business Integrity Policy, standard commercial relationships with, Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Aboriginal artists to commission work for their offices. agreement templates and other business instruments. peoples. The RAP is implemented by a dedicated, cross We have implemented a range of policies, procedures, functional working group. • Continued our support of Engineering Aid Australia training and communication materials to ensure we are and the Indigenous Literacy Foundation, both of which always maintaining and enhancing a culture of integrity. During the reporting period, we continued our efforts provide educational support and opportunities to For more information on our initiatives and improvements particularly in the areas of indigenous recruitment and children and students from Aboriginal and Torres Strait in 2019, please see page 22. support for indigenous communities. Islander communities. 34 35 Community COMMUNITY A HAVEN FOR THE CHILDREN OF TANZANIA Partner: McKendrick Family Location: Tanzania Objective The Alastair McKendrick House, a home for orphans, The Alastair McKendrick House can cater for up to 64 children was officially opened in Dar es Salaam in October and is built on an area of approximately 10,854sqm. This land To deliver the best possible social and 2019. The project is an initiative of SMEC’s Africa can be further developed to ultimately accommodate more development outcomes for people in need CSR Committee that has been supported by the than 180 children as well as a poultry farm and greenhouse, SMEC Foundation and the McKendrick family. Alastair which will help the orphanage generate income to self-sustain through small-scale grant support provided McKendrick is a former long-serving SMEC Director its operations. by the SMEC Foundation. and Group Chief Financial Officer (CFO), who passed away in September 2018, but his legacy lives on To support and encourage employees through his contribution to the children of Tanzania. to participate in and contribute to the development and wellbeing of their communities. WATERAID AND SMEC PARTNER TO ADDRESS GENDER INEQUALITY Community Development SMEC Foundation recognised for community Partner: WaterAid Location: Papua New Guinea contribution Despite significant progress in recent years, millions The Foundation contributed to the construction of new The SMEC Foundation The SMEC Foundation was named an ABA100 Winner of children still lack access to basic water, sanitation toilets and hand washing facilities at Tubuserea Upper Founded in 2001, the SMEC Foundation provides for Community Contribution in The Australian Business and hygiene (WaSH) facilities at their schools. This Primary School in Papua New Guinea. The WaSH small-scale grant support to a range of development Awards 2019. is particularly pronounced for young girls and female facilities are a particularly welcome addition to the projects around the world with a focus on Health, adolescents who often miss school because of a lack school’s infrastructure, with both teachers and students Education, Environment, Community Development and The Australian Business Award for Community of access to safe and improved facilities. commenting on the positive difference made. Emergency Relief. Contribution recognises organisations that implement initiatives that have a positive impact on the community The SMEC Foundation partnered with WaterAid on an Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) programs and generate outcomes that have a long-term benefit. integrated WaSH project that aims to increase school retention in young women through improving access to SMEC’s global CSR program is led by the SMEC WaSH and sexual and reproductive health knowledge. Foundation and facilitated through CSR committees that have been established in each of SMEC’s operating divisions (Australia & New Zealand, South Asia & Middle East, South-east Asia and Africa). We are fortunate to $30k HELPING TO CLOSE have a presence in more than 40 countries around the world, where we are committed to not only delivering projects to a high standard of excellence but also making a difference to communities in need. More than A$30,000 donated to support the THE LITERACY GAP During the 2019 reporting period, AUD 144,628.60 Indigenous Literacy Foundation Partner: Indigenous Literacy Foundation was donated directly through the SMEC Foundation. In Location: Australia 1,700 addition, SMEC’s Divisional CSR Committees donated SMEC is proud to renew its partnership for the approximately AUD $272,000 across several projects with third year with the Indigenous Literacy Foundation, SMEC employees participating in many inspiring activities which promotes early literacy and provides culturally around the world. More detail on the Foundation’s activities appropriate books to Aboriginal and Torres Strait can be found in our annual SMEC Foundation Review, Islander communities. which is made available to the public on our website. Books provided to 20 remote communities in Australia To date, SMEC has donated more than A$30,000 SMEC has once again committed funding for the to help the Indigenous Literacy Foundation provide Divisional CSR Committees in 2020. 1,700 books to 20 remote communities in Australia, supporting literacy for many children and their families. SMEC also partners with representatives of the Indigenous Literacy Foundation to speak at key events and help SMEC employees understand how their donations make a difference. 36 37 Sustainability and Environment SUSTAINABILITY AND ENVIRONMENT Our Commitment Our Objectives Eliminate or minimise any adverse To operate energy efficient offices and impacts that SMEC’s office activities and reduce Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions projects have on the environment and generated by SMEC’s operations raise awareness of the importance of environmental sustainability. To provide long-term environmentally sustainable project advice to clients To educate employees, clients, partners and contractors about the importance of environmental sustainability. Environmental Management framework Environmental Management System (EMS) Environmental Impact Assessment Scale Sustainable Procurement Procedure SMEC’s Environmental Management System complies SMEC has controls in place to manage and, where SMEC implements a Sustainable Procurement Procedure, SMEC’s company-wide Environmental Management with the requirements of ISO 14001 (Environmental possible, reduce potential environmental impacts resulting whereby employees who undertake procurement of items Policy and Environmental Management System (EMS) Management) and provides a systematic and from project and office activities. Project Managers and valued over A$150,000 (capital works, fleet and office formalise our commitment to environmental responsibility. methodical approach to planning, implementing and Regional Managers are responsible for determining the supplies) must complete an Environmental Sustainability reviewing SMEC’s environmental performance. Effective potential consequences of environmental impacts, using and Social Equity Questionnaire. This Questionnaire Environmental Management Policy implementation of the EMS supports a company culture SMEC’s Environmental Impact Assessment Scale (as determines whether purchases minimise waste disposal, focused on incorporating sustainable practices into displayed in Appendix D). reduce greenhouse gas emissions, maximise resource SMEC operates under a detailed Environmental everyday business decisions. efficiency, conserve and improve biodiversity, incorporate Management Policy which is reviewed and reaffirmed Where the environmental impact rating is above ethical considerations, or have a low carbon footprint. annually by SMEC’s Chief Executive Officer. SMEC is committed to operating in an environmentally eight, SMEC employees are required to develop an responsible manner by: Environmental Management Plan (EMP), outlining appropriate risk treatments, targets, objectives, controls and responsibilities. • Implementing and improving environmental management systems, in accordance with ISO 14001. Where a risk rating is identified as above 15, the hazard is assigned to senior management for review. Where • Complying with legal requirements. a risk rating is identified as 20 or above, the hazard is assigned to executive management. It is management’s • Implementing environmental management programs responsibility to ensure the risk is managed in an to achieve environmental objectives and targets. appropriate manner across the Company’s operations. • Conducting all activities in an environmentally Project Managers must develop and document responsible manner to minimise the potential for adverse environmental objectives and targets for each project environmental impacts. during the planning stage. Achievements against these set objectives and targets are measured annually for • Preventing pollution associated with SMEC’s activities. long-term projects, and upon project completion for short-term projects. • Providing environmentally responsible, sustainable and practical solutions to clients. • Monitoring, reviewing and auditing SMEC’s environmental performance. 38 39 Sustainability and Environment SUSTAINABILITY AND ENVIRONMENT Our Objective To operate energy efficient offices and reduce Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions generated by SMEC’s operations Sustainable offices other waste products; mobile phone, battery and printer City Switch All SMEC’s Australian offices are working towards cartridge recycling; stickers to remind employees to achieving an accredited four-star NABERS energy rating switch off computer monitors at night; environmentally SMEC has committed all Australian offices to the by reducing energy consumption, lowering carbon Environmental Management Plan friendly detergents; the use of recycled toilet paper and CitySwitch Green Office Program. CitySwitch is a impacts, and improving the sustainability of operations. The SMEC Australia & New Zealand Environmental recycling of used coffee pods. national tenancy energy efficiency program that Management Plan sets out guidelines to manage the supports organisations in improving their National NABERS Energy ratings environmental impacts associated with each office in Australian Built Environmental Rating System (NABERS) We launched a project to collect data on SMEC’s carbon the areas of procurement, waste generation, electricity, office energy ratings. In 2019, 16 Australian offices completed a CitySwitch footprint in Australia, for example kilometers travelled in transport and water. Objectives, targets, actions, company vehicles or via air transport. This information is Energy Audit, with results showing an average NABERS procedures and processes are outlined for each shared with our parent company, Surbana Jurong, and NABERS is an Australian rating system that measures energy rating of 3.5 stars. Eight of the 15 offices reached aspect, with timelines and responsibilities identified will inform future policies and targets in relation to the the environmental performance (energy efficiency, water or exceeded the target energy rating of four stars. to ensure accountability. environmental sustainability of our operations. In 2020, usage, waste management and indoor environmental we also plan to establish a National Committee focussed quality) of buildings, tenancies, offices and homes. In 2020, we are focused on increasing the energy In 2019, each of our 19 offices in Australia and New on sustainable practices and continue building an NABERS utilises a zero to six-star rating scale (with efficiency of our offices, and working with our building Zealand continued to implement existing procedures environmentally friendly culture across SMEC. one star indicating very poor performance and six stars operators and property managers to address any and adopt new initiatives that have an overall positive representing market leading performance) to measure the restrictions and challenges. impact on SMEC’s environmental footprint. Examples of environmental performance of a building against other these initiatives include bins for sorting recyclable and comparable buildings in a similar location. Energy performance by office (top performers shown): Adelaide – 4 Melbourne – 5.5 Cairns – 5.5 North Sydney – 5 Canberra – 5.5 Perth – 4.5 Grafton – 5.5 Traralgon 5 40 41 Sustainability and Environment SUSTAINABILITY AND PACIFIC MOTORWAY UPGRADE: VARSITY ENVIRONMENT LAKES TO BURLEIGH INTERCHANGE Location: Australia This project is part of the upgrade and widening of the an innovative Diverging Diamond Interchange, only the Our Objective Pacific Motorway from Varsity to Tugun, one of Australia’s second to be constructed in Queensland and Australia. busiest highways and a national freight route. To guide our clients to embed sustainability SMEC’s specialist sustainability staff are working with our into their projects across the asset life cycle. On the highway section from Varsity Lakes to Burleigh client and the team to help embed sustainable practices including the Burleigh Interchange, SMEC was engaged and design elements into the project, which go beyond to evaluate the business case design and develop the “business as usual road design” to provide innovative, design for construction, incorporating opportunities for cost effective design solutions. To verify this process, innovation and value engineering solutions. This section SMEC is undertaking a Sustainability Assessment against At SMEC, we provide sustainability services Sustainability services of the Pacific Motorway will be increased from two to the Infrastructure Sustainability Council of Australia for a range of infrastructure projects to • Sustainability planning, monitoring and reporting three or four lanes in each direction and incorporate (ISCA)’s Infrastructure Sustainability Rating Scheme. push environmental, social and economic • Sustainability integration, management and assessment project outcomes beyond ‘business as IPSWICH MOTORWAY UPGRADE: BLUNDER • Sustainability rating implementation and delivery usual’. SMEC offers a comprehensive suite Environmental services of sustainability advisory services to clients to achieve their sustainability objectives from • Environment planning, auditing and assessment ROAD TO CENTENARY MOTORWAY planning through to construction. • Ecological assessments Location: Australia • Water resources and groundwater protection • Feasibility, concept, design and grid connection SMEC was engaged to undertake the Ipswich Motorway the Preliminary Evaluation Options Analysis, based on We are leaders in skilfully scoping, assessing and for renewable energy projects Corridor Study to develop a Preliminary Evaluation of key sustainability parameters using a scored multi-criteria delivering sustainability services to efficiently guide clients' • Climate risk, vulnerability and adaptation assessments the concept design options for the Blunder Road to analysis. Following this assessment, recommendations projects through sustainability ratings, such as Australia’s • Wetland and waterway rehabilitation Centenary Motorway section of the Ipswich Motorway were made for sustainability measures to be considered Infrastructure Sustainability (IS) Rating Scheme. • Waste to energy conversion Rocklea to Darra Upgrade Project. during the project’s design development • Hydrogeological and hydrological investigations Our global team of sustainability specialists, social • Contaminated site assessment and management SMEC’s Infrastructure Sustainability Accredited scientists, environmental planners, environmental Professionals (ISAPs) prepared the Environmental CLIMATE RESILIENCE • Marine infrastructure development scientists, ecologists, asset managers, urban designers • Coastal zone management Scoping Report and the Sustainability Assessment for and engineers work collaboratively to deliver wholistic • Flora and fauna surveys project outcomes across the triple bottom line (environment, economic and social). Some examples of • Water quality monitoring (ground, surface and drinking water) SECTOR PROJECT our project work are shown on the next page. • Acid sulphate soils assessment Location: Tonga • Energy advisory services Tonga’s Climate Resilience Sector Project (CRSP) was an ambitious and vital project aiming to increase resilience Social services in Tonga’s economic, social, and natural eco-systems to • Social impact assessment (SIA)/Social risk analysis climate variability, change and disaster risk. • Resettlement and livelihood restoration • Social management planning and From March 2016, SMEC provided design, project community investment programs management, procurement support and construction • Social compliance and due diligence auditing supervision to the Ministry of Meteorology, Energy • Governance Information, Disaster Management, Environment, Climate • Community and stakeholder engagement Change and Communication (MEIDECCC), and various • Education project implementation units. This included environmental • Health and social safeguards assessments; reconnaissance inspections, surveys and investigations; preparation of marine landings inventory; quality assurance and control; and program review and documentation. The project was successfully implemented, on time and within budget, and all defined outcomes were achieved by the end of 2019. This comprehensive program has made a difference not just to institutional and government sectors but also in the areas of social development, capacity building, and 42 43 women’s empowerment. Appendix APPENDIX A Scope of this report This is SMEC’s tenth annual Sustainability Report, covering its economic, social and environmental performance from 1 January 2019 to 31 December 2019. The information in this report pertains to Material aspects and boundaries Stakeholder inclusiveness Materiality SMEC’s Australian operations and various To determine the material aspects, boundaries and Information in this report pertains to SMEC’s All material aspects identified in this report are relevant international operations only. It does not content of this report, SMEC completed a four-step stakeholders and has been compiled with reference and sufficiently important in reflecting SMEC’s economic, include SMEC’s joint ventures or any other process of identification, prioritisation, validation and to the expectations, needs, interests and information social and environmental impacts. Aspects identified as review. This process ensured all aspects identified were requirements of these stakeholders. non material have not been reported. controlled entities. For a complete list of material to SMEC and provided a structured approach SMEC’s controlled and associated entities, for implementation of the Reporting Principles for Sustainability context Completeness please refer to Appendix B. Defining Report Content. This report presents SMEC’s company performance Material aspects, scope, time and boundaries contained SMEC has applied the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Material aspects defined in this report are those aspects within the wider context of sustainability, and explores within this report enable stakeholders to assess SMEC’s Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. which reflect SMEC’s significant economic, social and the ways in which SMEC contributes to the improvement performance during the reporting period. environmental impacts, or which have a substantial of economic, environmental and social conditions on a The data in this report has been gathered using standard influence on the decisions of company stakeholders. local, regional and global level. measurement techniques which conform to national or international guidelines or regulatory requirements. Specific To determine the boundaries of each material aspect, Figure 13: Material Aspects contained within this report calculations are referenced where appropriate. All monetary consideration was made into the impacts of each, both figures are in Australian dollars, unless otherwise stated. within and externally to SMEC. Social Economic For further information, please contact: Material aspects contained within this report are displayed Labour Practices and Decent Work Economic Performance sustainabilityreport@smec.com in Figure 13. All material aspects identified have an impact Employment Indirect Economic Impacts both inside and outside of SMEC and are relevant for all stakeholders outlined in Stakeholder Engagement on Labour/Management Relations pages 14 and 15. Occupational Health and Safety Environmental Training and Education Materials Defining Report Content Diversity and Equal Opportunity Energy In compiling this report, SMEC has adhered to the Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content. Equal Remuneration for Women and Men Water These principles are: Human Rights Biodiversity • stakeholder inclusiveness Non-discrimination Emissions • sustainability context Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Effluents and Waste • materiality • completeness Child Labour Compliance Forced or Compulsory Labour Implementation of these principles ensures the content Indigenous Rights contained within this report is relevant, accurate, meaningful and complete. Society Anti-corruption Compliance 44 45 Appendix APPENDIX B Associated entities Controlled entities continued Entity Country of incorporation Entity Country of incorporation South Asia Leadrail Infra Solutions Private Ltd India Himalayan Green Energy Pvt Ltd India SMEC India (Pvt) Ltd India TT Energy Pvt Ltd India SMEC Central Asia LLP Kazakhstan Asia Pacific SMEC Kenya Limited Kenya P.T. SMEC Denka Indonesia Indonesia SMEC Macau Engineering Consulting Limited Macau SMEC Energy SDN Berhad Malaysia SMEC International (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd Malaysia SMEC (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd Malaysia Energy Holdings Limited Mauritius Africa SMEC International (Africa) Ltd Mauritius LDLC Properties (Pty) Ltd South Africa SMEC Services De Ingenieria De Mexico Mexico Soilco Materials Investigations Pty Ltd South Africa SMEC Mongolia LLC Mongolia SMEC Myanmar Company Limited Myanmar VKE Namibia Consulting Engineers Pty Ltd Namibia Controlled entities Vincpro (Pty) Ltd Namibia Entity Country of incorporation SMEC New Zealand Ltd New Zealand SMEC Australia Pty Ltd Australia SMEC Nigeria Limited Nigeria SMEC International Pty Ltd Australia South Asia Middle East Management Company LLC Oman SMEC Services Pty Ltd Australia SMEC Oil and Gas (Private) Limited Pakistan SMEC Foundation Ltd Australia Engineering General Consultants (Pvt) Ltd Pakistan Global Maintenance Consulting Pty Ltd Australia SMEC Pakistan (Pvt) Ltd Pakistan SMEC Testing Services Pty Ltd Australia SMEC PNG Ltd Papua New Guinea SMECTS Holdings Pty Ltd Australia SMEC Philippines Inc Philippines STS Geoenvironmental Pty Ltd Australia ECCL Singapore Pte Ltd Singapore PDR Engineers Pty Ltd Australia Global Maintenance Consulting Singapore Pte Ltd Singapore ACE Consultants Limited Bangladesh SMEC South Africa Pty Ltd South Africa SMEC Bangladesh Ltd Bangladesh Soillab Pty Ltd South Africa Engineering Consultants Underwriters Ltd Bermuda SMEC International (Africa) (Pty) Ltd* South Africa VKE Botswana Pty Ltd Botswana Ocyana Consultants Pvt Ltd Sri Lanka SMEC International (Canada) Inc Canada SMEC (Tanzania) Limited Tanzania Global Maintenance Consulting Chile Limitada Chile SMEC Uganda Limited Uganda SMEC Asia Ltd Hong Kong Global Maintenance Consulting – America, Inc. United States of America SMEC Vietnam JSC Vietnam * Formerly known as Global Maintenance Consulting (Canada) Inc 46 47 Appendix APPENDIX C Company memberships AIC Membership (Asociación de Empresas, Consultoras Consult Australia International Development Contractors Community SAAMA (South Africa Asset Management Association) de Ingeniería de Chile AIC A.G.) International Union of Soil Sciences, Nigeria Singapore Association Myanmar Asset Management Council (Australia) Consulting Engineering Association of India Malaysia Australia Business Council Soil Science Society of Nigeria Association of Consulting Engineers Botswana Consulting Engineers South Africa Myanmar Oil and Gas Service Society South African National Committee on Large Dams Association of Consulting Engineers Malaysia Council of Engineering Consultants of the Philippines National Construction Industry Council, Malawi South African Oil & Gas Association Association of Consulting Engineers Zambia Delhi Chamber of Commerce National Environmental Standard & Regulations Supply Nation Association of Land Development Engineers Department of Petroleum Resources (Nigeria) Enforcement Agency of Nigeria Association of Tanzania Employers Engineers Australia Nigeria Institute of Soil Science Tertiary Education Facilities Management of Australia (TEFMA Australasian Corrosion Association Engineering Institution of Zambia New South Wales Business Chamber (Australia) Committee for Sydney (Australia) Australia Mining Chambers (Indonesia) Engineers Registration Board, Tanzania Pakistan Engineering Council Uganda National Chamber of Commerce (Uganda Australia Myanmar Chamber of Commerce Engineers Registration Board, Zambia Papua New Guinea Chamber Mines and Petroleum Urban Development Institute of Australia Australia Papua New Guinea Business Council Facilities Management of Australia (FMA) Petroleum Authority of Uganda Waste Management and Resource Recovery Association Australian National Committee on Large Dams Federation of Kenya Employers of Australia Australian New Zealand Chamber of Commerce, Ghana Institution of Engineers PPDA -Public Procurement and Disposal Authority Water Industry Alliance Philippines Professional Engineers Ontario Australian Water Association Indonesia Australia Business Chambers Property Council of Australia (PCA) Board of Engineers, Malaysia Infrastructure Partnerships Australia Roads Australia British Chamber Myanmar Institute of Municipal Engineering of Southern Africa 48 49 Appendix APPENDIX D Environmental Impact Assessment Scale Ratings Treatment 1-6 Manage aspects via safe operating procedure. 8-12 Process decisions and treatments or controls are assigned specific responsibilities within the process. 15-16 Process decisions and treatments or controls are escalated to senior management for review. 20-25 Process decisions and treatments or controls are escalated to executive level management for review. Impact 1 2 3 4 5 Major, but Insignificant Minor Moderate Catastrophic reversible 5 Almost certain 5 10 15 20 25 4 Above average 4 8 12 16 20 Likelihood 3 Moderate 3 6 9 12 15 2 Rare 2 4 6 8 10 1 Very rare 1 2 3 4 5 50 51 Appendix APPENDIX E GRI GRI Description Comments Page No. Description Comments Page No. Indicator Indicator 1.1/G4-1 Statement from the CEO. 4-5 4.1/G4-34 Governance structure of the organisation. 12-13,20-21 Strategy 1.2/G4-2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities. 4-5, 8-9, 4.2 Chair of the highest governing body. 12-13 24-25 4.3 Independent and non-executive board members. 12-13 2.1/G4-3 Name of the organisation. SMEC Holdings Limited 4.4 Mechanisms to provide recommendations to the 21-23 2.2 /G4-4 Primary brands, products and services. Feasibility studies, detailed design, 6 highest governing body. tender and contract management, construction supervision, 4.5 Compensation and performance. 24-25 operation and maintenance, 4.6 Processes to avoid conflicts of interests. 20-23 training and project management. 4.7 Process for determining qualifications and expertise. 22,26 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation. 12-13, 20-23 Governance, Commitments and Engagements 4.8/G4-56 Mission, values and code of conduct. 16-17, 20 2.4/G4-5 Location of organisation’s headquarters. Collins Square, Tower 4, Level 20, Organisational Profile 727 Collins St, Melbourne, VIC, 4.9 Processes for management of company performance. 20-23 3008, Australia 4.10 Processes for evaluating the performance of the 20-23 2.5/G4-6 Number of countries where the organisation operates. 40+ 6-7 highest governing body. 2.6/G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form. 12-13, 20-21 4.11/G4-14 Precautionary principle addressed. 4-5, 20-21 2.7/G4-8 Markets served. Urban development, 5-6 4.12/G4-15 Externally developed economic, environmental and 14-15, 18Infrastructure, Management social charters. 19, 48-49 Advisory. 4.13/G4-16 Memberships in associations. 48-49 2.8/G4-9 Scale of the reporting organisation. 6-7, 2425,26-27 4.14/G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the 14-15 organisation. 2.9/G4-13 Significant changes to size, structure or ownership Nil. during the reporting period. 4.15/G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders. 14-15,44-45 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. 18-19 4.16/G4-26 Approaches to stakeholder engagement. 14-15,44-45 3.1/G4-28 Reporting period. 1 January 2019 31 December 44 4.17/G4-27 Key stakeholder topics and concerns. 14-15,44-45 2019. G4-38 Composition of the highest governing body. 12-13, 20-21 3.2/G4-29 Date of most recent previous report. March 2019. G4-39 Explain whether the Chair of the highest governing 12-13, 20-21 3.3/G4-30 Reporting cycle. Annual. 44 body is also an executive officer. 3.4/G4-31 Contact point for report. sustainabilityreport@smec.com 44 G4-51 Remuneration policies for the highest governing body. 24 3.5 Process for defining report content. 44-45 G4-10 Breakdown of employee demographics. 7, 26-31 Report Parameters 3.6 Boundary of the report. 44-45 G4-11 Percentage of employees covered by bargaining Nil. agreements. 3.7 Limitations on the scope or boundary of the report. 44-45 Additional General Disclosures G4-12 Organisation’s supply chain. 7 3.8/G4-17 Basis for reporting on joint ventures and other entities. 44-45 G4-18 Explain the process for defining report content and 44-45 3.9 Data measurement techniques. 44-45 Aspect Boundaries. 3.10/G4-22 Explanation of restatements. Nil. G4-19 List all Material Aspects identified for defining report 44-45 content. 3.11/G4-23 Significant changes in scope and boundary during the Nil. reporting period. G4-20 For each Material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary 44-45 within the organisation. 3.12/G4-32 Table identifying location of Standard Disclosures. GRI Index. 52-53 G4-21 For each Material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary 44-45 3.13/G4-33 External assurance. Not used for this report. outside the organisation. 52 53 Appendix APPENDIX E GRI GRI Description Comments Page No. Description Comments Page No. Indicator Indicator G4-56 Values, principles, standards and behaviour. 16-17, 20-23 G4-SO7 Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour. Nil. Society Ethics G4-57 Internal mechanisms for advice on unlawful behaviour. 20-23 G4-SO8 Non-compliance with laws and regulations. Nil. G4-58 Internal mechanisms for reporting concerns on 20-23 G4-PR2 Non-compliance with health and safety laws. Nil. Product Responsibility unlawful behaviour. G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed. 24-25 G4-PR4 Non-compliance with information laws. Nil. Economic G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from government. Nil. G4-PR7 Non-compliance with marketing laws. Nil. G4-EC8 Indirect economic impacts. 34-41 G4-PR8 Breaches of client privacy. Nil. G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organisation. 38-41 G4-PR9 Fines for non-compliance. Nil. G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside the organisation. 38-43 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption. 38-43 This report applies the Global Reporting Initiative G4 Guidelines to a self-assessed Level B. G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. 38-43 G4-EN10 Water recycled and reused. 38-43 Environmental G4-EN12 Impact on areas of high biodiversity value. 38-43 G4-EN13 Habitats protected or restored. 38-43 G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. 38-43 G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills. Nil. G4-EN25 Weight of transported waste. Nil. G4-EN27 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts. 38-43 G4-EN29 Non-compliance with environmental laws. Nil. G4-LA1 New hires and turnover by age, gender and region. 26-27 Labour Practices and Decent Work G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full time employees. 28, 30-31 G4-LA6 Rates of injury and lost days. 32-33 G4-LA10 Skills management and lifelong learning programs. 30-31 G4-LA11 Regular performance reviews. 31 G4-LA12 Workforce diversity. 29 G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary of women to men. 26 G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination. Nil. Human Rights G4-HR4 Rights to freedom of association. All employees are entitled to join unions. G4-HR5 Risks to child labour. 34 G4-HR8 Incidents involving indigenous people. Nil. 54 55 www.smec.com
