The new Guaíba Bridge, in Porto Alegre (RS), used Gerdau steel NAVIGATION MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD MENU OF DIRECTORS MESSAGE FROM THE CEO ABOUT THE REPORT WHO WE ARE OUR BUSINESS OUR RELATIONSHIPS SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE ECONOMIC-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE GRI ATTACHMENTS GRI CONTENT INDEX Message 3 MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS The future was an important topic for sult of our efforts, in 2019 we reduced our accidents. That’s how we materialize our Gerdau in 2019. It was the second year of financial leverage and had a strong generpurpose — “Empower people who build implementation and consolidation of our ation of free cash flow, which also contribthe future.” All these initiatives are essenrenovated corporate governance and with uted to the preparation for a new cycle. As tial for us to remain strong players in a dynew independent members, who shaped a we see it, the future demands a Gerdau namic market, which will continue to be new structure for the Board of Directors.The that differs from the traditional model of very competitive. Board focused on long-term strategy and a simple producer of steel. We should beOur CEO and all company employees — definitions, among them an important decome increasingly present in the Americas whom I congratulate for the excellent work cision made in early 2020, which crowned market as providers of services and proddone in 2019 — will continue to strive to a work developed throughout 2019: the ucts with high value added. make Gerdau one of the best positioned incorporation of ESG (Environmental, SoFor this transformation, we will follow organizations in the global steel industry. cial and Governance) criteria, to Gerdau’s the trail of innovation in the steel value And they are not alone on this journey. The governance, to have the best sustainability chain. Gerdau had great achievements members of the Board of Directors and the practices guiding the company’s strategic and results in 2019, among the best in the Audit Committee will continue to offer all decisions. second decade of the 21st century, but the the necessary support to materialize this We reaped good fruit. We strengthened company of tomorrow will be even better. promising future with many achievements. our capacity to promote and support the We also evolved on important issues, such continuous evolution of the company, as our diversity and inclusion programs, while advancing decisively in the design and maintained high levels of safety in the CLAUDIO JOHANNPETER of long-term strategic scenarios and direcworkplace by recording the best result in Chairman of Gerdau’s Board of Directors *In April 2020, Guilherme Chagas Gerdau Johannpeter assumed as tions, by taking forward the definition of Gerdau’s history in the Severity Rate — a Chairman of Gerdau’s Board of Directors. Claudio Johannpeter became what we call the Future Gerdau. As a remeasure of the level of risk of workplace Vice Chair of the Board. Main menu Message 4 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO GRI 102-14 The year 2019 was special for us. We history of Gerdau. We are on the right path certification journey as Company B, a rec“We are an made progress in consolidating the profound cultural transformation that is turnto eliminate accidents in the workplace, a non-negotiable value for all of us. ognition of global reach assigned by the non-profit organization B Lab to companies increasingly ing Gerdau into a more agile, transparent, Sustainability was another topic that was that seek, through their activity, to achieve agile, transparent, diverse, and inclusive organization, and we disclosed ten principles that represent the on the agenda during the year and that is economic and financial results while generating positive impact on society. diverse and pillars of our purpose to empower people one of the foundations for our future. It means planning for the next 100 years of We began a long-term work to define inclusive Gerdau.” who build the future. We, together with Gerdau and achieving the company’s purthe company’s strategy for the coming our employees, also advanced in a more pose. A Sustainability Policy — drafted in years, which we call Futuro Gerdau (Gerdau thorough look at this purpose. We took 2019 and approved in early 2020 by the Future). As a Strategic Direction, Gerdau great steps in promoting diversity and inBoard of Directors — now guides our strawill strengthen its position in the steel clusion (D&I) by incorporating the topics tegic decisions, taking into account environvalue chain in the Americas, with a strong of race and ethnicity, people with disabilmental, social and governance (ESG) issues. emphasis on increasing value for stakeities (PwD) and the LGBTI+ community in holders, through investments in the comour actions, alongside the gender initiaAlso on this subject, we joined the Unitpetitiveness of its current assets, mergers tives already in place. And we maintained ed Nations Global Compact and expanded and acquisitions. high levels of safety, ending the year with our participation in national and internathe lowest severity rate in the workplace tional forums and pacts dedicated to disWe established the guidelines for the ever achieved by the company, which cussing and promoting the role of compaGerdau Innovation and Disruption Model, means that it was the year with the smallnies as agents of social transformation. In based on the decision to invest the necest number of serious injuries in the entire the same vein, in 2019 we set off on our essary resources so that, in the next 10 Main menu Message 5 years, 20% of our revenues and US$ 500 million in EBITDA are obtained from new In 2019, we had the second best free cash flow in the historical series, reaching “Gerdau Future is the name businesses, in addition to production and R$ 4.4 billion in the fourth quarter. We also we give to our strategy for marketing of long, flat and special steels. achieved a net debt-to-EBITDA ratio of 1.67x, the lowest value since 2011. These the years ahead, in which The long-term vision outlined is a response to the recovery in demand for steel are results that reflect the company’s efforts we will strengthen our perceived in the largest markets in the to reduce its financial leverage and, thus, move more firmly towards a more innovaposition in the steel value Americas: Brazil and the United States, which show growth potential and additiontive future. chain in the Americas.” al gains in the steel industry. So many achievements would not be New materials associated with steel, such possible without the talent and effort of a as graphene; the reinvention of mobility and fantastic team of employees, all protagothe expansion of productivity in civil connists in the construction of this Gerdau struction are areas in which significant opFuture. I thank everyone immensely, as well portunities are opened. We are prepared to as our customers, shareholders, communimeet these challenges in an innovative and ties and suppliers, who are also a part of increasingly sustainable manner. this effort and builders of our tomorrow. GUSTAVO WERNECK Gerdau’s Chief Executive Officer Main menu ABOUT THE REPORT Gerdau Mill THE REPORT Ouro Branco, MG MATERIALITY MATRIX About the report 7 THE REPORT Gerdau S.A. presents, in this Integrated Report, the financial performance for the year from January 1 to December 31, 2019 and the efforts made by management and all employees to move forward in the process of transforming the company, to add sustainability and innovation aspects into the business strategy. This year, Gerdau advanced in its cultural transformation by launching a set of 10 principles that form the pillars that support the business purpose adopted in the previous year: Empower people who build the future. GRI 102-1, 102-50 Gerdau Office São Paulo (SP) The Report, which is annual, highlights in became part of the GRI Standards disclostakeholders: employees, customers, sharethis edition the actions taken in 2019 to prosure items — Core option. For these items, holders, suppliers, government, and commote diversity at Gerdau, as well as the rewe included the 2018 results, for comparimunities. In order to define the most relewards of the intense digital transformation son purposes. This report was not submitvant material topics in its communication effort in all company’s operations. Initiatives ted to external assurance. GRI 102-49, 102-54, with stakeholders and society, in 2019 the relating to environmental management, 102-56 company conducted a materiality process. workplace safety, social responsibility, and GRI 102-40 people management are also reported. The GRI criteria are one of the main globGRI 102-52 al standards for this type of reporting and the model emphasizes the balance between The document was prepared based on the economic, environmental, and social the principles of the International Integratdimensions. It is an appropriate format, in ed Reporting Council <IIRC> for the fourth line with the transparent way in which Gerconsecutive year and, for the first time, dau develops its activities and informs its Main menu | Section menu About the report 8 MATERIALITY MATRIX Gerdau Office São Paulo (SP) The material topics that make up an organization’s Materiality Matrix, according to GRI Standards (Global Reporting Initiative) criteria, are those topics that reflect significant impacts, either environmental or social and economic, on its activities, products, services and relationships or have a relevant influence on the assessments and decisions of its stakeholders. In 2019, Gerdau conducted a materialPlanning ity process — the first in its history —, Analysis of external and internal documents through which it defined the most releMedia search vant material topics to drive the compaBenchmark in the sector ny’s strategy and management and guide Interviews with leaders its communication with stakeholders and Online survey with stakeholders society. Validation of material topics with Gerdau’s management Materiality GRI 102-43 The materiality preparation process met GRI’s requirements and involved the following steps: Main menu | Section menu About the report 9 Material topics and SDGs GRI 102-44, 102-46, 102-47 Material topics SDG Gerdau’s ten material topics are related to 11 of the United SURVEY Diversity and inclusion 5, 8, 10, 16 The survey was proposed, in Portuguese and English, for Nations (UN) Sustainable Deveaudiences in Brazil — industry associations, environmental lopment Goals (SDGs) — a global agencies, banks, press, investors and shareholders —, and Management of co-products 11, 12 global audiences for investors and shareholders, trade development agenda with 17 associations, customers, and consulting firms. These stakepoints, launched in 2015 during holders were defined based on a mapping that considered the UN Sustainable Development Recycling of scrap 11, 12 the categories that impact and/or are impacted by our operations. GRI 102-42, 102-43 Summit. M  anagement of water and wastewater 6 56 ANSWERS Management of energy 7 The questionnaire received 56 complete answers. In Brazil, the survey was responded by audiences in eight Brazilian states: Ceará, Federal District, Minas Gerais, Pernambuco, M  itigation and adaptation Rio de Janeiro, Rio Grande do Sul, Santa Catarina, and São to climate change 11, 13 Paulo. The survey in English included audiences in five countries: United States, Belgium, Denmark, Switzerland, and the Netherlands. I nnovation in processes 9, 11 and products 10 O  ccupational health TOPICS and safety 8 At the end of the process, ten material topics were defined as priority for Gerdau — that is, of high impact and high influence for stakeholders and that will be the most relevant in conducting the strategy and prioritizing programs E  thics and corporate and initiatives. They must be reviewed periodically, in order governance 16 to take into account the evolution of the context and socioeconomic and environmental conditions in Brazil and in the countries where Gerdau operates, as well as chanStakeholder relations 11, 12, 17 ges and possible restructuring in the company’s operations. Learn more about the SDGs: https://nacoesunidas.org/pos2015/ Main menu | Section menu About the report 10 Covid-19 Gerdau’s 2019 Integrated Report was prepared based on interviews and analyses conducted before the Covid-19 pandemic. Therefore, the impacts of the pandemic on its business and on the steel industry will be discussed later in the 2020 Integrated Report. We point out that the company is following all the Covid-19 prevention guidelines issued by the relevant health agencies in the countries where the company operates in order to preserve the health and safety of employees and their families, contractors, suppliers, customers and communities and maintain its operations and jobs. In addition, Gerdau, reinforcing its commitment to be part of the solutions to the challenges of the municipalities in which it operates, has invested, to date, R$ 20 million in initiatives to support the fight against the coronavirus. For more information on the subject and the impacts of Covid-19 on our business, visit https://www2.gerdau.com.br/informacoes-sobre-o-covid-19. Covid-19 Treatment Center, in São Paulo (SP), built with resources from Gerdau and partner companies Main menu | Section menu José Paulo da Silva, employee of the Açonorte mill, WHO WE ARE in Pernambuco GERDAU PROFILE GERDAU BUSINESS MODEL CULTURAL TRANSFORMATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGY FOR THE FUTURE AWARDS AND RECOGNITION Who we are 12 GERDAU PROFILE 30 31 Gerdau units worldwide ,000 Operating and employees commercial units steel Gerdau is the largest Brazilian steel Advanced innovation producing units producer and one of the main suppliers centers CANADA ENGLAND of long steel in the Americas and Manchester special steel in the world. In Brazil, USA the company also produces flat steel, in addition to iron ore for own USA consumption. GRI 102-4, 102-7 Silicon Valley DOMINICAN REPUBLIC MEXICO The company operates 31 steel producing units, 75 ‘Comercial Gerdau’ stores, 2 iron ore mines, and an eucalyptus forest base of COLOMBIA VENEZUELA more than 250,000 hectares. It is also considered the largest recycler of ferrous scrap in Latin America, transforming 11 million tons PERU of scrap into steel annually in its operations in Brazil and worldwide. BRAZIL GRI 102-4, 102-7 URUGUAY Gerdau has industrial operations in 10 countries and nearly ARGENTINA 30,000 direct and indirect employees worldwide. Its shares are traded on the São Paulo, New York and Madrid Stock Exchanges, 10 and its net revenue in 2019 was approximately R$ 40 billion. 2 1 GRI 102-4, 102-7 In 2019, the company made environmental investments of R$ countries iron forest 241 million and social investments of R$ 18 million. Gerdau supore mines base ported 400 social projects in the communities where it operates and totaled 6,400 volunteer employees in the same year. Main menu | Section menu Who we are 13 GERDAU BUSINESS MODEL FINANCIAL CAPITAL Maintenance of mining activity  Expansion and maintenance of production units, purchase of raw materials, services and other inputs Investment in modernization and maintenance of operations and logistics In order to demonstrate the company’s value Investment in research and innovation creation over time, we follow the framework MANUFACTURED CAPITAL of the International Integrated Reporting Main Office in São Paulo (SP) 250,000 hectares of planted eucalyptus forests 31 steel producing units Council (IIRC), which presents the resources 75 Gerdau commercial stores 2 iron ore mines Offices in the United States, Mexico, Peru, and Colombia (inflows) used by Gerdau in its business and GERDAU PURPOSE EMPOWER PEOPLE the impacts (outflows) caused by the INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL WHO BUILD THE FUTURE Development of research and new technologies STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES company on society. According to the IIRC, Partnership with universities and research centers to foster innovation RESOURCES Development of new products Remain as a fully competitive and sustainable company the capitals are factors of value that increase, decrease or are transformed through the HUMAN CAPITAL Become an increasingly customer-centric organization  ompany employees and contractors in offices, production units, planted C forests, and mining organization’s activities and products. Other employees across the value chain PRINCIPLES Safety first› Doing the right thing Every customer This structure is classified into financial, SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL is unique Opening up Diverse and inclusive environment Autonomy We are all leaders manufactured, intellectual, human, social R  elationship with communities neighboring the operations through structured planning and volunteering actions Relationship with NGOs, trade associations, customers, press, Creating value for all Simplicity Learning, unlearning, relearning and relationship capital, and natural capital. government, and other social players Relationship with investors and customers Relationship with cooperatives and professionals collecting metallic Below, we show how these capitals were products for recycling transformed by Gerdau in its business NATURAL CAPITAL processes and the impacts and results Water use in operations Land use in operations Use of ore delivered to society throughout 2019. Scrap recycling Main menu | Section menu Who we are 14 FINANCIAL CAPITAL Free cash flow of R$ 4.4 billion Net revenue of R$ 39.64 billion Adjusted EBITDA of R$ 5.71 billion Net income of R$ 1.3 billion MANUFACTURED CAPITAL P  roduction of 5.6 million tons of crude steel in long and flat steel Production of 609,000 tons of crude steel in South America operations in Brazil and 4.6 million tons of crude steel in long steel units Total production of 12.5 million tons of crude steel in 8 countries* (Brazil, in the United States and Canada Argentina, Uruguay, Peru, Venezuela, Mexico, United States, and Canada) Production of 1.7 million tons of crude steel in the operations of special steels in Brazil and the United States *D  oes not include production in the Dominican Republic and Colombia, joint control operations with other companies. INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL Trail of innovation and value of steel on several fronts of the business, such as Industry 4.0, Com G2Base, Juntos Somos+ (Together we are more) Long-term strategy Gerdau Future mercial, Integrated Value Chain, Raw Materials (Metallic), and Gerdau Challenge FIEMG Lab, the company’s open Gerdau Innovation and disruption model Shared Services innovation channel IMPACTS (RESULTS) Research and innovation office in Manchester, England, and Artificial intelligence used on several fronts, such as safety, Development of Mini Hub, a collaborative space dedicated to Silicon Valley, United States steel production, auditing, and production management the mining industry open to the participation of mining compaDigital transformation: in 2019, Gerdau invested around 2% of Creation of Innovation Policy and development of important nies, suppliers, startups and other applied innovation projects, its total revenue in initiatives aimed at digital transformation projects, such as Graphene, Additive Manufacturing, G2L, such as academic projects and technology-based companies HUMAN CAPITAL 30,000 employees É  poca 360º 2019 Yearbook Best Company in the mining and A  ttainment of the lowest severity rate in occupational Creation of the Diversity and Inclusion Program steel category accidents in the company’s history Implementation of extended paternity leave Implementation of Gerdau training programs for career develoRecognition of Excellence in Health and Safety worldsteel, the pment: G. Start, G. Next, G. Lead, G. Data, G. Makers main global entity in the steel industry Creation of the Be Digital School to disseminate the digital mindset SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL  evelopment of the Sustainability Strategy and creation of the D  ualification of the company as a member in the Movement Q  reation of Gerdau Builders, an acceleration program C Sustainability Manifesto Builder of Sistema B for startups focused on civil construction and recycling Creation of the Sustainability Action Plan and Materiality Matrix Development of the Impact Map 6,400 volunteers, including Gerdau employees R$ 18 million investment in social initiatives 400 social projects supported NATURAL CAPITAL Adherence to the UN Global Compact M  aintenance of water reuse and recirculation systems at alternatives for co-products Recycling more than 11 million tons of scrap at its mills in Brazil the mills, which allow reuse of 97.6% of the water used Creation of the Sustainability Scorecard (ESG) to define and the Americas: 73% of the steel produced by Gerdau has in production the long-term strategy ferrous scrap as its main raw material Structuring the Research & Development area to create new Main menu | Section menu Who we are 15 CULTURAL TRANSFORMATION Safety first Autonomy We take responsibility No result is more in making the best important than decisions for the people’s lives. business. In 2019, Gerdau made a great effort to consolidate, at all levels of the organization, Do the right We are the purpose of the company, launched globally thing all leaders Ethics and respect We are engaged in September 2018, and to disseminate it to are essential in and committed everything we do. to our development multiple stakeholders. and that of the people around us. The discussion and definition of the purpose discuss and empower customers, suppliers, shareholders, employees, and comEvery customer Creating value Empower people who munities, the targets of the purpose anis unique for all We work to make We fulfill our build the future nounced in 2018, and to reinforce their our client’s business purpose by sustainably understanding within the organization. thrive, driving joint creating value for success. all our audiences. marked an advanced stage of the cultural transformation process carried out by the Ten principles organization from 2014 to date, having as its starting point an essential question: for driving change Openness Simplicity We don’t know We focus on what “What company do we want to be in the GRI 102-16 everything and adds value. As a result, future?” we believe that a team we are more agile and Cultural transformation advanced in always achieves better gain productivity. results than individuals. Based on the concepts of openness and 2019 after the presentation of 10 princicollaboration, Gerdau set out on a proples that, jointly, take the place of misfound journey to revise its organizational sion and values statements and form the Learn, unlearn, Diverse and inclusive structures and culture, in order to become pillars of the new purpose. The principles environment relearn a more agile and transparent and less hiexpand and develop the concepts that We create a diverse We believe that in order and inclusive environment to continue evolving, erarchical company, and permeated by a the organization had already had in place it is essential to adapt where everyone is heard, more fluid communication. This journey since the beginning of the transformation respected and has to new scenarios, innovating was intensified in 2019 through actions to process. opportunities. and finding better ways of working. Main menu | Section menu Who we are 16 One transformation leads to another Thermometer of the cultural evolution GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Own topic: Innovation in processes and products, GER -1 Own indicator: Financial return on digital projects The result of all this cultural transformation work can be measured in the Opinion Survey carried out Cultural transformation was the fertile In this process, the attribute of openness with employees in 2019: soil that supported another ongoing turning to the new — represented by the digital repoint within the organization: digital transvolution — and the practice of active listening  0,611 people from all Gerdau units worldwide took part 2 formation. This report will refer, in the next were particularly important, paving the way in the survey sections, to digitization of internal processes to a new, more collaborative and less hierar74% was the general favorability index and to new platforms for relationship with chical mindset in an industry such as steelcustomers and other stakeholders, already making, which is among the most conservain operation or under development. tive in the manufacturing sector. Among the questions with the most favorable answers: 91% of respondents stated that “Workplace safety is the first These tools are the result of digital transTwo major objectives pose a challenge for of all decisions made” formation initiatives implemented in the last Gerdau in the near future: to remain a fully 88% said that “Employees in my area are treated with respect” four years and of the adoption of an agile competitive and sustainable company in glo88% believe that “In our company, we do everything mindset, and would not have been possible bal manufacturing, and to become an increwithout the changes that occurred in paralasingly customer-centric organization. Digitito meet customers’ needs and exceed their expectations” lel with the organization’s culture. This transzation of tools and processes is a competitive formation focuses mainly on: advantage, with potential to help achieve both objectives. Among the questions that detected more opportunities Providing our customers with the best for improvement: experience 54% consider that “The benefits package that my company Seeking productivity by expanding our offers meets my needs” Industry 4.0 actions 53% think “Our company simplifies processes and Having a customer-centric integrated structures if necessary” supply chain 47% believe that “Our company focuses on few and relevant goals” Optimizing raw materials Main menu | Section menu Who we are 17 In 2019, Gerdau invested close to 2% of formation, which resulted in the developits total revenue in innovation and digital ment of new behaviors, new ways of workinitiatives aimed at several business fronts, ing, without silos, and of the agile mindset Gerdau’s digital ambition is to transform the way we do such as Customer Journey, Future Value Chain, Industry 4.0, Next Generation Sales, of its employees, and prioritized the use of technology and data tools. business by digitally integrating and optimizing our operations and Optimization of Raw Materials, in orto ensure focus on customers der to meet the demand of its customers by offering innovative products and soluThe company believes that people are the vector of this transformation and that tions. The digitalization journey follows the technology is an enabler for these changevolution of the company’s cultural transes. In 2019, the concept of Digital Factory was adopted, which is a digital unit that incubates and accelerates the development of disruptive and relevant initiatives to shape the company’s future. The model is already a reality in Gerdau’s operations in Brazil and the United States. The transformation process also involved the development of an innovation ecosystem, which allows interaction with other players who have complementary skills. In 2019, the connection with startups, for example, was accelerated, through the company’s office in Silicon Valley (USA), the creation of the venture capital fund, Paris Ventures, which invests in startups, and the support to projects with positive impacts. Digital channels, such as eGerdau, Portal C&D and Chatbot João, also had significant growth in number of accesses and transactions. Almost 50% of Gerdau’s customers already use digital channels, up 15% over 2018. Meeting of Leaders 2019 Section menu | Main menu Who we are 18 Some of the digital in Belo Horizonte (MG) that sends to optates the continuous adjustment of these transformation initiatives erators at the mills the information necvariables. essary to improve the energy efficiency and achievements in 2019: of the furnaces, reducing energy conIn creating Smart Decision, we implesumption and the costs of steel making mented the work in squads — a multi Artificial intelligence in workplace disciplinary team composed of people safety Artificial intelligence in auditing from the digital, business, and IT areas. An innovative Safety Analytics project on A digital auditing project developed in Squads are one of the new forms of work a global scale was consolidated in 2019. 2018 is changing the way Gerdau’s audithat Gerdau is beginning to implement, Artificial Intelligence (AI) models are used tors work and the professional profile of anticipating changes toward a less hierto predict the risks of occupational accithe job. Auditors develop intelligent platarchical and more agile structure, with dents based on historical data — big data forms to work with data in real time, with less organizational silos and more colaccumulated by the company — allowing digital technology enabling a deeper laborative work. At the end of the year, action to be taken to prevent risks from transformation of their activity — some eight squads were active in Brazil and turning into real accidents. Today, almost auditors are already programming in the two in the United States, in projects in all Gerdau mills in Brazil work with the Python language and are able to directly different areas. Safety Analytics tool and the project is use Gerdau’s data lake to mine the data being taken to operations in Mexico and they need for their work. the United States. Artificial intelligence in production Artificial intelligence in steel promanagement duction Smart Decision is an artificial intelligence A similar development model — pilot in model developed internally that helps Gerdau Mill 2018, disseminated in 2019 — was apdecision makers to balance three basic Ouro Branco (MG) plied to another successful project: Meltvariables in Gerdau’s production and mardown, an Artificial Intelligence model to keting chain: customer orders, products optimize energy consumption in steelin stock, and the production pace of the making furnaces of semi-integrated mills. mills. Monitoring of these numbers, preData collected in this modeling are proviously done manually, now benefits from cessed in an intelligent monitoring center an intelligent digital platform that faciliMain menu | Section menu Who we are 19 1 2 3 4 5 6 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 7 8 9 GRI 102-18 The evolution of Gerdau’s governance has led to changes in the Governance in 2019 composition of the Board of Directors, responsible for defining the The Board convened organization’s long-term strategy and overseeing its execution. throughout the year and focused, among other issues, on the approval of the ESG action plan (concerning Of the nine members of the nance (ESG) factors, including, governance practices, their profesenvironmental, social and Board, four are members of the among others, climate change. Also sional expertise, and their adhergovernance issues), on the controlling family, one is the CEO of as part of the governance structure, ence to Gerdau’s principles, includreview and updating of corporate policies on Securities the company, and four are external the role of the Audit Committee is ing diversity of experience and genTrading, Related Party and independent, a number above to supervise the acts of the adminder. Criteria used to appoint and Transactions and Disclosure of the minimum required, one of istration and the financial stateselect the members of the highest Information, and on monitoring strategic issues and the most whom is a woman. ments. The Executive Board and governance body include: availabilirelevant risks to the business. The Board of Directors relies on business operations leaders are in ty of time to perform their duties, The internal regulations of the support and advisory committees, charge of the organization’s corpoindependence and diversity of Board of Directors and of its support committees, the whose roles are to support the comrate management. knowledge, experience and gender. sustainability policy, the Gerdau’s Board of Directors: pany’s processes and operations, Members of the Board of DirecGRI 102-24 materiality matrix and the ESG 1. André Bier Gerdau Johannpeter 2. Márcio Fróes Torres 3. Richard making recommendations on topics tors are elected by the Ordinary scorecard were approved at Chagas Gerdau Johannpeter 4. Guilherme Chagas Gerdau Johannpeter the beginning of 2020. 5. Cláudio Johannpeter 6. Fernando Fontes Iunes 7. Gustavo Werneck within their respective competenGeneral Meeting. The committees See here the members of the da Cunha 8. Claudia Sender Ramirez 9. Aod Cunha de Moraes Junior cies. In 2019, the Strategy Commitare composed of at least one direcBoard of Directors, the Audit Comtee, linked to the Board of Directors, tor, and the other members can be mittee and the Executive Board was renamed Strategy and Sustaincollaborators or external advisors https://ri.gerdau.com/governanThe Board of Directors has four support committees: ability Committee, intended to supdepending on the need of the ca-corporativa/administracao 1 Remuneration Committee port the Board of Directors in matBoard. The independent Board COMMITTEES 2 Corporate Governance Committee ters related to industry trends that Members were appointed by the could impact business in the short, controlling shareholders taking into 3 Finance Committee medium and long term, as well as account the independence criteria 4 Strategy and Sustainability Committee to environmental, social and goverdescribed in the manuals on best Main menu | Section menu Who we are 20 Remuneration ed by the company’s history and Ethics, compliance of the administration market references, and aims to align variable pay with the interests of and trust shareholders. GRI 102-17, 103-1, 103-2, 103-3: 205 Anti-corruption Remuneration of Gerdau’s administration is in line with market Gerdau’s compliance program repractices, supported by surveys conA visit to the inforces the company’s commitment ducted by several global remunerato its Code of Ethics and compliance capital markets tion consultants. In relative terms, with legislation and internal guideit represents approximately 0.5% of lines, and detects and mitigates inEBITDA, a percentage that is below Gerdau follows the best internaternal and external risks that could the reference represented by the tional corporate governance stanimpact the business. most traded companies on B3 (acdards, guided by strict ethical princicording to the corporate governance ples. The company has been in the The Code of Ethics, policies and yearbook of magazine Revista Capcapital market for more than seven guidelines formalize Gerdau’s obliital Aberto). decades and its shares are listed on gations to comply with laws, execute the São Paulo, New York, and Madrid routines, and follow solid goverIn 2019, the Board of Directors, stock exchanges. The company follows nance and levels of authority. In supported by the Remuneration the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxaddition to the Compliance Policy, Committee, analyzed a new perforley Act, which establishes best goverthe Guidelines for Relations with mance evaluation and short-term nance practices and strict control over Public Agents, Donations, Contracts, incentive program. The new model internal processes for companies Gifts, and Disciplinary Sanctions can will come into effect in2020 and will present in the U.S. market. be highlighted. follow the course of Gerdau’s cultural transformation, based on the In the Brazilian market, it is part In relationship with third parties, principles of collaboration, simpliciof B3 Corporate Governance Level with an emphasis on transparency ty, and value creation. 1 (Brasil Bolsa Balcão). It adopts and fair competition, the company APIMEC Meeting 2019 practices beyond legal requirehas the Code of Ethics for third parAs of 2020, the upper threshold ments, such as granting 100% tag ties, available on the Internet, in adon variable pay has been reduced along for all its shares and payment dition to contracts with compliance from 20% to 15% of Gerdau’s overof a minimum dividend of 30% of clauses and terms of commitment all net income. This change is guidadjusted net income. with adherence to the commitment Main menu | Section menu Who we are 21 to anti-corruption practices. Complithe results are reported to the apGerdau provides training to all Gerdau Office ance-related files are also available on propriate levels, regardless of their employees on the company’s Code of São Paulo (SP) the Internet: https://www2.gerdau. impact and or materiality. In addiEthics every two years. Depending on com.br/sobre-nos/canal-da-etica. tion, 100% of these cases are retheir activities, employees are also viewed by External Audit and the trained on anti-corruption and comThe company does not condone Internal Controls area, which assesspetitive practices, via e-learning or any unethical practices and/or disrees whether or not there are relevant in-person workshos. GRI 102-17, 103-1, spect for the law in the countries topics. 103-2, 103-3: 205 Anticorrupción where it operates. Ethical non-compliance of any nature is considered a Assessment of the risk of corrupserious infraction, which may result tion follows the structured lines of in disciplinary sanctions, including defense: management of controls by termination of contract and liability the area, monitoring of indicators, reof employees and third parties. views by the Internal Controls area, reviews by Compliance and Internal The company also has an anonyAudit assessments. The Compliance mous and confidential communicaarea has established, in its integrity tion channel in place for questions program, the pillars to combat corrupand suspected violations of Gerdau’s tion: tone at the top; policies and Code of Ethics or legislation to be guidelines; whistleblowing channel; reported and addressed. dissemination of ethical culture; risk assessments; monitoring of records; Inquiries about breaches of the Code of Ethics made to Internal Aureputational analysis, and due diligence. This area reports directly to the In 2019, all active employees (approximately 27,000) had been trained dit by the Audit Committee, the ExBoard of Directors, demonstrating the on compliance practices via e-learning. There were also in-person ternal Audit, the Risk Committee and the Board of Directors are ancompany’s commitment to ethics and compliance. Compliance issues, acworkshops and messages from the leaders for all operations on the swered and shared in detail, always tions for improvement, policies, annutopic of ethics. A total of 12,500 customers and suppliers, from all maintaining the commitment to confidentiality and secrecy. All real action plan, and perceptions about advances in practices within the comoperations, were also communicated about Gerdau’s anti-corruption ports received are investigated, and pany are reviewed at the meetings. practices. GRI 205-2 Main menu | Section menu Who we are 22 How (not) to take risks The company structured its committees GRI 102-15 in order to provide a protection network to monitor risks and the relevant processes. Gerdau regularly monitors operational and The Governance, Strategy and Sustainabilbusiness risks that could impact its activities. ity, Remuneration, and Finance Committees Monitoring is performed by the control strucwere created to support the Board of Diture and by the Business Operations Comrectors. And to support the executive level mittees and overseen by the Risk Committee. in dealing with risks, the company has the Risk, Disclosure, and Business Operations Gerdau acts on business, compliance and Committees. operational, occupational safety, environmental, financial, tax, labor, image, and regulatory risks. Gerdau’s Risk Management structure is decentralized. It leverages and strengthens the technical knowledge and profile of professionals in each of the Business Operations: Brazil, North America, South America, and Special Steel. To act on the relevant risks, the company establishes three lines of defense. The first line is the internal controls defined for the critical activities, procedures and guidelines, with clearly defined responsibilities, automated and manual controls, among others. Management activities for the second line, including monitoring, assessment, process improvement and accountability. The third line involves Internal Audit activities, which regularly conducts independent evaluation of the processes and reports to the Audit Committee and the Board of Directors. Control room — Gerdau Mill — Ouro Branco (MG) Section menu | Main menu Who we are 23 STRATEGY FOR THE FUTURE In 2019, Gerdau worked to define the company’s strategy for the next 10 years. Called Futuro Gerdau (Gerdau Future), the work considered not only the Brazilian market, but also important markets worldwide for the steel industry, such as China and the United States. In discussing priorities and future investFuture with innovation GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Tópico propio: Innovation in proN ew models of interaction with ments for the period, the work took into cesses and products suppliers and customers, enabled account an assessment of the Gerdau’s curby digital technologies rent assets, trends in the sectors where it In an initial ten-year horizon of Gerdau Future, a 20% share of the company’s revenue n ew materials, including graphene operates, and visions of what Gerdau might future of construction look like in the future, based on today’s should come from new businesses and prodfuture of the industry roadmaps and on the long-term objectives ucts focused on complementing the value future of mobility of the company. proposition to our customers and on the existing opportunities in the chains in which we To shape this desired future, the company An important driver of this work is the operate. The company is attentive to the trends took its first steps in 2019, developing an perception that the ongoing changes in the of the sectors where it operates and to the Innovation Policy. At the same time, it adoptglobal market are pointing in the right direcconsumption behavior of customers, and is ed the strategic direction, in line with Gerdau tion: that Gerdau is shifting from a commodconstantly revising the organizational design Future, to focus its operation on and reinity producing model to become an increasin order to become an agile company, capable force its position in the iron and steel value ingly high value-added provider of services of exploring new business models to better chain in the Americas, while investing in disand products. serve customers. To achieve this in one deruptive innovation and in the development cade, the path is disruptive innovation in the of new businesses and products. steel value chain. Innovation will be implemented through Five lines will guide these investments in indigital transformation, intrapreneurship, ennovation, estimated at up to US$ 1 billion in gagement with the ecosystem, investments, 10 years: divestitures, and mergers and acquisitions. Building of the Moreira Salles Institute, in São Paulo (SP), built using Gerdau steel Main menu | Section menu Who we are 24 To manage its innovation initiatives, Gerdau has a specific area and a Digital Committee that operates in the approval and monitoring of digital transformation initiatives in the company. Management of digital transformation initiatives and new business models is monitored by metrics regularly tracked by the Digital Committee. These metrics evaluate the progress of the digital initiatives portfolio and their return (tangible and intangible), in order to contribute to a more objective and transparent analysis of the topic. Gerdau’s innovation theses 1. Future of mobility New mobility trends (autonomy, connectivity, electrification, and sharing) are expected to affect the automotive sector globally. However, their impact on the steel industry in the Americas will be limited and has the potential to increase demand for the production of hybrid vehicles. 2. Future of construction The construction sector has a productivity gap of ~15%, which will be eliminated with new technologies — Gerdau is a key player in the construction value chain in the Americas and will have an active role in bridging that gap. Main menu | Section menu Who we are 25 Innovation beyond steel In Gerdau’s map of the future, it is important to become a player that goes beyond steel as a commodity and actively participates in the development and production of higher value-added products. A promising front in this regard, which is being developed by Gerdau, is the production of innovative types of special steels for the automotive industry, in its transition toward using more sustainable sources of energy (see box on the next page to learn about Gerdau’s other innovation initiatives). Lighter and more resistant, these new special steels are designed to offset the weight of the batteries that will be used in future electric vehicles, whose production tends to grow, according to market estimates (more information in section Our business). Partners in the Valley Since 2018, Gerdau has had an office in Silicon Valley, in California (USA), the global center for innovation in digital technologies. Based in San Francisco, the office houses Gerdau’s own employees to seek high-impact innovations capable of improving the company’s efficiency and bringing gains to its customers. The office exchange experiences and enters into partnerships with startups based in the Valley. These are natural candidates for joint work with Gerdau’s Innovation Center — Manchester, UK Main menu | Section menu Who we are 26 startups whose portfolios add ideas and projTHE MANY FACES OF INNOVATION ects that have good potential for Gerdau and Some examples of innovative technologies and businesses developed by Gerdau its customers, or which can contribute the GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Own topic: Innovation in processes and products company’s culture of innovation. One of the results of this team effort is Paris Ventures. Investments in startups At the end of 2019, Gerdau created a fund, called Paris Ventures, to receive investments of up to US$ 80 million to invest in promising startups. The fund will seek startups that develop solutions aligned with the company’s business strategy. However, innovative ideas that contribGRAPHENE ADDITIVE MANUFACTURE G2L G2BASE JUNTOS SOMOS + ute to making the operation digitally integrated or open interesting business prosGerdau opened an office in the Refers to 3D printing of prodGerdau’s logistics agent that Metallic foundation division Loyalty Program and online pects in the long term, even if not aligned United Kingdom to develop ucts, parts, and industrial operates through a digital platcreated in 2018. Through store set up in partnership with with the core business, are also welcome. applications of graphene, in components. It is one of the form on which it is possible to G2Base, Gerdau intends to sell Votorantim Cimentos and Tipartnership with researchers rapidly developing technolohire competitive freight both more than just products. It gre. Gerdau’s sales through from the University of Mangies, which promises to disfor Gerdau and for customers intends to provide a more electronic channels now acThe scope of innovation targeted by Gerchester, where the office is rupt the industry’s production and partners. G2L has its own complete service at customcount for 11% of total sales dau in the coming decades is not limited located. Graphene is a materichains. employees and headquarters er’s construction sites, delivervolume, reflecting the successal obtained from graphite, in Barueri (SP). ing an integrated solution. ful launch of the Juntos Somos+ to the applications of disruptive materials whose properties are being online store. The platform now and technologies in steel production. New further studied by scientists. In has more than 20 leading commaterials that can even replace steel in steel production, it is expected panies in the construction secspecific applications, as well as innovative that it can protect from corrotor, more than 70,000 stores, sion, the steel parts used in and more than 400,000 profesproducts and services, may also integrate aggressive environments in sionals. the company’s new portfolio, complementconstruction and industry for ing its traditional offerings. example. Main menu | Section menu Who we are 27 GERDAU CHALLENGE NEW BRAND FIEMG LAB 2019 POSITIONING In 2019, Gerdau promoted the In order to communicate its new second round of the l Gerdau brand positioning, inl August 2019, Challenge FIEMG Lab, the comGerdau launched an institutional pany’s open innovation chancampaign with the slogan O futuro nel. It is a competition betwese molda (Shape the Future), based en startups that offer solutions on the brand repositioning defined to challenges proposed by in early 2019 and on the purpose of Gerdau, aimed at solving real “Empowering people who build the problems in the company’s future”. This campaign demonstrated operations. the essence of the company, through The selected startups have the messages that reveal its flexibility to opportunity to develop and test adapt to the needs of customers and their projects in actual operathe business, partnerships to create ting environments, with the lasting and true relationships, and a support of specialists from Gervision of the future to anticipate new dau and FIEMG Lab. Two chaltrends and behaviors. lenges were launched in 2019: All employees saw the campaign first hand through a video (https:// www.youtube.com/watch?v=9viUXOverhead ladle hitch 5lQQbA) that positions people as protagonists, showing how steel Improve the process of hoisis present in everyday life, in the ting and transporting ladles city and in the countryside – in with liquid metal situations ranging from buildings, cars and bridges, to medical and Startups selected: InventVileisure equipment, to agriculture sion, MeS, MVISIA, SVATECH and wind power. The campaign was communicated on Gerdau’s official digital channels, such as Connectivity in Brazilian Facebook, LinkedIn, Instagram, fields Twitter, and YouTube, during GloboNews’ evening news (Jornal das Interconnect people, ma10), on panels at airports in the chines, and equipment in Gerdau Institutional Campaign 2019 — Confins Airport (MG) cities of Porto Alegre (RS) and Belo forestry operations. Horizonte (MG), and in business Startups selected: Agrus magazines and yearbooks. Data, Alllex0, Logmax, Prime Field Main menu | Section menu Who we are 28 AWARDS AND RECOGNITION vision of the future. Automotive Business Magazine — Learn about some of the Diversity in the automotive chain awards and recognition Best Product of the Year Award — Top The Internship Program of the São Paulo of Mind Construction Retail Office and the Learning Program of the received by Gerdau in 2019. For the 23rd consecutive time Gerdau was Araçariguama Mill (SP) were awarded by awarded in the Nail, Screen, Truss, AnAutomotive Business, in the Race and EthBrazil nealed Wire, and Rebar categories, voted nicity category, in recognition of their diby construction material store owners. versity practices and promotion of racial Recognition for Excellence in Health equality. and Safety by worldsteel Marcas de Quem Decide Award by Jornal Companies that Best Communicate Awarded by worldsteel, the main internationdo Comércio – RS with Journalists Award al entity representing the steel sector, in recIn this award, Gerdau maintained its posiThis award is promoted by Negócios da ognition of the significant reduction in the tion as the brand with the best recall in Rio Comunicação magazine and by the Centro severity rate in workplace accidents achieved Grande do Sul in the Grande Marca Gaúcha de Estados em Comunicação (Cecom) to by Gerdau. do Ano category and ranked second among recognize the quality of the relationship the preferred brands by the local populabetween companies and newsrooms. The Época 360º 2019 Yearbook — Best Comtion. The award surveys the recognition of winners are chosen by direct vote of jourpany in the mining and steel category companies in Rio Grande do Sul by the local nalists, and Gerdau has been awarded nine Época magazine and Fundação Dom Cabral population. consecutive times in the Steel and Metalannually award the best companies in 27 lurgy category. sectors of the economy. In 2019, for the Motion of Applause to Gerdau’s Volfirst time, Gerdau was the best in the catunteer Group in Barão de Cocais (MG) Abrasca Award – Best Annual Report egory. The award takes into account the Concedida por la Cámara de Ediles de Barão Gerdau received an Honorable Mention in financial performance and corporate govde Cocais como reconocimiento al trabajo the Economic-Financial Analysis category of ernance practices, sustainability, people social de Gerdau realizado en el municipio the 21st Abrasca Best Annual Report Award, management, innovation capacity, and del estado de Minas Gerais. for its Integrated Reporting 2018. Gerdau employees at the award ceremony of Automotive Business Magazine, which recognized the company’s diversity actions. Main menu | Section menu Who we are 29 Master Imobiliário Award Argentina This award granted by entities in the real estate sector recognized Gerdau in the pro2019 Integration Award fessional innovation category for the Lab Awarded by Grupo Brasil in the SustainabilHabitação project. ity category and C.E.R (Conduta Empresarial Responsável — Responsible Business ConTOP ADVB-RS de Marketing DigitalIG duct), for the “Leer Más, Compromiso ComAward partido” project. Gerdau was awarded in the Industry category, with the case ‘capturing new business Hexagon Award 2019 and recovering inactive customers’ Awarded by IDEA — Institute of Business Development of Argentina, for Training and Institutional Investor Award 2019 Development of Human Resources. Gerdau won the Investor Relations Award 2019 — Latam Team M&M — Midcap CatRecognition “Commitment and Manegory, organized by the Institutional Invesagement” tor Magazine. The Província ART insurance company recognized Gerdau for its focus on Safety and Accident Prevention inside and outside the company. United States Regan Award Uruguay Gerdau was awarded in the communication with employees category with the Energy Efficiency Certificate 2019 case ‘Gerdau’s Seminar Week’, which is a The Uruguayan Ministry of Industry, Energy week of lectures and workshops to disand Mining awarded this certificate to Gercuss internal issues inherent to the work dau for the “Improving energy efficiency in Época Negócios Awards environment. the rolling mill area” project. São Paulo (SP) Main menu | Section menu Gerdau Mill Charqueadas (RS) BRAZIL OUR BUSINESS LATIN AMERICA NORTH AMERICA Our business 31 BRAZIL GRI 102-2, 102-6, 102-9 Gerdau Riograndense Mill, Sapucaia do Sul (RS) Brazil accounts for the largest share of Gerdau’s steel production. The company has a diversified production mix, offering flat, long and special steel to the market. Its clients are in the construction, automotive, energy, shipbuilding, machinery and appliances, and agribusiness sectors. Gerdau also has in Brazil a vast chain of The company relies on a network of own steel distribution stores, mining opsupplier teams that range from cleaning erations for own consumption, port terand food to information technology and minals, and a base of planted eucalyptus contractors, such as for renovations and forests. This diversity of businesses makes the equipment maintenance. Suppliers may company’s operation in Brazil very competitive. provide services at industrial units or In 2019, the Brazil Business Operation accommercial offices, depending on their counted for 39.5% of Gerdau’s net revenue. role. Main menu | Section menu Our business 32 LONG AND FLAT STEELS maintained in partnership with other companies. (learn more about this in the Our In 2019, Gerdau’s Brazil Business Operarelationships section). tion produced, in its Brazilian mills, 5.6 million tons of crude steel in its long and flat Leader ahead of schedule steel operations, down 4.8% compared with the 2018 production, which totaled 5.8 milIn the flat steel sector, Gerdau has inlion tons. vested heavily in recent years to enter the heavy steel plate market — more than US$ A major advance in the Brazilian opera1 billion — and has been seeking to become tion in 2019 was the recovery of sales in a market leader in sales by 2021. This goal retail. Deliveries of products to retailers grew was achieved in 2019, with the company substantially by 40% over 2018. taking first place in heavy plate sales in the Brazilian market. Total deliveries to the domestic market, which cover all sales channels, not Maintenance downtime just retail, ended the year posting growth of around 5%, with emphasis on Gerdau’s integrated mill in Ouro Branco flat and construction steel, signaling the (MG) made a scheduled downtime in 2019 initial recovery of the domestic market. for maintenance of its assets. A complete shutdown of equipment of this type, in the Another significant number is that sales steel industry, is always a huge technical, through electronic channels account for industrial, and business challenge. On that 18% of Gerdau’s sales. The company occasion, more than 5,000 people were launched a digital consumer relationship involved for two months — July and August platform in June 2019 and also advanced — in maintenance work, after which proin the relationship program (Juntos Somos+) duction was resumed normally. Gerdau Ouro Branco Mill (MG) Main menu | Section menu Our business 33 Gerdau Steel is also present in wind turbine towers SPECIAL STEELS Three Gerdau units produce special steel in Brazil: Charqueadas, in Rio Grande do Sul; Pindamonhangaba and Mogi das Cruzes, in São Paulo — three others do the same in the United States. Special steels have specific physical and metallurgical characteristics for applications with high mechanical demands. They are critical inputs in the automotive chain, also serving other relevant markets, such as oil & gas, wind power, machinery & equipment, among others. The production of special steels fell by 27.8% in 2019 (including both Brazilian and U.S. production). In Brazil, the drop resulted from a shutdown at the Mogi das Cruzes (SP) mill, while sales were impacted by reduced inventories in the automotive chain and vehicle exports. Main menu | Section menu Our business 34 Crisis in Mercosur companies, given the boom in the ride-hailing market. For the special steel sector, the automotive industry faced a particularly difficult It is estimated that in São Paulo, Brazil’s scenario in 2019. On the one hand, the largest market, of every ten cars used by Argentine crisis caused a sharp drop in veride-hailing drivers, seven are rental. The hicle exports to the neighboring country, share of direct sales in total car sales in which extended to the world in general — Brazil, which was 20% five years ago, exANFAVEA points to a 31.9% reduction in ceeded 40% in 2019, according to studies global Brazilian vehicle exports in 2019. carried out by Gerdau and partners. This negative impact was compoundSome factors help offset some of the ed by the downturn of the European and negative effects on the steel market of local American automotive markets and the crises, such as Argentina’s and tensions in effects of the U.S.-China trade war, global trade. Among these factors is the which depressed global prices of steel rising pace of the truck market, heavy vecommodities. hicles that use more steel to be produced than passenger cars. On the other hand, the Brazilian automotive market showed signs of recovery in Truck production is picking up steam and 2019, with a growth of nearly 8.6% in grew 7.5% in 2019. Trucks production in the sales and 2.3% in production volume year — 113,500 vehicles — is still far from during the year. This increase in sales the historical peak of 200,000 units per year, was driven by the increase in direct but gives positive signs of recovery of the sales, to fleet owners, especially car rental economic activity. Gerdau Mill Ouro Branco (MG) Main menu | Section menu Our business 35 FOREST Gerdau is also a large forest-based comIn 2019, Gerdau made important pany. Planted forests are the source of reinvestments to implement a fornewable raw material for the production of est management system and charcoal used as a bio-reducing agent in the software to optimize long-term production of pig iron and steel. planning for the forestry sector. The company is the world’s largest proIn two years, from 2018 to 2019, ducer of charcoal. Its planted forest base approximately R$ 1.5 million and the charcoal produced guarantee an was invested in these systems, important competitive differentiator in relagiving Gerdau robust tools for tion to steel producers that use metallurgical managing its forest base in the coal. They also add other benefits: Gerdau’s forest base — with its associated areas of long term. preserved native forest — plays a central role in controlling greenhouse gas emissions, Gerdau is also using a drone to obtain aewhich cause climate change, and serve as a rial imagery of its forest assets and, still in the habitat for thousands of animal species. test phase, to determine the inventory of its bio-reducing agent and wood. The initiative is In the charcoal production technology, a part of experimenting with digital tools and new process was implemented to control image technology in forest management, such the temperature of Gerdau Florestal’s caras satellite imagery and radar technologies. Gerdau Florestal is based in the State of Minas Gerais, within the Cerrado bonization furnaces. With this, the company takes the first step to digitize monitoring of and Atlantic Rainforest biomes, and has 254,000 hectares of forest, of which the carbonization process and automate it 91,000 are areas for biodiversity conservation. These conservation areas in the future. are important for the environmental stability of the properties and for the natural control of pests and diseases. We are responsible for supplying charcoal, called bioredutor (bio-reducing agent), a source of renewable energy, used in the blast furnaces of Gerdau’s integrated steel mills in Barão de Cocais, Divinópolis, and Sete Lagoas. Gerdau Florestal — Três Marias (MG) Section menu | Main menu Our business 36 Control room, Várzea do Lopes Mine (MG) MINING Gerdau operates two iron ore mines in The last mining dam The return to operation of the UTM 1, Minas Gerais, in Brazil’s Southeast. The prowhich had been decommissioned in 2014, duction of these mines, which totaled 6.1 Gerdau ended 2019 with three mining would increase the company’s generation million tons in 2019, supplies the company’s dams in operation, according to the criof tailings. In order to avoid increasing mills. teria of the National Mining Agency (ANM). the use of dams to deposit these tailings, At the beginning of the year, there were Gerdau postponed its return to operation. The company believes that its iron ore six tailings dams in operation. Three of production represents an important comthem were de-characterized over the peThe company believes that this decipetitive advantage to its steel and, at the end riod, following a decision the company sion serves the interests of both shareof 2019, received a permit from regulatory had make before 2019. The processes holders — by refusing to increase the agencies to explore a new area in Várzea that had started at the Minas Gerais State risks arising from the operation of tailings dos Lopes, in the municipality of Itabirito Environmental Foundation (FEAM-MG) dams — and society, which would suffer (MG). This project will meet the future deand at ANM were completed in 2019. the impact of these risks. mand for iron ore at the Ouro Branco mill and will have dry tailings processing, without Gerdau is developing solutions for deposithe use of dams. The operation will produce tion of dry tailings and decommissioning of around one million tons of ore per year. the Alemães dam (see more details below). The company intends to stop using tailings In order to strengthen the relationship dams in all its mining operations in the shortwith the residents of Itabirito, Gerdau createst possible time. For this purpose, the comed a direct communication channel between pany decided to postpone, for 18 months, the the company and the community. The serreturn to operation of the Ore Treatment Unit vice receives suggestions, complaints, and 1 (UTM 1) in the district of Miguel Burnier, Ouro requests from residents. Preto (MG), initially planned for May 2019. Main menu | Section menu Our business 37 Bocaina Gerdau Mine Várzea do Lopes (MG) The Bocaina tailings dam, in Ouro Preto (MG), decommissioned since 2011 and already completely dry, received in 2019 the de-characterization technical report from the Minas Gerais State Environmental Agency (FEAM-MG). As a result, it was officially removed from ANM’s list of mining dams and started to be treated as a dry stack tailings. When Bocaina was decommissioned, operations began at the Alemães tailings dam, always with a very clear commitment to preserving the environment. Alemães Dam Gerdau’s iron ore tailings dam — the Alemães Dam, in Ouro Preto — is still in operation and is an upstream dam. The structure is constantly monitored and audited. The company has agreements with ANM and FEAM-MG to adapt it to the new consolidated legislation in the second half of 2019 (Dam Safety Law). Gerdau announced an investment of R$ 300 million to develop new solutions for the deposition of dry tailings, planned for 2020, and for de-characterization of the Alemães dam. The solution for de-characterization of the Alemães dam is still pending approval from the State Department for the Environment and Sustainable Development (SEMAD) and should also be completed by 2021. Main menu | Section menu Our business 38 https://g1.globo.com/jornal-nacional/noticia/2020/01/01/pesquisa-da-ufmg-aproveita-rejeitos-de-mineracao-na-construcao-civil.ghtml A hub for mining Gerdau is one of the creators and founders of the Mining Hub, an innovative collaborative space dedicated to the mining industry. Opened in January 2019, the Mining Hub is located in Belo Horizonte (MG) and is open to the participation of mining companies, suppliers, startups, and other applied innovation projects, such as acaA RENEWABLE HOUSE demic projects and technology-based companies. The goal is to bring all these players Gerdau’s Sustainable House, built together in a single space, to aid in the with materials obtained from the transformation of iron ore tailings, development of initiatives and projects is a demonstration of the effort aimed at mining activities. undertaken by the company in research and development of new applications for mining tailings, in The work model is inspired by the practhe search for sustainable uses that tices in the world of digital innovation, provide alternative solutions for with topics suggested to participants of depositions in dams and deposits. the hub in order to instigate the collaboDeveloped and built in partnership rative development of innovative soluwith researchers linked to the Fedtions, which are then examined by evalueral University of Minas Gerais (UFMG), the Renewable House was ation panels. designed by architect Gustavo Penna with dimensions similar to those Gerdau participates in the Mining Hub of the Minha Casa Minha Vida housing program. In addition to using because it believes that a more collaborative recycled materials, the Renewable future is the path toward transformative soluHouse makes use of sustainable tions for its business. technologies, such as solar power and water recirculation. Main menu | Section menu Our business 39 LATIN AMERICA Gerdau has units in Argentina, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela, with a combined production capacity of 1.72 million tons of crude steel and 1.1 million tons of rolled products, in addition to jointly controlled companies in the Dominican Republic and Colombia. These units comprise steel mills, retail ble for 8% of Gerdau’s net revenues and facilities, product stores (including joint produced 609,000 tons of crude steel, down ventures and associated companies) and 18.3% over 2018, when 746,000 tons were scrap processing facilities. The mills with produced. the largest installed capacity are those in Argentina and Peru. However, production in the fourth quarter of 2019 increased by 11.7% over the The companies in the South America same quarter in 2018 (sales in the period Business Operation (which includes the also grew). This positive result reflects the joint venture in the Dominican Republic) higher sales volumes recorded in Argentina meet the demands of their domestic marand Peru, countries that maintained healthy kets. In 2019, the Operation was responsilevels of construction activity. Gerdau’s Melt Shop in Rosario, Argentina Main menu | Section menu Our business 40 NORTH AMERICA Gerdau mill in Sahagún, Mexico Gerdau has, in the three North American countries (United States, Canada, and Mexico), a vertically integrated network of 14 steel units, in addition to scrap recycling facilities and downstream operations. The annual joint production capacity of the North LONG STEELS America Business Division (BD) (which does not inSales offices in Tampa (Florida), Selkirk (Manitoba), clude special steel operations) is 8.1 million tons of and Midlothian (Texas) manage sales of different crude steel and 5.9 million tons of finished steel types of Gerdau products in the United States and products. Of the total crude steel, around 500,000 Canada. The North America Business Division actons correspond to Gerdau’s unit in Mexico City, counts for most of the operations in the region (exand 1.3 million tons to operations in Whitby and cept special steels) and produced 4.6 million tons of Manitoba, Canada. steel in 2019. All remaining capacity is installed in the United This result would represent a 28.5% drop comStates, in the cities of Cartersville (Georgia), Charlotte pared to 2018. But when comparing the 2019 and (North Carolina), Jackson (Tennessee), St. Paul (Min2018 figures for North American operations, it is nesota), Wilton (Iowa), Midlothian (Texas), and Penecessary to take into account the impact of the ditersburg (Virginia). In addition to the facilities in vestment of rebar assets in the region in November operation, there is a unit temporarily shutdown in 2018. When the effects of these divestments are Cambridge, Canada. purged, sales of the North America BD represent a 4% growth in the year (without the purge, sales would have dropped 29.7%). In 2019, the North America BD accounted for 36% of Gerdau’s net revenue. Main menu | Section menu Our business 41 ROADMAP collection and processing units — the raw material by a new electric arc furnace in August, and a new for the company’s semi-integrated operation (with rolling mill cooling bed. In 2019, the North America BD developed a meelectric arc furnace) — and two distribution centers, dium — and long-term strategic plan — a roadmap with a network of distributors for its products in the The investments will increase the mill’s prothat sets the goal of investing and growing in the Mexican territory. duction capacity from around 500,000 tons of most profitable sectors of the market, and defines steel per year to more than 750,000 tons per actions in this direction, such as increasing the level year, to be reached after a period of two or three SPECIAL STEELS of investments (CAPEX) compared with the past ten years of operational adjustments after the start years, expand the product portfolio and reduce the of production. Gerdau’s Special Steel Business Division has three cost structure of the most important assets. industrial facilities in North America, all in the UnitThe expansion project is also aimed at improved States — in Jackson (Michigan), Monroe (MichiThis evolution will be supported by investments ing product quality and developing new applicagan), and Fort Smith (Arkansas). The company also in processes and systems that facilitate access to tions for the automotive industry, with very operates a downstream unit in Huntington (Indiana). Gerdau products and make the entire procurement promising initial results. Applications such as Together with the three Brazilian special steel units, process simpler and more user-friendly, in order to bearings and steering systems will benefit. When the North American facilities form the Special Steel put customers at the heart of the business. the investments are completed, Gerdau’s Monroe Business Division. mill will be at par, in terms of assets, with the best mills in the world in its class. GERDAU IN MEXICO Gerdau completed an investment program of more than US$ 300 million in 2019 at the Monroe Gerdau is present in Mexico through Gerdau mill in Michigan. In this last contribution, US$ Corsa, one of the country’s main producers of long 100 million are being invested in increasing the A recently published customer satisfaction steel, and the semi-integrated mill Siderúrgica Tulmill’s production capacity and modernizing its titlán. Gerdau Corsa operates three steel production equipment. survey places Gerdau’s special steel operation and rolling mills with a capacity of around one milas number one in the United States, in terms lion tons of liquid steel per year and has more than As a result, a new ladle furnace is expected to of customer focus, development support, and 1,000 employees. The company also has seven scrap start operating in the first quarter of 2020, followed service level for customers. Main menu | Section menu Our business 42 WEAK DEMAND In 2019, results of operations in the United States products that follow the major trends in the sector were affected by a sharp drop in demand for steel for the coming decades, such as electric cars and products in markets that are large consumers of autonomous vehicles. steel, such as the industrial market in general and, in particular, the oil and gas, and automotive secIt will be necessary, for example, to use lighter tors. The latter, Gerdau’s main customer in the rematerials to offset the weight of the batteries that gion, was coming from a period of more than 12 provide power to move electric cars, which opens months of stockpiling, and 2019 was the year when up a range of possibilities for research and develdemand returned to previous levels. opment of special, lightweight steels to meet this requirement — a movement called lightweighting. On the other hand, the General Motors (GM) strike in the United States in late 2019 resulted in Cars with conventional engines would also gain a reduction of 300,000 units in vehicle production. by reducing weight, which would allow them to use The shutdown caused postponement and cancellasmaller, more economical engines with lower levtion of steel orders in the short term. els of greenhouse gas emissions, providing environmental and economic benefits. AUTOMOTIVE PRODUCTS In addition to improvements in the production line, in 2019, Gerdau invested in a management sysIn parallel with the modernization of equipment, tem for its special steel operations in North America. the special steel operation in North America has The new system is expected to enter into operation been working very closely with the automotive in the first quarter of 2020 and will bring important chain to understand the transformations that the advances to the operation in the areas of access to industry has been undergoing and to develop data and facilitated search for information. Special Steel Mill in Monroe, Michigan (USA) Main menu | Section menu Gerdau Office São Paulo (SP) OUR RELATIONSHIPS THE JOURNEY OF DIVERSITY CONNECTED CLIENTS STRENGTHENED PARTNERSHIPS Our relationships 44 THE JOURNEY OF DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION Gerdau employees GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3: 405 Diversity and equal opportunity in São Paulo (SP) In 2019, diversity and listening were the pillars of relationships at Gerdau, and should continue to be so from now on. It is the willingness to actively listen that makes it possible to fully reap the wealth of knowledge and insights provided by a truly diverse environment. More than acting in line with international that reflects the diversity of society. The compahuman rights standards, with Brazilian legisny works so that all its employees are committed lation and with best social responsibility practo promoting equality, thus creating an inclusive tices, respect for diversity is a strategic issue culture of respect and appreciation of diversity. for Gerdau. This commitment is reflected, in practice, in inclusion initiatives that combat all forms of disBy acting to transform the internal environcrimination and prejudice, working with priority ment, the company contributes to the attaintopics: gender, race and ethnicity, PwD, and ment of UN’s 10th Sustainable Development LGBTI+. Goal, which seeks to reduce inequalities, empower and promote social, economic and poIn 2019, the company implemented initiatives litical inclusion for all, regardless of age, gender, to encourage diversity in the workplace, one of disability, race, ethnicity, origin, religion, ecothe pillars of the profound cultural transformanomic situation or other condition, and to attain tion underway at the company. Launched in the 5th Sustainable Development Goal, which 2017, the actions initially focused on promoting sets goals for gender equality by 2030. gender diversity; as of 2019, three new audiences were included in the initiative: race and ethGerdau aspires to be one of the most inclusive nicity, people with disabilities (PwD), and the companies in the industrial segment, with a team LGBTI+ community. Main menu | Section menu Our relationships 45 The Diversity program started to be orgaby becoming a signatory to the LGBTI+ Comharassment, favoritism or any form of disrenized by affinity groups corresponding to the panies and Rights Forum, the Business Cospect. This is a completely confidential reportDIVERSITY FOR topics covered. These groups came together alition for Racial and Gender Equality, the ing tool. Reports can be anonymous and all of SOCIAL INCLUSION regularly to discuss specific guidelines and acPact for the Inclusion of People with Disabilthem are investigated. Gerdau’s CEO, Gustavo Werneck, tions for each topic and evaluate the progress ities, and the Business Coalition for Ending leads the Diversityl group of the of the work. Each group is under the responViolence Against Women. Another commitCEO’s Legacy initiative, from l sibility of a member of the company’s senior ment is to the UN Women’s Empowerment Fundação Dom Cabral, which mobiVALUE ACTIONS lizes CEOs to build relevant and management. Currently, more than 300 volunPrinciples, to which the company has been GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3: 405 Diversity and equal sustainable legacies, capable of inteers are working in these groups and in the a signatory since 2017. GRI 102-12 opportunity spiring people, organizations, and Diversity Committees. society. To advance its principle of diversity — Diverse In order to understand the progress in and inclusive environment — Gerdau has deThe group seeks to inspire, raise In 2019, a specific position was also created equality, business indicators (women and awareness, encourage and mobilize veloped several actions and projects. The comfor the Management of Diversity and Inclusion blacks in leadership positions, inclusion and the Brazilian business system, implepany created, for example, an Internship and ment diversity management and that coordinates actions globally. The Diversity retention of women and PwDs, etc.) are monApprentices program focused on hiring blacks, inclusion in organizations, contributstrategy is validated and monitored by the itored and an Opinion Survey is conducted ing to a more responsible business through which 32 interns and 15 apprentices Strategic Diversity Committee at bimonthly globally to measure employee engagement, system, in search of a more prosperjoined the company in 2019. This was a first ous and just country. meetings. This committee was created in 2018 which also includes aspects of diversity. In step toward encouraging professional developand is formed by the CEO and directors of 2019, the result was 81% favorable when emment and reaching, later on, a greater number several areas: People, Communication & Instiployees were asked whether “in our company of black leaders in Gerdau’s staff. tutional Affairs, Finance & Comptrollership, and people feel they are treated equally regardless Business Areas. of race, gender, age, disability, religion, etc.” Gerdau publicly assumed its commitThe use of the Ethics Channel is also enments to promoting Diversity and Inclusion couraged to report situations of discrimination, Main menu | Section menu Our relationships 46 ACTIONS TO PROMOTE DIVERSITY IN 2019* * The actions described on this page refer to operations in Brazil. GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3: 405 Diversity and equal opportunity Genre LGBTI+ Race and ethnicity PwD LGBTI+  omen’s Leadership Development: “Women EmpowW Priority in hiring black youth in certain regions Social name ered” in North America  Trainee and Apprentice Program: priority in hiring Learning Program: Supply Chain: priority for companies in Rede Mulher 100+ PwD young blacks Empreendedora (Entrepreneur Women Network) – Training leaders and interns (self-knowledge and caConecta Program reer development) systems and processes updated to allow trained in Gerdau’s operations for the use of their social names in the Social Investment: Business Management training for Development of material for dialogues about racial company women in the community and ethnic prejudice Adherence to the Business Coalition to End Violence Hiring of refugees Against Women and Girls Participation in the Racial Equality Forum ID_BR Participation in PwD recruitment fair Black Awareness Week, Lecture, workshops, and afro H  ealth plan: inclusion of same-sex partner as a deTrainee women Training for Committee and Affinity Group pendent in the plan 46% 2019 fair Development of material for dialogues on people Training for Committee and Affinity Group 38% 2017 with disabilities Support for transitioning transgender employees Apprentice women 37% 2019 24% 2017 Women in administrative positions 34% 2019 32%of blacks 15%blacks in 2% of PwDs in the workforce Women operators in the workforce leadership 2% 2019 positions Women in leadership position 18% 2019 Main menu | Section menu Our relationships 47 An important step toward gender equaliPACTS SPACE FOR ty at Gerdau was the appointment, in 2019, of Claudia Sender, the first woman to join WOMEN the company’s Board of Directors, as an inGRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3: 405 Diversity and equal dependent member. opportunity l Actions promoted to increase genThe industrial areas of various operations, der diversity in the workplace. such as at the Pirituba slitting & folding unit in São Paulo, also started to hire women. In January 2019, women accounted for 3% of S  ignature of the UN the workforce, climbing to 18% in December. Women’s Empowerment Considering only the operational staff, in Principles. Awareness and training January, the operation was 100% formed by workshops for more than men, and 13% by women at the end of 2019. 1,500 leaders to identify unconscious biases, not Another initiative promoted awareness only focused on gender, actions and actions to ensure equal rights but also on aspects of diversity in general. and benefits for LGBTI+ employees, such as Greater number of adoption leave, parental leave, and health bathrooms for women insurance for same-sex spouses. In addition, at the mills. the company began to position itself publicCreation of uniforms ly as an ally of the LGBTI+ movement. adapted for pregnant women. Disclosure of jobs aimed The company also turns its attention to at hiring women. trans people who, although they have not Six-month maternity leave. changed their names in the documents, can request, at the time of hiring or at any time, that the social name be adopted on the badge, in the email address and in all communications. LGBTI+ pride post on Gerdau’s social networks in 2019 Main menu | Section menu Our relationships 48 GERDAU’S DIVERSITY WORLDWIDE GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3: 405 Diversity and equal opportunity In addition to the initiatives aimed at Diversity performed in Brazil and described on the previous pages, this topic is a focus on the other countries where DOMINICAN REPUBLIC Gerdau operates. AND COLOMBIA • Signature of the Letter of Commitment for Gender Equality in conjunction with the Global Compact and the Sustainable Development Goals • Hiring women for operating positions • Communication initiatives in accordance with the diversity calendar NORTH AMERICA • Participation in Pride Connection • Diversity seminars for all employees • Communication initiatives in accordance with the Diversity calendar • Creation of WE Woman Empowered (100 members) • Leader Talks female leadership BRAZIL • Peer Mentoring Program • Gerdau’s corporate headquarters responsible • Videos: stories of female leadership for coordinating the company’s global diversity • Training in unconscious bias strategies listed on the previous pages of this report. MEXICO • Analysis of demographic data ARGENTINA AND URUGUAY • Train the trainers in uncon• Women’s bathroom in breastfeeding scious bias areas and rooms • Communication initiatives in accordance with the diversity calendar • Creation of the Diversity Committee (12 PERU participants) • Hiring of the first female operators in • Training in unconscious bias Argentina • Leadership awareness • Internship program including PwDs and at • Meeting with Women (Lima and Chimbote) least 50% women • Hiring of the first intellectual disabled person • Training in unconscious bias Main menu | Section menu Our relationships 49 BARRIERS REMOVED GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3: 405 Diversity and equal opportunity Gerdau also worked to remove barriers to hiring and eliminated non-essential requirements for the beginning of the career and that can be fulfill later, through in-house training programs. Blind selections were also made for candidates for certain job positions. In this selection procedure, candidates’ names, universities, and addresses are left out from the résumés taken to the selection panel, as a way to neutralize any gender and social class bias and encourage the inclusion of minorities and disadvantaged applicants. DIVERSITY WEEK More than 18,000 employees formed the target audience for Gerdau’s first Diversity Week, held in May 2019. Lectures, debates, l and films marked the event, in which the Primer on Diversity was distributed — a 60-page pocket booklet that contains concepts and guidelines related to this topic. Diversity Week Main menu | Section menu 2019 Our relationships 50 GREATER FLEXIBILITY GERDAU PROFESSIONALS GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3: 405 Diversity and equal opportunity GRI 102-8 In 2019, Gerdau announced a 20-day extended Total number of company employees Total number of workers Note 1: All Gerdau operations are included in this data. paternity leave for its employees. The benefit comes (at the end of the reporting period) who are not employees Note 2: The following are being considered: in addition to others already in place in some units Total number of company employees (at the end 26,870 2018 8,122 2018 of the company, such as flexible hours, home office, of the reporting period): considered headcount of Dec./18 x Dec./19 with apprentices and inand Summer Friday, when employees can leave 27,125 2019 5,750 2019 terns. Did not consider those on leave. Total after lunch and make up for these hours on other number of workers who are not employees: considered headcount Contractor Productivity days of the week. of Dec./18 x Dec/19. Some contractors were not considered, since we do not report contractors in administrative (e.g., restaurant, maintenance Health was also the focus of some programs and cleaning, etc.) or investment positions. Company employees with a permanent contract: developed during the year. Telemedicine, carried considered operational, administrative and out in partnership with Hospital Albert Einstein, alleadership. Company employees with fixed or temporary contracts: considered apprentices lows employees and their families from all over and interns. Company employees on a part-time basis (up to 25 hours per week): we do not have Brazil to receive remote care from the staff of one this model. of the best hospitals in the country. There is also the Mais Cuidado program, through which participants can receive psychological or legal support in times of need. And for employees who become mothers, work has been done to increase women’s retention and engagement after maternity leave. The number of women who left the company after returning from maternity leave dropped from 28% in 2018 to 5% in 2019. In addition, spaces for pumping and storing milk have been installed, where mothers newly arrived from leave can feel free to pump and store milk, facilitating their return to work. Gerdau Office São Paulo (SP) Main menu | Section menu Our relationships 51 GERDAU EMPLOYEES GRI 102-8 Total number of employees by employment contract and region Company employees with permanent employment contract Note 1: Data for Venezuela are not available. UNITED DOMINICAN Note 2: The following are being BRAZIL CANADA MEXICO PERU ARGENTINA URUGUAY COLOMBIA STATES REPUBLIC considered: Total number of com15,532 1,281 1,197 909 673 209 997 4,739 807 pany employees (at the end of the reporting period): considered headcount of Dec./18 x Dec./19 with apprentices and interns. Did not 2018 Company employees with fixed or temporary employment contract consider those on leave. Total number of workers who are not employees: considered headcount Contractor Productivity of Dec./18 x Dec/19. UNITED Some contractors were not considBRAZIL CANADA MEXICO PERU ARGENTINA URUGUAY COLOMBIA DOMINICAN ered, since we do not report conSTATES 1,473 7 75 51 2 4 440 REPUBLIC tractors in administrative (e.g., 9 0 restaurant, maintenance and cleaning, etc.) or investment positions. Company employees with a permanent contract: considered operationTotal Total Total Total Total Total Total Total Total al, administrative and leadership. 17,005 1,288 4,748 1,272 960 675 213 1,437 807 Company employees with fixed or temporary contracts: considered apprentices and interns. Company Company employees with permanent employment contract employees on a part-time basis (up to 25 hours per week): we do not have this model. UNITED DOMINICAN BRAZIL CANADA MEXICO PERU ARGENTINA URUGUAY COLOMBIA STATES REPUBLIC 15,698 1,350 1,256 869 645 196 885 4,844 792 2019 Company employees with fixed or temporary employment contract UNITED BRAZIL CANADA MEXICO PERU ARGENTINA URUGUAY COLOMBIA DOMINICAN STATES 1,578 6 84 64 6 0 499 REPUBLIC 12 0 Total Total Total Total Total Total Total Total Total 17,276 1,356 4,856 1,340 933 651 196 1,384 792 Main menu | Section menu Our relationships 52 GERDAU’S DIVERSITY PROFILE GRI 405-1 Employees by employment category, 2018 2019 by age group and gender Age group (%) Gender (%) Age group (%) Gender (%) EMPLOYEES Apprentices 99 1 69 31 98 2 63 37 Interns 95.5 0.3 55 45 95,0 0.1 54 46 4.2 4.9 Operations 21 62 17 98 2 22 62 16 98 2 Administrative 26 61 13 64 36 28 60 12 64 36 Specialists/coordinators 10 67 23 81 19 11 68 21 80 20 Management 5 71 24 86 14 5 73 22 84 16 Executive Board 47 53 91 9 48 52 94 6 MEMBERS OF GOVERNANCE BODIES Audit Committee 100 0 0 100 0 100 0 0 100 0 Board of Directors 29 71 0 100 0 44 56 0 89 11 GRAND TOTAL 16% 15% 26% 25% Under 30 years old 30-50 years old Over 50 years old 11% 89% 12% 88% Men Women 59% 59% Main menu | Section menu All employees are covered by the collective bargaining agreements. The agreements do not apply to contractors. GRI 102-41 Our relationships 53 FOUR-PHASE TRAINING and clients) and have the opportunity to apply G.Makers CONNECTION DAY their knowledge in conducting a challenge G.Makers is a development program for The year of 2019 consolidated Gerdau’s project with the support of a tutor. Registraprofessionals who already work at Gerdau, Connection Day aims to develop and contraining programs, after being revised in line tions are opened every six months. and others from the market to compose a nect high-performance leaders to business with the company’s cultural transformation. team with diverse experience and a lot of executives. In 2019, two editions took place Five programs form the backbone that supG.Next energy to transform the company. They parin São Paulo for employees from all operaports the development of a career and the G.Next is aimed at employees who want to ticipate in a training program in digital mindtions in Brazil, involving nearly 50 people. The acquisition of new skills after joining the comprepare for their initial leadership positions at set and innovation and apply their learning guests participated in training courses taught pany as an intern in order to encourage colGerdau. Over the course of 18 months, they to high-impact projects, adding unconventionby a partner Business School and performed laborative work and feed a digital mindset. take part in a robust development path, with al solutions that modernize the Gerdau culintegration activities — inside and outside technical and behavioral content to accelerate ture and enhance the results. In 2019, the Gerdau — with senior management. G.Start their development in topics such as business, second edition of the program started with a G.Start is a university internship program safety, routine and project management, and group of 35 professionals. aimed at young adults who want to streamline leadership. The group is formed by 40 employtheir professional development and help build ees from the administration and interns, from G.Data the Gerdau of the future. During the program, different areas and regions. interns improve their technical knowledge in G.Data is intended to develop data analysis their fields of study and develop competencies skills, using Data Science principles for non-prosuch as creativity, collaboration, openness, G.Lead grammers. Program participants learn how to safety attitude and focus on results. The proG.Lead develops professionals who have been use data to make decisions and gain insights that gram helps develop new professionals capain initial leadership positions for three years. will improve day-to-day operation. The program ble of proposing simple and agile solutions Employees who join the program are ready to offers theoretical classes and practical application collaboratively and in increasingly dynamic take on greater challenges, impacting the busiin the organization’s projects. The 2019 class business environments, with a development ness in increasingly challenging environments. trained 25 employees from different areas and plan that encourages young professionals to Over the course of one year, members particiunits of the company. play a leading role in their careers. This is pate in a development trail with content related achieved through challenge-projects, which to business vision, leadership and people manIn addition to these programs, topics reare conducted jointly with the leaders of aragement, digital mindset, and industry 4.0. The lated to transformation and digital mindset eas. In addition to incorporating Gerdau’s group is formed by 40 coordinators and specialwere disseminated to employees through culture, the students learn about the business ists, selected inside and outside Gerdau, from meet-ups and training in a program called (production process, products, applications, different areas and regions. Be Digital. Gerdau Office São Paulo (SP) Main menu | Section menu Our relationships 54 was reduced from 20% to 15%. This cap aims For the same reason, a similar program al training program. Gerdau expects that PERFORMANCE VALUES to align variable pay with market practices started in March 2019 in the Mogi (SP) conditions in the domestic and foreign marCOLLABORATION and the interests of shareholders. mills was extended to the end of the year. kets will continue to evolve, so that all the In this case, the employees affected were company’s mills can return to operating at The year 2019 also brought important For the Long-Term Incentive, the company on paid leave and attended a professionnominal capacity. changes to the Leadership Performance Evalplans to include, in the next cycle, sustainabiluation. The new model no longer has Calibraity indicators linked to the ESG Scorecard in tion Committees to compare employee perorder to align remuneration incentives of seformance, which could have negative impacts nior management with the advances in envion individual variable pay depending on their ronmental, social, and governance topics. position on the comparison curve. Today, Gerdau now has Performance Committees in LAYOFFS WITH place focused on discussing and recognizing those with outstanding performed, considerTHE DOWNTURN OF EXPORTS ing the employee’s deliveries and conduct. The purpose of the new evaluation is to reIn 2019, Gerdau suspended the activities at duce labels, increase collaboration, streamline some of its mills in the State of Minas Gerais the process, and enhance the performance of and laid off part of their employees. As a result the team. of the low margins in steel exports, it was necessary to make a layoff agreement with some In the same vein, the Short-Term Incentive, employees. which was composed of 50% of business goals and 50% of individual goals, is now 70% of Likewise, Gerdau opened negotiations with business goals and 30% of individual goals. the local union in Charqueadas (RS) to carry This new model is in line with the new culture out another layoff program seeking to maintain of the company, focusing on collaboration, existing jobs. This decision was made after the simplicity, and value creation. Brazilian automotive industry — the main consumer of special steel produced in the unit In addition, as of 2020, the cap of the vari— placed workers on a collective vacation, due able pay in relation to Gerdau’s net income to the economic crisis in Argentina. G.Lead class graduation Main menu | Section menu Our relationships 55 BETTER HEALTHCARE FOR EMPLOYEES of Refusing to Perform Risky Tasks. In addition to GRI 403-3, 403-6 these specific practices, the company has other channels for complaints, such as meetings with teams and Gerdau has health plan benefit programs in place the Ethics Channel. There is also an Integrated Health, for all its employees and their dependents. Safety, Environment, and Quality Policy. (https://www2. gerdau.com.br/downloadable-resource/politica-integraThe Occupational Health and Hygiene services have da-de-saude-e-seguranca-meio-ambiente-e-qualidade). the following programs to identify hazards and minimize risks: In 2019, Gerdau achieved good results after restrucOccupational Hygiene Program turing its Workplace Safety policies, which began three Occupational Health Medical Control years ago. The severity rate of occupational accidents Ergonomics Program recorded in the year was the lowest in the company’s Alcohol and Drug Use Control history. Respiratory Protection Program Hearing Conservation Program To achieve this reduction, which began in 2018, Gerdau changed its accident prevention concept, payAll our units have a clinic formed by medical proing more attention to certain situations that could fessionals (doctors, nurses and nursing assistants). potentially lead to fatal or high-severity accidents. The number and type of professionals depends on the size of the unit and number of employees. In other words, priority was given to identifying and averting risks of hazardous situations before leading WORKPLACE SAFETY to severe or fatal accidents, and not simply looking for ways to prevent accidents that happen more frequentAS A PRIORITY ly, even if less serious. GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3: 403 Occupational health and safety Gerdau has a list of Principles, the first of which The topic Safety in Processes was also covered is “Safety First”. The health and safety management during the year, which, after pilot implementations at system has practices and tools in place to receive the Ouro Branco and Riograndense units, was inteand handle grievances, such as Reports on Begrated into corporate safety management in the form low-Standard Acts and Conditions and the practice of new requirements. Gerdau Mill Ouro Branco (MG) Main Voltar menu | Section menu ao menu Our relationships 56 Several actions were taken to assess the effectiveness of management, from benchmarking visits to 2019 IN NUMBERS GRI 403-9 evaluate new practices or improve the existing ones, to audits/assessments of the management system. Each location evaluates its health and safety practicCompany employees es on a monthly basis, and cross-unit audits are also Work-related accidents conducted. After analyzing the results of Health and Safety indicators, evaluations and audits, and the opportunities for improvement found, actions are Number of fatalities due Number of work-related defined for the coming cycle to improve the organito work-related accidents accidents zation’s performance. 515 0 2018 2018 The company’s performance in the area of health 0 2019 338 2019 and safety has been highlighted in the global steel industry, with data obtained from worldsteel. The Rate of fatalities due Rate of work-related accidents main critical risks at the units are: handling of scrap, to work-related accidents (frequency rate) transportation of molten steel, mobile equipment, 0 2018 7.83 2018 overhead cranes, confined spaces, work at heights, circulation of vehicles and people, energy shutdown, 0 2019 5.83 2019 railways, machine guards, buildings and constructions, and gases. For all such risks, prevention stanNumber of hours worked Accident severity rate dards have been developed with mandatory requirements to mitigate the risk or reduce them to accept355 2018 65,789,584 2018 able levels through engineering measures, physical 123.5 2019 57,987,207 2019 protection, procedures, and specific PPE for their prevention. Number of severe work-related Rate of severe work-related accidents accidents (excluding fatalities) (excluding fatalities) Note: the main types of injuries recorded are: cuts, contusions, burns. Rates were calculated based on 1,000,000 hours 30 2018 0.46 2018 worked. The measures shown on the side apply to all employees and contractors, as well as truck drivers and visitors to our facilities. All Gerdau units are included in the scope 27 2019 0.47 2019 of this indicator. Main menu | Section menu Our relationships 57 Gerdau Mill Ouro Branco (MG) SAFETY KEEP AN EYE OUT FOR TRAINING OTHERS ON THE ROAD EFFICIENT MANAGEMENT GRI 403-5 GRI 403-7 GRI 403-1, 403-2, 403-4, 403-8 For each function, there is a Gerdau units have traffic accil l Training Matrix that establishes dent prevention programs in mandatory training and replace, guidelines in primers, training frequency when necand training for truck drivers, Gerdau has a health and safety management essary. For contractors, the whether transporting raw masystem with practices and tools operating in three company always provides onterials or products. Campaigns boarding training, as well as are also carried out for exterbarriers: physical, systemic, and behavioral. The training on Risk Analysis and nal salespeople aiming to prepurpose of this system is to establish the guideliWork Permit, as needed. All vent accidents in performing nes for health management, occupational safety other training required for contheir activities. tractors must be performed, and process safety, and define minimum health with proof of completion beand safety compliance requirements for all units. fore these professionals can This system covers all company industrial, comenter the Gerdau units. mercial, and transformation units and applies to all employees and service providers. Gerdau complies with the local laws in all countries where it operates. There is a specific practice to identify hazards and assess risks. The hierarchy of controls must be taken into account when defining actions to reduce risks and address highly critical risks. The leaders of the operational areas, with supervision and support from Health and Safety professionals, conduct the process to identity hazards and assess risks. Assessments where more complex and speMain menu | Section menu Our relationships 58 Araçariguama Mill (SP) cialized methodologies are used are also monitored or carried out by external consultants specializing in these tools. Gerdau encourages its employees to avoid risks and, for this, it has a tool called Recusa a Tarefa de Risco (Refusal to Perform Risky Tasks.) Company workers and contractors have the right to refuse to perform any work that they believe poses uncontrolled risks. If the risk is confirmed by leadership and the Health and Safety technical team, work will be interrupted until the risk is eliminated or controlled. This entire process is audited to avoid any type of abuse or retaliation. Employees participate in the development, implementation, and evaluation of the health and safety management system through the tools to report safety incidents, in performing safety practices under their responsibility and during team meetings with leadership. The units have health and safety committees in place formed by employees and leaders. In countries where this topic has legal provisions, members are elected by employees to represent them. The meetings are held monthly, when the topics are defined and decisions are made, with the participation of company leaders. GRI 403-4 Main menu | Section menu Our relationships 59 with implementation in Peru and the United DATA PREVENTING ACCIDENTS Gustavo Werneck, Gerdau’s States planned to start in 2020. GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3: 403 Occupational health and safety CEO, receives from André Gerdau Johannpeter, Chairman Safety Analytics offers a new round of analThroughout the year, an innovative accident of worldsteel, the entity’s health ysis each week, incorporating the data collectand safety recognition. risk prediction model – Safety Analytics – was ed up to the previous week. The information implemented in almost every Gerdau mill in is shown in management panels containing the Brazil, which uses Artificial Intelligence and prediction of probable accidents for that week, Machine Learning in the company’s historical and detailing the factors that aggravate the risk data to warn about the likelihood of future in each industrial plant. accidents, so that they can be prevented. The rate of correct predictions made by the To develop Safety Analytics, Gerdau partsystem is now around 70% and tends to innered with the consulting company Deloitte, crease as the model incorporates new data which contributed with the system’s analytics and refines its algorithms. This use of Artificial tools. Gerdau made available the accumulated Intelligence and Machine Learning to predict database it had stored, with a history of accioccupational accidents is an innovation on a dents, maintenance occurrences, and other global scale, and Gerdau has already been indata related to 11 mills, in addition to its vast vited to present Safety Analytics in several experience in safety management and operaforums in Brazil and abroad. tion of steel industries. The first mathematical analysis and predicRECOGNIZED WORK tion models were created in 2016. The pilot GLOBAL SAFETY COMMITTEE project, implemented in four mills, was conIn 2019, Gerdau received the recognition for Excellence in Health and Safety from worldsteel, the main global ducted in 2017 and 2018, with excellent results. In 2019, the company resumed holding anentity in the steel sector. The award recognized the Subsequently, the system was made available nual in-person meetings of its Global Safety work done by the company l in reducing the number of for implementation in the company’s mills Committee, which brings together Workplace highly severe accidents, a result that was reinforced by the attainment of the lowest accident severity rate in throughout 2019, having already been adopted Safety leaders from all countries where the the company’s history. by about 11 units in Brazil and 3 in Mexico, company operates. Main menu | Section menu Our relationships 60 In the previous year, this meeting was held In addition to this, another serious, but not virtually. In 2019, representatives from 10 fatal, accident occurred at the La Presa mill in countries in Latin and North America got toMexico, resulting in an amputation. Gerdau gether in São Paulo to establish priorities and regrets the occurrences and reaffirms that the develop the area’s planning for 2020. safety of employees and service providers is an absolute priority for the company. FATALITY IN 2019 Despite all the precautions and measures taken to ensure safe work for all employees, Gerdau unfortunately recorded one fatality in 2019, at its Wilton mill, in the United States. An outsourced maintenance employee suffered a fatal accident while cleaning a furnace. SAFETY DAY The company conducted audits to underThe company celebrates World Day for Safety and Health at Work, promoted by the UN on stand the failure and make the necessary April 28, every year. The celebrations include a changes to avoid new risks. general stoppage lof activities at all plants to reflect on safety and continue with an entire week of activities coordinated around this topic. It is an event that brings employees’ families into the units. In 2020, when the 20th anniversary of Gerdau’s Safety Policy is also celebrated, a global contest was held, between employees and family members, to choose a new logo for Gerdau’s Safety System. Global Safety Committee Meeting — Araçariguama (SP) Main menu | Section menu Our relationships 61 CONNECTED CUSTOMERS Gerdau wants to place its customers even more at the center of its business, increasing value creation that allows them to grow and making them stronger and more competitive. Therefore, understanding the customers’ journey, using new methodologies, such as strategic design and UX (User Experience), allows the digital transformation to become a driver of opportunities, enabling customers to accomplish what they want and in the way they expect. Understanding the customers’ journey the special steels division to cater to cusand their experience, commercial teams, tomers in the automotive industry. UX designers and developers are continually delivering innovative digital solutions to ISA calculates in seconds whether it is the market — increasingly linked to Artificial feasible to meet a demand for a new prodIntelligence algorithms. uct in special steels, using thousands of references stored in a database, the history An example of the application of AI tools of consultations, and more than 40 technical Digital interaction at a Comercial to a customer interaction platform is the variables to consider. Before ISA, responding Gerdau unit, Recife (PE) ISA (Intelligent Steel Analysis), a project of to a similar query could take 10 days. Main menu | Section menu Our relationships 62 INDUSTRY 4.0 JUNTOS SOMOS + (TOGETHER WE ARE+) In 2019, Gerdau entered into an agreement with GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Own topic: Innovation in processes and products, the Swedish company SKF, a benchmark in bear103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Own topic: Stakeholder relations ings, to improve productivity and reduce the number of unplanned l downtime at the steel mills in Charqueadas (RS) and Araçariguama (SP). Gerdau’s platforms for interacting with ing in Juntos Somos+: the three founders plus SKF will supply Gerdau with bearings, remanupartners and customers made significant adSantander, Getnet, Suvinil, Portal Solar, Vedacfacturing, lubrication systems, and Wi-Fi vibration vances in 2019. Juntos Somos+, a loyalty proit, Corfio, Renove Já, Eternit, Bosch, Ourolux, and temperature monitoring systems. In addition, the company will analyze, in its Rotating gram for retailers of building materials aimed Assa Abloy, Marluvas, Henkel, Ciser, Schneider Shaft Performance Center in Brazil, data on critat stores, salespeople, and construction proElectric, Brasforma, Instituto da Construção, ical machines from these two mills. The results fessionals, created by Gerdau in partnership Linx, and Casa do Construtor. of the analyses will allow Gerdau and SKF to better plan maintenance and correct any mawith Votorantim Cimentos and Tigre, is now chine failures. an online platform. As such, it is already reThe program works as a benefit plan for ceiving a considerable number of orders from stores, salespeople, and construction profesall over Brazil, both in terms of volume of sionals. When purchasing products from parINNOVATIVE AFFILIATES quotes and sales conversions, equivalent to ticipating companies, they earn points that can Gerdau participates as a sponsor industry in the the movement of a brick-and-mortar subsidbe redeemed for prizes, including forklifts, start-up acceleration program FIEMG Lab 4.0, of iary of Comercial Gerdau. computers, management systems, professionFederação das Indústrias do Estado de Minas al courses, and other benefits. Juntos Somos+ Gerais. Fifty indtechs, l the name given to technology-based businesses for the industry, were In all, 22 companies are already participatis today an independent company with Gerdau selected to participate in the 2019/2020 cycle of as a partner, and plans to invest in the expanthe 12-month program, starting in July 2019. sion of the program and in the improvement The indtechs chosen work with technologies such of its digital ecosystem, which can be accessed as big data, Internet of Things, cloud computing through the website www.juntossomosmais. and biotechnology. The sponsoring industries, com.br y también por las aplicaciones. such as Gerdau, participate in FIEMG LAB 4.0, having the program as one of their open innoMore than 70,000 registered stores vation platforms and offering startups their More than 400,000 registered professionals know-how, their strategic information, their More than 60 dedicated employees structure for industrial tests, and their financial resources (learn more about the Gerdau Challenge  $ 50 million will be invested in the exR FIEMG Lab 2019 in the Who we are section). pansion of the program by the end of 2020 FEICON Event 2019 – Juntos Somos+ Booth Main menu | Section menu Our relationships 63 Gerdau Day New York 2019 20 YEARS AT THE NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE In March 2019, Gerdau celebrated the SHARING WITH THE INDUSTRY 20th anniversary of listing its shares on the GRI 102-13 New York Stock Exchange. The date was Gerdau is present in the most representative celebrated with an event, in New York, with associations in thel business and steel sectors the participation of CEO Gustavo Werneck, to offer its contribution and learn from its peers company directors, and close to 80 analysts in the market: and investors. At the event, an app was W  orld Steel Association (worldsteel) launched that allows a virtual tour of GerAlacero (Latin American Steel Association) dau’s mills. Company executives also closed Instituto Aço Brasil (IABr) the NYSE stock market with the traditional Instituto Brasileiro de Mineração (Ibram) closing bell. Instituto de Estudos Empresariais (IEE) LIDE (Grupo de Líderes Empresariais) Movimento Brasil Competitivo (MBC) PROXY VOTE Instituto Millenium Instituto de Estudos para o DesenvolviRECOMMENDATION AGENCIES mento Industrial (IEDI) Federação das Indústrias do Estado In 2019, Gerdau engaged two proxy vote de Minas Gerais (FIEMG) agencies, Glass Lewis and ISS. Both agencies Gerdau’s administration submitted a letter DISCLOSURE Federação das Indústrias do Estado de São Paulo (FIESP) recently made assessments of the quality of clarification to both agencies about the Federação das Indústrias do Estado do Rio of the company’s governance. This type of governance standards adopted by Gerdau and In line with its action plan, as of the third Grande do Sul (FIERGS) agency works as a consultancy for minority the policies in place on topics such as manquarter of 2019, the company started to inform Amcham shareholders, making positive or negative agement remuneration, risk management, the market about initiatives and advances in Associação Brasileira das Companhias recommendations for voting in the proposadoption of ESG criteria in corporate manageenvironmental, social and governance (ESG) Abertas (Abrasca) als presented by company administration ment, and policies on diversity that have been topics. In addition, Gerdau increased disclosure Associação Brasileira de Comunicação Empresarial (Aberje) to the General Meetings of publicly-held practiced internally and in selection and reof information in its earnings conference calls, Indústria Brasileira de Árvores (Ibá) companies. cruitment programs. based on requests from investors. Main menu | Section menu Our relationships 64 INTERACTIONS WITH GOVERNMENTS AND PUBLIC OFFICIALS GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 419: Socioeconomic compliance Our employees have an obligation to strictly comply with the anti-corruption and anti-money laundering laws in force in their operations. All of them, as well as representatives acting on behalf of Gerdau, are prohibited from offering, promising, making, authorizing or providing (directly or indirectly, through third parties) undue advantages, payments, gifts or transfer of anything of value for any person, whether public official or otherwise, in order to illegally influence or reward any official action or eventual decision of such person for the benefit of Gerdau. Employees and third parties who represent us must always adopt maximum discipline in complying with anti-corruption and anti-monIn its business and activities, Gerdau comBrazil Steel ey laundering laws, our rules, and the laws in plies with a series of tax, environmental, legal, Conference 2019 general that govern the relationship with the and regulatory obligations that involve public government. officials. The company defines in the Corporate Guideline on Relationship with Public Officials how such contacts should occur and the precautions that must be taken to ensure that the relationship always takes place properly and in compliance with the law, either directly or through a representative. Main menu | Section menu Gerdau Biocenter Germinar — Ouro Branco (MG) FOCUS ON SUSTAINABILITY SOCIAL TERRITORY ENVIRONMENTAL ACTIONS SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE Social and environmental performance 66 ENTREPRENEURSHIP AND HOUSING FOCUS ON SUSTAINABILITY Gerdau believes that working in network is better and more effective than conducting individual initiatives. For Gerdau’s Social Responsibility area, 2019 was the year This is how Lab Habitação works, managed by Gerdau and which has to start materializing the strategy change decided at the a partnership with companies and end of 2018. NGOs (learn more on page 70). The company’s actions in this regard are third quarter of the year, Gerdau would begin under a broader umbrella of a sustainability to inform the market of initiatives and advancstrategy, also built in 2019, which encompasses in environmental, social and governance es social, environmental, and diversity issues. issues. ENTREPRENEURSHIP The strategy was summarized in a SustainAND RECYCLING ability Manifesto and an ESG (Environmental, In February 2020, the Board of Directors The company supports initiatives Social and Governance) scorecard that will be unanimously approved the company’s Sustainaimed at recycling materials while used to monitor and evaluate the fulfillment ability Policy, Materiality Matrix, and ESG Dashimproving the quality of life of the of the strategy and the attainment of its goals. board. population that works with recycling (learn more on page 71). This section addresses the social and environmental dimensions of the sustainability stratThe Materiality Matrix — formed egy; Gerdau’s commitment to diversity is by topics that reflect significant impacts, both covered in the Our relationships section. See environmental, and social and economic, on Gerdau’s Sustainability Manifesto at https:// the company’s activities, products, services, www.youtube.com/watch?v=NR4mIAiCi8E and business relationships — was built in ENTREPRENEURSHIP 2019 to substantiate this report and the comAND EDUCATION pany’s strategies and initiatives related to The topic of education has always AN ACTION PLAN sustainability topics (learn more about the Mabeen present in Gerdau’s social teriality Matrix and the GRI (Global Reporting projects and is currently responsible Approved by the Board of Directors in OcInitiative) criteria, which will be adopted as a for the great voluntary engagement tober 2019, an Action Plan for topics on susstandard as of 2019, in the About the report of the company’s employees tainability (or ESG) determined that, as of the section). (learn more on page 71). Main menu | Section menu Social and environmental performance 67 DIMENSION INDICATORS Greenhouse gases by volume of steel (tCO2/t steel) In the same vein, in 2019, we set out on our Water consumption (m3/t steel) ESG SCORECARD Environmental certification journey as Empresa B (Company B), l % reuse of co-products Based on the Materiality Matrix developed in a global recognition granted by the non-profit 2019 (learn more about this matrix in the About the report section), an ESG (Environmental, Social organization B Lab to companies that seek, l % of active volunteers and Governance) scorecard, l was created. The ESG through their activities, not only to achieve ecoscorecard is a monitoring tool that includes the Number of people benefited nomic and financial results, but also to generate Social l main sustainability indicators to be monitored by Gerdau’s management. This scorecard will also a positive impact on society. The company is on % of social investments made in relation to gross profit l be the basis for the company to define its susits way to obtaining the certification for its Bratainability goals in the future. % of women in leadership positions zilian operation by the end of 2021. l % of women in the company l Gerdau was also invited to join Movement The ESG Dashboard (scorecard) is a Builders, a group of multinational companies % of blacks in leadership positions monitoring tool in the environmental, social, People l that contribute to the growth of the Sistema B health and safety, diversity, and governance di% of PwDs in the company movement. l mensions. The Dashboard will be monitored by Health and safety index (severity rate) the Strategy and Sustainability Committee and l The Carbon Disclosure Project is an internathe Board of Directors in order to assess the ICVM 586 – Brazilian Corporate Governance Code tional NGO that encourages companies, cities company’s progress in meeting its sustainability l goals. and other organizations, public or corporate, to ISS – Institutional Shareholder Services report data on their environmental performance, l EVA – Economic Value Added (managerial information) At the February 2020 meeting, the Board of from which it conducts risk assessments and l Directors was also informed about the current analyzes opportunities and critical environmenDVA – Value added statement (R$ million) status of the Sustainability Action Plan (ESG), intal impacts that can be used by investors, coml Governance cluding updates on the disclosure of information panies, and public administrators in deciPersonnel related to climate change, Gerdau’s commitment sion-making. l Taxes, fees and contributions (R$) to adhere to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) l in 2020 and, adherence as a member of the SisteSee here the ESG Scorecard with the correRemuneration of third-party capital (R$) ma B Movement Builder. GRI 102-12 sponding dimensions and indicators. l Return on equity (R$) l l Main menu | Section menu l Social and environmental performance 68 MAP OF IMPACTS GRI 102-15 In 2019, Gerdau initiated a diagnostic of the systemic impacts of its corporate decisions. This work uses the Sistema B methodology and maps the interests of diverse audiences, taking into account workers, community, governance, environment, and customers. One of the most important challenges facing the company in this regard is the inclusion of social and environmental variables in the decision-making process. As an advance on this topic, Gerdau expresses its willingness to set goals and assess the performance of employees based on financial and non-financial variables. Gerdau, in partnership with TETO, supports the construction of emergency houses in needy communities Main menu | Section menu Social and environmental performance 69 SOCIAL TERRITORY GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Own topic: Stakeholder relations Gerdau, in partnership with the NGO Teto operates in the construction of emergency houses The Social Responsibility strategy that the company works to implement, through the Gerdau Institute, focuses on entrepreneurship, in three areas: Housing Sistema B, Capitalismo Consciente, a hub Education for Circular Economy, and Centro de IntraeRecycling mpreendedorismo. GRI 102-12 Gerdau believes that the entrepreneurial In 2019, a total of 64,500 people benspirit of the founders and their successors efited through a total social investment made the company what it is today. Entreof R$ 18.5 million in 400 social projects. preneurship thereby takes on the role of The number of volunteers working on inducing social transformation toward a these projects totaled 6,400. more just and sustainable society, and as a GER-2 Own topic: Stakeholder relations driver to empower people who build the future. GERDAU IN THE GLOBAL COMPACT In addition to the areas Gerdau selected COMMITMENTS for its social activities, the company is comIn August 2019, the company formalized mitted to sustainability initiatives in the Soits adherence to the United Nations (UN) cial Responsibility area and that involve exGlobal Compact, making a commitment to ternal partners such as: UN Global Compact, be a more sustainable company, adhering Main menu | Section menu Social and environmental performance 70 to the principles and the 17 Sustainable Dequality, fair prices, the possibility of financing velopment Goals (SDGs) of the Global ComTETO AND HABITAT PARA HUMANIDADE and adequate terms, improving the living pact (read more about the SDGs and Gerdau Other partnerships in the housing area are conditions of residents at an affordable cost. in the About the report section). with NGOs Teto and Habitat para Humani(www.instagram.com/arquitetosdavila/) dade, both of which support people in situations of social vulnerability. l Gerdau gives The Global Compact is the largest corpoits employees the opportunity to volunteer Se Vira, Mulher! — from São Paurate sustainability initiative in the world, with for these social entities. A total of 14 houses lo (SP). Thais Nobre and Edna Braga had the more than 13,000 members in approximatewere built and renovated in 2019, with the participation of 136 volunteers. idea of training socially vulnerable women to ly 80 local networks covering 160 countries. make minor repairs at home. The startup Brazil has the third largest network, with they founded offers mini-courses in renovaalmost 800 members. es, such as renovation, access to water tion and maintenance in carpentry, electrical and sanitation, training of professionals, installations, plumbing, gardening, painting ENTREPRENEURSHIP among other fronts take innovation to and wallpaper, wall and flooring, and meAND HOUSING civil construction. chanics, supported by partnerships with companies and organizations. (http://seviraGerdau believes that working in network In 2019, a total of 14 of these promising mulher.com) is better and more effective than conductand innovative businesses were chosen ing individual initiatives. This is how Lab from more than 490 businesses evaluated, Revolusolar — from Rio de Janeiro Lab Habitação Habitação works, an initiative managed by to complete an acceleration journey at Lab (RJ). Promotes sustainable development in GERDAU BUILDERS — Artemisia and Gerdau, in partnership with Habitação: Innovation and Housing. At the low-income communities through solar powACCELERATE TO TRANSFORM Instituto Vedacit, Tigre, and Votorantim Ciend of the journey, three projects stood out; er installations, professional training for inGerdau and Endeavor created Gerdau Builders, mentos and with the support of Caixa the startups responsible for these projects stallers, and educational activities. Eduardo an acceleration program l for startups in a scale-up Econômica Federal and Conselho de Arwere chosen to receive seed capital contriAvila and Juan Cuervo, the founders, want to stage, focused on civil construction and recycling. l Nine impact businesses in these two areas were quitetura e Urbanismo do Brasil. This allibution as support for the development of encourage good habits in terms of energy selected to undergo a journey involving mentoring, ance of leading names in civil construction the solutions offered. They are: consumption and support the local economy. workshops and contacts with Gerdau executives supports Artemisia — an organization (http://revolusolar.com.br) ­ and mentors from the Endeavor network. The purpose of the program is to help the selected aimed at fostering social impact businesses Arquitetos da Vila — from Belo Horstartups accelerate their growth and generate a — in its mission to find, map and accelerate izonte (MG). The social impact business was scalable and innovative impact on the construction entrepreneurs across Brazil who lead high created by Wanda Reis and Lucas Vasconceand recycling sectors. impact startups related to housing challenglos to renovate low-income communities with Main menu | Section menu Social and environmental performance 71 ENTREPRENEURSHIP ENTREPRENEURSHIP the job market. Students complement school AND RECYCLING AND EDUCATION education with practical training at Gerdau units in these countries. Gerdau’s social responsibility actions Prólata — Gerdau supports the Prólainclude the topic of Education, which has ta project of the Brazilian Steel Packaging been a focus of the great voluntary enGERDAU TRANSFORMA Association (ABEAÇO – Associação Brasileira gagement of company employees. They da Embalagem de Aço), created to provide donate hours of their time to participate It is a project conceived by Gerdau fotechnical and management support to recyin the education of young people, as incused on developing entrepreneurs who cling cooperatives in Brazil. In 2019, a total structors in the programs that Gerdau already own business or have ideas. The of 415 people benefited from the project. has in place in partnership with Junior target are informal or self-employed entrePimp Nossa Cooperativa — The goal Achievement. preneurs, who participate in a short 30-hour of the project, conducted in partnership with course with 10 learning modules. Each of the organization Pimp My Carroça (in loose The programs promote an entreprethe modules generates definitions and translation: Pimp My Cart), is to repurpose neurial vision and preparation for the job goals, and the end product of the course is the space of recycling cooperatives by transmarket for students at school age. In 2019, an action plan for opening the business. In forming their walls into artistic murals, a joint in addition to execution of the project by 2019, through its own and adaptable methorganization effort, painting of safety signage, the 74 company volunteers, Gerdau supodology, 12 classes were taught in the State and conversation rounds between the volunported the development of an app to digof Minas Gerais, focusing on low-income teers who participate in the activity and memitize the content of the program. The tool people to create or develop businesses. bers of the cooperative. In 2019, a total of 58 includes support material for mentors, a Results measured after the 3-month of Gerdau volunteers were involved in the joint game, the student’s journey, and classroom course indicated that 75% of the 227 people efforts, benefiting 57 waste pickers. The mismaterial. 509 students were benefited. trained are still in business, with an average sion of Pimp my Carroça is to remove pickers increase in income of 53%. of recyclable materials from social invisibility, In addition to initiatives in Brazil, Gerdau promote their self-esteem, and raise awaresupports technical schools in Argentina and Gerdau Transforma ness of society for this cause. Peru, aimed at preparing young people for Main menu | Section menu Social and environmental performance 72 Gerdau Volunteers — Pimp My Carroça AN ARMY OF VOLUNTEERS The performance of employees in social Reaffirming its commitment to the comprojects supported by Gerdau, transferring munities where it operates, Gerdau also knowledge and seeking intelligent solutions holds an annual meeting with social entito the problems of the communities where ties and other partners to present its social the company operates, is one of the ways strategy and guidelines for the work plan in which the company contributes to greatfor the following year. In this context, each er equality of opportunities and materializBusiness Operation assesses and defines es its purpose: to empower people who which projects and causes will be supportbuild the future. Volunteers make time and ed, in line with the social strategy develtalent available to help improve the quality oped by the company. of life of people and socially vulnerable groups. Gerdau ended 2019 with 6,400 volunteers among its employees. In the company’s operations in Brazil, nearly 23% of the professionals — almost one in four — do volunteer work. Main menu | Section menu Social and environmental performance 73 MM Gerdau — ­ Museum of Mines and Metal, Belo Horizonte (MG) MM GERDAU The Museum of Mines and Metal (MM Gerdau) hit the mark of one million visitors in 2019, a year in which it also had more visitors in its almost decade-long history. Opened in 2010, MM Gerdau is located in the historic Praça da Liberdade, in Belo Horizonte (MG). It is a science and technology museum sponsored by Gerdau, through the Federal Culture Incentive Act, with the support of the Brazilian Metallurgy and Mining Company (CBMM — Companhia Brasileira de Metalurgia e Mineração). The museum tells the story of mining and metallurgy in 44 permanent exhibitions. It also receives temporary exhibitions, scientific lectures and varied activities, with a special program for children and the elderly. 2  41,787 visitors at MM Gerdau in 2019 59.5% more than in 2018 Main menu | Section menu Social and environmental performance 74 Gerdau scrap yard ENVIRONMENTAL ACTIONS ENVIRONMENTAL ACTIONS It means fulfilling and complying with The use of ferrous scrap as GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 307: Environmental compliance environmental requirements that may be feedstock in semi-integrated either compulsory or voluntary, adapting mills has positive effects in Gerdau has a Sustainability Policy and business practices to meet the demands an Environmental Management System in of society. mitigating climate change: place that reaffirm the company’s comit saves natural resources, mitment to creating value for its stakereduces energy holders and is in line with regulatory MAXIMUM RECYCLING consumption and guidelines and global best practices, casGRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 301: Materials greenhouse gas emissions. cading the guidelines across the operaThe use of recyclable raw materials is Data from the World Steel tions, detailing responsibilities and probecoming increasingly important. At GerAssociation indicate that cedures to be followed. dau, thousands of tons of ferrous scrap are one ton of steel produced transformed into new products every day. The company manages its aspects, envifrom recycled ferrous scrap ronmental impacts, operating permits and Gerdau has partnerships with regional means reducing greenhouse authorizations in order to meet the specitraffic agencies to recycle abandoned or gas emissions by 1.5 ton. ficities of each operation and region where In 2019, Gerdau recycled more than 11 it operates, always taking precautions to discarded vehicles. The company has also been intensifying its strategy in the scrap million tons of scrap at its mills in Brazil cause minimal impact. This practice is deretail market, approaching small pickers fined as environmental compliance, a comand the Americas. In other words, 73% ponent of corporate governance that repin the locations where it operates to extend its network of suppliers of raw maof the steel produced by Gerdau uses resents the system of policies and actions terials. This movement makes sense not through which the company relates to its ferrous scrap as its main feedstock. internal audience (managers and employonly from a business standpoint, but also has an important social impact by guarees) and external audience (customers, anteeing regular income for pickers who shareholders, business partners, suppliers, are beginning the process of collecting and and government), and must be reliable and processing ferrous scrap, activities that transparent. generate hundreds of jobs. Main menu | Section menu Social and environmental performance 75 Consumption of materials from recycling (tons) GRI 301-2 WATER REUSE related to this topic are established in the GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 303: Water and effluents, 303-1, internal management of each unit. The Pig iron (internal and external) 303-2 diagnostics initiated in 2019, which will be Percentage of There was a 19% completed in 2020 at the units in Brazil, 4,320,298.68 2018 Conservation and maximum usage of recycled materials will help identify opportunities and estabused reduction in steel water are also important concerns for Gerlish goals for 2021. 3,995,328.55 2019 production in 2019 dau, since this is a vital input for the comAlloys compared to 2018, pany’s operations, which makes it even more Gerdau units are audited in terms of the fundamental to reduce usage and increase 232,194.94 2018 resulting in a reduction reuse of water throughout the value chain. company’s environmental management 192,497.89 2019 75% of 2 percentage points Water management is part of Gerdau’s stratsystems, compliance with legal requirein the volume of ments, and continuous improvement. A Reducing agents egy, and the company continually invests in diagnostic of the water resource manage184,640.75 2018 recycled materials used efficient water recirculation programs, conment systems of the units in Brazil was 2018 in all operations and a tributing to reducing withdrawal of new initiated in 2019, involving environmental 125,045.42 2019 19% reduction in specific water, the volume of effluents, and the enand utility teams. The purpose of this work vironmental impact of discharging these Scrap consumption of scrap. effluents by the operations. is to identify opportunities to reduce water 14,273,236.62 2018 consumption and improve the perfor73% mance of water and effluent treatments. 11,513,451.34 2019 As an important natural resource for our industrial operation and for society, water and Total raw material consumed in the period 2019 effluents are evaluated in the survey of aspects 19,010,371.00 2018 and impacts, in the practices of the environmental management system, and as a relevant 15,826,323.20 2019 factor in risk management scenarios. Total raw material from recycling (scrap) 14,273,236.62 2018 Gerdau’s sustainability policy states that the use of water in its process must be car11,513,451.34 2019 ried out by maximizing its reuse and discharging minimum volume of effluents. All Note: This indicator was calculated based on total consumption of the following raw macompany units comply with the legislation terials: pig iron, alloys, reducing agents, and scrap. Scope of the indicator: The operations in the Dominican Republic were not considered, and regulations in force for withdrawing since the operation does not produce steel, and in Venezuela, since we do not have consiswater and discharging effluents. The goals tent data for all indicators. Main menu | Section menu Social and environmental performance 76 Also in 2019, utility leaders and environGerdau monitors water use and has water reuse and recirculation systems in its mills. mental specialists in Brazil were trained in In this way: best water and effluent management prac97.6% of the water used in production is reused tices, with more than 800 hours invested in training. Data concerning investments 51.1 million m³ were withdrawn in 2019 in water resources were not collected for 3.2% increase in water withdrawal in operations during the year 2019. As an example of the success of Gerdau’s work at the Divinópolis unit, improvements were made to reuse part of the effluent from the blast furnaces in other stages of the process, increasing reuse of 2,784 m³ of water at the unit. The company has been making continuous efforts to quantify consumption, sources, and destination of water resources. Gerdau’s environmental management system provides for failure treatment in cases of non-compliance. In this process, which is managed by the leadership of the units, causes of problems are analyzed and plans for correction and improvement are defined. Gerdau units are audited in terms of the environmental management system, compliance with legal requirements, and continuous improvement. GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 303: Water and effluents, 303-1, Gerdau Germinar Biocenter — 303-2 Ouro Branco (MG) Main menu | Section menu Social and environmental performance 77 The substances that are considered a priority in monitoring and treating effluents differ between countries and operation process, in accordance with current legislation. In 2019, a total of 39 incidents of non-compliance with the discharge limit were recorded. These incidents are handled according to the environmental management failure treatment. Water consumption (megaliters) GRI 303-5 All areas Areas with water stress Total water withdrawn (303-3) Total water withdrawn (303-3) 49,533 2018 7,195 2018 51,112 2019 7,504 2019 Total water discharged (303-4) Total water discharged (303-4) 25,561 2018 338 2018 24,040 2019 406 2019 Total water consumed (303-5) Total water consumed (303-5) 23,972 2018 6,857 2018 27,072 2019 7,098 2019 Note 1: The scope of indicators 303 does not include operations in Venezuela. Note 2: The operations were classified in areas with water stress according to the Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas. — https://www.wri.org/resources/maps/aqueduct-water-risk-atlas Rivers and springs are preserved by the more than 91,000 hectares of native forest conservation maintained by Gerdau in Minas Gerais Main menu | Section menu Social and environmental performance 78 Road paved with Gerdau’s co-products REUSE OF WASTE saving energy, and reducing or eliminating GRI103-1, 103-2, 103-3 306: Waste the need to dispose of value-added maREUSE AND REUTILIZATION terials in landfills and even generating In 2019, with the support of techThe steel industry normally generates a revenue with certain uses/applications. nical experts from the operating significant amount of waste in its processes. Gerdau classifies waste as follows: areas and the engagement of All of this material secondary to steel proeveryone in the search l for more sustainable environmental soluduction must have a destination. This waste R  eclaiming, which includes tions, Gerdau’s mill in Ouro Brancan be transformed into new products that reusing, recycling, and co (MG) began to reuse limestone, should be used in other processes: paving recovery a waste from our calcining plant. This co-product comes from the material and inputs to produce ceramics Disposal, which includes calcining plant dedusting system. and cement, for example. These are reincineration, on-site storage, During the journey, samples and ferred to as co-products. and landfill feasibility tests were conducted, as well as studies on how to efThe organization is working to improve fectively load and mix it into the In 2019, Gerdau put together a Research sinter. its controls in order to have more details & Development area with a trained team on the disposal methods. In 2019, there After this study, it was possible to work on this line of technological advancto formulate an ideal waste mixwas an increase in waste generation, dees and development of new alternatives for ture to be reused in sintering for spite the decrease in production. However, production of sinter, with savings co-products. Based on the pillars of sustainreclaiming increased significantly, mainly of approximately R$ 3.6 million In 2019, Gerdau generated nearly ability and circular economy, this new area in special steels. Another reason for these in 2019 alone, considering that has the important challenge of analyzing the waste was not disposed of in 6.5 million tons of waste and reused differences was the shipment of items in landfills. the production chain in order to reduce 78% of these materials internally or generation of industrial waste, qualifying it stock and a great effort by the organization in external partnerships, which means as co-product to be recycled and reused to send its waste to be reclaimed. GRI 306-2 an opportunity of 22% yet to be internally in Gerdau’s processes and mills, achieved using new treatment and externally in third-party processes and transformation technologies. through innovative solutions, in addition to the traditional ones already adopted by the market. These developments generate not only environmental, but also financial benefits, increasing the use of the co-product generated, preserving natural resources, Main menu | Section menu Social and environmental performance 79 The main risk associated with generaCOMPLIANCE tion of waste in operations is the environOperations in Brazil, the Dominican mental impact of waste piles of these Republic, Venezuela, and Peru, had no materials. This risk is mitigated through significant cases of non-compliance with robust environmental controls, involving environmental laws and regulations. In the vegetation cover of the piles as they 2019, CONAGUA conducted an inspection are formed, construction of robust strucvisit to the Tultitlán unit to determine the tures for treatment of water effluents, and status of the wastewater discharge perthrough a modern monitoring system for mit. This did not result in a significant air emissions. GRI G4-MM3 fine; however, the case remains a priorTailings are disposed of in containment ity given the nature of its relevance to dams that have associated risks of rupture, guarantee the mill’s operation in terms mitigated by a strong monitoring system of water. GRI 307-1 with high level of automation, permanent At the UPRC Guadalajara Unit, a fire field team, and regular specialized external broke out on December 31, 2019, leading audits. Management of mining dams also to temporary shutdown. Based on a posrelies on a sophisticated emergency mansible impact on the environment, an enagement system. GRI G4-MM3 vironmental fine was imposed for violation of the municipality’s environmental law. In North American operations (GSN, GLN), all non-conformities are considered significant, and two fines were received in 2019. GRI 307-1 Gerdau employees in the United States Main menu | Section menu Social and environmental performance 80 Gerdau Araçariguama (SP) ENERGY GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3: 302 Energy Gerdau’s energy efficiency management is based on an ongoing search to improve energy use and raise awareness of industrial users. This management is based on the reliability of energy consumption data, mapping consumer areas and opportunities in projects and initiatives in this regard. The company believes that energy management is one of the important pillars for the continuous economic and sustainable growth of the business. A good example of this management was the Cosigua unit project, where the Aliança Program was implemented in partnership with CNI. Several initiatives have been studied and modeled mathematically in order to identify possible gains in reducing energy consumption. A detailed inspection at the unit identified, for example, points of leakage of compressed air, and the correction of 61% of these items generated annual savings of R$ 1 million. Main menu | Section menu Social and environmental performance 81 The Ouro Branco unit has an area dedTotal energy consumption in 2019 (GJ) GRI 302-1 icated to energy management, and one of its objectives is to maximize the use of Total fuel consumption from renewable sources energy from the fuels generated in the 16,459,411.140 process. The unit’s team uses energy manTotal fuel consumption from non-renewable sources agement software to control and monitor consumption online. It is also possible to 103,617,713.960 predict energy consumption according to Electricity consumption the planned production, thanks to the 31,124,473.812 mathematical modeling software. All areas have energy efficiency indicators controlled Energia elétrica vendida and monitored by the production teams. 0 Since energy efficiency management is an ongoing improvement effort, goals and Total energy consumption within the organization projects are established annually. The 2019 151,201,598.912 project at the Ouro Branco unit generated gains of approximately R$ 25 million, in addition to more effective energy use and a consequent reduction in greenhouse Note: Fuels consumed: renewable: charcoal and electricity. Non-renewable: natural gas, gas resulting from the production process (blast furnace gas, gases. steelmaking gas, coke oven gas), diesel, LPG, petroleum coke, coke resulting GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3: 302 Energy from the production process (coke analog, metallurgical coke), mineral coal, pig iron, anthracite, dolomite, residual fuel oil. Both energy consumption and electricity consumption were in line with consumption of companies in the same sector. Ouro Branco Mill (MG) Main menu | Section menu Social and environmental performance 82 THE ENVIRONMENT AS A STRATEGY In 2019, Gerdau made important advancawareness on environmental issues, peres toward maturing the strategic manageceived both inside and outside the company, ment of environmental issues, incorporating based on the growing demands of customthem into the company’s planning tools and ers, investors, and society for information systemically addressing this topic. and response to these issues. Environmental issues were relevant in In general, it can be said that environredefining the company’s long-term strategy mental management became stronger in and in the new corporate risk management 2019, being assessed based on the risks and structure, in which mitigation of risk factors opportunities for the company. The environrelated to the environment was prioritized mental topic starts to be treated beyond for the allocation of resources and time from those specific issues limited to each producthe company’s entire governance and mantion unit, but also as a strategic issue in agement structure. decision making by senior management. Gerdau’s search for a new standard in environmental issues led to the decision to incorporate indicators and goals into the operating parameters through an ESG scorecard. The indicators will be monitored by the Board of Directors and by the Strategy and Sustainability, Risk and Disclosure Committees with previously defined frequency. This puts Gerdau at the forefront of the Renewable eucalyptus increasingly strong movement to raise forests in Minas Gerais Main menu | Section menu Social and environmental performance 83 CIRCULAR ECONOMY STEEL LIFE CYCLE IRON ORE AND CIRCULAR ECONOMY Gerdau has adopted the principles of AT GERDAU SCRAP circular economy as part of its sustainabilENERGY ity strategy. In this way, the company works CHARCOAL to optimize the use of natural resources, encourages the use of recyclable raw materials — in particular ferrous scrap — and Steel is 100% recyclable, in an RAW reuses waste in the form of co-products. endless cycle, without MATERIALS losing any of its The strengthening of the circular economy properties. That is why it is reused as STEEL will improve the way of viewing the relationfeedstock to produce new steel products. PRODUCTION ships between markets, customers, and Generation of natural resources. hundreds of jobs in scrap collection. DISPOSAL AND REUSE RECYCLING AND REDUCING RAW MATERIAL IN-HOUSE RAW MATERIALS CONSUMPTION 97,6 Gerdau, Sumitomo and JSW, members of REMANUFACTURING OF THE WATER the Joint Venture Gerdau Summit at the ENERGY USED IN PRODUCTION Pindamonhangaba mill, began to develop 78% EFFICIENCY IS RECIRCULATED the Green Rolls project, l an initiative to REUSE OF CO-PRODUCTS 11,5 track rolling mill rolls throughout their RENEWABLE MILLION TONS useful life, bringing them back and recySOURCES OF SCRAP RECYCLED 73% OF ENERGY BY GERDAU WORLDWIDE cling them as scrap, in the form of feed(bio-reducing agent, biocoke OF THE STEEL stock. This initiative is also intended to and wind power) IS PRODUCED FROM redesign the product, with lessons learned SCRAP AT THE from the recycling process. GERDAU MILLS Main menu | Section menu Social and environmental performance 84 AIR EMISSIONS Other air emissions (ton) GRI 305-7 BIO-REDUCING AGENT TRANSPARENCY GRI 305-7 Particulate matter The charcoal used in some of the units in IN CARBON EMISSIONS GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 305: Emissions Other systems to improve the environmental Brazil to produce steel in integrated mills (from iron ore and blast furnace) is an environmental In 2019, Gerdau announced that it will disclose conditions of the mills and their surroundings advantage for the Brazilian steel industry. The its carbon emissions and other ESG (environmental, include dedusting equipment for air emissions. bio-reducing agent, as charcoal is called, minisocial and governance) indicators. Carbon emissions With the routine monitoring of these systems, it mizes the environmental impact compared with are a key topic in debating climate change and a is possible to evaluate the efficiency of their op4,848 3,586 mineral coal, of fossil origin, used in most intesensitive issue for the steel industry, given the level eration, managing possible impacts on the surgrated steel mills. of emissions from its plants compared with the inroundings where they are installed. Much of the dustrial sector as a whole. 2018 2019 reduction in particulate matter is due to investComing from planted forests in the State of With a focus on energy efficiency, in 2019 Gerdau ments and improvements in operation and mainMinas Gerais, charcoal is a source of renewable participated in an initiative by the Worldsteel Assotenance of dedusting systems. energy in the steel production process in Brazil ciation — a global entity in the steel sector, to assess (read more about Gerdau’s planted forests in the Our the energy efficiency of one of its mills and identify ENERGY Reuse of blast Reduction in energy consumption business section). opportunities for energy gains. The worldsteel inifurnace gas and co2 emissions Efficiency tiative covers the entire world, and the Gerdau plant evaluated was Cosigua, in Rio de Janeiro. The evaluators found opportunities for improvement, but, in general, it was concluded that the unit has a good energy performance. Planned forests Gerdau’s greenhouse gas emissions totaled 11,947,505 tons of CO2e in 2019. Emissions from electricity consumed (scope 2) accounted for COMBATING CLIMATE CHANGE 24% of the total, and carbon intensity was 0.96 Gerdau participates annually in the Emissions ton of CO2e per ton of steel produced. This total Trading System Simulation of Fundação Getúlio is lower than the global average disclosed by Vargas (FGV). Through this initiative, FGV and a Wind power Mitigation of the consequences group of Brazilian companies l seek to understand the World Steel Association, at 1.85 tons of CO2e of climate change how the carbon pricing instruments that have per ton of steel produced. been debated internationally as alternatives to Note: Scope of the indicator: ‘GAB: Açonorte, Araçariguama, Barão de Cocais, Cearense, Cosigua, Divinópolis, Ouro Branco, Riograndense. GSB: Pindamonhangaba, Mogi das Cruzes, Charqueadas. GLN (NorAm): Charlotte, Manitoba, Whitby. GSN (NorArm): Cambridge, Caterville, Charlotte, Jacksoon pursue the goals of reducing greenhouse gas emissions would work. Part of this result is due to the different production (M), Manitoba, Midlothian, Petersburg, St Paul, Whitby, Wilton, Fort Smith, Monroe, Jackson (T). GLM: La Presa, Tultitlan, Sahagun. GLA: Perez, Ludeña. GLO: Tuta, Muña, Tocancipá. GLP: Siderperu. GLY: Laisa. Venezuela and the Dominican Republic will not be considered for this indicator. methods operated by the company. Main menu | Section menu Social and environmental performance 85 The use of bio-reducing agents as the main input in the The integrated process that uses mineral coal is the largest integrated steelmaking units in Barão de Cocais, Divinópocontributor of greenhouse gas emissions among Gerdau’s lis, and Sete Lagoas benefits the environment and helps production methods. The integrate mill using this process to the company collaborate in reducing the emission of gases produce steel — from iron ore — reuses approximately 92% that cause climate change, since bio-reducing agents are a of the gases generated in the production process to generate renewable source of carbon. its own energy. Gerdau makes a significant contribution to mitigating the consequences of climate change by using scrap Planted forests for energy reduce the pressure of deformetal as feedstock. Approximately 73% of its production is estation of native forests, contributing to the proper use of from scrap, which reduces demand for natural resources, redegraded land and observing the most modern concepts of sulting in lower energy consumption and reduction in greenminimum soil cultivation. Combined with best practices in rehouse gas emissions. source conservation, they guarantee sustainable production and provide yet another significant service: carbon capture Gerdau’s carbon intensity below that of the global steel inand storage. The scale of capture generated by increased stordustry average can be explained by its use of carbon from age in forests and the ability to maintain storage for long perenewable forest sources, its use of scrap, and its reuse of riods of time means that planted forests for energy contribute gases, thereby reinforcing the company’s commitment to mito combating climate change, especially over a few decades tigating the impact of climate change. We ended 2019 at 0.96 (learn more about Gerdau Florestal in the Our business section). tCO2e/t of steel produced. GRI 305-4 GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 305: Emissions Scope 1 GRI 305-1 Scope 2 GRI 305-2 Note: Gases included in the calculation: CO2, CH4, N2O, SF6, PFC and HFC. Source Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, of emission factors: IPCC, GHG Protocol, in tons of CO2eq in tons of CO2eq WSA (World Steel Association). Scope of the indicator: ‘GAB: Açonorte, AraçariguaTotal scope 1 Total scope 2 ma, Barão de Cocais, Cearense, Cosigua, Divinópolis, Ouro Branco, Riograndense. 9,056,.519 2019 2,890,986 2019 GSB: Pindamonhangaba, Mogi das Cruzes, Charqueadas. GLN (NorAm): Charlotte, Biogenic CO2 emissions Manitoba, Whitby. GSN (NorArm): Cambridge, Caterville, Charlotte, Jacksoon (M), 1,891,561 2019 Manitoba, Midlothian, Petersburg, St Paul, Whitby, Wilton, Fort Smith, Monroe, Jackson (T). GLM: La Presa, Tultitlan, Sahagun. GLA: Perez, Ludeña. GLO: Tuta, Muña, Worldsteel Event 2019 Tocancipá. GLP: Siderperu. GLY: Laisa. Main menu | Section menu City of São Paulo (SP) ECONOMIC-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE ECONOMIC-FINANCIAL RESULTS RISK MANAGEMENT Economic-financial performance 87 ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL RESULTS GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 201: Economic performance Gerdau’s performance in 2019 shows that the company continued to strengthen its balance sheet in order to resume growth. Three points can be highlighted:  hysical sales of steel in the domestic market P Gerdau ended 2019 with R$ 39.6 billion in net in Brazil totaled 4 million tons in 2019, which revenue, 14.1% less than in the previous year. shows a sign of recovery in the civil construcThe drop in international prices per ton of steel tion segment in the country. had a negative impact on net revenue per ton  he net debt-to-EBITDA ratio reached the T sold and was an important factor in this result. lowest value since 2011, reducing from 1.71x to 1.67x comparing the end of 2018 with the end of 2019.  ree cash flow reached R$ 4.4 billion in 2019, F Net Revenue Adjusted consolidated net income SG&A compared with R$ 2.6 billion in 2018. R$ 46.2 R$ 2.5 billion billion NET REVENUE 2018 2018 3.6% Crude steel production in the fourth quarter 2019 2019 of 2019 increased compared to the third quarter R$ 39.6 R$ 1.3 billion due to resumed operations in Blast Furnace 1 in billion Ouro Branco (MG), despite of the scheduled downtime in the electric melt shops (mini-mills) Adjusted EBITDA Free cash flow in Brazil. of net revenue, R$ 6.7 R$ 2.6 same as in the billion billion previous year 2018 2018 Physical sales of steel for the year, of 12.1 million tons, fell 17% compared with 2018. Total production of crude steel in 2019 was 12.5 million 2019 2019 tons, down 18.8% over the previous year. R$ 5.7 R$ 4.4 billion billion Main menu | Section menu Economic-financial performance 88 EBITDA INVESTMENTS agreement with Hierros Añón, S.A. and Gallega de Mallas, S.L. for the acquisition of 96.35% of Adjusted EBITDA (earnings before interest, CAPEX investments totaled R$ 1.7 billion in the shares issued by Siderúrgica Latino-Ameritaxes, depreciation and amortization) for 2019 2019, of which: cana S.A. (SILAT), located in Caucaia, in the metwas R$ 5.71 billion, down 14.2% over the  $ 797 million for general maintenance R ropolitan region of Fortaleza, State of Ceará, for previous year (less non-recurring effects).  $ 424 million for maintenance of the R US$ 110.8 million, subject to customary adjustOuro Branco (MG) mill ments in the acquisition price . ADJUSTED NET INCOME  $ 525 million for technological R expansion and updating. Completion of the transaction is subject to the Adjusted net income was R$ 1.3 billion, approval from the Administrative Council for down 48.3% over 2018. Of the total amount invested in the year, 49% Economic Defense (CADE), as well as the assesswent to the Brasil BD, 24% to Special Steels BD, ment of other usual suspensive conditions. SILAT SALES, GENERAL, AND 23% to North America BD, and 4% to South Amerhas an annual rolling mill installed capacity of ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES (SG&A) ica BD. 600,000 tons. This acquisition is part of Gerdau’s strategy to better serve its customers in the BraSales, general, and administrative expenses The company’s investment plan for 2020 is R$ zilian market. (SG&A) remained stable in 2019 at 3.6% of net 1.6 billion, which are part of the R$ 6 billion CAPEX revenue, the same as in the previous year and program for the 3-year period (2019-2021). INDEBTEDNESS the best historical result for the company. Investments in expansion and technological At the end of 2019, the net debt-to-EBITDA Employees at the updating will be made as the expectations of ratio reached the lowest value since 2011, reGerdau office in the DIVIDENDS market evolution and generation of free cash flow ducing from 1.71x to 1.67x compared with the United States In aggregate for 2019, a total of R$ 356 for the period are confirmed. end of 2018. On December 31, 2019, 9.7% of million was allocated to shareholders of Gergross debt was short-term and 90.3% long-term. dau S.A. (R$ 0.21 per share) and R$ 126 milGerdau S.A. informed its shareholders and the Broken down by currency, 18.4% was denomilion to shareholders of Metalúrgica Gerdau market that, on November 26, 2019, its subsidiary, nated in Brazilian real (BRL), 81.2% in U.S. dollars S.A. (R$ 0.12 per share). Gerdau Aços Longos S.A., entered into a definitive (USD), and 0.4% in other currencies. Main menu | Section menu Economic-financial performance 89 The main debt indicators showed the folCASH FLOW AND LIQUIDITY In October 2019, Gerdau renewed its Globlowing evolution: al Line of Credit in the amount of US$ 800 Generation of free cash flow of R$ 4.4 billion million. The operation, intended to provide The reduction in the level of the net increased significantly in 2019, compared with liquidity to subsidiaries in Brazil, the United debt/EBITDA indicator from 1.96x on 2018, due to the strong release of working capStates, and Latin America, will expire in OcSeptember 30, 2019 to 1.67x on Decemital in the period. This stems mainly from the tober 2024 and can be accessed at any time ber 31, 2019, was mainly a consequence reduction in inventory levels of raw materials by the borrowing units. On December 31, of the generation of free cash flow in and finished products given the downtime of 2019, the volume withdrawn under this line the period. the electric melt shops (mini-mills) in December. of credit was US$ 60 million. The nominal weighted average cost of gross debt, on December 31, 2019, was Gerdau office in Tampa, 5.5%, of which 4.7% was denominated in Florida (USA) Brazilian real (BRL), 5.6% plus foreign exchange variation for the total denominated in U.S. dollars (USD) contracted in Brazil and 6.1% for the total contracted by subsidiaries abroad. On December 31, 2019, the average payment term for gross debt was 7.4 years, with a very balanced and well-distributed schedule over the next few years. Main menu | Section menu Economic-financial performance 90 Gerdau employees at the Midlothian Mill, Texas (USA) RISK MANAGEMENT GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 201: Economic performance, 201-2 Risk assessment is established by Risk age, organizational climate, commercial, Owners and the Risk Management area, and regulatory. considering reliable sources of internal and external information, the Risk Matrix, The risk management structure is deand the result of action plans and residcentralized. It leverages and maximizes ual risks, and there may be new emerging the technical knowledge and professional risks or even dismissed risks (which are profile of each of the Business Divisions no longer likely to occur). (Brazil BD, North America BD, South America BD, and Special Steels BD). These diGerdau, through its existing processes visions have defined controls in place to and instruments, acts on business, commitigate the risks identified and regular pliance, and operational risks. Business meetings to report the results. risks are those associated with the company’s strategy, the political and social Gerdau establishes three lines of deenvironment, the market, competitors, fense to act on relevant risks. mergers and acquisitions, and availability of raw materials. The first line concerns internal controls defined for critical activities, Compliance risks are related to comprocedures and guidelines, with clear pliance with the rules to which the comassignment of responsibilities, autopany and its employees are subject. mated and manual controls, among Operational risks relate to internal proothers. cesses, people, and technology. Some The second line includes manageexamples of risk factors are occupationment activities, such as monitoring, al safety, environmental, financial, tax, evaluation, improvement of processes, labor, operational, strategic, social, imand accountability. Main menu | Section menu Economic-financial performance 91 In addition to process managers Taking into account the risks related to monitoring their risks, the Internal Conclimate change and specific units that are trols and Compliance areas support the highly relevant to the organization, as well business in improving the control envias all business units of the group, the fironment. nancial impact of a reduction of US$ 200 million — R$ 850 million — EBITDA in the The Compliance Area is indepenyear was defined as being of significant dent, reporting directly to the Board of magnitude. This definition considers that Directors. this amount associated with risk would have an impact on cash availability for The Internal Controls area permalong-term investments. The company has nently assesses the control environbeen working to structure a Climate Manment for SOX Certification. agement strategy to, among other actions, establish and disclose a goal to reduce The third line of defense includes emissions in 2021. the activities of the Internal Audit, which conducts an independent assessment of the processes, regularly acting with the support of risk assessment, frequently reporting to the Audit ComDetails of risk management and the main factors to which the organization mittee and the Board of Directors. is exposed are communicated to the market, regulatory agencies (CVM and SEC) and stock exchanges (B3, NYSE, and Latibex) via the website https://ri.gerdau. com/pt through 20-F and Reference Form. Employee at the Charqueadas Mill (RS) Main menu | Section menu Gerdau Office Sao Paulo (SP) GRI ATTACHMENTS GRI attachments 93 GRI 102-46, 102-47 Material Definition of the material topic Related GRI topics GRI disclosure number and title topic Diversity and Promotion of diversity, gender equality and inclusion 103: Management approach: 405-1: Diversity of governance bodies and employees inclusion of minorities at different levels of the company 405: Diversity and equal opportunity Management Management of waste and hazardous materials, 103: Management approach 306-2: Waste by type and disposal method of co-products with a focus on reducing the impact of this waste 306: Waste MM3 | Total amounts of waste, tailings, and sludge and their associated risks Recycling Relates to the concept of circular economy, 103: Management approach 301-2: Recycled input materials used of scrap addressing the restructuring of the production 301: Materials model, seeking to reintegrate materials that would be discarded by other industries Water and Risks related to water scarcity and water and 103: Management approach 303-1: Interactions with water as a shared resource effluents effluent management, with a focus on reducing 303: Water and effluents 303-2: Management of water discharge-related impacts management consumption and on proper disposal, with a view 303-3: Water withdrawal to maintaining the balance of ecosystems 303-4: Water discharge 303-5: Water consumption Energy Actions to increase process efficiency and 103: Management approach 302-1: Energy consumption within the organization management prioritize alternative energy sources 302: Energy 302-3: Energy intensity Mitigation and Actions to mitigate greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions in 103: Management approach 201-2: F  inancial implications and other risks and adaptation to the operation and supply chain, in addition to planning 201: Economic performance opportunities due to climate change climate change for operation resilience and providing carbon-effective solutions to society in the face of climate change 103: Management approach 305-1: Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 305: Emissions 305-2: Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 305-4: GHG emissions intensity Innovation in Digital transformation, with a focus on innovation 103: Management approach Own indicators processes and in processes and products (automation, use of Own topic: Innovation in products alternative materials, innovative products/solutions, processes and products etc.). Establishing partnerships for innovation and internal guidelines for the culture of innovation Main menu | Section menu GRI attachments 94 GRI 102-46, 102-47 Material topic Definition of the material topic Related GRI topics GRI disclosure number and title Occupational health and Health and safety management, focusing 103: Management approach 403-1: Occupational health and safety management system safety on establishing a culture of safety, 403: Occupational 403-2: Hazard identification, risk assessment and incident investigation investments in infrastructure and personal health and safety 403-3: Occupational health services protective equipment, awareness of 403-4: Worker participation, consultation, and communication risky activities and behaviors, care in the on occupational health and safety use of materials harmful to health 403-5: Worker training on occupational health and safety 403-6: Promotion of worker health 403-7: P  revention and mitigation of occupational health and safety impacts directly linked by business relationships 403 -8: Workers covered by an occupational health and safety management system 403-9: Work-related injuries Ethics and corporate Adequacy of the organizational structure 102: General disclosures governance and adoption of governance practices aimed at the soundness of the company, legal compliance, and alignment with values 103: Management approach such as ethics, transparency and integrity 205: Anti-corruption 103: Management approach 419-1: Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area 307: Environmental compliance 103: Management approach 419: Socioeconomic compliance Stakeholder relations Accessibility of the company in the 103: Management approach Own indicators relationship and effective engagement with Own topic: stakeholders (for example, employees, Stakeholder relations investors, society, government, indigenous peoples, NGOs, etc.), transparency, communication, respect for local values, etc. Non-material topic GRI topic 305: Emissions 305-7: Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and other significant air emissions – Mitigation of local social (not material) and environmental impacts Main menu | Section menu GRI attachments 95 GRI 102-46, 102-47 BELOW, WE DETAIL THE ORIGIN OF IMPACTS RELATED TO MATERIAL TOPICS IN THE LINKS OF GERDAU’S VALUE CHAIN: Topics Suppliers Gerdau Customers End production consumers units/office Diversity and inclusion Co-product management Scrap recycling Water and effluents management Energy management Mitigation and adaptation to climate change Innovation in processes and products Occupational health and safety IMPACTS GENERATED BY THE COMPANY Ethics and corporate governance IMPACTS GENERATED OUTSIDE THE COMPANY Stakeholder relations IMPACTS CONCERNING THE MATERIAL TOPIC DO NOT HAVE ORIGIN IN THIS LINK Main menu | Section menu GRI attachments 96 GRI 102-18, 102-22 CHART GUSTAVO WERNECK CEO Aldo Fernando Chia Jefferson Fladimir Marcos Rodrigo Harley Carlos Fabio Hermenio Caroline Gustavo Tapia Pessanha Wang Marko Gauto Faraco Belloc Scardoelli Baginski Spina Gonçalves Carpenedo França Leader of Operations Leader of Operations Leader of North Leader of Operations Leader of Brazil Leader of Brazil, Leader of North Chief Financial Leader of Internal Leader of Legal Industrial and Leader of the People Digital and in Peru in Mexico America Long Steels in Colombia and the Special Steels Argentina and Uruguay America Special Officer (CFO) Audit Department Engineering Leader Department IT Leader Operations Dominican Republic Operations Long and Flat Steels Steels Operation Operations Main menu | Section menu GRI attachments 97 GRI 102-22 COMPOSITION OF THE HIGHEST GOVERNANCE BODY AND ITS COMMITTEES Composition of this body/ Corporate Governance Strategy and Sustainability Remuneration Board of Directors Finance Committee committee, according to: Committee Committee Committee Executive or The CEO is also a The CEO is also a member The CEO and CFO/DRI are also The CEO, CFO/DRI, the The CEO is also a member non-executive position member of the Board of the committee members of the committee Legal Director and the Tax of the committee Management Director are also members of the committee Independence 4 independent members 4 independent members Does not have independent 2 independent members 2 independent members members Term of members in the 1 year 1 year 1 year 1 year 1 year governance body Gender 1 woman 1 woman No women No women No women Participation of Gender Gender None None None underrepresented social groups Representation of stakeholders Board members regularly Committee members Committee members regularly Committee members Committee members receive reports on areas regularly receive reports on receive reports on areas such regularly receive reports on regularly receive reports on such as health and safety, areas such as health and as health and safety, people, areas such as health and areas such as health and people, commercial, safety, people, commercial, commercial, financial and investor safety, people, commercial, safety, people, commercial, financial and investor financial and investor relations, communication, financial and investor financial and investor relations, communication, relations, communication, legal, environmental, and relations, communication, relations, communication, legal, environmental, and legal, environmental, and social responsibility legal, environmental, and legal, environmental, and social responsibility social responsibility social responsibility social responsibility Main menu | Section menu GRI attachments 98 GRI 102-8 Total number of employees by 2018 2019 employment type and gender — Brazilian operations(1)(2) Men Women Total Men Women Total Company employees full-time 15,053 1,952 17,005 15,063 2,213 17,276 Company employees part-time (up to 25 0 0 0 0 0 0 hours per week) Total 15,053 1,952 17,005 15,063 2,213 17,276 GRI 102-8 Total number of employees by 2018 2019 employment contract and gender — Brazilian operations(1)(2) Men Women Total Men Women Total Company employees with permanent 14,167 1,365 15,532 14,166 1,532 15,698 contract Company employees with fixed or 886 587 1,473 897 681 1,578 temporary contract Total 15,053 1,952 17,005 15,063 2,213 17,276 Note 1: Considers operations in Brazil. Information from other operations will be incorporated into the next reporting cycle. Note 2: Considers the following: Total number of company employees (at the end of the reporting period): considered headcount of Dec./18 x Dec./19 including apprentices and interns. Does not consider employees on leave. Total number of number of workers who are not employees: considers headcount of Third-Party Productivity of Dec./18 x Dec/19. Some contractors were not considered, since we do not report contractors in administrative (e.g., restaurant, maintenance and cleaning, etc.) or investment positions. Company employees with a permanent contract: considered operational, administrative and leadership. Company employees with fixed or temporary contracts: considered apprentices and interns. Company employees on a part-time basis (up to 25 hours per week): we do not have this model. Main menu | Section menu GRI attachments 99 GRI 405-1 2018 2019 Diversity – Other PwD Black PwD Black minority groups Total Total number number Number % Number % Number % Number % Employees Apprentices 723 57 8 212 29 811 101 12 270 33 Operation 18,373 271 1 4,297 23 18,283 281 2 5,044 27.6 Interns 905 0 0 199 22 942 0 0 250 26.5 Administrative 3,527 85 2 566 16 3,755 80 2 750 20.0 Specialists/coordinators 2,603 14 1 188 7 2,805 14 0 282 10.1 Management 838 2 0 55 7 837 6 1 66 7.9 Executive Board 32 0 0 0 0 33 0 0 0 0 Members of Governance Bodies Audit Committee 3 0 0 0 0 3 0 0 0 0 Board of Directors 7 0 0 0 0 9 0 0 0 0 Grand total 27,011 429 2 5,958 32 27,478 482 2 6,662 24.3 Note: In the GLN and GSN units employees with disabilities are not accounted for. GLA, GLP, GJD (Dominican Republic and Colombia) and GLY black employees are not accounted for. The units included in this analysis are: GAB, GSB and Corp (in Brazil), GLN, GSN, GLM, GLA, GLO, GLP, GJD, and GLY. Main menu | Section menu GRI attachments 100 GRI 403-9 ACCIDENTS WITH WORKERS WHO ARE NOT EMPLOYEES, BUT WHOSE WORK AND/OR WORKPLACE IS CONTROLLED BY THE ORGANIZATION 2018 2019 Work-related accidents TOTAL TOTAL Number of fatalities as a result of work-related injury 6 1 Rate of fatalities as a result of work-related injury 0.18 0.03 Number of high-consequence work15 10 related injuries (excluding fatalities) Rate of high-consequence work-related 0.44 0.30 injuries (excluding fatalities) Number of work-related injuries (including fatalities) 168 180 Rate of work-related injuries (including fatalities) 4.92 5.33 Accident severity rate 36.7 228.3 Number of hours worked 34,168,215 33,745,526 Note: the main types of related injuries are: cuts, contusions, burns. Rates were calculated based on 1,000,000 hours worked. The measures above are for all employees and contractors, as well as truck drivers and visitors to our facilities. All Gerdau units are included in the scope of this indicator Main menu | Section menu GRI attachments 101 GRI 303-3 2018 2019 Areas with water Areas with water Water withdrawal (megaliters) All areas stress All areas stress TOTAL GERDAU TOTAL GERDAU Total 37,948.69637 2,230.176 39,080.17413 2,573.543 Surface water, including rivers Freshwater (≤1,000 mg/L total dissolved solids) 37,773.53 2,105.02 38,799.59 2,351.74 and lakes Other water (> 1,000 mg/L total dissolved solids) 175.17 125.16 280.58 221.80 Total 7,488.958206 4,192.5164 8,128.567537 4,208.0437 Groundwater Fresh water (≤1,000 mg/L total dissolved solids) 6,935.02 4,031.20 7,634.03 4,088,61 Other water (> 1,000 mg/L total dissolved solids) 553.94 161.32 494.54 119.43 Total 0 0 0 0 Seawater Fresh water (≤1,000 mg/L total dissolved solids) 0 0 0 0 Other water (> 1,000 mg/L total dissolved solids) 0 0 0 0 Total 542.0648944 257.11 551.8402278 246.61 Rainwater (harvested and stored directly Fresh water (≤1,000 mg/L total dissolved solids) 269.79 121.11 294.56 125.61 by the organization) Other water (> 1,000 mg/L total dissolved solids) 272.28 136.00 257.28 121.00 Total 0 0 0 0 Produced water Fresh water (≤1,000 mg/L total dissolved solids) 0 0 0 0 Other water (> 1,000 mg/L total dissolved solids) 0 0 0 0 Total 3,553.446688 515.50924 3,351.152684 475.780107 Water utilities Fresh water (≤1,000 mg/L total dissolved solids) 3,140.31 302.20 3,049.57 311.78 Other water (> 1,000 mg/L total dissolved solids) 413.13 213.31 301.59 164.00 Total 49,533.17 7,195.31 51,111.73 7,503.98 Total water Fresh water (≤1,000 mg/L total dissolved solids) 48,118.65 6,559.53 49,777.75 6,877.74 withdrawal Other water (> 1,000 mg/L total dissolved solids) 1,414.52 635.78 1,333.99 626.24 Note 1: The organization does not withdraw seawater. Note 2: The operations were classified in areas with water stress according to the Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas. — https://www.wri.org/resources/maps/aqueduct-water-risk-atlas Main menu | Section menu GRI attachments 102 GRI 303-4 2018 2019 Areas with water Areas with water Total water discharge (megaliters) All areas stress All areas stress TOTAL GERDAU TOTAL GERDAU Total 24,701.91905 204.8641 23,194.78823 259.5485 Surface water, including Fresh water (≤1,000 mg/L total dissolved solids) 24,571.43 184.39 23,079.64 258.29 rivers and lakes Other water (> 1,000 mg/L total dissolved solids) 130.49 20.47 115.15 1.26 Total 27.407 0 43.76779889 0 Groundwater Fresh water (≤1,000 mg/L total dissolved solids) 27.41 0 43.77 0 Other water (> 1,000 mg/L total dissolved solids) 0 0 0 0 Total 75.552 0 75.552 0 Seawater Fresh water (≤1,000 mg/L total dissolved solids) 75.55 0 75.55 0 Other water (> 1,000 mg/L total dissolved solids) 0 0 0 0 Total 756.1687112 132.95 725.5843876 146.15 Water sent to other companies (thirdFresh water (≤1,000 mg/L total dissolved solids) 362.58 8.90 371.06 8.90 party water) Other water (> 1,000 mg/L total dissolved solids) 393.59 124.05 354.52 137.25 Total 25,561.04676 337.8141 24,039.69241 405.6985 Total water discharge Fresh water (≤1,000 mg/L total dissolved solids) 25,036.98 193.2931 23,570.01953 267.1885 Other water (> 1,000 mg/L total dissolved solids) 524.0712149 144.521 469.6728876 138.51 Note: The operations were classified in areas with water stress according to the Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas. — https://www.wri.org/resources/maps/aqueduct-water-risk-atlas Main menu | Section menu GRI attachments 103 GRI 306-2 Non-hazardous waste 2018 2019 by destination method (tons) Reuse 4,280,354 4,546,707 Disposal 1,472,468 1,442,977 Total non-hazardous waste 5,752,823 5,989,684 Note1: No waste was sent for underground injection or composting. Note 2: Scope of the indicator: Venezuela and Dominican Republic units are not included in this indicator. GRI 306-2 Hazardous waste 2018 2019 by destination method (tons) Reuse 310,829 401,036 Disposal 53,549 115,567 Total hazardous waste 364,378 516,603 Note 1: No waste was sent for underground injection or composting. Note 2: Scope of the indicator: Venezuela and Dominican Republic units are not included in this indicator. Main menu | Section menu GRI attachments 104 GRI 307-1 GRI 302-3 GLM GSN and GLN Non-compliance with Energy intensity 2019 Metric GRI 302-3 environmental laws and regulations 2018 2019 2018 2019 A. Total energy consumed (GJ) 151,201,598.912 Total number of significant 1 2 2 2 Number fines received in the year Gerdau B. Production (tons of steel produced) 12,453,099.00 Total monetary value of significant C. Energy intensity (A/B) 12.14 US$ 6,999 US$ 11,306 US$ 5,000,000 US$ 76,881 U.S. Dollars fines received in the year Note: Scope of the indicator: the following operations were not accounted for: the Dominican Republic, since the operation does not produce steel, and Venezuela, since we do not have Total number of non-monetary sanctions 0 1 2 0 Number consistent data for all indicators. Number of cases brought through the 1 3 4 2 Number use of dispute resolution mechanisms Note 1: Information regarding the Argentina, Colombia and Uruguay operations is not available. Note 2: In Brazil, significant fines consider: (i) materiality: amounts equal to or greater than US$ 8 million and/or; (ii) relevance: they have the potential to prevent or limit the activities performed or to impact the image. In the Dominican Republic, monetary sanctions of more than US$ 1 million and non-monetary sanctions that can adversely affect: i) the company’s ability to conduct its business and/or fulfill its obligations in a timely manner; and ii) the good image and reputation of the company. For Venezuela and Peru, there is no information about what is considered significant. GRI G4-MM3 2018 2019 Waste, tailings and sludge generated by operations (tons) GAB Aços Longos Brasil GAB Aços Longos Brasil Estéril 4,963,786 6,157,189 Residuo 271,656 254,936 Lodo – – Total 5,235,442 6,412,125 Main menu | Section menu GRI attachments 105 GRI 201-2 FOR OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL, RISKS ARE MAPPED AS FOLLOWS: Risks or Nature Associated impacts Financial implications Calculated methods Cost to opportunities of risk calculated for the risk/ for managing risk or opportunity manage arising from opportunity (if no such climate change actions are taken) actions Laws and regulations Regulatory Laws and regulations that seek to reduce greenhouse gases may be Not calculated This topic is discussed and monitored by the Not calculated enacted in the future, which may have a significant adverse impact on Risk, Disclosure, Strategy, and Sustainability the company's results of operations, cash flows, and financial situation. Committees and the Board of Directors on a One of the possible effects of the growth in requirements related to quarterly basis, with the participation of the CFO. the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions is the increase in costs, Integrated with the initiatives related to climate mainly due to the demand to reduce consumption of fossil fuels and change, Gerdau participates in the Emissions the implementation of new technologies in the production chain. Trading System Simulation, conducted by the Gerdau believes that operations in the countries where it operates Getulio Vargas Foundation, an initiative whose may be affected in the future by federal, state and municipal initiatives objective is to generate knowledge about the related to climate change, which aim to deal with greenhouse gases contribution of carbon pricing instruments to the (GHGs). In this sense, one of the possible effects of this growing set attainment of goals to reduce GHG emissions of legal requirements could be the increase in the cost of energy. As in a cost-effective manner. The purpose of this a result, the company's financial condition and results of operations effort is to understand the possible effects of may be adversely affected. In addition, the impact of creating a Carbon mitigation policies on business and investments, Pricing in Brazil is being studied. In Mexico, where Gerdau also has anticipating a future mandatory pricing scenario. operations, a carbon emissions trading system, called MexiCO2, is already consolidated. It is an environmental market platform, which sells certified emission reductions, clean energy certificates and is developing alternatives to establish an emissions trading system. Changes in precipitation Physical Lack of water in the operational units caused by a water Not calculated In 2019, the Risk Committee assessed environmental Not calculated patterns and crisis related to the impacts of climate change. Decrease issues and included in its analysis the identification extreme variability in in revenue due to reduced production capacity. of the causes, justifications, and adaptation plan weather patterns for the case of three industrial units that were susceptible to impacts related to water scarcity. Main menu | Section menu GRI attachments 106 GRI 201-2 FOR OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL, RISKS ARE MAPPED AS FOLLOWS: Risks or Nature Associated impacts Financial implications Calculated methods Cost to opportunities of risk calculated for the for managing risk or opportunity manage arising from risk/opportunity (if such climate no actions are taken) actions change Risks to reputation Other Risk factors considered in relation to: customers, the scientific and Not calculated Gerdau considered this type of risk by assessing the Not calculated academic community, surrounding communities, competitors, organization's image, with criteria defined in its Risk consumers, suppliers, press, investors, civil society organizations, Matrix. Aiming at better transparency of information partners, public authorities, internal audience, and the possible impact related to climate, in the short term, Gerdau intends of Gerdau's shares on the stock exchange shares. Regarding the risks to publish its GHG emissions inventories in 2020 and for the steel industry, this sector is reported in studies on Carbon Pricing the governance for this topic. The risk is discussed in Brazil as the one with the least impact on the country's general by the organization's Board of Directors. emissions and which may be the most affected by pricing directly and through environmental permits taking into account the Social license. Risks related to Regulatory Increased stakeholder demand regarding this topic. Not calculated Market risks related to steel and GHG emission rates are Not calculated access to markets assessed, monitored and discussed by the organization's and financing CEO, considering regulations, technologies and advances in a shift to a low-carbon industry. Competitiveness in relation to foreign markets is taken into account in the analyses that involve carbon pricing in Brazil. Gerdau's units are conducting life-cycle assessments of their products considering the analysis of effectiveness and addressing the risks of climate change impacts in terms of the use of materials in the market. Gerdau is committed to reporting on the Carbon Disclosure Project environmental information related to climate change and other aspects of the company's environmental management, identifying the risks and opportunities in our operations captured through initiatives to reduce emissions and risk mitigation actions. Main menu | Section menu GRI attachments 107 GRI 201-2 IN NORTH AMERICAN OPERATIONS, RISKS ARE MAPPED AS FOLLOWS: Risks or opportunities Nature of risk Associated impacts Financial Calculated methods for managing Cost to arising from climate implications risk or opportunity manage change such actions U.S. operations Laws and regulations Potential to impose regulatory requirements to Not estimated Robust participation in the procedures of the Steel Not estimated reduce emission rates using process changes/ Manufacturers Trade Association, briefings, engagement in improvements, emission controls and/or the advocacy and communication with stakeholders. At state introduction of a carbon tax for GHG emissions. and local levels, we closely monitor regulatory activities and participate in defense actions where appropriate. Canada operations Regulatory and financial Potential for imposing additional regulatory requirements Not estimated Robust participation in the procedures of the Steel Not estimated to reduce emission rates using process changes/ Manufacturers Trade Association, briefings, engagement improvements and emission controls. Potential in advocacy and communication with stakeholders. At in the future to increase costs of GHG emissions state and local levels, we closely monitor regulatory from the current US$ 20 per ton of COeq, based on activities and participate in defense actions where EAF and rolling mill emissions and production. appropriate. Within GLN, where appropriate, we report significant/material problems to the plant manager, environment director, owner of the environmental process (member of the GLNC) and other stakeholders. Main menu | Section menu Midlothian Steel Mill, Texas (USA) GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI content index 109 GRI Content Index (GRI 102-55) Disclosure Page and/ GRI Standards Disclosure title Comments or reason for omission 2019 number or link GRI 101: Foundation 2016 [does not include disclosure number] Organizational profile GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-1 Name of the organization 7 GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 31 GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-3 Location of headquarters 109 (index) São Paulo SP, Brazil. GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-4 Location of operations 12 GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-5 Ownership and legal form 109 (index) Publicly traded company. GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-6 Markets served 31 GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-7 Scale of the organization 12 GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 50, 51, 98 GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-9 Supply chain 31 GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 109 (index) During the period, there were no significant changes to the organization or its supply chain. Gerdau bases its risk analysis on the precautionary principle, but does not formally GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 109 (index) adopt this principle. GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-12 External initiatives 45, 67, 69 GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-13 Membership of associations 63 Strategy GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 4 GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 22, 68 Ethics and Integrity GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 15 GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 20, 21 Main menu GRI content index 110 GRI Content Index (GRI 102-55) Disclosure Page and/ GRI Standards Disclosure title Comments or reason for omission 2019 number or link Governance GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-18 Governance structure 19, 96 GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees 96, 97 GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body 110 (index) The president of the highest governance body is not an executive director. GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body 19 Stakeholder engagement GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 7 GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 52 GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 9 GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 8, 9 GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 9 Reporting practices The following entities are included in Gerdau S.A’s earnings release: Metalúrgica Gerdau S.A. Gerdau S.A. Empresa Siderúrgica del Peru S.A.A. Peru Gerdau Aços Longos S.A. Brasil Gerdau Açominas S.A. Brasil Gerdau Internacional Empreendimentos Ltda. Gerdau Ameristeel Corp. EUA GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 110 (index) Gerdau Macsteel Inc. EUA Gerdau Metaldom Corp. Rep. Dominicana Diaco S.A. Colômbia Gerdau Summit Aços Fundidos e Forjados S.A. Brasil Gerdau Corsa S.A.P.I. México Siderurgica Tultitlán, S.A. de CV México Gerdau Laisa S.A. Uruguai Sipar Aceros S.A. Argentina Siderúrgica Zuliana, C.A. Venezuela Main menu GRI content index 111 GRI Content Index (GRI 102-55) Disclosure Page and/or GRI Standards Disclosure title Comments or reason for omission 2019 number link GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 9, 93, 94, 95 GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-47 List of material topics 9, 93, 94, 95 GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-48 Restatements of information 111 (index) This is the first report in which Gerdau has adopted the GRI Standards disclosure items — Core option. GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-49 Changes in reporting 7 GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-50 Reporting period 7 GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-51 Date of most recent report 111 (index) Integrated Reporting 2018 (https://ri.gerdau.com/divulgacao-e-resultados/relato-integrado-e-balancos/) GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-52 7 GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-53 111 (index) ana.camargo@gerdau.com.br GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 7 109, 110, 111, GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-55 GRI Content Index 112, 113, 114, 115 GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-56 External assurance 7 Topic: Mitigation and adaptation to climate change Topic – Economic performance GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 87, 90 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 87, 90 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 87, 90 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016 201-2 90, 105, 106, 107 due to climate change Topic: Ethics and corporate governance Topic – Anti-corruption GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 20, 21 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 20, 21 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 20, 21 Main menu GRI content index 112 GRI Content Index (GRI 102-55) Disclosure Page and/ GRI Standards Disclosure title Comments or reason for omission 2019 number or link All operations and processes with direct impact on cash flow are evaluated by internal audit on an ongoing and rotating basis, including analysis of corruption. GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 112 (index) The risks identified are assessed with process owners, and an action plan is defined to eliminate or minimize exposure to those risks. Internal audit follows up on its implementation. Communication and training about anti-corruption policies GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 205-2 21 and procedures No corruption event associated with public agents or representing any type of corruption involving GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 112 (index) senior management or considered relevant fraud has been identified. Topic: Scrap recycling Topic – Materials GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 74 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 74 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 74 GRI 301: Materials 2016 301-2 Recycled input materials used 75 Topic: Energy management Topic – Energy GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 80, 81 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 80, 81 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 80, 81 GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 81 GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-3 Energy intensity 104 Topic: Management of water and effluents Topic – Water and effluents GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 75, 76 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 75, 76 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 75, 76 Main menu GRI content index 113 GRI Content Index (GRI 102-55) Disclosure Page and/ GRI Standards Disclosure title Comments or reason for omission 2019 number or link GRI 303: Water and effluents 2018 303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource 75, 76 GRI 303: Water and effluents 2018 303-2 Management of water discharge-related impacts 75, 76 GRI 303: Water and effluents 2018 303-3 Water withdrawal 101 GRI 303: Water and effluents 2018 303-4 Water discharge 102 GRI 303: Water and effluents 2018 303-5 Water consumption 77 Topic: Mitigation and adaptation to climate change Topic – Emissions GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 84, 85 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 84, 85 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 84, 85 GRI 305: Emissions 2016 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 85 GRI 305: Emissions 2016 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 85 GRI 305: Emissions 2016 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 85 Topic: Co-product management Topic – Waste GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 78 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 78 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 78 GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 78, 103 Total amounts of overburden, rock, tailings, and sludges and G4 Sector disclosures Mining and Metals MM3 79, 104 their associated risks Topic: Ethics and corporate governance Topic – Environmental compliance GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 74 Main menu GRI content index 114 GRI Content Index (GRI 102-55) Disclosure Page and/or GRI Standards Disclosure title Comments or reason for omission 2019 number link GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 74 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 74 GRI 307: Environmental compliance 2016 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 79, 104 Topic – Socioeconomic Compliance GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 64 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 64 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 64 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and In 2019, Gerdau did not receive significant fines or non-monetary sanctions due to GRI 419: Socioeconomic compliance 2016 419-1 114 (index) economic area non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic spheres. Topic: Innovation in processes and products Own topic: Innovation in processes and products GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 16, 23, 26, 62 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 16, 23, 26, 62 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 16, 23, 26, 62 Disclosure number Gerdau GER -1 Financial return on digital projects 16 Topic: Stakeholder engagement Own topic: Stakeholder engagement GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Disclosure number Gerdau GER -2 Number of stakeholders involved in engagement projects Topic: Occupational health and safety Topic – Occupational Health and Safety GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 55, 59 Main menu GRI content index 115 GRI Content Index (GRI 102-55) Disclosure GRI Standards Disclosure title Page and/or link Comments or reason for omission 2019 number GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 55, 59 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 55, 59 GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2018 403-1 Occupational health and safety management system 57 GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2018 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation 57 GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2018 403-3 Occupational health services 55 Worker participation, consultation, and communication on GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2018 403-4 57, 58 occupational health and safety GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2018 403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety 57 GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2018 403-6 Promotion of worker health 55 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety impacts GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2018 403-7 57 directly linked by business relationships Workers covered by an occupational health and safety management GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2018 403-8 57 system GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2018 403-9 Work-related injuries 56, 100 Topic: Diversity and inclusion Topic – Diversity and equal opportunity GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50 GRI 405: Diversity 2016 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 52, 99 Non-material topics Non-material topic: Mitigation of local social and environmental impacts Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and other significant air GRI 305: Emissions 2016 305-7 84 emissions Main menu 2019 INTEGRATED REPORTING CREDITS Coordination and Concept: Pedro Torres, Ana Paula Camargo, and Bruna Rigobello Support: Priscila Andrade, Rafael Simas, and Vitor Ibraim Editorial Design, Text, and Production Supervision: Quintal 22 GRI Consulting: BSD Consulting Graphic Design and Layout: CS Comunicação Photos: Ricardo Teles, Cláudio Gatti, and Gerdau archive GERDAU Av. Dra. Ruth Cardoso, 8.501 – 8º andar Pinheiros CEP 05425-070 São Paulo – SP +55 11 3094-6600 www.gerdau.com.br GERDAU ON SOCIAL NETWORKS www.facebook.com/Gerdau @gerdau (http://twitter.com/gerdau) www.linkedin.com/company/gerdau www.youtube.com/user/GerdauSA
