SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 1 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Sustainability report demands, global developments and our strategy. Based on the materiality analysis we have defined clear ambitions and targets to Index ensure the maximal positive impact on society and the A word from our CEO: Making sure it matters .... 12 environment. Sustainability at Schibsted ................................. 13 Our new sustainability targets have been coupled with relevant Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and their targets. We Governance ......................................................... 18 believe that the best possible way of meeting today’s challenges contributing to the 2030 Agenda is by doing what we do best as Societal impact.................................................... 22 sustainably as possible. One example is the circular economy. Our marketplaces enable items to be reused and rented, thus Our people ........................................................... 26 promoting sustainable consumption behavior. As consumers and Environmental impact ........................................ 29 as citizens, we contribute to the transition to sustainable consumption by buying things second-hand. About the report .................................................. 33 In 2019 we saw many serious threats to democracy, including GRI Content Index ............................................... 34 restriction of free speech, intimidation of human rights defenders, and restraints on free press. Schibsted acknowledges its responsibility to communicate transparently and in an accessible A word from our CEO: Making sure it way, counteracting fake news and misinformation. Digitization has matters brought with it many opportunities, along with various risks. In 2020 we will continue our efforts to protect our customers’ As we enter 2020, we leave behind a decade characterized by a integrity and security online, delivering smart, safe and modern growing awareness of sustainability, from a clearer understanding solutions at our users’ fingertips. of the immense challenges that are threatening humanity to the exciting solutions we must seek to create a sustainable society for To reach our targets for 2020 and achieve our ambitions for the all. Gone are the days when companies only delivered results to coming years, we need to continue empowering our users and our their shareholders. Instead, we should seek to create purpose and employees to contribute to a sustainable society. The power and long-term value for all stakeholders. will of our employees to contribute to creating a sustainable society by maximizing our positive impacts and bringing Over the past 20 years the world has been digitized, a process in sustainable innovations to the market will be crucial to our which Schibsted has been in the front seat and will continue to be. success. We will work tirelessly to deliver innovation that boost Now it is time to use this expertise to create sustainable solutions. independent and high-quality journalism, empowering people to At Schibsted we take pride in offering digital solutions for some of make informed choices and enabling and promoting circular the most pressing issues in society, from independent journalism consumption. to second-hand consumption and online tools that allow users to make sound financial decisions. In the coming decade, sustainability will no longer be optional, it will be a prerequisite for developing our business and for remaining profitable. We continue our commitment as a participant of the UN Global Compact and to the Ten Principles. In 2019 we moved forward in our quest to make sustainability an integral part of how Schibsted operates. The spin-off of Adevinta has meant a Kristin Skogen Lund consolidation of our operations and has allowed us to focus on our Nordic markets. We updated our materiality analysis to ensure that CEO of Schibsted Schibsted’s focus and priorities are in line with our stakeholders’ 12 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Sustainability at Schibsted combination of interviews, inquiries and surveys we invited our stakeholders to prioritize the identified sustainability aspects. For Defining Sustainability at Schibsted some stakeholder groups we performed a desktop analysis to During 2019 Schibsted Media Group was split into two companies; identify their priorities. Schibsted and Adevinta. Due to the new company structure and our wish to gain a deeper understanding of our stakeholders’ Our stakeholders were given the opportunity to add aspects to our priorities, Schibsted performed a new materiality analysis during list which they considered important. An impact assessment was 2019. conducted on the identified sustainability aspects, based on their relevance to Schibsted and on the economic, environmental and Materiality analysis societal impacts of our operations. By combining the results from We drew up a list of 15 sustainability aspects covering all our our stakeholder dialogues and the impact assessment we could material sustainability areas based on previously identified further prioritize and select our material aspects. The result was aspects and a risk and opportunity analysis of Schibsted’s value validated and discussed in a management workshop and chain. We also used an external analysis performed by the presented to the Board. The material topics identified through the Responsible Media Forum and the recommendations on materiality analysis were prioritized according to three levels of sustainability reporting (GRI Standards and Sustainability importance: hygiene aspects, focus aspects and our unique Accounting Standards Board, SASB). Our most important aspects. stakeholders were identified by mapping stakeholders based on interest in and influence on our business. Through a 13 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Stakeholder engagement Who did we engage with? How did we engage with them? What is most important to them? Users and readers • Web surveys to selected brands • Empower people to make informed choices • Empower circular and sustainable consumption • Privacy and protection of user data • User safety and fraud protection Corporate customers (advertisers and • Interviews with randomly selected customers • Independent and high-quality journalism business partners) • User safety and fraud protection • Privacy and protection of user data • Empower people to make informed choices Employees • Web survey to all employees • Fair business practices • Attractive workplace • Independent and high-quality journalism • Empower people to make informed choices • Diversity and equality Investors • Interviews with main investors • Independent and high-quality journalism • Privacy and protection of user data • User safety and fraud protection • Skills development and knowledge sharing • Fair business practices • Attractive workplace Board • Interview and web surveys • Attractive workplace • Independent and high-quality journalism • User safety and fraud protection • Diversity and equality Regulators (National and EU) • Desktop analysis • Fair business practices • Diversity and equality • Managing materials and waste • User safety and fraud protection • Privacy and protection of user data • Sustainable investment and ownership Analysts & rating agencies • Analysis of inquiries • User safety and fraud protection • Privacy and protection of user data • Fair business practices • Skills development and knowledge sharing • Attractive workplace Media • Desktop analysis • Empower people to make informed choices • Independent and high-quality journalism • Diversity and equality • User safety and fraud protection • Sustainable investments and ownership • Privacy and protection of user data Potential employees • Desktop analysis • Empower circular and sustainable consumption • Reports from employer branding agencies • Diversity and equality • Managing materials and waste • Energy use and greenhouse gas emissions • Health, safety and integrity of employees Industry associations (National and • Desktop analysis • Empower people to make informed choices international) • Independent and high-quality journalism • Diversity and equality • User safety and fraud protection • Privacy and protection of user data 14 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Ambitions and targets and aligned with the updated materiality analysis, we redefined Having a greater purpose in one’s daily job is critical for a company and updated the scope of aspects, ambitions and targets. We to retain people and help them thrive and develop. Our journalism, appointed a member of Schibsted’s Executive Management Team financial services and marketplaces are important cornerstones for to be responsible for defining, implementing, measuring, building a sustainable and democratic society. With great impact developing and following up our performance on each material comes great responsibility, and Schibsted’s strategy is to create aspect. We defined long-term ambitions for our performance as purpose in everything we do. We will consider and manage our well as short-term targets. Our performance will be evaluated environmental and societal impact in all our business decisions. yearly by Schibsted’s Executive Management Team. Previously defined targets are included in our updated targets. To ensure our Going forward, our direction is based on the updated materiality commitment and contribution to the SDGs, we have aligned our analysis. To ensure an effective strategy that is suited to its purpose activities and opportunities with the SDG Targets. Material aspect Ambition (long term) Targets 2020 (short term) Aligned SDG Target Independent and highEnsure transparent media • Establish an editorial project to define the societal quality journalism practices and contribute to a impact of our journalism. sustainable and democratic society. Empower people to Empower and enlighten • Identify group wide measurements for content make informed choices people to make well informed impact, representation and non-compliance with and sustainable choices voluntary codes for all our media operations. through all our operations and • Identify group-wide needs for training of journalists drive the innovation for futurein relevant sustainability topics. fit business models. • Continue our participation in the Responsible Media Forums project on measuring content impact from Double our positive impact on journalism. society for our marketplaces • Identify societal impact for Nordic Marketplaces and by 2023. Next brands and decide on measurements to use for evaluating progress. Empower circular and By leading innovation in • Establish a cross-brand forum to identify and start to sustainable empowering people to make realize our business opportunities related to circular consumption sustainable choices and consumption. enabling circular • Further promote, develop and communicate the consumption, we aim to environmental benefits of circular consumption. double our positive impact on the society and the environment for our marketplaces by 2023. 15 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Material aspect Ambition (long term) Targets 2020 (short term) Aligned SDG Target Privacy and protection Leading the industry in • Zero incidents categorized as personal data of user data handling and safeguarding breaches personal and sensitive data User safety and fraud Ensure safe products with zero • Identify areas for group-wide collaboration and KPIs protection fraud incidents. for fraud incidents. • Identify possibilities for our media operations to implement a “No Hate”-application for comments fields in digital newspapers. Responsible marketing Zero incidents of non• Establish a cross-brand and cross-functional project compliance with applicable to define the needs and scope of a responsible external and internal marketing policy and related measurements. standards or policies. • Zero incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service information and labelling. Diversity and equality Ranked as the most diverse • Gender ratio of 60/40 in leadership (three levels) by and equal employer within our the end of 2020. segments. • Implement the diversity and inclusion policy. • Implement our recruitment policy in everyday business operations. • Continue roll out of gender pay gap project. • Continue unconscious bias training for employees and leaders involved in recruitment. Attractive workplace Be the most attractive • Implement a new employee engagement survey employer in our main markets. system to compare and monitor employee engagement for all Schibsted units. Fair business practices Prevent corruption in our • Define a plan for how to create awareness and operations and industry and knowledge regarding Code of Conduct (content and continue to transparently format e-learning) and Speak Up function. communicate and report on • Compliant and transparent yearly reporting on our business practices and sustainability, governance, ownership and public purposes. policy (GRI, COP, CDP). 16 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Material aspect Ambition (long term) Targets 2020 (short term) Aligned SDG Target Energy use and Lower our greenhouse gas • Identify material energy consumption activities and greenhouse gas emissions in line with Science how to increase energy efficiency in these activities. emissions Based Targets by 2030 and • Perform efficiency improvements in printing double our improvements in operations in Oslo that will reduce energy energy efficiency by 2030. consumption. • Define a plan for 2021-2030 to reach the emission and energy reduction targets in line with Science Based Targets and SDGs by 2030. • Within our newspaper distribution network in Norway, implement our plan to reduce our CO2e emissions by 50 percent by 2025. Health, safety and Be the leading employer in our • Implement a new travel policy and travel portal for integrity of employees industries. our Norwegian operations. • Continue to implement safety routines for all operations and offer regular training for appointed employees. Managing materials and Ensure circular and • Identify possibilities to use machine learning to waste environmentally friendly use optimize the number of printed newspapers in of materials throughout our casual sales. value chain by 2030. • Initiate dialogue with suppliers regarding sustainably sourced paper. • Implement management systems for printing operations in Norway that will reduce paper waste significantly. • Within our newspaper distribution network in Norway, reduce the use of plastic packaging for newspapers by 90 percent by 2022. Skills development and Offer a workplace where all • Establish a learning and development system to knowledge sharing employees have the follow-up completed training. opportunity to develop skills • Establish a tool for career development paths. and contribute to innovation. • Establish Sustainability Change Makers Program. • Establish a Future Advisory Board. Sustainable investments Be ranked as the industry • For our Next operations, establish a sustainable and ownership leader and ensure that investment policy and establish processes for invested capital is used to sustainability screening of potential acquisitions/ drive innovation for future-fit investments. business models. • For our Next operations, establish a roadmap and toolbox for sustainability maturity for brands. Sustainable supply Establish a group-wide • Establish processes for supply chain risk monitoring chain approach and process that and follow-up of six of our brands and extend our mitigates and minimize our Speak Up function to suppliers. supply-chain risks. 17 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Governance Owner The Tinius Trust is the major shareholder in Schibsted. The Trust a media group characterized by independent journalism, credible was established in 1996 by Tinius Nagell-Erichsen, the last active and high-quality services, and long-term, solid financial member of the founding Schibsted family. Through the Trust, development. In its capacity as Board Chair, the Trust maintains Tinius Nagell-Erichsen wanted to ensure that Schibsted remained close dialogue with Schibsted regarding sustainability. Our mission and vision We create significant financial value not only for our shareholders, We are a team: We believe in a friendly and open attitude. We also but for other stakeholders too. Creating purpose and value for our believe in the strength of people and competencies coming stakeholders and our mission, “Empowering people in their daily together to achieve something great. The companies in our group lives”, guide us in everything we do, from product development to can reach far better results together than alone. new business ventures, recruitment policy and running our We are here to win: We must always strive to be better than our everyday business. We believe that we, together with our users, can competitors at understanding our customers and markets – that’s contribute to a more sustainable society. the key to our continued success. • We empower people by providing transparent and secure marketplaces and financial services. • We empower people to make sustainable choices by informing Sustainability governance model about and enabling sustainable consumption and lifestyles. The Board oversees and governs Schibsted’s sustainability • We empower people by defending a democratic society, performance. For information about the governance structure of freedom of the press and editorial integrity. the Board and its committees, see the chapter on Corporate Governance in the annual report. We also rely on our core values as they are articulated in four statements that guide us on a daily basis: We aim to incorporate responsibility for sustainability into our core business. For each identified material sustainability aspect, a We have integrity: Our company is based on a long tradition of member of the Schibsted Executive Management Team is assigned independent news, information and transparent marketplaces. responsibility for defining its scope, ambitions and targets and for Trustworthiness and quality are absolutely essential – people must implementing, communicating and evaluating performance be able to trust all our products and services. according to the defined ambitions and targets. The general We are innovative: We embrace innovation, it’s at our core. We managers in each company are responsible for supporting and always put users’ needs first – we go the extra mile. Innovation can monitoring each entity with rollout and implementation of the be anything from a brilliant new concept to a minor, but no less Code of Conduct and other sustainability-related policies and for important, improvement in how we do things. retrieving data and information required by law. 18 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT The Head of Sustainability has overall responsibility for guiding the program, the participants will complete a university course in and communicating the organization of our sustainability sustainable business management, support implementation of the ambitions and targets, both internally and externally. The Head of sustainability strategy, and act as internal hubs to entrench the Sustainability reports weekly to the Chief People and Corporate sustainability perspective in our business operations. Affairs Officer, who is a member of the Schibsted Executive Effective from April 2019, changes were made in Schibsted’s Management Team. governance structure. Schibsted’s marketplaces outside the Schibsted has initiated an internal program to boost Nordics were spun off and formed an independent listed company implementation of sustainability throughout the organization. In called Adevinta. Today Schibsted holds a majority ownership in 2020 and the years to come, 15 employees will be appointed as Adevinta and exercises its ownership through representation on Sustainability Change Makers. The Change Makers will allocate 10 Adevinta’s Board of Directors; see separate section for information percent of their working hours each year to the program. During about Adevinta’s sustainability governance and performance. Adevinta – Sustainability at a glance Adevinta is a marketplace specialist and helps local marketplaces thrive Investing in the sustainable marketplaces of tomorrow through global connections and knowledge networks. The company Adevinta Ventures, the corporate ventures arm, invests in the sustainable operates digital marketplaces in 16 countries in Europe, Latin America marketplaces of tomorrow. Adevinta Ventures looks to invest in and North Africa, with leading local brands including Leboncoin in France, marketplaces or new models that transform the value chain of mobility, InfoJobs in Spain and Segundamano in Mexico. Adevinta’s leading local real estate and future-of-work categories across Europe. Adevinta strives brands form an integral part of users' lives. to ensure that the investments align with the Code of Conduct and purpose: “Make a positive change in the world by helping everything and Initial materiality analysis everyone find new purpose”. In 2019, Adevinta was separated from Schibsted as a stand-alone company. Adevinta performed an initial materiality analysis and started Employee engagement and representation to set the direction of Adevinta’s sustainability focus. In the coming years Adevinta is a people-first organization and aims to offer world-class Adevinta will continue to strengthen its materiality analysis and workplaces where all employees can reach their full potential. Acting sustainability governance and to engage with critical stakeholders. The responsibly and offering an engaging work environment is crucial for result from the initial materiality analysis identified this year’s reporting attracting and retaining the right people – the most valuable assets. scope and included the following top three material aspects; Adevinta selected Career Development as the company-wide Contributions to circular economy; Privacy, user safety and fraud engagement focus area for 2019 and implemented a robust action plan to protection; and Sustainable investments and ownership. improve the visibility of career paths and development opportunities across Adevinta. In 2019, Adevinta’s staff participated in Schibsted’s Sustainability governance European Works Council. Meeting twice a year, this council serves as the The CEO has overarching responsibility for Adevinta's sustainability work. forum for information, dialogue and consultation between employees The Board oversees and governs sustainability performance, while the and the Schibsted and Adevinta executive management teams. In Senior Vice President People & Communication is responsible for December the same year, Adevinta established its own Employee Works operational performance and reports to the executive management team Council that will include representatives from the company’s operations and Board at least once a year. around the world. Environmental impact Diversity and inclusion Second-hand trade is one of the most efficient ways of contributing to Adevinta has adopted an action plan aimed at encouraging its workplaces minimizing the negative environmental impact of consumption. Every to be more diverse, and for Adevinta’s culture to be more inclusive. During day, millions of people buy and sell used items on Adevinta’s the year, Adevinta implemented initiatives to raise awareness about the marketplaces around the world, thereby choosing to live in a more power of differences, created frameworks that promoted equality and sustainable way. In 2019, nine Adevinta sites participated in the Second built communities to help its employees belong. Through these Hand Effect Project, which resulted in several million tonnes of potential initiatives, Adevinta was able to meet four of the six targets in the action resource savings. plan. Adevinta has also pursued a number of initiatives and A trusted marketplace with fair business practices countermeasures during the year, such as the Change Makers Initiative in The importance of trust is a crucial element in Adevinta’s business model all the local companies and unconscious bias training. and its vision: “To create perfect matches on the world’s most trusted Find more information regarding Adevinta’s sustainability marketplaces”. Therefore, there are strong management systems and performance in the Adevinta Sustainability Report 2019. programs in place to ensure users’ privacy and security, data protection, and fraud prevention and detection across the business. In addition, the marketplaces provide users with advice and recommendations on how to prevent and report fraudulent or suspicious activities. 19 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Responsible ownership and investments • Tax policy As a part of our core business, Schibsted is constantly evolving and • Legal policy growing through investments in new operations or divestments. As • Schibsted vendor security assessment a responsible owner and actor in the investment industry, we need to be constantly aware of how our companies impact society and • Supplier code of conduct the environment. To ensure future-fit investments, we need to be • Environmental policy aware of the sustainability risks associated with potential investments and ensure that prospective and existing investments Our people follow our internal sustainability guidelines. Companies that are • Journalism security policy aware of their sustainability risks and that have a proactive • Physical and travel security policy approach to sustainability are generally more attractive and • Diversity and inclusion policy profitable. Our long-term financial success is therefore dependent • Recruitment policy on sustainable practices in each company’s operations. Our Chief • Mobility policy Financial Officer and Executive Vice President for Next are • Discrimination, bullying and harassment policy responsible for ensuring that our investments are aligned with our internal guidelines. In the coming years, we believe the importance IT Security and privacy of sustainability will increase for investors, so it is important that • Privacy policies and guidelines we continue to strengthen our efforts to ensure that we continue • Data security framework to make investments that are future-fit. In 2020 we will define an • Company e-mail DMARC security policy updated investment policy, sustainability screening process and • Employee data security policy onboarding guidelines for our Next business area. • Company information security guidelines • Brand data security guidelines • Schibsted user device policy Code of conduct and group policies Everyone in Schibsted has a responsibility to uphold Schibsted’s Sustainability risk management reputation and principles. Through the way we interact with each Constantly mitigating risks in our daily operations is key to a other, meet our users and relate with our business partners, we successful business. Our risks are annually reviewed by the build and strengthen Schibsted’s reputation as a group with high responsible management teams. All senior managers have a integrity. Our Code of Conduct outlines our principles and responsibility to understand how sustainability risks intertwine standards for conducting business and serves as our key with Schibsted’s operational, financial, legal and reputational risks sustainability policy. It is based on the UN Global Compact and to ensure that we are compliant and proactive at all times. For includes principles on human rights, labor rights, business ethics, Schibsted we have identified the main risks presented below. Due equal opportunities, anti-discrimination, child and forced labor, to the spinoff of Adevinta and changes in our countries of anti-corruption and protection of the environment. operations, the risk analysis differs from previous analyses. Risks linked to the rapid growth of sustainability-related legislation and The Code of Conduct is implemented through our onboarding high energy consumption caused by the digital transformation are process for new employees and training is given when deemed considered lower compared to the main risks below. necessary for targeted functions. A total of 57 employees received live training during 2019. The Code of Conduct is available to all our Cyber threat employees on the intranet, along with an e-learning course and a External cyber-attacks, misuse of our services and threats against quiz and includes a link to the Speak Up function enabling our internal IT security may cause incidents such as loss of personal anonymous reporting of misconduct, breaches or potential data, fraud, loss of sensitive business data and inaccessible or violations. The Head of Legal receives these cases and delegates unreliable services. Incidents like these may cause reputational them to the appropriate managers to follow up. loss, litigation and serious leakage of sensitive personal data, The Code of Conduct applies to all entities in which we own more potentially threatening the privacy of our users. than 50 percent voting rights. Where Schibsted does not exercise Lower trust for institutions such control, the board members appointed by Schibsted shall The increased penetration of social media as a news platform, the promote the main principles outlined in the Code of Conduct. occurrence of fake news, press ethics failures and campaigns In addition to our Code of Conduct, our guiding principles for undermining mainstream media may reduce trust in mass media sustainability are stated in our group policies, which are further channels. Lower trust may result in decreased willingness to pay implemented in policies at company level. Our group policies are: for content and use of products produced by mainstream media. Governance Consumer behavior is changing • Corporate governance principles Heightened awareness of sustainability issues among consumers is • Policy for risk management changing current consumption patterns. Increased demand for • Financial policy sustainable products and for renting, reusing and repairing items • CFO governing document instead of throwing them away will change traditional linear 20 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT consumption patterns. We must adapt to changing consumer Employees can anonymously report actual or suspected behavior if Schibsted is to continue to provide products and misconduct to our external whistle-blower function. All cases of services that are relevant to our users. actual or alleged fraud and corruption shall be brought to the attention of the Group Legal Department. Ensuring a sustainable supply chain Given that our business is to run digital services and creating, Public policy printing and distributing newspapers, the bulk of our global We live in an ever-changing environment where conditions for procurement activity comprises the provision of professional tech, media and politics are continuously changing. Digital services, electricity, paper, ink, ICT hardware and software. In 2019 disruption is challenging business models and values crucial to Schibsted continued the process of minimizing our risks and Schibsted's companies. As the digital markets evolve, the need for negative impact throughout our supply chain. Our Supplier Code of regulation has become increasingly apparent. Politicians around Conduct, to which our business partners will be required to adhere Europe have been calling for regulation of big tech, putting to, was approved by the Board in 2019. The Supplier Code of pressure on the EU to develop new rules for competition policy, Conduct is based on the UN Global Compact’s Ten Principles and liability for products and services on digital platforms and online outlines, among other things, our commitment to protecting and advertising. upholding international human rights. In 2019 we initiated efforts Schibsted's mission to be a leading voice in our industry is to include the Code in our contracts with existing and new strategic demonstrated by our active outreach and position on digital issues suppliers. At the end of the year we also initiated a supplier towards policymakers in our markets and in the EU. We have a assessment pilot program for six of Schibsted’s companies. The dedicated public policy team that is drafting position papers on pilot will help the participating companies to implement policies, prioritized issues and building knowledge about our markets for processes and tools to analyze, monitor, assess and develop their policymakers. We aim to build advocacy alliances with other actors suppliers. The tools will include a risk analysis tool and an in our industries, and through opinion editorials raise awareness assessment and monitoring tool. The most important risk amongst the general public about the challenges we encounter in evaluation criteria will be country of origin, industry, supplier our markets. dependency and spend. The purpose of the pilot is to identify group-wide high-risk suppliers and industries and to define groupIn 2019 Schibsted drafted a position paper on how we believe the wide screening processes for further implementation in other parts EU competition policy should be modernized, taking into account of our organization. the realities of the digital markets. We also issued a report on proposals for regulating social networks in order to protect democracy and freedom of speech online. Both were presented to Fair business practices policymakers in Oslo, Stockholm and Brussels. We also actively Long-term sustainable growth can never be built on unfair participate in discussions on the value of data, and monitor business practices. Schibsted continuously improves and regulatory developments in the field of artificial intelligence. We evaluates the functionality of our policies, processes, controls and aim to continue these efforts in 2020 and more actively participate procedures to mitigate the risk of corruption and reviews in the debate on regulation of the digital markets. applicable legislation in key markets. None of our employees at operational, strategic or governance level may accept or participate in any form of corruption. Furthermore, everyone is Partnerships and memberships responsible for preventing any kind of corruption in their daily To demonstrate our commitment to increased transparency on work. sustainability issues, Schibsted is a member of several global initiatives, such as the UN Global Compact (participant) and Our Code of Conduct covers our principles for preventing bribery Transparency International. We report yearly to organizations that and facilitation payments, gifts, hospitality and conflicts of evaluate our sustainability performance, including the Carbon interests. To ensure understanding and compliance, antiDisclosure Project (CDP), MSCI, Sustainalytics and ISS. We are also corruption is an integral part of our Code of Conduct training. It is a member of several industry organizations, such as the tailored to address the risks faced by specific business areas and Responsible Media Forum, the European Publishers Council (EPC), functions. In addition, we created guidelines giving practical the Swedish Media Publishers’ Association (TU) and the Norwegian examples of how and where corruption practices may occur. When Media Businesses' Association (MBL). The purpose of these entering into agreements with new business partners, the Legal memberships is to unite with our peers and actively participate in and Compliance function assesses the need to perform full or the media debate, as well as formulate and put forward questions limited due diligence procedures based on the nature and scope of and statements of importance to the industry. the acquisition. Group Treasury is always involved in transactions, and ensures compliance with our principles regarding payments to As part of our efforts to develop and support a sustainable society, low-tax countries and other payment-related issues. we are members of, or have initiated co-operation with, several organizations. When selecting partners or organizations to support, we focus on organizations that contribute to making an 21 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT impact in areas that are closely linked to our material sustainability strategy ensuring that our users receive value in return for their aspects. During 2019 we supported or initiated co-operation with data and on providing transparency and efficient control options the following organizations: relating to data. We make extensive efforts to ensure that we process data in compliance with applicable privacy regulations One Planet Network: A network initiated by the UN to meet the and our users’ expectations. 10-Year Framework of Programmes on Sustainable Consumption and Production (SDG 12). Our work on privacy and integrity is led by our Chief Privacy and Data Trends Officer, who is supported by a central team consisting No Hate: A non-profit Norwegian organization trying to handle of privacy experts and appointed Data Protection Officers (DPOs) and prevent online hate in new ways. for all our three business areas. Employees receive privacy training Skift Business Climate Leaders in Norway: A business-driven to ensure necessary awareness and competence in this area. climate initiative whose purpose is to be a driving force achieving During 2019 more than 300 Schibsted employees received training Norway’s climate goals by 2030. in privacy and data protection. Our extensive privacy program has the following key objectives: The Circularity Gap Reporting Initiative: An initiative that yearly publishes a global circularity metric and keys for transition to • Ensure compliance with our legal obligations on a continuous global circularity. In 2020 it will launch a Norwegian report initiated basis. by Circular Norway. • Guide Schibsted’s data-driven innovations by executing on privacy by design across our product and tech organization, Norwegian PEN: An organization that supports writers and embedding privacy into our corporate culture, tech stack and promotes freedom of expression worldwide. During 2019 it products. established a Freedom of Expression Fund to which the founders • Provide efficient and automated tools to empower users’ (including Schibsted) each contributed NOK 1 million. control over their personal data by, for example deciding how their personal data is used or by accessing or deleting personal data. Societal impact • Maintain and increase end-user and public competence, Due to our size and market presence, our services and operations knowledge and trust related to our use of data. have significant societal impact. Having such an impact implies considerable social responsibility. Our diverse services and We conduct close and ongoing dialogue with regulators and products have different types of impact on society. At its best, our legislators to understand and influence rules and practices. In journalism contributes to a functioning democracy by diminishing addition, we continuously collaborate with other companies on the gap between what citizens know and what they need to know developing industry standards in the best interests of our about the world around them. Our online financial services have consumers and the business. dramatically strengthened our consumers’ influence and power Schibsted has extensive reporting routines for handling complaints and our marketplaces facilitate an efficient and transparent and data breaches. Furthermore, we have extensive measures in market for goods, jobs, education and real estate. place for detecting vulnerabilities and thereby preventing In addition to our positive contribution, we also have a great breaches. In 2019 we had 24 incidents categorized as personal data responsibility to minimize any negative impact associated with our breaches, of which three were reported to the relevant data services. Our journalists strive every day to produce factual and protection authorities. One situation was reported from a user, reliable media content, and our marketplaces and other digital remaining were identified internally. All situations were solved services have an extensive agenda for continually preventing without any severe consequences and a review was conducted to malicious use of our services, such as fraud and data theft. We also prevent similar situations happening in the future. We received no play an important role in informing users of the products they use substantiated complaints regarding unauthorized access to and buy and of the associated risks. personal data. During 2020 our target is to have zero incidents categorized as personal data breaches, and we will continue to facilitate and take A trusted digital partner part in the public debate on the data-driven society, responsible In a digital age, transparency, safety and integrity are prerequisites data and artificial intelligence as well as privacy. We will continue for building trust and a sustainable business model. This applies to be highly engaged in discussions, both at national levels and in not only to our journalistic process and our online services, but also EU, on how we can ensure European entities´ ability to compete to areas such as privacy and integrity, user trust, fraud protection with the international data giants. and user security. Fraud protection Privacy and integrity Across our various brands, from our personal finance companies, Schibsted’s strategic focus on technology and advanced data such as Lendo and Compricer to our leading marketplaces such as analytics aims to create insights that benefit our users through Finn and Blocket, dedicated resources focus on providing a building more relevant, better and cheaper products and services. protected community. Our fraud protection controls for our Over the past year we have worked on updating Schibsted’s data finance services include complying with regulatory obligations, 22 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT building automated security processes into our product services management system is built on industry-proven security-best and providing dedicated customer support to protect our users. practices, with dedicated security professionals integrating security-best practices from recognized industry standards, (ISO The marketplace brands provide quality assurance to continuously 27001, NIST Cybersecurity Framework and OWASP). offer high-quality products and services to our users. These activities include security protection to continuously scan, detect Schibsted actively maintains security policies and guidelines and remove fraudulent ads and provide dedicated resources in our throughout our operations and brands. This comprehensive customer support centers to respond to any customer complaints. security management approach entails constant protection across We are dedicated to protecting our user communities against the following security domain activities: fraud, building a safe and robust set of professional tools to • Security compliance and risk management continuously monitor the safety and reputation of our marketplace • Access management security controls activities. • Application security management The quality and integrity of our media content across our media • Secure product application design and architecture houses is fundamental to our heritage and our future. Fraud • Network security management protection is essential to maintaining the trust of our readers and • Vulnerability lifecycle management our advertisers; it is critical to our mission. Schibsted's editorial • Third-party security management leaders are seasoned professionals, with years of experience in • Security monitoring and security incident management capturing critical news and bringing information to our various • Security awareness and security training reader communities. We embed editorial controls to ensure the accuracy and integrity of our news. To protect our readers across Responsible marketing our leading media brands, Schibsted operates identity and Marketing of our own services and lease space for marketing of payment applications to protect user activities and transactions. other organizations’ services and products on our platforms These systems are designed to best-practice standards, with constitute a central part of our business. Responsible marketing is regular security monitoring and security testing to protect user crucial in our efforts to ensure that our brands maintain our users’ data. Our media houses constantly moderate community debates trust. and comments on our community forums to protect our readers. We ensure that any threatening, harassing, hateful or illegal A significant proportion of revenues from our business areas derive comments are removed, and our media houses are mandated to from advertising and partnerships. As a platform that close down discussions if deemed necessary. Our editors and their communicates other organizations’ marketing messages, we have staff are dedicated to operating media houses that aspire to a responsibility to ensure that these services and products follow accurately and continuously inform our community while also our internal guidelines and comply with national and EU marketing protecting our users. In 2020 we will identify possibilities for our regulations and guidelines. For example, in Norway the Marketing digital media operations to implement a digital tool developed by Control Act forbids marketing directed at children, and in Sweden the No Hate organization to strengthen our fight against the Swedish Consumer Agency has compiled rules and practices inappropriate comments online. governing marketing to children and minors. User security Each of our companies has formulated its own guidelines for Schibsted’s security management system focuses on continuously external advertising, and the general manager/publisher or editor protecting our users across our portfolio of companies and the of each company is responsible for ensuring that marketing critical brands used in our customers’ daily lives. This system’s content follows the guidelines. It is crucial for our media houses to purpose is to protect our brand communities against digital and ensure independence of their journalistic content in respect of cybersecurity risks. Our security management system presents a advertisers and partners. Our media houses in Norway comply with comprehensive set of procedures and technical controls to the Ethical Code of Practice for the Press, which also contains rules continuously improve our ability to provide leading products in a on marketing. secure manner. This approach provides a continuous means to As we also market our own brands, we have a responsibility for analyze digital security risks and effectively manage risks to what we offer to the market and how we describe our services. maintain the trust of our users and user communities. Some of our financial services, such as Lendo, are subject to more Schibsted’s Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) coordinates stringent national regulations on how they may communicate their data security activities across all our companies. This is a proactive marketing messages. The general managers for each brand are approach to protecting our brands and user data across all layers responsible for meeting our ethical standards when it comes to of our businesses, products and services. We are committed to marketing. securing our brands and our users across our innovative Our main markets (Sweden, Norway and Finland) all have technology services, and to serve as a vital digital partner in our regulatory bodies (governmental or self-regulatory) that receive users’ daily lives. complaints about advertising and that assess whether commercial Our employees focus on the need to protect our users and readers advertising complies with requirements. Some complaints related against security threats and vulnerabilities. Our security to Schibsted and our brands were lodged in 2019. In Sweden, the Swedish Advertising Ombudsman (a self-regulatory body) 23 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT reviewed three cases, two of which were upheld. In Norway, the mainly to the large number of #metoo-related issues. All Consumer Authority and the Market Council (governmental complaints are taken seriously and studied to avoid upheld organizations) received no cases linked to Schibsted brands. In complaints in the future. Finland, the Finnish Chamber of Commerce (self-regulatory body) Promoting freedom of expression monitors marketing practices, and received no complaints linked Schibsted’s Articles of Association state that the shareholders shall to Schibsted brands. No complaints have resulted in any fines or enable Schibsted to operate its information business in such a way penalties. that editorial freedom and integrity are fully ensured. In 2011, In 2020 we will continue our efforts by establishing a cross-brand Schibsted’s Editors’ Forum adopted a framework for editorial and cross-functional project team to define the need for and the governance in the Group’s publishing businesses. This framework scope of a responsible marketing policy and measurements in this safeguards the principle of editorial freedom. area. We will also continue our dialogue with policymakers In addition, our media houses defined more detailed in-house regarding responsible marketing to develop standards for the ethics on editorial matters. Some of our media houses prepare media industry. editorial reports in which they account for decisions by the selfdisciplinary councils and legal procedures, and how they work to protect sources and journalistic methodology. To increase Independent and high-quality journalism transparency and the readers’ understanding of how editorial Freedom of speech and a free press are fundamental in a choices and decisions are made, our media houses have created democratic society. At Schibsted we are very proud of how our blogs, websites and even podcasts where our editors and media houses reach millions of readers, digitally and in print. With journalists speak openly about the dilemmas and choices they face this outreach comes democratic responsibilities. We want to when making editorial decisions. contribute to a more democratic and transparent society by providing independent news and information as well as promoting freedom of speech. When we do our job best, our words can change Empowering people to make informed choices society for the better; such is the power of journalism. Good Through our services we enable Finns, Norwegians and Swedes to journalism exposes inequality, opens eyes, puts pressure on make informed choices and access reliable information. politicians to act and ensures that people’s voices are heard. This Uncertainty about who is behind information is growing, and is the core of Schibsted’s media houses and represents a unique Schibsted’s role as a trustworthy and reliable source of information tool to empower people in their daily lives. Our media houses are is becoming increasingly important. members of international global networks promoting high-quality investigative journalism, such as the International Consortium of Empowering people through journalism Investigative Journalists (ICIJ) and the European Investigative For our media houses empowerment means to enlighten and give Collaborations (EIG). Schibsted is also engaged in combating the our readers accessible, transparent, educational and balanced spread of fake news. media content. In a time when everyone can share their thoughts Since 2017 we have organized The Power of Journalism event online, our role becomes increasingly important. Guided by our together with the Tinius Trust. This event celebrates journalism editorial guidelines, we act responsibly and take our role seriously. and its dynamic future, bringing together industry leaders, Our editors are responsible for ensuring how we impact our partners and colleagues to share ideas, discuss important issues, readers. One specific topic that has been in the spotlight the past inspire each other, and strengthen ties between those of us who year is the climate crisis. During 2020 some of our journalists will believe in the future of journalism. In 2019 the event was held in receive education to increase our knowledge and capacity to both Oslo and Stockholm and was attended by 338 internal and report on the climate crisis in an accurate and accessible way. We 119 external stakeholders. Our goal for 2020 is to establish an will also continue our cooperation with the Responsible Media editorial project to define the societal and environmental impact Forum to develop measurements on how our media content is of our journalism. impacting its surrounding. In Norway and Sweden editors are accountable for any Consumer empowerment, transparency and efficient infringements of the law, and self-disciplinary bodies have been marketplaces established to uphold their respective codes of ethics. These selfPower is shifting from companies to consumers. The information regulatory bodies are founded on the principles of freedom of revolution has given consumers enormous possibilities to make speech and independence of the state. In Norway and Sweden any informed choices, and it has contributed to lower prices and complaints about our newspapers are reported to the Norwegian greater accessibility for consumers. Our marketplaces create Press Complaints Commission and the Swedish Press Council transparent, reliable and efficient markets for goods, jobs, respectively. In Norway, 86 (2018: 65) complaints were filed against education and housing. As a provider of these types of our Norwegian newspapers in 2019, and 67 (2018: 71) in Sweden. marketplaces, we have a great responsibility and possibility to Eight (2018: 3) complaints against our Norwegian newspapers were further strengthen consumers’ power, and this is something that upheld and five (2018:14) in Sweden. The number of complaints in drives us in our daily business and development of new services. Sweden that were upheld reached an all-time high in 2018, due Through our price comparison services and financial services we 24 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT empower the consumer by enabling access to comparisons, turn a spotlight on the innovative forces being unleashed to stop insights and independent consumer information. During 2020, we climate change. They shifted the focus from current climate will continue our journey to strengthen our users and increase our disasters to find out what was actually being done. Among others, positive societal impact by identifying group-wide definitions of they found the carbon vacuum cleaner on Iceland, an old volcano how our services contribute to society and finding ways of that had been transformed into a giant battery, and the world's measuring our impact. biggest solar cell plant in the middle of the Moroccan desert. During the autumn the journey set off again, focusing on important Stories that made a difference climate innovations in Sweden. The journalistic pieces ranged from Every year our journalists publish remarkable stories that a professor who produces his own petrol and hides his invention contribute to social change and public debate. Presented below is from foreign industrial spies to a fish that is cultivated on land; a a summary of some of the stories that made a difference in 2019. house that is fully self-sufficient in electricity; how hydrogen The Tinder swindler – VG (Norway) technology can revolutionize the market; and cutting-edge solar Private jets, fraud and Tinder: These are the key words to describe power technology. The readers were ecstatic, and the amount of the story about the Tinder swindler Simon Leviev. He has seduced e-mails the reporter received from tech-interested readers was and swindled young women for millions and was a fugitive from overwhelming. justice in several countries. He finds his victims on the dating app Initiatives that made a difference Tinder and then seduces them with a luxurious lifestyle. They We are proud of how we contribute to society through running our believe they are dating a wealthy businessman, but women he has core business and related initiatives. Some of our initiatives that swindled before are paying for everything. Norway’s biggest made a difference in 2019 are presented below. newspaper, VG, has spent six months chasing him across several continents. They found him in Germany, at one of Europe’s most megtildeg.no – Helthjem (Norway) fashionable hotels. The story about the Tinder swindler has been The consumer-to-consumer shipping product launched by read and shared all over the world. At the time of publication, the Helthjem, called the “meg-til-deg” (me-to-you) service, proved an incredible storyline, combined with its innovative presentation, unprecedented success in 2019. The service opens up the existing made it the most-read article of all time in VG. Since we published, newspaper distribution network to consumers wanting to sell used new victims have come forward and told their stories. Before and goods through our marketplaces. The online booking solution is after our initial publication we have interviewed women and simple and intuitive: users simply enter a five-digit code on their families in Israel, the Netherlands, Germany, England, Sweden, package and leave it on their doorstep. The package will be Denmark, Norway and the US who were scammed by the same delivered to the receiver using the distribution network. Research man. Simon Leviev was arrested in Greece for using a false passport shows that 85 percent of users use the service to sell used items in July 2019. That created a lot of media attention around him. He through marketplaces in Norway. The “meg-til-deg” service is currently in prison in his home country of Israel serving a facilitates more sales of used goods across geographies as 55 sentence for fraud crimes committed there. percent of users sold more due to the convenience of the service. The circular economy in Norway, especially reuse and resell, is Stories of poverty – Bergens Tidende (Norway) growing, and in 2019 Helthjem saw a 2,000 percent increase in Bergens Tidende compiled stories of people living in poverty in volume for this service. “meg-til-deg” has now become an western Norway, in which they tell their stories in their own words. established way of sending packages between private citizens. The Bergens Tidende gave a voice to people who are single mothers, service will now focus on growing geographically and providing a unemployed, low-paid workers, people in debt, recipients of social more integrated solution in the popular marketplaces. welfare assistance, disabled or who were receiving work assessment allowance. In addition, researchers, politicians and aid White Monday instead of Black Friday Blocket (Sweden) organizations highlighted different perspectives on poverty. The Black Friday has become one of the biggest sales days of the year, result was a series entitled Stories of Poverty. The stories reveal the and it is exclusively newly manufactured goods that are sold, embarrassment and shame many feel from not having enough especially electronics. To try to restrain this trend, White Monday money. For parents it can also be a matter of wanting to spare their (the Monday prior to Black Friday) was launched, a children from feeling financially insecure. It is almost surprising countermovement to Black Friday. From the start, Blocket has how many paths to poverty there are in such a rich country as been proud to support this initiative in order to encourage more Norway; illness, bad luck or simply bad choices. The common people to act circular rather than linear. In 2019 we therefore denominator is that a lack of money can pervade every aspect of halved advertising rates for the Electronics category. We also one’s everyday life, yet many people are unaware that friends, released Begagnateffekten.se, an illustrative website that neighbors or even family members are facing serious financial highlights the positive effects of buying second-hand. Through problems. Begagnateffekten.se, our own site, social media, influencers, events and a tactically driven campaign (where we shouted sell, The climate change in Sweden – Svenska Dagbladet (Sweden) sell, sell instead of new consumption's buy, buy, buy) we managed In the spring of 2019, a reporter and a photographer traveled the to get more people than ever before to take part in White Monday world in search of innovative climate technologies. They wanted to and buy used instead of new. 25 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Take care of your things – Finn (Norway) industry has a major impact on sustainability and is therefore an In 2019 FINN teamed up with Friends of the Earth Norway area where everyone can and should make a difference. During one (Naturvernforbundet) and launched an awareness campaign (take year, 800 tonnes of second-hand clothes were sold through Tori, care of your things) aimed at spreading awareness amongst keeping them in the loop of the circular economy. Norwegians about the importance of making sustainable consumer choices such as buying second-hand and repairing clothes instead of buying new. The campaign was a success and Our people our goal of raising awareness was met. Environmental Schibsted relies on highly skilled people to succeed. Acting organizations, research communities and influencers were responsibly and offering an attractive working environment are brought together as part of a further collaboration with Friends of crucial for attracting and retaining the right people. At Schibsted the Earth Norway to discuss how we as a society can live more we therefore strive to maintain the highest standards in what we sustainably and environmentally friendly. A clothes swap was and our stakeholders believe should be prioritized regarding our organized, and FINN app users were encouraged to participate in people. This includes promoting diversity and equality, skills Earth Hour and the Climate Roar. We also provided input to the development, knowledge sharing, and a safe and healthy work government’s circular economy strategy. environment that supports a work-life balance and employee Second-hand Fashion Show Tori (Finland) integrity. To celebrate the 10th anniversary of Tori, a Second-hand Fashion At year-end, Schibsted had 5,006 (2018: 4,931) employees (full-time Show was organized. It was the first of its kind in Finland, and the equivalents) in 9 countries. Most of our employees are full-time models displayed outfits bought from the Tori marketplace, workers employed at our offices. The exceptions are employees demonstrating key Tori values: promoting smart and sustainable with short-term contracts in our media operations, our newspaper consumption. Using professional models as well as Tori employees distributors in Norway and employees at our printing plants in and users, we showed the audience that they can be sustainable Norway. and fashionable at the same time, highlighting how the clothing Employee data <30 years 30-50 years >50 years Total Total number of employees by age group 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Norway 481 521 1,815 1,807 671 679 2,967 3,007 Sweden 384 400 1,053 979 187 187 1,624 1,565 Other European countries 149 162 261 197 5 415 359 Total 1,014 1,082 3,129 2,983 863 866 5,006 4,931 % change by age category -6% 5% -0.4 % 2% Male Female Total Total number of employees by gender 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Norway 1,935 65% 1,979 66% 1,032 35% 1,028 34% 2,967 3,007 Sweden 958 59% 932 60% 666 41% 634 40% 1,624 1,565 Other European countries 294 71% 245 68% 121 29% 114 32% 415 359 Total 3,187 64% 3,156 64% 1,819 36% 1,775 36% 5,006 4,931 No significant part of our work is performed by seasonal workers or workers who are not employees (external consultants or freelancers). One reason for the increased number of employees in Other European countries is reorganizations between companies related to the split with Adevinta. New hires and employee turnover New employee hires (rate%) Employee turnover (rate%) New hires and employee turnover 2019 2018 2019 2018 Total number 167 159 189 125 Male 98 58% 93 59% 112 59% 78 62% Female 70 42% 66 41% 77 41% 47 38% <30 years 73 44% 70 44% 55 29% 40 32% 30-50 years 90 54% 82 52% 115 61% 63 50% >50 years 4 2% 7 4% 20 10% 22 17% Norway 93 56% 97 61% 106 56% 78 62% Sweden 55 33% 51 32% 50 26% 34 27% Other European countries 19 11% 12 7% 33 17% 13 10% Data includes transfers between companies within Schibsted. People strategy and employee representation psychosocially) while promoting work-life balance as well as Our goal is to build a world-class workplace for our employees, one diversity and equality. Our people strategy aims to be a that is intellectual, virtual and aspirational, and that offers a safe competitive advantage for Schibsted. We believe that our and healthy working environment (both physically and employees represent the Group’s most important asset. 26 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT To develop Schibsted as an attractive employer, we engage with serve. That is why Schibsted is committed to incorporating values our employees and value-active employee representation. of diversity and inclusion into every aspect of the company with the Employees are represented on Schibsted’s Board, currently by speed and passion that characterize our organization. We want three representatives. Two of three employee representatives people at Schibsted to challenge the ordinary and find good ideas must be elected in Norway, while the third representative should and achieve great things. To achieve this, we depend on a represent a country outside Norway where Schibsted has its most workforce with a diverse mindset that contributes with different extensive operations, currently Sweden. A further three employee experiences, backgrounds and perspectives. Diversity at Schibsted representatives in the Group are elected and act on behalf of all means all the differences and similarities that make us unique as employees, both unionized and non-unionized. Their function is individuals. laid down in the central Norwegian collective bargaining As clearly stated in our Code of Conduct and in our Discrimination, agreements. The employee representatives protect the interests of Bullying and Harassment Policy, Schibsted has zero tolerance for the employees in cases that are dealt with at Group level. These harassment of any kind. This includes all forms of verbal, digital or representatives are discussion partners for management to assure physical harassment. Our Code of Conduct includes a link to a the quality of decisions and processes. whistle-blowing function called Speak Up that enables anonymous As stipulated in our Code of Conduct, Schibsted’s employees have reporting on misconduct, breaches or potential violations. The full freedom of association and may organize themselves as they Speak Up function is handled by an external party to secure the choose. Schibsted’s European Works Council (EWC) meets twice a anonymity and personal integrity of our employees. year and serves as our forum for information, dialogue and To ensure a diverse, inclusive and non-discriminatory workplace consultation between employees and the Schibsted Executive where all our employees enjoy equal opportunities and feel safe at Team. In 2019 the EWC consisted of 35 representatives (23 men and work, Schibsted offers unconscious bias training. To make 12 women) from 12 countries. From 2020 the EWC will be split ourselves aware of the biases we might have in our product between Schibsted and Adevinta and Schibsted will continue with development, we also offer unconscious bias training for 22 representatives. Collective bargaining agreements or working algorithmic bias. During 2019, 183 (2018: 599) of our employees environment committees are in place in all operations to ensure participated in our unconscious bias training. excellent working conditions and to prevent discrimination against employees. 73 percent of all employees were covered by a During 2018 we launched several policies on diversity and equality. collective bargaining agreement at the end of 2019 (2018: 76 In 2019 we focused on education and implementation of the percent). policies in our everyday business operations. The new recruitment policy promotes diversity and inclusion by encouraging managers to build diverse teams. Processes should be equal, fair, unbiased Promoting diversity and equality and inclusive. Managers should aim for gender equality in all At Schibsted we are convinced that our success depends on longlists, shortlists and final interviews. All candidates should meet diversity and equality. To fulfill our mission to empower people in at least one female and one male interviewer. Implementation of their daily lives, we need a workforce that represents the users we and training in these policies will continue in 2020. Composition of governance bodies and operations by gender Male Female Total Total number of employees by gender 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Board of Directors 6 60% 6 60% 4 40% 4 40% 10 10 Of which shareholder elected 4 57% 4 57% 3 43% 3 43% 7 7 Operations Top management 153 62% 143 62% 94 38% 87 38% 247 230 Nordic Marketplaces 16 64% 15 63% 9 36% 9 38% 25 24 News Media 56 57% 56 61% 42 43% 36 39% 98 92 Next 66 65% 52 65% 35 35% 28 35% 101 80 Headquarters/Other 15 65% 20 59% 8 35% 14 41% 23 34 Operations Other managers 425 58% 371 63% 307 42% 219 37% 732 590 Nordic Marketplaces 73 60% 86 69% 48 40% 39 31% 121 125 News Media 225 53% 178 57% 196 47% 135 43% 421 313 Next 59 61% 51 65% 38 39% 27 35% 97 78 Headquarters/Other 68 73% 56 76% 25 27% 18 24% 93 74 Operations Other employees 2,609 65% 2,644 64% 1,418 35% 1,467 36% 4,027 4,111 Nordic Marketplaces 388 63% 444 68% 226 37% 213 32% 614 657 News Media 993 57% 1,137 57% 747 43% 859 43% 1,740 1,996 Next 827 72% 747 71% 318 28% 301 29% 1,145 1,048 Headquarters/Other 402 76% 316 77% 127 24% 95 23% 529 411 Operations Total 3,187 64% 3,158 64% 1,819 36% 1,773 36% 5,006 4,931 Headquarters/Other includes part of Schibsted Product & Tech. The changes in total number of other managers and other employees for News Media and Next is mainly related to changes in classification of companies and redefinition of other employees. 27 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Age and gender split by business areas <30 years 30-50 years >50 years Total 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Board of Directors 5 50% 6 60% 5 50% 4 40% 10 10 Operations Male 612 19% 635 20% 1,986 62% 1,916 61% 589 18% 605 19% 3,187 3,156 employees Nordic Marketplaces 79 17% 104 19% 365 77% 407 75% 33 7% 33 6% 477 544 News Media 122 10% 174 13% 738 58% 763 56% 413 32% 433 32% 1,273 1,371 Next 294 31% 264 31% 539 57% 465 55% 120 13% 121 14% 953 850 Headquarters/Other 117 24% 93 24% 345 71% 281 72% 23 5% 18 5% 484 392 Operations Female 402 22% 447 25% 1,143 63% 1,067 60% 274 15% 261 15% 1,819 1,775 employees Nordic Marketplaces 68 24% 64 24% 195 69% 183 70% 20 7% 15 6% 283 262 News Media 138 14% 184 18% 626 64% 625 61% 221 22% 221 21% 985 1,030 Next 149 38% 163 46% 218 56% 175 49% 24 6% 18 5% 391 356 Headquarters/Other 47 29% 36 28% 104 65% 84 66% 9 6% 7 6% 160 127 Operations Total 1,014 20% 1,082 22% 3,129 63% 2,983 60% 863 17% 866 18% 5,006 4,931 Nordic Marketplaces 147 19% 168 21% 560 74% 590 73% 53 7% 48 6% 760 806 News Media 260 12% 358 15% 1,364 60% 1,388 58% 634 28% 654 27% 2,258 2,400 Next 443 33% 427 35% 757 56% 640 53% 144 11% 139 12% 1,344 1,206 Headquarters/Other 164 25% 129 25% 449 70% 365 70% 32 5% 25 5% 644 519 Headquarters/Other includes part of Schibsted Product & Tech. The system is not able to split employee category by age group; hence this is excluded from the report. Equality at Schibsted their equality figures to a software program and received an Our Board is composed of 40 percent women, as required by the analysis of the status of equality in their respective companies Norwegian Limited Liabilities Companies Act. Schibsted has set along with a list of actions to improve equality. clear goals against which actual progress is measured. There are long-term and short-term goals on improving gender equality for both divisions and group functions. Schibsted has set a target of a Skills development and performance reviews 60:40 gender ratio in all leadership roles by the end of 2020. By 31 To ensure innovation, long-term sustainable growth and an December 2019, the share of females in top management positions attractive workplace, we need to offer good opportunities for skills was 38 percent. The proportion of females in other managers development and performance reviews to our employees. We also increased from 37 percent to 42 percent. This increase pertains to need to promote sharing our knowledge internally. News Media and Next. Our global people function and local HR business partner offer In 2018 we performed a mapping of a potential gender pay gap in several face-to-face training programs, including our S-PACE parts of the Group. The mapping revealed a gender pay gap for training. S-PACE is a management program based on PACE, the average pay levels, but this is largely attributed to more women core leadership principles in Schibsted. Great leadership in working in low-pay positions (such as support) and to more men in Schibsted means being People-driven, Agile, Collaborative and leadership and specialist positions. In 2019 we focused on setting Entrepreneurial. The program is designed to train these leadership up a common process for performing an annual mapping of a behaviors and attitudes in order to create a great leadership potential gender pay gap all Schibsted companies in Sweden. The culture in Schibsted. With a great leadership culture we will aim is not only to make mapping of a potential gender pay gap succeed in the future and deliver on our strategy. In 2016 2018 a easier, but also to improve quality and find better tools for total of 760 leaders (including Adevinta) participated in S-PACE. In performing comparisons and analyses across the Group. 2019 the program had 284 participants (excluding Adevinta). The HR departments in each company are responsible for this The Schibsted Future Advisory Board was launched at the end of process, partnering with the Compensation and Benefit 2019. Fifteen employees were selected to work on strategic issues department to provide support in discussions on conclusions as for the Schibsted Executive Management Team for a period of six well as on regulations and methods. To support our development months. The purpose is to give management valuable input and and analysis in this area, we cooperate with the trade unions and strengthen our innovation capability with talented and aspiring have implemented a new online tool. In addition to identifying Schibsted employees. In addition, the participants will earn a salary differences between genders, we also take a closer look at certificate in disruptive strategy from Harvard Business School the gender balance in managerial positions professions or Online. divisions. With this new set-up we have seen an improvement in the To ensure personalized development programs and well-being quality of a potential gender pay gap mapping and an increase in among our employees, we conduct individual performance and the number of companies that have conducted these career development reviews at least once a year, and more investigations. This work will continue in 2020. frequently in some functions and countries. According to our Schibsted is a member of a non-profit organization called policy, all employees should complete development dialogue with #SheGotThis. The organization was founded in 2015 with the aim their managers at least once a year. During 2019, 85 percent of our of addressing gender stereotypes and unconscious discrimination employees completed performance reviews with their manager in society. In 2019 several of the Norwegian companies submitted (2018: 63 percent). Better reporting structures and higher 28 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT awareness of our policy has contributed to the increase, but we to health and safety in all our operations. In 2019, 37 (2018: 53) have still room for improvements to meet our policy. To evaluate injuries were reported in our printing and distribution operations, our role as an employer, we conduct employee surveys at least mainly incidents in connection with delivering newspapers and once a year, and more frequently in some of our operations. During minor personal injuries such as cuts. 45 (2018:24) cases of ill health 2019 the employee satisfaction scores for our companies showed were reported for all our companies during 2019, related mainly to an overall positive trend compared to previous year. In 2020 we aim stress. Better reporting structures has contributed to the increase to implement several new tools and systems to evaluate our role as compared to last year. employer and support our employees and their development. We Health and safety in our printing and distribution will establish a group-wide tool for career development paths, a learning and development system to follow up completed training, operations and a new employee engagement survey system. All workers hired by Schibsted Trykk (printing) and Distribusjon (distribution) are covered by our systematic approach to Performance reviews by gender and employee category evaluating, preventing, communicating routines and following up Total Rate % Total Rate % number number identified health and safety risks. All operations within Schibsted 2019 2018 Trykk and Distribusjon have an appointed health and safety Total 4,272 85% 3,100 63% committee. Employees and management alike are represented on Male 2,633 83% 2,020 64% the committee, and they meet on a quarterly basis, or more often Female 1,639 90% 1,080 61% if needed. Relevant information about health and safety is Company top 201 81% 134 58% communicated to employees through regular e-mail updates, management meetings and through updated routines. In our regular meetings, Other leaders 655 89% 403 68% at which appointed employee representatives participate, we Other employees 3,416 85% 2,563 62% oversee our systematic work on health and safety, review incident The percent rate of performance and career development reviews is calculated based on total number of employees for total, male and female. For top management, other records and identify areas of improvements. Appointed managers and other employees, the percent rate is calculated as total number who representatives, as well as other workers in daily operations are received performance and career development reviews based on number employees trained in health and safety on a regular basis. In general, no in each employee category. external parties are involved in our preventative and reactive health and safety work, but external consultants may be involved A safe and healthy working environment when deemed necessary. To ensure an attractive workplace and to retain our employees, we For Schibsted Distribusjon quarterly assessments of local are constantly improving our workplace so that we can provide a operations are used to identify risks and to follow up previously safe and healthy working environment that facilitates a work-life reported risks. In addition to these local assessments, assessments balance, minimizes stress, prevents physical accidents and of new investments are made to prevent incidents, and there are, protects employee integrity. at least, yearly meetings with regional representatives and Several work-life balance and flexible working arrangements are in management. All employees are provided adequate protective place, though they vary across our countries of operations. equipment. Inspired by our Scandinavian roots, most of our locations offer The main risks for workers within our distribution network relate to fitness activities and wellness grants, generous paid vacation and fall accidents in bad weather conditions and threats during nightparental leave as well as flexible working hours and flexible time distribution. All employees are informed about these risks and workplace schemes to facilitate, for example, combining work and receive continuous information on how to prevent them and how parenting. to handle incidents that occur. All employees receive clear Parental leave instructions on how to handle emergency situations. These Male Female situations shall be reported directly to the manager and if needed, 2019 to the police. The manager shall register all incidents and the Employees entitled to parental leave 3,187 1,819 underlying reasons. Employees involved in such incidents will, if Employees that took parental leave more than 1 189 207 considered necessary, either be placed on sick leave to recover or month be moved within the organization to a position where they feel Employees that returned to work during the year 114 91 Data is not available for 2018. safe. Health and safety in our operations Environmental impact Each company is responsible for conducting a risk assessment At Schibsted we strive to minimize our environmental footprint and identifying occupational health and safety risks. Operations at the to empower people to make environmentally friendly choices in printing plants and newspaper distribution units pose the highest their daily lives. By informing our readers about environmental risk of work-related injuries while our offices pose a risk of ill health issues and facilitating circular consumption for our users, we in the form of stress. Following strict national regulations and our promote informed and environmentally friendly consumption own risk-based approach, we have a well implemented and patterns. How we manage our environmental impact is stated in systemized approach to inform, prevent and identify risks related 29 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT our Group Environmental Policy. The policy is based on the in Norway. In Sweden, Blocket will launch a book on how users can principles of the UN Global Compact and includes initiatives to prolong the lifespan of their goods by taking care of, reselling and promote greater environmental responsibility, use of repairing products. environmentally friendly technologies and application of the precautionary approach. The Head of Sustainability in Schibsted is responsible for our compliance with the policy and the Energy consumption and digital services implementation of sound environmental practices in all our A considerable share of Schibsted’s revenues comes from digital operations. In 2019 we adopted new targets for our environmental services, and the digitalization of the media sector will continue. aspects. Schibsted regularly reports its environmental Digital services, such as online newspapers, financial services and performance to the financial market, such as the Carbon Disclosure marketplaces, consume energy in many stages of the value chain. Project (CDP), and scored Bin the latest report. Schibsted is working on minimizing this impact as much as possible by minimizing our own energy consumption, designing services that are energy efficient, and when viable, choosing Our marketplaces, the epicenter of circular environmentally friendly data centers. Energy consumption from our data centers and our users’ consumption of our digital services consumption are identified as the stages that consume the most energy and Schibsted empowers people to make economically sound and generate most CO2e emissions. The digital value chain for media environmentally sustainable choices. With three marketplaces for companies and its environmental impact is related to many circular consumption in the Nordics, we empower and inform uncertainties. To map the carbon footprint of the digital value consumers in their daily lives to act in more environmentally chain, Schibsted is participating in the DIMPACT project. The friendly ways. In 2015 we rolled out the Second Hand Effect project project aims to develop a tool for tracking carbon footprints, and in cooperation with Adevinta and the Swedish Environmental the members include researchers from Bristol University and nine Research Institute (IVL). With the Second Hand Effect project international media companies including Schibsted. Schibsted wants to raise awareness about the environmental benefits of reusing and repairing items and minimizing waste. The work has been driven by a fundamental question: how much Environmental impact of our office operations material and CO2e emissions can potentially be saved through In our office operations we focus on monitoring and minimizing second-hand trade if each second-hand product replaces the energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions derived from production of a new one? Since 2015, more and more marketplaces our business travels. Energy consumption by our office operations around the world have joined the project to show the and external data centers accounted for 4 percent of our total environmental benefits of circular consumption. As of 2020, 12 greenhouse gas emissions in 2019. During 2019, our business marketplaces are now part of the project The total amount of CO2e travels represented 5 percent of our total greenhouse gas saved through the marketplaces in 2019 was 25 million tonnes emissions. We continuously work on minimizing the need for CO2e, 1.4 million tonnes of plastics, 9.5 million tonnes of steel and travelling between offices, mainly by improving our video 0.9 million tonnes of aluminum. For 2020 and beyond, our insights conferencing facilities and monitoring our business travels. from this project will guide us in our business development and communication to ensure that we are maximizing our positive The amount of waste generated from our office operations is environmental impact by enabling circular consumption. Read significantly less than that from our printing plants and is therefore more about the Second Hand Effect project at not a prioritized aspect. We have procedures in place for the safe www.schibsted.com/sustainability/ . For 2020, we will also handling and recycling of electronic waste. For example, in some continue with our contribution to analyze and gain new insights countries we have partnerships with companies that wipe within the area of circular economy. Together with The Circularity computer hard drives and sell them second-hand instead of Gap Reporting Initiative, Circular Norway and other partners, we disposing of them. will launch a new report about the status of the circular economy Energy consumption within Schibsted (MWh) 2019 2018 % change Consumption of electricity, heating, cooling 35,417 35,594 -0% of which electricity for printing plants 21,570 21,939 -2% of which electricity for offices and internal data centers 10,930 10,457 5% of which heating for offices and internal data centers* 2,610 2,856 -9% of which cooling for offices and internal data centers* 307 342 -10% *The 2018 figures for heating and cooling for our operations in Sweden has been restated following updated data from supplier. 30 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Greenhouse gas emissions (tonnes of CO2e)* 2019 2018 % change Direct Scope 1 emissions 262 270 -3% Consumption by company own cars 262 270 -3% of which distribution of newspapers in Norway 253 253 0% Indirect Scope 2 emissions 1,185 1,187 -0% Consumption of electricity, heating, cooling 1,185 1,187 -0% of which electricity for printing plants Norway 174 177 -2% Other indirect Scope 3 emissions 31,495 32,915 -4% Leased and privately owned cars 3,720 3,769 -1% of which distribution of newspapers in Norway 3,436 3,381 2% Business travel flights 1,488 1,548 -4% Energy from external data centers 255 253 1% Paper used for printed newspapers 26,032 27,345 -5% Total 32,942 34,372 -4% * Scope 2 emissions is reported only with a location based approach. Fuels used for company own, leased and privately owned cars include petrol, diesel and ethanol. 2019 GHG intensity, tonnes CO2e emissions/turnover NOK million 1.73 GHG intensity, tonnes CO2e emissions/employees* 6.58 2019 Energy intensity, electricity consumption gWh/turnover NOK million 1.86 Energy intensity, electricity consumption gWh/employees* 7.07 *Employees is defined as number of employees 31 December 2019 (5,006). Intensity numbers for 2018 are excluded due to split from Adevinta and change in scope of reporting of energy sources. Environmental impact from out print newspapers During 2019 Schibsted Trykk carried out several initiatives to lower Schibsted publishes newspapers in Sweden and Norway, and our our energy consumption, including the use of LED lights, focus is to reduce the environmental impact of our print ventilation and lighting timers, and motion detectors. Schibsted newspapers. Our paper consumption and printing and distribution Trykk increased its energy efficiency by closing some of the printing operations accounts for 91 percent of our total greenhouse gas machines and increasing the capacity of other machines. In line emissions. 100 percent of the paper used for our newspapers is with our ongoing energy efficiency measures and reduced demand certified according to FSC and PEFC, and 66 percent of the paper for printing machines, we will reduce our overall capacity in our used is certified according to EU Eco Label criteria. Our Swedish Oslo plant in 2020 but will increase the efficiency of the remaining media houses procure all the paper used for our newspapers but machines. In 2019 we reduced the amount of waste paper by outsource the printing and distribution operations. 4.5 percent at our plant in Bergen. In 2020 we will continue on this track and plan to streamline the waste management system at our Print newspapers in Norway Oslo printing plant. In Norway, Schibsted owns the printing plants and runs a distribution network for print newspapers. All our Norwegian In Norway we offer printed newspapers for subscription and casual printing plants are licensed under the Nordic Swan Ecolabelling sales. Our casual sales newspapers are distributed by road scheme. In our printing operations we focus on monitoring and transport. These deliveries are operated by subcontractors who minimizing our use of energy, paper and ink as well as on reducing transport newspapers from the printing plant to the distribution waste. Processes involving hazardous chemicals take place in hubs or retailers using trucks or vans. Newspaper delivery to closed systems, and the chemicals are recovered as far as possible. households is performed using smaller vehicles or in some cities distributed on foot. Newspaper companies in Norway arrange a The use of paper and the energy consumption derived from our return and recycling program to minimize waste related to unsold printing plants have decreased significantly during the past newspapers in stores. These newspapers end up in recycling decade. Our own efforts to reduce our consumption of energy and plants. materials and a decline in readership of print newspapers have resulted in a decrease of 44 percent in energy consumption and a During 2019, our part-owned distribution company Helthjem 67 percent decrease in paper consumption compared to 2012. initiated a project to identify and minimize the environmental 31 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT footprint of the organization. Helthjem mapped out the Print newspaper in Sweden organization’s material environmental aspects and the carbon We currently use the Swedish printing company V-TAB for most of emissions that are generated by distribution activities. In the our printing needs. V-TAB operates a system of environmental and coming years there will be several initiatives to minimize quality control, and all their printing plants are ISO 14001:2004 and Helthjem’s carbon footprint by updating our distribution fleet, ISO 9001:2008 certified and are licensed under the Nordic Swan optimizing route planning and other related initiatives. The target Ecolabelling scheme. Newspaper companies in Sweden arrange a is to lower the carbon footprint by 50 percent by 2025. Another return and recycling program to minimize waste related to unsold material aspect for Helthjem is the use of plastics for packaging newspapers in stores. The newspapers are compressed and used and protection of newspapers. Together with Schibsted Trykk, for house insulation. Helthjem has defined a goal to lower the use of plastic for protection of newspapers by 90 percent by 2022. Materials used Printed newspapers Norway* 2019 2018 % change Paper** Thousand tonnes 39.0 41.5 -6% Greenhouse Gas Emission (tonnes CO2e) generated by production of paper 18,272 19,494 -6% of which Share certified FSC % 100% 100% 0% Share certified PEFC % 100% 100% 0% Share certified EU Eco label % 56% 55% 2% Printing Ink*** Thousand tonnes 0.9 1.1 -0.2 of which Accepted by Nordic Eco Label Swan % 100% 100% 0% * Material used for printing external newspapers also included in the data ** 100% renewable material *** Non-renewable material Material used Printed newspapers Sweden 2019 2018 % change Paper* Thousand tonnes 16.5 16.7 -1% Greenhouse Gas Emission (tonnes CO2e) generated by production of paper 7,760 7,851 -1% of which Share certified FSC % 100% 100% 0% Share certified PEFC % 100% 100% 0% Share certified EU Eco label % 92% 94% -2% Printing Ink** Thousand tonnes of which Accepted by Nordic Eco Label Swan % 100% 100% 0% * 100% renewable material ** Non-renewable material Printing plants Norway Waste (tonnes) Year Recycled Recovered Other Disposal Total weight Paper (non-hazardous waste) 2019 5,673 116 5,789 2018 6,141 125 6,266 Aluminum (non-hazardous waste) 2019 169 13 182 2018 203 15 218 Waste water (hazardous waste) 2019 2018 Ink waste (hazardous waste) 2019 12 12 2018 7 7 Disposal methods are selected and reported by waste contractor. The use of water in our printing plants are limited and there are low risks related to use of and dispose of freshwater in Norway. Total amount of non-hazardous waste: 5,971 tonnes, total amount of hazardous waste: 12 tonnes. Efficiency for use of paper 2019 2018 Share of material bought used in newspapers 91% 91% Waste (degree of sorting for waste contractor) 2019 2018 Hazardous waste 100% 100% Non-hazardous waste 98% 99% Waste data is limited to waste from our own printing plants in Norway, This waste stands for the majority of our waste and hazardous waste. Disposal methods are selected and reported by waste contractor. 32 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT About the report Environmental data This is Schibsted’s third sustainability report and covers the period The consolidation approach for environmental data is operational from 1 January to 31 December 2019. Our ambition for this report control. All greenhouse gases are included in the emission is to be transparent and share our approach, performance, calculations and all scopes are included in intensity data. Data is progress and targets in the area of sustainability during 2019 collected via templates sent to each company and derives from onwards. This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI third-party sources and available internal reporting data. Our Standards: Core option. It constitutes Schibsted’s Communication calculations are based on the conversion factors used in the on Progress (COP) submission to the UN Global Compact and Greenhouse Gas Protocol, or other additional sources when follows Oslo Børs guidelines set out in the Euronext Guidelines for needed. Due to its significant environmental impact, one Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) reporting. Schibsted company's emissions data has been included in the reporting of publishes a sustainability report on an annual basis; the previous emissions from cars, although the company itself does not meet report was published on 29 March 2019. The report is not quality the scope criteria. assured by an external body. The sustainability information is Omissions provided mainly in the sustainability report, but also in sections of 102-8: Data cannot be split on employment contract and the annual report. Please see the GRI Content Index for further employment type due to limitations in our reporting system. guidance. 103-3: Management approach – Sustainable investments: A new Scope and boundaries structure for evaluation of performance is under development and The report includes data pertaining to companies with more than cannot be shared in this report. 25 employees, of which Schibsted has had full ownership or 205-2: A new structure for evaluation of performance is under operational control throughout the year, with certain scope development and cannot be shared in this report. limitations included below. In total, 35 companies are within this scope. Adevinta, which is a listed company, is excluded from the 302-1: Total fuel consumptions from renewable/non-renewable report. Sustainability information related to Adevinta is presented sources is not possible to disclose due to limitations in the in Adevinta’s first stand alone sustainability statement and in a information from suppliers. summary of Adevinta’s statement in this report. 403-1-403-7, 403-9, 403-10: Schibsted has chosen to transit to the Data are gathered through central management systems or new GRI Standard 403: Occupational Health and Safety (2018) functions if no other information is stated. Base year for data is hence do not have all information and data in place to fully fulfill 2018. all the requirements this year. Employee data 405-1: Data cannot be split on age by employee category due to Some companies are lacking complete internal systems for limitations in our reporting system. internal HR data collection, the number of companies that is lacking data, and therefore excluded, are stated for each data category below. Data relating to employee engagement (3 Point of contact companies), collective bargaining agreements, parental leave (3), If you have any questions about the sustainability report, you are health and safety (11), and performance and career reviews was welcome to contact Britt Nilsen, Head of Sustainability, email collected via templates completed by each company, this data is sustainability@schibsted.com . stated as head count. Other employee data, as per 31 December 2019, is stated as full-time equivalents (FTE) and covers all Schibsted companies including those who do not fall within the scope of this report. This is because we want to present the same FTE information as the annual report. Data as per 31 December 2019 was compiled using the financial reporting system. 33 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GRI Content Index GRI Standard Disclosure Page Notes GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES (2016) Organizational profile 102-1 Name of the organization 3 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 3, 7-8 102-3 Location of headquarters 9 102-4 Location of operations 3, 7-8, 26 102-5 Ownership and legal form 9, 18 102-6 Markets served 3 102-7 Scale of the organization 26, 44-46 Number of brands (operations) 47 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 26-29 Omission 102-9 Supply chain 21 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its 19 Spin-off Adevinta supply chain UNGC Principle 7 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 29 102-12 External initiatives 21-22 102-13 Membership of associations 21-22 Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 12 Ethics and Integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of 18, 20 behavior Governance 102-18 Governance structure 18-20 Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 14 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 26 UNGC Principle 3 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 13 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 14 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 14 Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial 50 statements 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 13 102-47 List of material topics 13 102-48 Restatements of information 13 102-49 Changes in reporting 13 102-50 Reporting period 33 102-51 Date of most recent report 33 102-52 Reporting cycle 33 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 33 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 33 102-55 GRI content index 34-35 102-56 External assurance 33 GRI 200 ECONOMIC STANDARDS Schibsted topic: Fair business practices GRI 103: Management Approach (2016) 103-1 to 103-3 Management approach 21 UNGC Principle 10 GRI 205: Anti-corruption 205-2 Communication and training about anti33 Omission corruption policies and procedures Schibsted topic: Sustainable investments and ownership GRI 103: Management Approach (2016) 103-1 to 103-3 Management approach 19-20 Omission 34 SCHIBSTED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GRI Standard Disclosure Page Notes GRI 300 ENVIRONMNETAL STANDARDS Schibsted topic: Empower circular and sustainable consumption GRI 103: Management Approach (2016) 103-1 to 103-3 Management approach 29 Own KPI Schibsted topic: Energy use and greenhouse gas emissions GRI 103: Management Approach (2016) 103-1 to 103-3 Management approach 29-30 GRI 305: Emissions (2016) 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 30 UNGC Principle 7 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 30 and 8 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 30 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 30 GRI 302: Energy (2016) 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 30 Omission, UNGC 302-3 Energy intensity 30 Principle 7, 8 and 9 Schibsted topic: Managing material and waste GRI 103: Management Approach (2016) 103-1 to 103-3 Management approach 30-31 UNGC Principle 8 GRI 301: Materials (2016) 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 31 GRI 306: Effluents and Waste (2016) 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 32 GRI 400 SOCIAL STANDARDS Schibsted topic: Independent and high-quality journalism GRI 103: Management Approach (2016) 103-1 to 103-3 Management approach 23-24 UNGC Principle 1 Schibsted topic: Empower people to make informed choices GRI 103: Management Approach (2016) 103-1 to 103-3 Management approach 24 GRI Media Supplement (2016) M7 Media literacy 24 Schibsted topic: Privacy and protection of user data GRI 103: Management Approach (2016) 103-1 to 103-3 Management approach 22 GRI 418: Customer Privacy (2016) 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of 22 customer privacy and losses of customer data Schibsted topic: Diversity and equality GRI 103: Management Approach (2016) 103-1 to 103-3 Management approach 26-27 UNGC Principle 6 GRI 404: Education and training (2016) 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular 28 performance and career development reviews GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity (2016) 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 27 Omission Schibsted topic: User safety and fraud protection GRI 103: Management Approach (2016) 103-1 to 103-3 Management approach 22-23 GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling (2016) 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product 23 and service information and labeling Schibsted topic: Health, safety and integrity of employees GRI 103: Management Approach (2016) 103-1 to 103-3 Management approach 28-29 GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety (2018) 403-1 to 403-7 Occupational Health and Safety 29 Omission GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety (2018) 403-9 Work-related injuries 29 Omission GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety (2018) 403-10 Work-related ill health 29 Omission Schibsted topic: Attractive workplace GRI 103: Management Approach (2016) 103-1 to 103-3 Management approach 26 UNGC Principle 6 GRI 401: Employment (2016) 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 26 Schibsted topic: Sustainable supply chain GRI 103: Management Approach (2016) 103-1 to 103-3 Management approach 21 UNGC Principle 1, 2, 4 and 5 Schibsted topic: Skills development and knowledge sharing GRI 103: Management Approach (2016) 103-1 to 103-3 Management approach 28 UNGC Principle 6 GRI 404: Education and training (2016) 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular 28 performance and career development reviews Schibsted topic: Responsible marketing GRI 103: Management Approach (2016) 103-1 to 103-3 Management approach 23 GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling (2016) 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product 23 and service information and labeling Page numbers are in reference to the Annual Report 2019. 35 www.schibsted.com/sustainability/
