CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 CONTENTS 04 38 82 Ι. ΜESSAGE V. SOCIETY VIII. ENVIRONMENT FROM THE CEO 1. Economic Growth | 41 1. Air Quality and Energy | 85 2. Society Support | 42 2. Raw Materials and Solid Waste | 90 3. Responsible Procurement | 47 3. Water and Liquid Waste | 93 4. Achievements 2019 and Future Objectives | 50 4. Achievements 2019 and Future Objectives | 95 08 52 96 ΙΙ. OVERVIEW VI. EMPLOYEES IX. SUMMARY 1. Human Resources and Employment | 55 1. About this Report | 97 2. Health and Safety | 57 2. Summary Data | 98 10 3. Equality and Diversity | 59 3. 0Global Compact, Sustainable Development 4. Training and Development | 62 Goals, ISO26000 and GRI Tables | 109 5. Achievements 2019 and Future Objectives | 64 4. 0Glossary | 115 5. Feedback Form | 116 ΙΙΙ. ATTICA GROUP 1. The Passenger Shipping Industry | 12 2. About Attica Group | 14 66 20 VII. CUSTOMERS 1. Safety and Security | 69 2. Responsible Communication | 74 3. Quality and Satisfaction | 76 4. Achievements 2019 and Future Objectives | 81 ΙV. MANAGEMENT 1. 0 Corporate Governance | 23 2. 0Corporate Responsibility | 28 3. 0Materiality and Stakeholders | 32 4. Achievements 2019 and Future Objectives | 37 ATTICA GROUP 3 Ι For all of us at Attica Group, Corporate Responsibility is an essential and practical commitment, which defines the way we think, our daily operations, as well as our vision for the future. 4 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT MESSAGE FROM THE CEO Dear Readers, The year 2019 was a milestone for Attica Group, as we The Report reflects our efforts to maintain a bilateral successfully completed Hellenic Seaways’ operational communication to respond to our Stakeholders’ expectations, integration and further strengthened our competitive position by presenting our progress in key areas of our operations, against major European companies in our industry, within as well as our initiatives and actions which ensure our the scope of ensuring long-term sustainability, facilitated by responsible operation. Indicatively, within 2019, we: favorable conditions such as increased tourist volume and • Communicated Regulation of Professional Behavior to all Greece’s overall economic recovery. our employees and had no violation cases concerning our However, the COVID-19 pandemic in early 2020 halted main principles and rules of professional behavior. these positive prospects and negatively impacted the global • Distributed over €470 million in economic value to our economy, while the health measures taken affected both our Stakeholders and implemented or supported societal Group’s business activity and our daily operations. Acting support activities in 100% of the islands we operate, such as responsibly towards our employees, customers, suppliers and the ‘Agoni Grammi Gonimi’ program. shareholders, we implemented all necessary organizational • Employed 100% of our employees with full time employment and operational changes, to ensure the health of our office contracts and conducted internal drills on Health and Safety and marine employees, customers and suppliers, as well as issues to all marine employees. adopted operational and financial measures to ensure the business continuity of our Group. • Were subject to 45 food hygiene and safety vessel inspections from local authorities, with no recorded nonFurthermore, other challenges in 2019 for the passenger compliance incidents. shipping industry were issues, such as the increase in marine fuel prices, the mandatory compliance with new international • Reduced our total energy consumption and total carbon environmental legislation to reduce sulfur dioxide emissions, dioxide emissions by 5.7% and 5.6% respectively and which affect the industry’s operational profitability, as well informed potentially over 2 million customers on Corporate as the inadequate port infrastructure, which contributed to Responsibility issues, such as environmental protection. journey delays. For all of us at Attica Group, Corporate Responsibility is an Under these circumstances, Corporate Responsibility has essential and practical commitment, which defines the way we been the guiding compass for our activities, as we continued think, our daily operations, as well as our vision for the future, our commitments to: which is to operate oriented on continuous growth orientation for our country, customers, employees, partners and suppliers. • Incorporate Responsibility into our daily management Within this context, I would like to thank our employees, our practices. partners and all others who contributed to our successful • Support prosperity of Society. operation for yet another year. • Establish positive Employment Conditions. • Ensure Our Passenger Safety. • Reduce our Environmental Impact. Have a pleasant reading, Attica Group's 11th Corporate Responsibility Report, Spyridon Paschalis addressing the year 2019, follows the Global Reporting Chief Executive Officer Attica Group Initiative’s Sustainability Reporting Standards and continues our effort to assess our performance based on internationally recognized indicators and set challenging new objectives with transparency and accountability, as we were the first passenger shipping company worldwide with a Corporate Responsibility Report in accordance with the GRI Standards. ATTICA GROUP 5 COVID-19 BRIEFING Beginning of the Pandemic Measures to address the Pandemic In March 2020, the World Health Organization (WHO) declared In order to deal with the emergency situation caused by the the COVID-19 coronavirus as pandemic and its rapid spread pandemic, we established a plan based on three main areas: has affected business and economic activity around the globe, Health and Safety: As our main concern is our employees’, as well as ceased or slowed down activities of core economic passengers’ and partners’ health, we promptly implemented a sectors, including passenger shipping. number of precautionary measures, such as: To constrain the pandemic’s spread, European Union • Provided detailed instructions on what each employee countries implemented various restrictive measures, including should do in case of disease symptoms. restrictions on passenger and vehicle transportation, which have a direct impact on our Group's activities. The Greek state • Implemented remote work for over 80% of office employees also implemented a series of measures, with restrictions on since the beginning and kept the minimum security the unconfined citizen transportation of, including: personnel. •P rohibition of passenger and private vehicle transportation • Suspended all business trips and physical meetings, which (except truck drivers) in Adriatic Sea lines from March 15, are now conducted via teleconference or video conference. 2020 to June 30, 2020. • Perform regular disinfections in office buildings from certified •R estriction on passenger transportation (except for external collaborators. permanent island residents for emergency reasons) in • Provided marine employees with the Authorities’ specific Aegean lines from March 21, 2020 to May 17, 2020 for Crete instructions, regarding the necessary precautionary and May 24, 2020 for the other islands. measures against COVID-19 and actions to address any •R estriction on collection of post-dated checks for COVID-19 suspicious case, while at sea, in cooperation with competent affected companies imposed by a legislative decree. Authorities. • Equipped all our vessels with the appropriate personal protection equipment (such as masks, gloves and special kit) Risks from the Pandemic and antiseptics in clearly marked spots for passengers’ and The pandemic resulted in significant risks for the Group, crews’ personal hygiene, while we designated dedicated mainly in the following areas: cabins on each vessel to address and constrain any potential incident. Transportation volume: Obviously since mid-March 2020, transportation volume and consequently turnover of the lines • Intensified cleaning of vessels’ air conditions, cabins and we operate have significantly decreased, which continued public areas and perform regular disinfections by certified until May. There is further uncertainty regarding transportation external collaborators. volume for the remaining months in 2020, which will depend • Display informative messages on vessel screens and inform on the pandemic’s spread, as well as decisions taken by passengers with printed material, regular announcements Authorities. and recommendations to apply and comply with preventive Loss of revenues during summer period: The industry has measures and maintain necessary distance between intense passenger and private vehicle seasonality (July – passengers during their stay, as well as avoid overcrowding September is the period with the highest volume), which during their disembarkation. significantly determines the annual financial results. The • Provide our customers the option of online ticket booking Group’s revenues will obviously be affected by repeated and boarding pass issuance. restrictive measures in citizen transportation or change of their transportation habits during their summer vacations or • Comply with Authorities’ instructions and use relevant obstacles that disrupt the tourism chain and consequently the signage on our vessel seats, with clear signs for permitted country’s tourism or even a more severe pandemic recovery. passenger seats in vessel lounges and appropriate configuration for seats on external decks. Fuel prices: The Group is significantly affected by fuel prices fluctuations, as the cost of marine fuels and lubricants is • Allow cabin use by two persons, except for up to 4-member by far the Group’s highest operating cost. There has been families or persons with disabilities and their escort, and a sharp decrease in fuel prices since February 2020, with mandate completion of the ‘Pre-Boarding’ form prior to extreme fluctuations caused by reduced demand mainly due vessel boarding. to the pandemic, as well as the failure of major oil-producing countries to agree and reduce production. 6 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT • Installed protective plexiglass at our vessels’ Reception Business Continuity: We immediately formed a COVID-19 desks, in order to keep the necessary safety distances. Task Force to ensure continuous information regarding appropriate measures to protect our passengers and •M  andate operation of bars and self-service restaurants in employees, in cooperation with the National Public Health accordance with the respective health protocols and fully Organization (NPHO) and competent Authorities, and comply with food hygiene and safety provisions. Therefore, developed a business continuity plan, to ensure all our dishes and cutlery are washed in special washing machines services’ continuous operation. at temperatures above 70οC to ensure destruction of all pathogens, with individual packaging for cutlery and no food Operating Costs & Financial Position: The pandemic’s or packaged products available at passengers’ self-service rapid spread caused significant damage to the transportation areas. industry and especially the passenger shipping industry, with severely decreased passenger and vehicle transportation, as • Have inspected and certified all our routed vessels for a result of canceling pre-issued tickets and suspending ticket compliance with the ‘SAFEGUARD’ label requirements by booking for the summer period. Bureau Veritas (BV) regarding full implementation of the required hygiene procedures and measures to address For this reason, we immediately decided to reduce operating biological risks posed by COVID-19, aiming to protect public costs and strengthen our financial position, as among other health. we: • Largely financed our business activities with own funds, due to restrictions imposed on collection of customer checks and minimization of passenger revenues. • Reduced the number of vessel journeys and redeployed our fleet. • Reduced all operating expenses. • Temporarily postponed our business development projects, until the scale of the pandemic effect becomes clear. • Utilized all State support measures for affected companies. • Implemented rotation work for all office employees, with 1 week off work every 4 calendar weeks. Moreover, we withhold an additional 25% of the Management members’ gross salaries (including Board of Directors executive members) for future payment, when and if allowed by future conditions and the Group’s financial results. We remain fully committed to apply all necessary measures to reduce the pandemic’s impact and remain fully dedicated to our indisputable obligation to ensure all our employees’, passengers’ and partners’ health and safety. ATTICA GROUP 7 ΙΙ OVERVIEW Attica Group Society • We  are the largest passenger shipping group in Greece, • We distributed over €470 million in economic value: over the third in the Mediterranean Sea and among the 10 €94.2 million to employees (for salaries, benefits and largest in Europe insurance payments), €81.9 million for taxes (including VAT • 24  years of continuous presence in our Seas and port taxes), €29.9 million to providers of capital (for interest and return payments), €21.9 million to agents (for • We  operate 30 modern vessels in the Eastern commissions), €205.6 million to suppliers (for purchases Mediterranean Sea (and 2 more on the Morocco – Spain of goods and services), €2.8 million to society (for route) discount tickets, implemented programs, sponsorships and • We  handled 4.7 million reservations for journeys in the donations) and €34.5 million for investments Eastern Mediterranean Sea (and 143.5 thousand more on • We implemented or supported societal support activities in the Morocco – Spain route), through our central reservation 100% of the islands we serve systems • We increased the total number of discount tickets offered by 85.5% • We increased the total value of societal support activities by 24.8% Management • We allocated 55% of sponsorships and donations to local communities • We  have communicated Regulation of Professional • We increased the number of employees participating in Behavior to 100% of our employees volunteer activities and employee volunteering hours by • No  violation cases concerning our main principles and 13.5% and 49.3% respectively rules of professional behavior occurred • We collected 282 blood units through our voluntary blood •W e informed 100% of office employees about our antidonation programs in the last three years corruption policies and procedures • We welcomed 1,047 young people from schools and • No corruption incidents occurred universities visiting our offices and vessels •N o bribery incidents related to our employees occurred • We supported the development of 86 students in Merchant •W e were subjected to 116 external audits regarding our Navy’s Officer academies Management Systems, with no recorded non-compliance • We spent 77.2% of total procurement expenditure to local incident suppliers •N o non-compliance incident was recorded during audits of • We spent 15.4% of total procurement expenditure to small our contractors’ Management Systems and medium-sized enterprises (up to 50 employees) •W e increased by 4.4% the number of quantitative indicators • We have defined 10% of suppliers’ selection criteria to be we make reference to within the Report related to their responsible operation 8 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Employees • We employ 100% of our employees with full time employment contracts • 100% of employees in Director positions are Greek • No grievances regarding our marine employees’ living conditions were filed • 100% of our employees received their annual leave, as planned • We conducted internal drills on Health and Safety issues (such as response to emergency situations) to 100% of marine employees • We trained at least once over 61% of our office employees Customers Environment •W  e conducted internal drills and trainings on passenger • We conducted internal drills on environmental protection safety procedures to 100% of marine employees issues to 100% of marine employees •T  he overall performance of our vessels in Domestic and • We informed 100% of our employees on environmental Adriatic Sea lines from ‘Mystery Passenger’ survey for protection issues Blue Star Ferries, Superfast Ferries and Hellenic Seaways • We reduced our total energy consumption by 5.7% (equal reached 86%, 83% and 84% respectively to over 786,000 GJ) •W  e were subjected to 45 inspections from local authorities • We reduced our total carbon dioxide emissions by 5.6% for food hygiene and safety, with no recorded non(equal to over 59,000 tonnes of CO2) compliance incidents • 80% of monitors and 60% of personal and laptop •W  e maintain 5 corporate websites, with over 4.5 million computers we use have energy-saving specifications unique visitors annually and handle 2 mobile applications with over 22,600 downloads • We use refrigerants that do not affect the ozone layer (such as R134a, R404a, R407a) in 100% of refrigerators and •W  e trained 80% of Marketing Department employees on freezers onboard our vessels responsible communication and marketing issues, for a total duration of 48 hours • We informed potentially over 2 million customers on Corporate Responsibility issues, such as environmental •W  e informed 456,214 passengers through information protection SMS for early arrival at the Piraeus port or changes or cancellations of scheduled journeys in Domestic and • We used 22.3% recycled paper for all purposes and 62.4% Adriatic Sea lines (77% of passengers on these routes who recycled toners/ink cartridges have registered their mobile number) • We transported from Islands free-of-charge over 82 tonnes •W  e send 2,813 notifications to serve passengers to our of materials for recycling vessels, out of which 596 concerning passengers with reduced mobility and 12 concerning passengers with sensitivity to allergens •T  he average score of evaluations registered through dedicated devices onboard Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries vessels reached 4 and 4.11 for Hellenic Seaways on a 5 point scale •W  e kept our vessels’ departure time at 84% and arrival time at 56% of schedules •W  e increased our seasmiles loyalty and reward program members by 34.7% ATTICA GROUP 9 ΙΙΙ 10 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ATTICA GROUP The leader in passenger and freight maritime transportation in the Eastern Mediterranean Sea and the fastest growing company in the Morocco – Spain route We are 30 modern vessels in the Eastern Mediterranean Sea 1.02 million private vehicles annually in the Eastern Mediterranean Sea 391.6 thousand freight units annually in the Eastern Mediterranean Sea 1,779 and 2 6.99 more in the Morocco Spain route 24 employees years of presence million passengers annually in the Eastern Mediterranean Sea 2 million nautical miles annually (49.7 times around the Earth) in our seas We offer We serve 60 unique destinations and reach 71 ports in Greece and Italy, through our Blue Star Ferries, Hellenic Seaways and Superfast Ferries brands, which are known for their high level of service, as well as the Morocco – Spain route, through our Africa Morocco Links (AML) brand. ATTICA GROUP 11 1. The Passenger Shipping Industry The industry demonstrates intense seasonality regarding ! Did you Know transportation of passengers and private vehicles, as there is higher transportation volume during July to September Coastline and Greek Islands and reduced transportation volume during January to March. Greece has the 11th largest coastline worldwide (13,676 On the other hand, there is lower seasonality regarding km), just behind China (with a coastline of 14,500 transportation of freight units, as their transportation volume km). This unusual extent is attributed to its unique is equally distributed throughout the year. Nonetheless, geographical relief and morphology, which includes domestic passenger shipping companies maintain adequate 6,000 islands and islets scattered in the Aegean and and consistent shipping services throughout the year, in Ionian Seas. With over 1,500,000 registered inhabitants cooperation with local authorities and the relevant Ministry. in 227 islands (approximately 12.3% of the country’s population), Greek islands: Seasonality of Passengers and Vehicles Transportation* •C ontribute 11.6% to the Greek Gross Domestic Product (GDP). 11 •S upport over 13.4% of total job positions. 12 •A re traditionally one of the most popular tourist 21 destinations, both for Greek citizens and foreign Q1 18 visitors. 16 •H ave approximately 60%-65% of the country’s hotel 10 beds. 26 21 About the Industry 29 Passenger shipping is one of the most important industries Q2 34 in the Greek economy, as the use of passenger and car26 passenger vessels is required to connect islands with the 25 mainland, as well as to connect Greece with Italy. Based on a 2016 study conducted by the Foundation for Economic and Industrial Research (IOBE) published in 2017: 48 51 •G reece has the highest number of ports for maritime passenger transport and the Piraeus port has the largest 28 Q3 passenger transportation volume among the 28 European 24 Union countries. 40 •T he number of transported passengers and vehicles in 51 domestic lines reached approximately 16 million and 3 million respectively, increased by 1.6% and 13% respectively 15 (approximately 255,000 passengers and 341,000 vehicles) 16 compared to 2015, mainly due to the increased tourism in 23 Greece. However, despite the 8% increase compared to Q4 24 2012, passenger transportation volume in 2016 was lower by 21.2% and 15.8% compared to 2007 and 2009 respectively. 18 14 •T he number of transported passengers and vehicles in Adriatic Sea lines reached approximately 1.5 million Passengers (%) and 688,000 respectively, reduced by 12.6% and 14% Private vehicles (%) respectively (approximately 220,000 passengers and Freight units (%) Buses (%) 112,000 vehicles) compared to 2015 or by 33% and 20% Camper vans (%) respectively compared to 2009. Motorbikes (%) •P assenger shipping industry contributes approximately €16.1 * Passenger and vehicle transportation data refer to 2018. billion in the Greek economy (9.2% of the country’s GDP) Source: Hellenic Statistical Authority and supports approximately 349,000 job positions (9.7% of nationwide total job positions), without including short domestic routes and cruise lines. The Greek Passenger Shipping Industry contributes 9.2% to the Greek GDP and 9.7% to the total job positions in Greece 12 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ? Issue of Consideration Arrivals and Spending Average Spending from Abroad Visitors Based on Bank of Greece’s data, the number of 2019 non-resident arrivals in Greece reached approximately 2019 535 34 million, 2.8% more than 2018, while travel revenues 2018 486 and average spending per trip also increased by 13% and 9.9% respectively compared to 2018, reaching €18.2 2017 485 billion and €535 respectively. 2016 470 However, the average length of stay per trip has 2015 541 decreased to 7 days in 2019, compared to 9.6 days in 2008 and 8.1 days in 2013 (27% and 13.6% lower 2014 552 respectively), with the decrease being partially attributed 2013 604 to the increased ticket prices due to the cumulative VAT increase by 11 percentage points during 2015-2016 2012 616 and Greece currently has the second highest VAT in 2011 639 domestic lines in Europe (24%) according to European Union’s data, which is significantly higher than the 6%2010 640 10% VAT in countries with high domestic passenger transportation volume (e.g. Sweden, Italy, Finland). 2009 697 2008 730 According to the Foundation for Economic and Industrial Research’s (IOBE) estimates, reduction of VAT (e.g. to 14% 2007 700 or 6%), fully passed on to ticket prices, would increase 2006 746 transported passengers and travel revenues, as well as significantly benefit island economies due to increase of 2005 746 local GDP and job positions. Average spending per trip (€) Source: Bank of Greece ATTICA GROUP 13 2. About Attica Group Who we are Our Group is active in the passenger shipping industry and operates on the Cyclades, Dodecanese, North-East Aegean islands, Saronic, Sporades and Crete domestic routes through our subsidiaries and commercial brands Blue Star Ferries and Hellenic Seaways, as well as on the Greece – Italy routes through Superfast Ferries. Furthermore, we participate with 49% share in ‘AFRICA MOROCCO LINKS’ (AML), which connects Morocco with continental Europe. The Group is listed on the Athens Stock } Exchange, is a member of the international investment holding company Marfin Investment Group (MIG) and its offices are located in Kallithea, Athens. 100% Shareholder Structure Shareholder Share* 100% MIG Shipping S.A. Marfin Investment Group 69.08% 10.31% 100% Piraeus Bank Other Shareholders 11.84% 8.77% 49% * Data refer to 31/12/2019. We are the largest passenger shipping group in Greece, the third in the Mediterranean Sea and among the 10 largest in Europe ADRIATIC SEA Spain Italy Greece GIBRALTAR AEGEAN STRAIT SEA Morocco KAVALA VENICE Greece Italy VOLOS N. AEGEAN Spain ISLANDS ANCONA SPORADES BARI Greece ATHENS PIRAEUS LAVRIO IGOUMENITSA ALGECIRAS SARONIC CORFU ISLANDS CYCLADES TANGER MED PATRAS DODECANESE Morocco CHANIA HERAKLION 14 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our culture Vision ‘To strengthen the Group’s leading position and value, through profitable expansion into new markets and activities, as well as provide high quality services which exceed market expectations’ Mission ‘Attica Group is an international Shipping Group, which offers high quality shipping services with innovative and aesthetic vessels. The Group's activities generate added value for shareholders and employees, reduce where feasible our environmental footprint and operate for our partners’ and local communities’ Values benefit’. Innovation Transparency We encourage and promote We create open and on-going communicating and developing communication frameworks at Strategic Development new ideas, suggestions and all levels of the Group, making Principles solutions, in order to continuously improve the quality of our product our incentives and choices clear. We provide complete and the efficiency of the Group's and accurate information to our • Being customers’ first choice. operations. associates and Stakeholders. • Offer reliable services and continuously improve our products’ quality. Integrity Corporate • Create solid and long-term relationships We behave with integrity and Responsibility with customers, our partners and local honesty in all aspects of our We operate responsibly communities. business according to our and facilitate harmonious ethical standards. • Manage responsibly our resources and collaborations with our actively contribute to our Group’s healthy, Stakeholders to ensure sustainable and profitable growth. Quality generating mutual long-term We work to provide high value. quality services, while ensuring customer satisfaction, sustainability and future of our Reliability employees. We build long-term relationships of confidence with our passengers and employees, consistently delivering high quality services. ATTICA GROUP 15 Our history 1918 1998 2008 2018 Incorporated as ‘General Launch of PatraSale of RoRo vessels and • Attica Group celebrated Company of Commerce Igoumenitsa-Bari route exit from the Baltic and 100 years since its first and Industry of Greece’ North Sea market Shareholders General 1999 Assembly 1924 Acquisition of ‘Strintzis 2011-2014 Listed on the Athens Stock Lines Shipping S.A.’ and Superfast ANEK Joint •C  ompletion of acquisition Exchange rebranded to Blue Star Venture for Ancona and for 98.83% of Hellenic Ferries Herakleio routes (2011) Seaways’ share capital 1992 expanded to Bari, Venice Change of ownership and 2001 and Chania (2014) 2019 name to ‘Attica Enterprises Launch of operations in the •A  cquisition of the S.A.’, later renamed to Baltic Sea market between 2015 remaining 1.17% of ‘Attica Enterprises’ Germany and Finland. Superfast Ferries Hellenic Seaways' share Sailing time reduced to 22h celebrated 20 years since 1993 capital from 32-34h its first journey • E stablishment of • S uccessful operational subsidiary ‘Attica Maritime 2002 2016 integration of Hellenic S.A.’, later renamed Launch of the North Sea • E ntrance in Africa – Seaways and adjustment to ‘Superfast Ferries route between Scotland Europe market with the of Group organizational Maritime S.A.’ and Belgium establishment of Africa structure Morocco Links •O  rder of the first 2005 Superfast ferries in Entrance in the RoRo • R elocation of main offices Germany, being the first market with the acquisition to new address fast car-passenger vessel and routing of two RoRo worldwide vessels between Germany • R estructure of Group and Finland organizational structure 1995 Delivery and routing of 2007 2017 Superfast I and Superfast II Marfin Investment Group Agreement to acquire in the Patra Ancona route, (MIG) acquires majority 98.83% of Hellenic reducing sailing time by up shareholding stake of Attica Seaways’ share capital to 40% Group During 2019, we acquired the remaining 1.17% of Hellenic Seaways’ share capital and completed its functional integration, while in parallel adjusted the Group’s organizational structure. At the same time, we agreed with DFDS to acquire a cargo vessel, which was renamed to Blue Carrier 1 and launched on domestic routes, to increase our transportation capacity of freight units towards islands, adding additional route options to our existing network. 24 years of continuous presence in our Seas 16 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our fleet The way we operate We utilize products and services from our suppliers, both for the operation of our offices (materials, equipment, services We operate 30 modern vessels in the Eastern and know-how), as well as for our vessels (fuels, materials, Mediterranean Sea (and 2 more on the Morocco – foodstuffs and equipment). At the same time, we closely Spain route) collaborate with port authorities and the local communities in the departure and arrival ports of our vessels. Our fleet consists of 20 car-passenger (ro-pax) vessels, 2 Customers purchase travel services through our extensive high-speed car-passenger vessels, 7 high-speed passenger sales network, which includes: vessels and 1 cargo (ro-ro) vessel in the Eastern Mediterranean • The corporate websites www.bluestarferries.com, Sea, out of which 29 are privately-owned and 1 is on long-term www.superfast.com, www.hsw.gr and www.aml.ma, as well contract. as mobile applications. Furthermore, we managed 3 vessels of the related company • 30 Premium Sales Agents and 82 Port agents for Blue Star AML in the Morocco – Spain route in 2019. Ferries, Superfast Ferries and Hellenic Seaways, as well as It must be noted that: 14 Premium Sales Agents and 2 Port agents for AML. • 1 4 of our privately-owned vessels are tailor-designed by our • Two central reservation systems, with over 10,000 on-line Group for the specific routes we operate and have been connected travel agencies. built in first-class European, South Korean and Australian • The members of the International Union of Railways (UIC) shipyards, in accordance with the highest shipbuilding for maritime transportation of passengers from trains (200 standards. members from 5 continents). •3  0 vessels are registered in the Greek ship registry. •T  he average age of our vessels in the Eastern Mediterranean Sea is 21.9 years, while the average age of our vessels is 23 years. •O  ut of all our vessels, 5 are jointly operated with ANEK LINES’s vessels, within the context of the ‘ANEK S.A. SUPERFAST ENDEKA (HELLAS) INC. & Co. Joint Venture’, specifically for the Crete and Adriatic Sea routes. Vessel Capacity Superfast Blue Star Hellenic AML TOTAL Ferries Ferries Seaways Vessels (number) 3 10 17 2 32 Passengers (number) 3,697 15,847 16,770 1,936 38,250 Beds (number) 1,452 3,276 1,587 0 6,315 Garage lane 6,927 11,361 8,074 1,510 27,872 length (meters) Transportation Volume 2017 2018* 2019 Passengers (million) 4.13 6.70 6.99 Private vehicles (million) 0.64 0.95 1.02 We handled 4.7 million reservations for journeys in Freight units (thousand) 300.61 362.00 391.60 the Eastern Mediterranean Sea (and 143.5 thousand * Data refer to Eastern Mediterranean Sea routes during the period 01/01/2018more on the Morocco – Spain route), through our 31/12/2018 for Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries and 01/06/2018-31/12/2018 central reservation systems for Hellenic Seaways. ATTICA GROUP 17 Our Sales Network Netherlands Poland Russia United Kingdom Belgium Germany Czech Republic Austria Switzerland France Pristina/ Kosovo Italy Bulgaria North Macedonia Greece Turkey Spain Morocco Cyprus Israel In order to provide our services in the Eastern Mediterranean • 3 privately-owned vessels for Adriatic Sea lines (Patra – Sea in 2019, we utilised: Igoumenitsa – Ancona and Patra – Igoumenitsa – Bari, with an intermediary approach at the Corfu port during the • 25 vessels for Domestic lines to connect: summer months). -P  iraeus and Lavrio with Cyclades. Furthermore, we managed 3 vessels in the Morocco – Spain -P  iraeus with Cyclades, Dodecanese, Crete (Chania and route in 2019, out of which 1 privately-owned, 1 with long-term Heraklion), Saronic and N.E. Aegean islands. contract and 1 chartered during the summer months. -P  iraeus, Lavrio and Kavala with N.E. Aegean islands. -V  olos with Sporades. 18 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our Value Chain Main Offices Materials Equipment Travel Services Services Know-how Information Systems Local Suppliers Customers Ports Communities Information Travel Systems Services Sales Network Fuels Materials Foodstuffs Equipment ATTICA GROUP 19 IV Incorporate Responsibility into our daily management practices 20 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT MANAGEMENT We are 5 ‘Core’ pillars of Corporate Responsibility in accordance option of Report with the GRI Standards 11 Stakeholder groups 38 future objectives in the Report 85 GRI disclosures in the Report We commit to: We achieved Adopt responsible policies and practices in our operations • We have communicated Regulation of Professional and to harmoniously cooperate with our Stakeholders, in Behavior to 100% of our employees. order to create mutual long-term value. • No violation cases concerning our main principles and rules of professional behavior occurred. We follow • We informed 100% of office employees about our antiPrinciples of the United Nations’ Global Compact corruption policies and procedures. • No corruption incidents occurred. 10 Work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery • No bribery incidents related to our employees occurred. • We were subjected to 116 external audits regarding our Management Systems, with no recorded non-compliance incident. • No non-compliance incident was recorded during audits of our contractors’ Management Systems. • We increased by 4.4% the number of quantitative indicators we make reference to within the Report. ATTICA GROUP 21 We focus Air Quality & Energy Raw Materials & Solid Waste Water & Liquid Waste State Environment NGOs ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT EMPLOYMENT CONDITIONS Human Resources & Employment Safety & Security PASSENGER SAFETY Health & Safety RESPONSIBLE Customers Employees Responsible Communication MANAGEMENT Sales Network Equality & Diversity Shareholders Media Quality & Satisfaction Training & Development SOCIETY SUPPORT Citizens Associations and Unions Suppliers Local Communities Economic Growth Societal Support Responsible Procurement 22 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 1. Corporate Governance We operate based on best Corporate Governance practices ::: Policy Attica Group has developed and implements a Corporate Remuneration Policy Governance Code, in accordance with the applicable During 2019, we developed and published a legislation and the Hellenic Capital Market Commission’s Remuneration Policy for the Group’s BoD members, directives. Attica Group’s Board of Directors (BoD) is which aims to attract, motivate and retain highly skilled responsible to decide on all strategic aspects, manage executives. Within this context: corporate issues and approve the Group’s long-term strategy. • Remuneration for executive members is linked with Board of Directors factors, such as their duties, tasks and responsibilities, their contribution to improve our effectiveness and Name* Position long-term financial performance, as well as their ability Kyriakos D. Mageiras Chairman Executive member to effectively manage human resources in their area of Michael G. Sakellis Vice-Chairman Independent responsibility. Non-Executive member • Remuneration for non-executive members is approved Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Spyridon Ch. Paschalis Executive member by the annual Shareholders General Assembly and is associated with their employment time and Panagiotis G. Dikaios Executive member responsibilities, without however being directly linked Panagiotis K. Throuvalas Non-Executive member with business performance, in order to encourage George E. Efstratiadis Non-Executive member freedom of opinion regarding excessive business risks. Anastassios G. Kyprianidis Independent Non-Executive member Non-executive members do not participate in pension * Data refer to 31/12/2019. and benefits programs or other long-term incentives and are not granted additional fees or other performance•T he Board of Directors consists between three to nine related compensation. members (individuals or legal persons), who are elected by the Shareholders General Assembly for a three-year term. The Board of Directors is supported by the Audit Committee •B oD members elect the Chairman, Vice-Chairman and and the Remuneration Committee, which are elected from Chief Executive Officer, as well as the Authorized Director, if the Shareholders General Assembly. deemed necessary. Board Committees •T here is a separation of responsibilities between the Chairman of the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Committee Members Responsibilities Officer. • Oversee compliance with •A t the moment, there are no consultation processes legislation and regulatory between Stakeholders and the BoD on sustainability issues. requirements. However, it must be noted that there were no critical Two independent • Ensure transparency of corporate Audit operations. concerns communicated to the BoD within 2019. non-executive Committee members and one • Evaluate the effectiveness •T he Chairman of the BoD is responsible for the Chief (meets at least non-executive of internal control and risk quarterly) Executive Officer’s performance evaluation. member management systems. •T he Chief Executive Officer evaluates Managers’ • Monitor, review and evaluate the process of compiling financial performance on an annual basis. Evaluation criteria include information. achievement of their objectives, their contribution to cultivate an excellent workplace and their personal characteristics. • Assists BoD to perform its duties related to remuneration issues, incentives and other benefits, including the approved Remuneration Three nonRemuneration Policy. Committee executive members • Monitors the Remuneration Policy’s implementation. • Ensures periodic review of the Remuneration Policy. ATTICA GROUP 23 We apply Principles and Regulation of Conduct ::: Policy Regulation of Professional Conduct & Business Ethics: We Dependency Relationships for Group BoD have communicated our Regulation of Professional Conduct Members & Business Ethics to all office employees, which is uploaded on the corporate Intranet OneAttica. The Code is also part of According to our Corporate Governance Code, a BoD the introductory material provided to all new hired employees, member cannot be considered as independent in case who sign for its receive and acceptance, and outlines the the member holds over 0.5% of the Group's share capital principles and rules which govern our business activities on or has a dependency relationship, with dependency the following topics: relationships being the following: • Confidentiality – Privacy. •M  aintains business or other professional relationship with the Group or an affiliated company (according to • Information Security – Insider Information. article 42e par. 5 of Codified Law 2190/1920), which • Personal Data and Information. affects its business activity, especially in cases of being • Professional Behavior: Behavior towards customers, behavior a major supplier or Group customer, with significance among colleagues. being described within the Group’s Internal Operation • Professional Appearance. Regulations. • Health & Safety. • Is BoD Chairman or Manager within the Group, or has the above described attributes, or is an executive BoD • Conflict of interests. member in an affiliate company, or has any form of • Engaging with Other Work Activities. employment or paid relationship with the Group or an • Transparency of Activities. affiliated company. • Respect for Property and Provided Resources. •H  as up to second-degree relationship or is a spouse • Group Representation in Media – Publications – Public Views. of an executive BoD member or a Manager or a • Report of Illegal Activities and Violations. shareholder who holds the majority share capital of the Group or an affiliated company. • Corporate Responsibility. •H  as been appointed in accordance with article 18 par. 3 of Codified Law 2190/1920. Employee Guidebook: At the same time, we have communicated the ‘Improving the Best’ information guidebook to all marine employees, who have signed the acceptance :) Good Practice of the main principles of professional behavior towards colleagues and customers described within the guidebook, Conflicts of Interests as well as crew duties, relevant regulations, professional According to our Corporate Governance Code, BoD appearance guidelines and general information about the members and any other person with delegated BoD Group and its vessels. responsibilities are prohibited to pursue personal interests It must be noted that: which conflict with business interests. In case such personal interests exist, they shall inform other members • All employees with permanent and fixed term employment for actual or potential conflict of interests while performing contracts are obliged to follow the Regulation of Professional their duties. The Shareholders General Assembly is Conduct & Business Ethics and Employee Guidebook. responsible to approve any action of BoD members and • We consider non-compliance with their principles as an Managers on their behalf or on behalf of third parties occupational misconduct which may lead to termination of or participate as equal partners in companies which employment or even legal sanctions. pursue objectives similar to those pursued by our Group. Moreover, the Corporate Governance Department informs • We impose sanctions stated in our Codes of professional and briefs BoD members and executives on issues related behavior in cases where safety rules and marine law to conflicts of interests, as required by applicable stock regulations or Group regulations are violated. market legislation, corporate law and Internal Operation • We require provision of undisputable evidence to confirm Regulations, in order to ensure their comprehensive reports against any employee. knowledge and understanding of obligations. • All employees can seek advice or guidance from the Human Resources Department or directly to the Group’s Management, in case they consider that there might be a conflict of interest. No such cases have been reported within 2019. 24 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT • We prohibit any Manager-employee personal relationship We apply internal control and risk management within the same Department. Instead, we recommend that systems related employees or with any other personal relationship are employed in different Departments. Internal Control: We apply an internal control system with the policies and processes we apply to ensure our effective and • Conduct relevant briefings to our employees, as we posted efficient operation, the reliability of our financial information the Regulation of Professional Conduct & Business Ethics in and our compliance with applicable laws and regulations. the corporate Intranet to inform all office employees in 2019, combined with a briefing of all new hired employees on our The Board of Directors monitors, assesses and ensures the Anti-corruption Regulation, who signed for their acceptance. adequacy of the internal control system (including financial statements), through: • The Audit Committee. We have communicated Regulation of Professional • The Internal Audit Department, which reports directly to the Behavior to 100% of our employees BoD and is supervised by the Audit Committee. We have developed control systems and adhere to appropriate processes for its operation as an independent body, which enables the Department to audit our functions and :) Good Practice procedures based on an annual audit plan or at the request Reporting Violations of the Group’s Management or Audit Committee, as well as monitor the Internal Operation Regulations' implementation Any office employee who becomes aware of any violation and enforcement. of the Regulation of Professional Conduct & Business Ethics (such as fraud, theft or any other illegal activity), • The Internal Operation Regulations, which among other should report the incident to his/her supervisor who defines: informs the Human Resources Department or the Internal Departments’ structure, their responsibilities and the Audit Department, in cases of fraud or incident that can relationship with the Group’s Management. lead to financial damage. Main principles of BoD’s operation and the responsibilities At the same time, marine employees can report potential of executive and non-executive members. violations concerning the Employee Guidebook through Recruitment and performance evaluation processes for the established procedure for submitting complaints and Managers. additionally can contact the competent authorities directly for any violations. All reports have to be submitted by -M  onitoring process of transactions from BoD members, name, while marine employees can anonymously submit Managers and other persons with access to privileged any complaint through the personal interviews conducted information. during the Maritime Labour Convention’s (MLC) external -P  ublic disclosure process of significant transactions from inspections. persons exercising managerial duties. Monitoring process of significant transactions related to No violation cases concerning key customers, suppliers and partners. our main principles and rules of professional Rules governing transactions between affiliated parties. behavior occurred • The integrated Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system we use to automate and computerize our operations. ::: Policy Stock Trading Monitoring Procedure According to the relevant legislation, we adhere to the respective procedures and we maintain, among other: • A List of Liable Persons to monitor and disclose transactions from persons exercising managerial duties and persons closely connected with them. • A List of Persons with access to privileged information to monitor their personal transactions. We inform each person in the lists for its obligations, as well as potential sanctions in case of legislation violation and information misuse. ATTICA GROUP 25 Risk Management: Within the context of our risk management We contribute to anti-corruption system, a Risk Registry is maintained and updated annually in cooperation with Directors and Group’s Management, where Within the context of our efforts to combat and eradicate risks that can affect the Group’s business plan are recorded, corruption, we: assessed and prioritized. Based on the Registry’s latest update, •H  ave accepted and signed the UN Global Compact’s ‘Call overall 38 risks have been identified, with the following high for Action’ initiative and commit to implement policies and and medium significance risks which may affect the Group’s practices to effectively tackle corruption incidents. operation and efficiency. •H  ave developed our Anti-corruption Regulation with our main professional integrity and business ethics practices. Risk Registry •H  ave uploaded our anti-corruption policies and procedures Description of High and Medium significance risks on our corporate Intranet for all office employees. 1 Increase of marine fuel prices •T  rain our employees on our anti-corruption policies and 2 Reduced transportation volume due to financial recession procedures, with respective trainings conducted to 2 office 3 Lack of vessel Officers (mainly engine and deck vessel Officers) employees in 2019. 4 Difficulties in financing investment goals and strategic plans •S  ubmit our positions regarding issues of public interest at 5 Competition in domestic and international shipping lines national and international level either individually or through 6 Risk from unsafe vessel approach to ports INTERFERRY (the international shipping association which 7 Data security represents the ferry industry worldwide) and SEEN (the 8 Changes in vessel operating regulations Greek Shipowners Association for Passenger Ships), in order 9 Functional integration of Hellenic Seaways within the Group to transparently express our views and positions. :) Good Practice We informed 100% of office employees about our anti-corruption policies and procedures Ensuring Business Continuity and Cybersecurity In order to ensure our business continuity and our No corruption incidents occurred infrastructure’s and computer systems’ uninterrupted operation, we: • Operate an Alternative Information Systems and Telecommunications Center. • Implement a specific on-site and off-site backup policy. • Have been certified for our Information Security Management System in accordance with the international standard ISO 27001:2013, which defines requirements for implementation, maintenance and continuous improvement of information security management systems. • Have been certified in accordance with the international standard PCI DSS for our practices to ensure data security from electronic transactions via credit and debit cards (see Section VII-1). • Implement the appropriate safety measures and/or seek to improve the efficiency of existing safety measures through systematic risk assessment process. Furthermore, in order to ensure the confidentiality, integrity and availability of information, we have defined our actions to protect office and vessel information systems from risks, such as: • Computer viruses and malware. • Internal and External attacks (such as hacking and phishing). • Important data destruction due to employee negligence. 26 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT We follow fair competition rules :) Good Practice We recognize the importance and our responsibility to follow Anti-corruption Regulation fair competition rules and do not adopt anti-competitive practices. Within this context: Showcasing our commitment to work with integrity and transparency throughout our business operations, we • We do not make negative comments about our competitors have developed our Anti-corruption Regulation, which publicly. is mandatory for all employees and communicates zero • We do not engage in illegal partnerships or price fixing tolerance towards corruption. The Regulation describes agreements, market sharing or entering new markets and our principles regarding the following issues: customer segments. • Our position against corruption. • We do not allow our employees to reveal confidential • Collaboration with Customers, Agencies, Suppliers and information regarding our activities, relationships with our other third parties. customers or their personal and financial data, as well as discuss future plans that are not publicly known or salary • Gifts and entertainment expenses. issues. • Professional Gifts. • We conduct briefings on legislative competition issues to our • ‘Facility Payments’. employees and Management Executives, without however any relevant trainings taking place within 2019. • Conflict of interests. Regarding a previous legal case, one appeal was filed within • Correctness and Completeness of Archives. 2019 against the Court of Appeal’s decision which dismissed • Donations/Sponsorships. a complaint for anti-competitive behavior in 2015 and is • ‘Gray Areas’. expected to be discussed in 2020. • Absence of Retaliation. • Information mechanism for corruption issues. We comply with regulatory framework According to the Regulation’s provisions, we strictly We closely monitor the regulatory and legal framework related prohibit all employees and anyone acting on our behalf to our activities, in order to apply its relevant provisions. Within to directly or indirectly offer or accept any item of value 2019: (with over €100 cumulative value per calendar year) to • There were no grievances regarding: or from any person who directly or indirectly represents a customer, agent, supplier or any other Stakeholder, in Labor practices. order to obtain or attempt to obtain any personal benefit Human rights violation. or business advantage through bribery, extortion or illegal Marine employees’ living conditions onboard our vessels. procurement. In addition to potential legal actions, we immediately terminate the working relationship with any Privacy issues or personal data security on behalf of our employee involved in a confirmed corruption incident. employees. All employees can report actual or potential corruption Anti-competitive behavior or anti-trust practices. incidents to the BoD’s Audit Committee, which ensures in all cases the anonymity of employees who submit such Overbooking. reports and protects them from any action against them, Environmental legislation violation or environmental impacts. since any form of retaliation is considered a violation of Vessels’ acoustic impact. our Regulation of Professional Conduct & Business Ethics. • There were no incidents or cases of: It must be noted that we did not made any donations to Corruption. political parties in Greece within 2019. Bribery related to our employees. Employee discrimination. No bribery incidents related to our employees occurred Dispute with the local communities of the islands we serve. Non-compliance of products and services during the external audits conducted by the relevant health and market authorities. Non-compliance with regulations regarding product and service use or their health and safety impacts. Recalls of products and services due to health and safety impacts. Non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning customers’ personal data security. ATTICA GROUP 27 2. Corporate Responsibility Corporate Responsibility Our approach to Corporate Responsibility aims to align our business operations with the needs of society and the environment. Therefore, we design and implement initiatives to prevent potential negative impacts due to our operations and respond to opportunities through interaction with our Stakeholders. We utilize appropriate organizational structures To manage topics related to our responsible operation, we have created an organizational structure, as described in the figure below. This organizational structure is also used to collect data, which are used internally to evaluate our performance, and Stakeholders to do the same. Non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes Managing Corporate Responsibility concerning marketing, advertising, promotion, product and service information and labeling. Level ATTICA GROUP Advertising campaigns being withdrawn. •T  here were no legal cases related to corruption or personal data security related to our customers. Board of Directors Chief Executive Officer •T  here were no written notices by competent authorities regarding marketing, advertising, promotion, product and service information and labeling. Management Corporate Responsibility • Total amount of fines paid related to our operation was Team: €23,337. Executive Maritime •T  here were no significant fines (over €20,000) or other nonOperations Department monetary sanctions imposed due to: Executive Financial Corruption. Department Anti-competitive behavior or anti-trust practices. Executive Commercial Impact of our operations on local communities. Department Employee Health and Safety. Executive Management & Overbooking. Transformation Department Product and service use. Health and safety impacts of our products and services. • At Board level, the Chief Executive Officer has the overall Customers’ personal data security. responsibility for Corporate Responsibility issues, including Marketing, advertising, promotion, product and service principles, policies and objectives. information and labeling. • At Management level, the six-member Corporate Environmental issues. Responsibility Team is responsible to coordinate our overall Rippling impact of our vessels. Corporate Responsibility strategy. The Team consists of representatives from the Executive Maritime Operations Department, Executive Financial Department, Executive Commercial Department and Executive Management & Transformation Department and cooperates with other Departments, in order to diffuse practices related to responsible operation. It must be noted that responsibilities of Corporate Responsibility Team’s members have been included within the Group’s formal organizational structure and members’ formal job descriptions. 28 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT :) Good Practice :) Good Practice Global Compact Principles and Corporate Training on Corporate Responsibility Responsibility In order to further manage Corporate Responsibility, Our Regulation of Professional Conduct & Business during 2019 we organized a half-day Corporate Ethics reflects our commitment to the 10 Principles of Responsibility training seminar to approximately 110 the United Nations’ Global Compact, as it includes their Management executives, including the Chief Executive acknowledgement and acceptance. At the same time, we Officer, Top Management members, Directors and have completed the development of a process to identify, Managers from all departments, as well as the Corporate prioritize and integrate Corporate Responsibility issues Responsibility Team, on the following topics: into local and international investment agreements, for • Definition and importance of Corporate Responsibility. which the final approval is currently pending. • Managing Corporate Responsibility in a systematic way. • Review of Corporate Responsibility Report, including :) Good Practice strengths, areas for improvement and suggestions for the next Report. Sustainable Mobility At the same time, we have invited all office employees Since 2011, we have signed the International Union of (including all new hired employees) during 2018-2019 Railways’ (UIC) Declaration on Sustainable Mobility and to participate in the interactive e-learning course ‘Let's Transport, which is aligned with the United Nations’ Think…’ on key concepts and thinking on Corporate Global Compact and constitutes a public commitment Responsibility issues to help them increase their to implement and report on sustainable development awareness, facilitate their thinking process and adjust their practices through regular and transparent progress behavior related to Corporate Responsibility. It must be reports. Furthermore, we are members of UIC’s noted that approximately 27% of all participants achieved Sustainable Mobility Group to strengthen sustainability a score of over 80%. in the transportation sector and participated in the ‘UIC Sustainability Survey: Good Practice Examples’ on good practices related to sustainable development. :) Good Practice ‘European Enterprise Manifesto 2020’ Since 2015, we have signed the European Enterprise Manifesto 2020, part of the joint initiative ‘Enterprise 2020’ of the Hellenic Network for Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR Hellas), the European Business Network for Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR Europe) and 42 CSR Networks across Europe. The Manifesto promotes cooperation and initiatives in three strategic areas: • Enhance employability and social inclusion. • Promote new sustainable production and consumption methods, as well as improve living conditions. • Increase transparency and respect for human rights. ATTICA GROUP 29 :) Good Practice Corporate Responsibility Strategy & Action Plan In 2017 we developed our Corporate Responsibility Strategy 2018-2020 to improve our performance. To We improved our performance on Corporate achieve this, we utilized an online tool to quantitatively Responsibility issues by 18% since 2017 assess our Corporate Responsibility level, through over 1,000 questions based on criteria from internationally recognized systems (such as GRI, AA1000, ISO26000 It must be noted that: and EFQM), as well as good practices from leading • We have included the Corporate Responsibility Strategy organizations worldwide. 2018-2020’s quantitative assessment score as a target in the formal performance appraisal of our Chief Executive Results were presented during a half-day workshop, where Officer. the anticipated Corporate Responsibility performance by 2020 was defined (24% improvement compared to • The development of our Corporate Responsibility Strategy 2017), specific quantitative objectives in 7 Corporate 2018-2020 was presented during 2 webinars organized Responsibility Areas were set and Areas, Sub-Areas by the European Foundation for Quality Management and Dimensions we need to focus on were identified, in (EFQM). order to achieve the 2018-2020 Corporate Responsibility Strategy. Over 200 participants from across the World were informed during 2 respective EFQM webinars 60 Top Management Members, Directors on our methodology to develop our Corporate and Managers from all departments participated Responsibility Strategy & Action Plan in the development of our Corporate Responsibility Strategy 2018-2020 Following the Workshop, future Actions and responsible employees for each action in the 7 Areas within the context of our Corporate Responsibility Action Plan 20182020 were defined, with Actions being incorporated into our Group's objectives and monthly monitored for implementation. 104 Actions were defined in our Corporate Responsibility Action Plan 2018-2020 During our annual Corporate Responsibility meeting, we evaluate our Corporate Responsibility performance and the implementation of defined Actions. The respective assessment for 2019 shows improved performance across all Corporate Responsibility Areas compared to 2017, a performance close to the anticipated performance for 2020. We operate based on Management Systems We use the following certified Management Systems for our We were subjected to 116 external audits business operations: regarding our Management Systems, with no • International Safety Management (ISM) Code. recorded non-compliance incident • International Vessel and Port Facility Security (ISPS) Code. No non-compliance incident was recorded during • Maritime Labour Convention (MLC). audits of our contractors’ Management Systems • ISO 9001 Quality Management System. • ISO 14001 Environmental Management System. • ISO 50001 Energy Management System (refers only to Hellenic Seaways). • ISO 22000 Food Safety Management System (contractors). 30 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our efforts are recognized :) Good Practice We consider the recognition of our efforts related to Corporate Digital Transformation Responsibility as an important moral award, which also highlights our commitment to continue our relevant practices Investing in the Digital Transformation of our activities, we and initiatives. In 2019, we were proud to receive: implemented a Fleet Management System in cooperation with an expert foreign company, in order to ensure reliable •T he Gold Award in Ethos Media’s Greek Hospitality Awards and high quality operations on all our vessels. The System: 2019 in the category ‘Best Greek Domestic Passenger Shipping Company’, among the Greek hotels and tourism • Provides a comprehensive overview and ensures central companies with innovative practices, robust management control of all vessels’ data, in order to: and willingness to offer top-level tourist services to visitors Improve workflow and better scheduling of vessel according to international standards. maintenance. •F ive awards in Boussias Communications’ Tourism Awards Reduce tank time and repair expenses. 2019: • Contributes to the digitization of our vessels’ Safety The Gold Award in the category ‘Innovative Concept’ for Management System. our Eurail & Interrail Greek Islands Pass for 5 domestic destinations (see Section VIII-1). The Gold Award in the category ‘On Line Strategy’ for our We are members in national and international targeted Performance Marketing strategy and the online organizations bookings’ increase in the Adriatic routes during 2018. We are members in the following institutions and The Silver Award in the category ‘Loyalty Programs’ for our organizations: loyalty and reward program seasmiles (see Section VII-3). • INTERFERRY. The Silver Award in the category ‘Storytelling Experience’ for our activity ‘The Unseen Beauty of the Aegean’ to •G  reek Shipowners Association for Passenger Ships (SEEN). showcase the cultural heritage of the Aegean islands. The Vice-Chairman of BoD and the Chief Executive Officer are Chairman of BoD and Vice-Chairman of International The Silver Award in the category ‘Social Media Presence’ Routes in the BoD of SEEN. for our dynamic presence on social media channels. •H  ellenic Chamber of Shipping (HCS). The Vice-Chairman of •T he Gold Award in Boussias Communications’ Loyalty BoD and the Chief Executive Officer are BoD Members of Awards 2019 in the category ‘Best in Loyalty & Engagement HCS. (Travel)’, for our loyalty and reward program seasmiles (see Section VII-3). •G  reek Tourism Confederation (SETE). •H  ellenic Network for Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR Hellas). •H  ellenic Marine Environment Protection Association (HELMEPA). •T  ravel Technology Initiative. • International Union of Railways (UIC). • International Rail Transport Committee (CIT). •E  URAIL Group GIE. •U  nited Nations’ Global Compact. •H  ellenic-Italian Chamber of Commerce. ATTICA GROUP 31 3. Materiality and Stakeholders We identify Material Topics We have created the following Corporate Responsibility Framework, as a result of an internal analysis and interaction with our Stakeholders, in order to systematically organize and manage Corporate Responsibility issues. Corporate Responsibility Framework Air Quality & Energy Raw Materials & Solid Waste Water & Liquid Waste State Environment NGOs ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT EMPLOYMENT CONDITIONS Human Resources & Employment Safety & Security PASSENGER SAFETY Health & Safety RESPONSIBLE Customers Employees Responsible Communication MANAGEMENT Sales Network Equality & Diversity Shareholders Media Quality & Satisfaction Training & Development SOCIETY SUPPORT Citizens Associations and Unions Suppliers Local Communities Economic Growth Societal Support Responsible Procurement In each one of the areas of Corporate Responsibility, we focus • We combined the associated risk and Stakeholders’ on Material Topics, identified through a respective Materiality expectations for each topic, taking into consideration the Analysis, during which: Group's Corporate Responsibility Strategy 2018-2020 and the • We identified potential topics, based on the industry’s identified Areas where we should focus (see Section IV-2), regulatory framework, current global conditions and practices as well as a workshop conducted to over 110 Management and future trends, developing a pool of over 90 topics to be executives, including the Chief Executive Officer, Top considered. Management members, Directors and Managers from all departments, who analyzed the risk and our Stakeholders’ • We analyzed the associated risk for each topic, based on: expectations on each topic, in order to develop our Materiality Their potential impact (for our Stakeholders). Analysis. Their probability of occurrence. • We utilized our Stakeholders’ expectations as far as our responsible operation is concerned, where available, taking into consideration Stakeholder engagement input from various sources (e.g. relevant surveys). 32 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT The Materiality Analysis was approved by the Corporate Responsibility Team and the Chief Executive Officer, who also approved the Corporate Responsibility Report. Through this Analysis, we have identified the following Material Topics for 2019 (all Topics that were not deemed Material are not referenced in detail): Corporate Responsibility Materiality Analysis High Passenger Safety CO2 Εmissions Responsible Buying  esponsible Communication R & Sales Energy Use SΟΧ, NOΧ & PM Εmissions Supplier Assessment for Labor Sea Pollution Practices Accident Impact Risk (impact on Materiality) Vessel Responsible Buying Vessel Work Conditions Waste Handling Vessel Health & Safety Products & Services Quality Labor Relations Products & Services Affordability  usiness Continuity B Local Buying Anti-competitive Behavior Passenger Property Protection H  azardous Waste S  upplier Environmental Assessment Supplier Human Rights Assessment Equality & Fairness Investment Impacts Customer Satisfaction Effluent Handling at Sea Material Recycling Water Consumption Information Systems Security Noise Pollution & Air Quality Corporate Governance Material Consumption Corporate Responsibility Fuel Spills & Leakages Sea Biodiversity Labor Practices Grievances Business Entrepreneurship Operational Support Anti-Corruption Rippling Customer Privacy Job Security Products & Services Health Internet Safety  nvironmental Training & E & Safety Awareness Employee Benefits Anti-competitive Compliance Investments Environmental Investment Discharges at Sea  Social Products & Services Land Biodiversity & Land Use Public Involvement Economic Transparency Office Health & Safety  Society Grievances Donation & Sponsoring Community Impact Customer Awareness Internal Communication  Corporate Volunteering Training & Development Community Awareness Environmental Compliance Office Work Conditions Environmental Grievances Refrigerants Use (ODP) Low Low Expectation (concern to Stakeholders) High Management Material Topics of high importance Society Material Topics of medium importance Employees Material Topics of moderate importance Customers Non-Material Topics Environment ATTICA GROUP 33 We interact with Stakeholders The way we operate, as well as our decisions, affect a wide range of people, groups and organizations, who comprise our Stakeholders. The following table describes our Stakeholder groups, which influence or are influenced by our operations, the methods we apply to continuously communicate and interact with them, the main topics raised by them, as well as the sections within our Report, where we respond to these topics. Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder Methods of interaction through continuous Main issues of interest activities (unless indicated otherwise) (reference in Report) DIRECT • Job Security (VI-1) • Training & Development (VI-4) • Vessel Health & Safety (VI-2) • Events / Meetings • Office Health & Safety (VI-2) • Training • Vessel Work Conditions (VI-1-4) Employees • Negotiations with Employee Unions (through Greek • Employee Benefits (VI-3) Shipowners Association for Passenger Ships – SEEN) • Equality & Fairness (VI-3) • Corporate Intranet • Labor Practices Grievances (IV-1, VI-3) • Office Work Conditions (VI-1-4) • Labor Relations (VI-3) • Internal Communication (VI-1) • Passenger Safety (VII-1) • Corporate Responsibility (IV-2) • Accident Impact (V-2, VIII-1) • Shareholders General Assembly • Corporate Governance (IV-1) (annually/extraordinary) • Business Continuity (IV-1) Shareholders • Websites • Investments (VI-3) • Meetings • Anti-corruption (IV-1) • Information Systems Security (IV-1, VII-1) • Economic Transparency (IV-1, V-1) • Public Involvement (IV-1) • Passenger Safety (VII-1) • Products & Services Quality (VII-1, 3) • Qualitative Greek Domestic Lines Survey • Products & Services Health & Safety (VII-1) (every 2-3 years) • Products & Services Affordability (VII-3) • Quantitative Greek Domestic Lines Survey • Responsible Communication & Sales (VII-2) (every 2-3 years) • Customer Satisfaction (VII-3) Customers • Customer Services Division • Accident Impact (V-2, VIII-1) • Websites • Anti-competitive Behavior (IV-1) • Satisfaction / Complaints Questionnaires • Passenger Property Protection (VII-1) • Social media • Customer Privacy (VII-1) • Information leaflets • Internet Safety (VII-1) • Customer Awareness (V-2, VIII-1-3) • Passenger Safety (VII-1) • Events / Meetings • Products & Services Quality (VII-1, 3) • Information systems Sales Network • Responsible Communication & Sales (VII-2) • Travel agents’ online portal • Customer Satisfaction (VII-3) • Websites • Anti-competitive Behavior (IV-1) • Operational Support (V-3) • Responsible Buying (V-3) • Supplier evaluation • Local Buying (V-3) Suppliers • Meetings • Vessel Responsible Buying (V-3) • Contracts • Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices (V-3) • Supplier Human Rights Assessment (V-3) • Supplier Environmental Assessment (V-3) INDIRECT • Discussion with representatives at local and national • Passenger Safety (VII-1) State level • Sea Pollution (VIII-2, 3) (e.g. Ministries, Local • Meetings / Presentations • Fuel Spills & Leakages (VIII-3) Authorities, Public Services, • Participation in organizations and associations • Accident Impact (V-2, VIII-1) Port Authorities) • Vessel inspections • Corporate Governance (IV-1) • Formal communication • Anti-competitive Behavior (IV-1) • Participation in associations Associations and Unions • Meetings / Presentations • Passenger Safety (VII-1) (e.g. Industry Associations, • Discussion with representatives at local and national • Products & Services Quality (VII-1, 3) Hoteliers’ Associations) level • Products & Services Affordability (VII-3) • Formal communication 34 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Stakeholder Methods of interaction through continuous Main issues of interest activities (unless indicated otherwise) (reference in Report) INDIRECT • Community Impact (V-2) • Sea Pollution (VIII-2, 3) • Fuel Spills & Leakages (VIII-3) • CO2 Emissions (VIII-1) • Effluent Handling (VIII-3) • Waste Handling (VIII-2) • Qualitative Greek Domestic Lines Survey • Hazardous Waste (VIII-2) (every 2-3 years) • SOx, NOx & PM Emissions (VIII-1) Local Communities • Quantitative Greek Domestic Lines Survey • Noise Pollution & Air Quality (VIII-1) (e.g. islands) (every 2-3 years) • Environmental Grievances (IV-1) • Meetings / Presentations • Donation & Sponsoring (V-2) • Local events and programs • Investment Impacts (V-2) • Business Entrepreneurship (V-2) • Corporate Volunteering (V-2) • Rippling (VIII-3) • Society Grievances (IV-1, V-2) • Community Awareness (V-2) • Passenger Safety (VII-1) • Products & Services Quality (VII-1, 3) • Energy Use (VIII-1) • Qualitative Greek Domestic Lines Survey • Sea Pollution (VIII-2, 3) (every 2-3 years) • Fuel Spills & Leakages (VIII-3) • Quantitative Greek Domestic Lines Survey • CO2 Emissions (VIII-1) Citizens (every 2-3 years) • Environmental Training & Awareness (VIII-1) • Websites • Material Consumption (VIII-2) • Social media • Material Recycling (VIII-2) • Responsible Communication & Sales (VII-2) • Accident Impact (V-2, VIII-1) • Social Products & Services (V-2) • Sea Pollution (VIII-2, 3) • Fuel Spills & Leakages (VIII-3) • Effluent Handling (VIII-3) • Waste Handling (VIII-2) • Discharges at Sea (VIII-2, 3) • Water Consumption (VIII-3) • Sea Biodiversity (VIII-3) • Land Biodiversity & Land Use (VIII-3) • Noise Pollution & Air Quality (VIII-1) • Refrigerants Use (ODP) (VIII-1) Non-Governmental • Collaborations • Environmental Grievances (IV-1) Organizations (NGOs) • Meetings / Presentations • Environmental Compliance (IV-1) • Vessel Health & Safety (VI-2) • Vessel Work Conditions (VI-1-4) • Equality & Fairness (VI-3) • Labor Practices Grievances (VI-3) • Office Work Conditions (VI-1-4) • Rippling (VIII-3) • Anti-corruption (IV-1) • Labor Relations (VI-3) • Investments (VI-3) • Environmental Training & Awareness (VIII-1) • Passenger Safety (VII-1) • Products & Services Quality (VII-1, 3) • Community Impact (V-2) • Press releases • Sea Pollution (VIII-2, 3) Media • Press conferences • Fuel Spills & Leakages (VIII-3) • Websites • Accident Impact (V-2, VIII-1) • Donation & Sponsoring (V-2) • Environmental Investment (VIII-1) • Anti-competitive Compliance (IV-1) ATTICA GROUP 35 Stakeholders and Level of Control STATE LE VE L NGOs O F CO NT RO ENVIRONMENT L LOCAL EMPLOYEES SALES CITIZENS COMMUNITIES CUSTOMERS SHAREHOLDERS NETWORK SUPPLIERS MEDIA ASSOCIATIONS AND UNIONS We focus on quantitative data and results Quantitative Data within the Corporate Responsibility Report We focus to continuously include and publish more quantitative indicators and objectives, in order to respond to 235 our Stakeholders’ requirement for greater transparency and 66 their need to be able to evaluate our performance. 2019 To systematically report on our performance, we have 19 identified our Corporate Responsibility Report’s quantitative 38 indicators and defined the respective requirements to configurate our Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system. 225 66 We increased by 4.4% the number 2018 18 of quantitative indicators we make reference to within the Report 42 210 56 2017 18 55 Quantitative indicators (number) Fully covered GRI disclosures (number) Partially covered GRI disclosures (number) Objectives (number) 36 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 4. Achievements 2019 and Future Objectives We committed Progress We aim By To improve our overall performance on Corporate To improve our overall performance on Corporate Responsibility issues by 24% (by 2020). 75% Responsibility issues by 24%. 2020 To improve our performance on Corporate Responsibility To improve our performance on Corporate Responsibility issues related to Owners by 10% (by 2020). 100% issues related to Owners by 10%. 2020 To improve our performance related to Management of To improve our performance related to Management of Corporate Responsibility issues by 25% (by 2020). 75% Corporate Responsibility issues by 25%. 2020 To conduct a Stakeholder Engagement process To conduct a Stakeholder Engagement process on issues related to Corporate Responsibility. 25% on issues related to Corporate Responsibility. 2020 To include our Corporate Responsibility Report’s To include our Corporate Responsibility Report’s quantitative indicators in our SAP ERP (by 2021). 50% quantitative indicators in our SAP ERP. 2021 To integrate the Corporate Responsibility Strategy 2018-2020’s target assessment score within the overall 100% Group Strategy (by 2020). To include the Corporate Responsibility Strategy To include the Corporate Responsibility Strategy 2020 2018-2020’s quantitative assessment score as target in the formal appraisal process for Top Management 50% score as a target within the formal appraisal process 2020 for Top Management members. members and at least one Board of Directors member. To develop a process to identify, prioritize and include To apply a process to identify, prioritize and include Corporate Responsibility issues in local and international 75% Corporate Responsibility issues in local and international 2020 investment agreements. investment agreements. To establish a comprehensive Business Continuity To establish a comprehensive Business Continuity Plan to ensure continuation of our operations following 25% Plan to ensure continuation of our operations following 2020 unexpected events (by 2020). unexpected events. To include perception measurement questions To include perception measurement questions regarding our Corporate Responsibility performance regarding our Corporate Responsibility performance (e.g. responsible promotion of products and services, 0% (e.g. responsible promotion of products and services, 2020 personal data protection, society support) personal data protection, society support) in our market in our market surveys. surveys. To complete the implementation of our Fleet Management System for all our vessels. 2020 ATTICA GROUP 37 V We support prosperity of Society 38 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT SOCIETY We are €405.4 million turnover €470.8 million economic value 99 distributed 139,703 discount tickets blood units from volunteer blood donators €2.8 million social contribution We commit to Combine our business success with our country’s and • We implemented or supported societal support activities partners’ development, as well as support local communities in 100% of the islands we serve. affected by our operations, in order to contribute to improving • We increased the total number of discount tickets offered the quality of life and prosperity of our society in general. by 85.5%. • We increased the total value of societal support activities We follow by 24.8%. Principles of the United Nations’ Global Compact • We allocated 55% of sponsorships and donations to local communities. 1 Support and respect protection of internationally proclaimed human rights • We increased the number of employees participating in 2 Ensure not to be complicit in human rights abuses volunteer activities and employee volunteering hours by 4 E liminate all forms of forced and compulsory labour 13.5% and 49.3% respectively. 5 Abolish effectively child labour 8 Promote greater environmental responsibility • We collected 282 blood units through our voluntary blood donation programs in the last three years. • We welcomed 1,047 young people from schools and We achieved universities visiting our offices and vessels. • We supported the development of 86 students in •W e distributed over €470 million in economic value: over Merchant Navy’s Officer academies. €94.2 million to employees (for salaries, benefits and insurance payments), €81.9 million for taxes (including VAT • We spent 77.2% of total procurement expenditure to local and port taxes), €29.9 million to providers of capital (for suppliers. interest and return payments), €21.9 million to agents (for • We spent 15.4% of total procurement expenditure to small commissions), €205.6 million to suppliers (for purchases of and medium-sized enterprises (up to 50 employees). goods and services), €2.8 million to society (for discount tickets, implemented programs, sponsorships and donations) • We have defined 10% of suppliers’ selection criteria to be and €34.5 million for investments. related to their responsible operation. ATTICA GROUP 39 We focus Air Quality & Energy Raw Materials & Solid Waste Water & Liquid Waste State Environment NGOs ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT EMPLOYMENT CONDITIONS Human Resources & Employment Safety & Security PASSENGER SAFETY Health & Safety Customers Employees RESPONSIBLE Responsible Communication MANAGEMENT Sales Network Equality & Diversity Shareholders Media Quality & Satisfaction Training & Development SOCIETY SUPPORT Citizens Associations and Unions Suppliers Local Communities Economic Growth Societal Support Responsible Procurement 40 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 1. Economic Growth We contribute to economic growth Our business operations ensure we return significant We achieve financial results economic value back to our Stakeholders, mostly through purchases (towards our suppliers), commissions (towards our Holding a leading position in the provision of maritime agents), salaries, benefits and insurance payments (towards transportation services, we achieve positive financial results, our employees), taxes (towards the State) and investments, which are indicatively presented below for the period 2017while we transport food products and materials to islands, in 2019 (additional financial information can be found in our order to develop local economies and tourism. Annual Financial Reports at www.attica-group.com). Financial Results Economic Value Distribution 2017 2018* 2019 Turnover (total sales with VAT) (million €) 271.54 365.4 405.4 Operating costs (million €) 211.52 290.8 316.2 Taxes** Earnings before interest, taxes, €81.9 million depreciation and amortization 59.55 57 78 (EBITDA) (million €) Profits after taxes (million €) 1.25 17.27 20.8 Capital Agents Corporate taxes (thousand €) 307 264.4 197 Providers €21.9 million Total taxes (including corporate taxes, €29.9 million 49.43 71.3 81.9 VAT and port taxes) (million €) Payments to providers of capital (million €) 34.7 59.3 29.9 Distributed Payments to suppliers (million €) 130.75 196.6 205.6 Economic Cost of employees (including salaries, 61.61 91.6 94.2 Value benefits and insurance payments) (million €) Employees* €470.8 million Suppliers Commissions to agents (million €) 15.27 20.6 21.9 €94.2 million €205.6 million Investments (million €) 7.18 128 34.5 * Data refer to the period 01/01/2018-31/12/2018 for Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries and 01/06/2018-31/12/2018 for Hellenic Seaways. It must be noted that during 2019, the total financial Investments Society*** €34.5 million €2.8 million compensation received from the Greek State and grants from the European Union amounted to €31.44 million, compared to €23.87 million in 2018, due to public service contracts awarded, as Blue Star Ferries and Hellenic Seaways participated in open public tenders by the Ministry of Shipping * The amount refers to gross salaries, benefits and insurance payments. ** The amount refers to total taxes, including VAT and port taxes. and Island Policy to operate shipping routes which connect *** The amount refers to value of discount tickets, implemented programs, remote islands with the mainland. sponsorships and donations. Turnover per Market We distributed over €470 million in economic 2019 75.8 24.2 value: over €94.2 million to employees (for salaries, benefits and insurance payments), €81.9 million for 2018 75.8 24.2 taxes (including VAT and port taxes), €29.9 million to providers of capital (for interest and return payments), 2017 68 32 €21.9 million to agents (for commissions), €205.6 million to suppliers (for purchases of goods and Domestic routes (%) services), €2.8 million to society (for discount tickets, Adriatic Sea routes (%) implemented programs, sponsorships and donations) and €34.5 million for investments Revenue Structure 3.4% 3.9% 7.8% 42.7% Revenues from passenger tickets 11.7% Revenues from freight unit tickets Revenues from other vehicle tickets Revenues from compensation for public services Revenues from onboard services Other revenues 30.5% ATTICA GROUP 41 We help our sales network develop 2. Society Support The current challenging economic situation makes every effort to create direct and indirect job positions particularly We support society important. Therefore, we contribute to our network’s commercial success by developing their employees’ skills, through: :) Good Practice • Training on issues, such as: Identify Local Community Needs Customer management. According to a formal process to identify and determine -F amiliarization with new features of existing reservation local community needs, we: programs. • Identify their potential needs, through: Familiarization with new reservation programs. -D  aily written, electronic and telephone communication •P resentations-briefings for new products and services. with local authorities, associations and unions. Besides trainings conducted to the Blue Star Ferries, Superfast -O  ur partners, such as our sales network agents and Ferries and Hellenic Seaways sales network, we trained 2 suppliers. employees of AML’s sales network in 2019, for a total duration of 56 training hours. -N  on-profit organizations. -S  ocial networks. Sales Network Training -T  he Media. 31 -T  he qualitative and/or quantitative market surveys we 2019 implement. 22 -O  n-the-spot visits. 240 • Filter and evaluate their needs, in accordance with our 2018 1,920 capabilities and importance to local communities. • Select the activities to support or plan new activities 72 in-house or in cooperation with third parties. 2017 248 1,920 Employees trained (number) Training hours (hours) Within the context of our societal contribution, we designed and implemented or supported over 170 societal support activities in 2019, compared to 130 activities in 2018, focusing on local communities of islands we serve, through: • Provision of discount tickets. •D onations to charitable organizations through collection boxes in our vessels. • Social programs to improve the life of residents in islands. • Monetary sponsorships and donations. We implemented or supported societal support activities in 100% of the islands we serve We offered over €198,000 to various social groups, organizations and sport associations during 2019, out of which over €43,000 to NGOs, without any infrastructure investments to local communities, with the following indicative examples: • The Holy Diocese of Chios-Psara-Oinousses. • The 1st Local Health Unit of Kos. • The Sport Association Kolossos Rhodes. • The Sport Association Foinikas Syrou. • The Heraklion Sailing Club. • The Port Authority of Astypalaia. • The non-profit organization FAROS. 42 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT • The amateur sports and cultural association AMES Nireas. :) Good Practice • The Ecumenical Confederation of Constantinople. • The ‘Agoni Grammi Gonimi’ program. Provision of Discount Tickets We offer discount tickets to various NGOs, associations, • The Safe Water Sports initiative. local authorities and local communities, in order for them • The Olympic sailing team P. Mantis P. Kagialis. to attend sport, cultural or educational activities outside their islands or local activities and events, as well as in Social Contribution cases of emergency. Indicative examples include: •3  0% discount to passenger and private vehicles and 2017 2018 2019 motorcycle tickets for those with at least four overnight Value of discount tickets (€) 1,436,386 1,982,089 2,578,597 stays in Lesvos, Chios, Leros and Kos (see Section VII-3). Value of donations from passengers to charitable organizations through 2,605 3,433 4,413 •5  0% discount for newly enrolled students in higher collection boxes in vessels (€) education institutions and their families for their first trips Value of implemented to register and find a home in Cyclades, Dodecanese, 4,730 42,995 54,138 social programs (€) North Aegean islands, Sporades, Saronic islands and Value of sponsorships 155,639 195,802 139,657 Crete (Heraklion and Chania). and donations (€) •5  0% discount for substitute teaching faculty appointed to islands. Furthermore, we donate surplus equipment to schools and •3  0%-100% discount for 217 residents in Cyclades, charitable organizations, with an indicative value of €1,900 Dodecanese, Saronic islands, Sporades and North for electronic equipment donated in 2019, which included 3 Aegean islands, as well as 144 residents in Crete who personal computers, 3 computer monitors, 3 keyboards, 3 travel regularly due to serious health issues and do not computer mice and 2 multi-function printers. have the necessary financial means. •3  0% discount for three children families in Crete routes. Society Support •5  0% discount for permanent residents of Hydra, Spetses and Ag. Eustratios to specific routes. 2,776,805 • 1 00% discount to 1,600 passenger tickets for 107 2019 pregnant women and their escorts from remote islands to 139,703 areas with medical presence on behalf of the non-profit organization HOPEgenesis, which is active in the health and social care sector and strives to reverse the birth 2,224,319 deficit trend in Greece. 2018 75,322 Furthermore, we provided discount tickets to support: •A  rchaeological programs and excavations in Keros, Paros 1,599,360 and Lesvos, the Infinite Liquid Project to highlight the diversity and beauty of Greek underwater caves, as well 2017 48,052 as the archeological exhibition ‘From the world of Homer. Tinos and Cyclades in the Mycenaean era’. Value of societal support activities (€) •A  ctivities and conferences to provide information for Discount tickets (number) environmental and biodiversity protection, such as activities of the Hellenic Society for the Study and Protection of the Monk Seal, the scientific conference We increased the total number of discount ‘Designing the protection of natural heritage for tickets offered by 85.5% sustainable development’ of the Hellenic Society for the Environment and Cultural Heritage, the cleaning of sea We increased the total value of societal shores in Paros by the Marine Environment Protection support activities by 24.8% Organization and the transportation of tree saplings for a reforestation activity in Tinos. Sponsorships and Donations Overall, it is estimated that during 2019, we offered 139,703 discount tickets for sport, cultural and educational activities 19.9% and additionally benefitted thousands of citizens who 4.4% participated or attended those events and activities. 54.2% 21.5% Environmental Cultural Sports Social ATTICA GROUP 43 :) Good Practice :) Good Practice Design and Implementation of Educational Donations to Charitable Organizations and Cultural Activities As part of our societal contribution, we support various Besides our support to societal support activities, we charitable organizations which: design and implement additional activities, within the • Are committed to support children. context of contributing socially, as in 2019 we: • Have limited resources. • Implemented for the 2nd consecutive year the initiative ‘Greek Communities of Italy – A voyage to culture’, Therefore, we place collection boxes at the Reception during which school students and adults in Reggio desks onboard all Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries (Calabria) and Messina (Sicily) attended Greek language vessels with the name of the supported organization and culture lessons, participated in experiential/art indicated, in order to collect donations from passengers. workshops, learnt traditional Greek dishes, danced, Each month, we gather these donations and deposit them sang and read Greek literature. At the same time, we into the organization’s bank account. Within this context, supported the publication of a book about our National we supported the following charitable organizations in Poet Dionysios Solomos, which was sent to 90 libraries 2019: in Greece and Greek associations, Greek schools, • Smile of the Child. universities and school/community/regional libraries in Italy, while we offered an interactive board to the Greek • Amnesty International. Culture Association of Bova Marina for their educational • Lions Club Rhodes. and cultural activities. • Continued our collaboration with the Greek Gastronomy Guide for the internet campaign ‘Serving Aegean’ to :) Good Practice promote the history, geography, products, cuisine and First Aid Training Courses traditional dishes of 18 Aegean islands (Crete, Rhodes, Kos, Kalymnos, Astypalaia, Patmos, Santorini, Ios, Tinos, We continued our ‘First Aid’ training program for the 6th Mykonos, Naxos, Paros, Syros, Lesser Cyclades, Amorgos, year, in cooperation with the Volunteer Crisis Rescue Ikaria, Chios and Lesvos), while further information about Team (VCRT), during which First Aid training courses have each island’s local producers, taverns, restaurants and been conducted in Tilos, Amorgos, Santorini, Paros and cafes, local festivals, markets and sights are displayed in Naxos, while relevant courses were conducted in Leros the website www.greekgastronomyguide.gr. and Symi during 2019, with over 670 participants (out of whom 169 within 2019), which mark substantial contribution • Continued our collaboration with the ‘pculiar’ platform to disseminate valuable First Aid knowledge and cultivate Reflex Photographers for the cultural activity ‘The unseen volunteering and solidarity for our fellow citizens. Aegean beauty’ and created an online photo album of culture and customs photos from Aegean islands As a result of the ‘First Aid’ training program that started available at www.bluestarferries.com, to highlight cultural in 2014, the VCRT of Amorgos was created in 2015, to richness and enhance knowledge about each island’s which we are the main sponsor, and has since provided culture and customs. significant rescue assistance in emergency situations, with additional First Aid training courses conducted to 150 • Hosted events of the Association of Carpathians, children and adults in Lesser Cyclades. Association of Marpissa & Archilochites of Paros and the Federation of Lesbian Associations of Attica, as well as 2 Furthermore, First Aid training courses were conducted for Greek National Tourism Organization’s events in Ancona 74 office employees in 2019. and Bari on our vessels. :) Good Practice ‘Agoni Grammi Gonimi’ To ensure participation of small island residents in educational and cultural events, we supported the ‘Agoni Grammi Gonimi’ program for the 13th consecutive year, which is the largest educational and cultural program of remote Aegean islands. Within 2019, the program featured cultural activities in Astypalaia, Donoussa, Naxos, Thirasia, Karystos and Kythira with 9 creative workshops in different thematic areas (Technology, Sports, Arts, Dance, Theater and Music), with the participation of 195 children and 10 adults, compared to 167 children and 20 adults in 2018. 44 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT We cultivate the importance of volunteer contribution :) Good Practice We believe that it is our responsibility to cultivate the Support to Underprivileged Social Groups importance of volunteer contribution to our employees, in order to integrate the concept of responsibility in their We strive to support various social groups in need, in behavior. Within this context, we participated in the 3rd charity collaboration with NGOs, specialized authorities and race ‘No Finish Line’ with a team of 95 volunteer runners, who organizations. Since September 2012, we support the covered a total distance of 1,560 km and offered €780 to Holy Diocese of Chios-Psara-Oinousses to provide meals support the association ‘Together for Children’. Based on the to sensitive social groups, by purchasing required raw total kilometers run, our team ranked 1st among 18 companies materials for food rations. with 60-119 runners and 18th in the overall ranking among 100 participating companies. Provision of Meals to Underprivileged Citizens Employee Participation in Societal Support Activities 16,411 2019 193 24,168 2019 10.8 16,232 430 2018 23,905 170 14,791 2017 2018 9.3 21,752 288 Value of raw materials purchased (€) Corresponding food rations (number) 165 Furthermore, since 2019 we have offered 3,990 food 2017 13.7 rations with a total value of €5,985 in cooperation with the 186 non-profit organization FAROS ELPIDAS, offering cooked meals from our Blue Horizon and Blue Galaxy vessels to Employee volunteers (number) vulnerable groups in the Municipality of Moschato-Tavros. Employee volunteers participation (%) Employee volunteering (hours) We allocated 55% of sponsorships and donations to local communities At the same time, we participated in efforts by the Greek government and non-governmental organizations to assist refugees, as in 2019 we: • Transported free-of-charge 1,521 unaccompanied minors and NGO ‘Metadrasi’ volunteer escorts, which specializes in interpreting and protecting unaccompanied minors, with 4,203 people transported during 2016-2019. • Provided free tickets to organizations and associations for 66 humanitarian aid shipments, during which we transported approximately 1,300 packages, boxes, parcels and pallets, as well as 12 vehicles with additional materials to support refugees. We increased the number of employees participating in volunteer activities and employee volunteering hours by 13.5% and 49.3% respectively ATTICA GROUP 45 Supporting Professional Growth :) Good Practice ‘Blood Ties’ 1,047 Since 2009, we implement a voluntary blood donation 2019 86 program called ‘Blood Ties’, in order to respond to needs of remote Greek island residents and to personal 0 emergencies of our employees and their families. Within 2019, we continued the program for the 11th consecutive 1,290 year with 2 employee voluntary blood donations, in cooperation with the ‘G. Gennimatas’ General Hospital and 2018 83 gathered in total 99 blood units, out of which 38 units were utilized for our employees’ and their families’ needs and 3 0 units from local community members. 739 Voluntary Blood Donation 2017 87 2019 99 0 2018 113 Visiting school and university students (number) Students from Merchant Navy's academies (number) Coast Guard students (number) 2017 70 Blood units (number) We welcomed 1,047 young people from schools and universities visiting our offices and vessels 23.905 We collected 282 blood units through our We supported the development of 86 students voluntary blood donation programs in the last in Merchant Navy’s Officer academies three years We support professional growth of young people We care for the impact of our operations We focus on educational contribution and supporting We strive to ensure that our operations have the least possible professional growth of young people, as we: impact on local communities we operate in. For this reason, we: •W  elcome school and university students to inform them about career prospects in the shipping industry and • Have included the risk of significant potential or actual employment opportunities in the passenger shipping negative impacts on local communities from our operations industry, as well as promote their environmental awareness. in our annual risk assessment. • Monitor and continuously assess our vessels’ Safety •P  articipate in periodic student internship programs of the Management System. Merchant Navy’s Officer academies (for Engine and Deck cadets) who are required to successfully complete a one• Conduct security risk assessments when deemed necessary. year internship onboard a vessel prior to their graduation, as • Trained 18.2% of office security personnel on our human well as in periodic field journey programs for Coast Guard rights policies and procedures, which accounted for 13.1% students (Ensign cadets) to familiarize themselves with their of total training hours, without however conducting relevant future duties. trainings to marine security personnel. • Implement internship programs for university students and • Outline tasks related to security in job descriptions. graduates to acquire professional experience and develop skills and competencies which advance their personal and • Have developed an Emergency Plan, which includes professional development. Within this context, we have measures to deal with negative impacts (e.g. pollution) and implemented relevant programs for 24 school and university regularly train marine employees on such issues. students during 2018-2019, out of which 25% have been • Have developed a ‘Crisis Communication Plan’, in order to hired. ensure seamless information flow during emergencies and responsible communication to interested parties, beyond what is already specified within our Safety Management System for crisis and emergencies management. 46 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 3. Responsible Procurement We give priority to local suppliers Our suppliers are 1,487 throughout Greece and abroad, with 77.2% of them being local suppliers. Based on their turnover, we consider 143 of them as major suppliers, out of which 100 are local suppliers. For 2019: • The average supplier payment time was 104 days, compared to 114 days in 2018. • 100% of payments for undertaken contractual obligations were made according to the terms in our contract agreements, as in 2018. Supplier Categories 9.4% 6.4% 4.6% 15.1% 3.1% Marine fuels and lubricants Within 2019, the following significant incidents occurred on our Vessel repairs, spare parts and vessels: consumables Agency services • A minor collision of Blue Star Naxos in the shallows occurred Port services during maneuvering at the Schinoussa port, due to sudden General services and products adverse weather conditions, without any injuries among Insurance services passengers and crew members. The vessel sailed by itself to the Naxos port and was inspected by the competent 61.5% authorities. In parallel, we arranged for passengers to be forwarded to their destinations and repaired the minor Suppliers and Procurement Expenditure damages to the vessel’s reefs. • A fire onboard Flying Dolphin XVIII occurred, while an external 1,487 crew was cutting the vessel’s hull in the Perama Shipbuilding Repair Zone, which caused the complete vessel destruction 2019 1,149 (besides the 2 engines). The fire was extinguished by the Fire Service, tugboats and own means, without any injury or 77.2 marine pollution occurring. • Three mooring ropes of our Superfast II vessel smashed at the Igoumenitsa port, due to a sudden change in weather 1,451 conditions, when the vessel's ramp was lifted by a mooring rope of another vessel’s siding very close. The incident 2018 1,191 caused damages, without any injuries. • A minor collision on the left side of high-speed FLYING CAT 3 90.7 with a sea taxi, which did not follow collision avoidance rules, during its journey to the Hydra port. The collision caused small plate abrasions, without any injuries among passengers 1,110 or crew members or marine pollution. 2017 932 92.9 Suppliers (number) Local suppliers (number) Procurement expenditure to local suppliers (%) We spent 77.2% of total procurement expenditure to local suppliers We spent 15.4% of total procurement expenditure to small and medium-sized enterprises (up to 50 employees) ATTICA GROUP 47 Allocation of Purchases per Region* ::: Policy 2019** 22.8 74.5 2.7 Responsibility in our Supply Chain To implement Corporate Responsibility principles throughout 2018 our supply chain, we have developed a Code of Conduct for 9 88.1 2.9 Suppliers/Partners (which also addresses our Contractors’ Suppliers), as well as a single Procurement Process, which defines responsibilities of our suppliers and partners, and 2017 7 90.2 2.8 establishes supplier selection criteria for products and services. Within this context, we: Abroad (%) Local Urban (%) •H ave defined our principles and specific commitments for Local Rural (%) suppliers/partners and involved contractors/subcontractors on the following issues: * Percentages refer to the procurement expenditure of all suppliers. Compliance with national Sponsorships. ** The 2019 change in purchases is attributed to purchasing the cargo vessel Blue and European law. Prohibition of donations to Carrier 1 and ordering air pollutants monitoring systems (scrubbers) from foreign suppliers. Freedom of participation in political parties. trade unions and collective Environmental protection. bargaining. Minimize greenhouse We responsibly select our suppliers Prohibition of child labor. gas emissions for climate Prohibition of forced labor. change. As our suppliers influence our responsible operation, we fully Compliance with working Efficient use of natural acknowledge our moral obligation to positively influence hours. resources and waste our supply chain and promote the principles of Corporate Fair and reasonable management. Responsibility to our suppliers. Within this context, we have remuneration. Data security and incorporated contractual clauses for Corporate Responsibility Fair treatment, diversity. protection. issues in contracts with significant suppliers, which include Health and safety. Respect of free and fair protection of human rights, environment and working Fight against bribery, competition. conditions and tackle corruption, as well as acceptance and corruption and money Quality assurance of compliance with our Code of Conduct for Suppliers/Partners laundering. products and services. (including their subcontractors). So far, we have not identified any suppliers with significant actual or potential negative • Consider any violation of the Code of Conduct for environmental, labor practices and human rights impacts or Suppliers/Partners as a violation of the agreement with the impacts on society. Supplier/Partner and reserve the right to intervene with corrective actions schedules or other legal actions. • Prohibit any relationship of interest from employees involved in the procurement process with our suppliers or accept gifts or any other benefit from suppliers. • Have defined the maximum supplier payment time to 120 days. • Keep and continuously update our Authorized Suppliers List and require from new suppliers to sign that they accept our Code of Conduct for Suppliers/Partners prior to be included in the List. • Have defined specific criteria and weighting to evaluate offers for supplier selection, which include responsible operation criteria for suppliers with less than 50 employees and suppliers based outside Attica. • Require at least three offers for each tender over €3,000, except for direct selection cases, either because they exactly match our technical specifications or only one unique supplier exists. We have defined 10% of suppliers’ selection criteria to be related to their responsible operation 48 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Furthermore, since March 2016 we evaluate our suppliers’ performance with an annual spending of over €10,000 and :) Good Practice we utilize specific criteria in five areas of the performance evaluation process, based on which we approve our suppliers: Responsible Vessel Buying • Quality We follow the most recent safety regulations during buying • Cost and building of our vessels, without however ignoring potential future safety regulations, which may affect their • Availability operation. At the same time, we focus on vessels’ energy • Service – Support – Adaptability efficiency and strive to implement innovative technologies. • Credit Policy Within 2019, we evaluated 94 suppliers (out of which 1 new supplier), which correspond to a spending of over €10,000 and are at the same time important suppliers for our operations, in the following categories: • Fuel and lubricants • Engine and deck spare parts and consumables • Hotel operation • Office It must be noted that: •W e assess the performance of potential suppliers prior to our collaboration, according to available and applicable criteria. Within 2019, we initiated collaboration with 311 new suppliers. •W e evaluate the exclusive representatives of manufacturing companies based on all above criteria, although there is no option to substitute them, due to their exclusivity. •W e inform suppliers with low scores they need to improve their performance, in order to continue our collaboration, as they will otherwise be rejected, without however any relevant suppliers within 2019. •W e immediately re-evaluate a supplier’s performance and proceed with appropriate measures in case a supplier provides unsuitable or dangerous products, demonstrates unethical behavior or does not fulfill our cooperation agreement. It must be noted that within 2019, we did not discontinue our collaboration with any supplier as a result of actual or potential compliance issues, such as anticompetitive behavior, environmental protection, product health and safety and labour practices. •W e select suppliers for materials or services among approved suppliers, based on the performance evaluation conducted. It must be noted that we send product samples to a certified laboratory depending on the materials, in case we cannot determine whether product specifications match the ones agreed with the supplier, in order to analyze and verify their specifications. ATTICA GROUP 49 4. Achievements 2019 and Future Objectives We committed Progress We aim By To improve our performance on Corporate Responsibility To improve our performance on Corporate Responsibility issues related to Community by 10% (by 2020). 100% issues related to Community by 10%. 2020 To improve our performance on Corporate Responsibility To improve our performance on Corporate Responsibility issues related to Suppliers by 180% (by 2020). 50% issues related to Suppliers by 180%. 2020 To consolidate/review the various procurement processes per Department and establish a single 100% Procurement Process. To develop a Policy for our Contractors’ Suppliers. 100% To develop a Code of Conduct for Suppliers, including selection criteria to become a supplier. 100% To integrate Corporate Responsibility issues in selection criteria to become a supplier. 100% To support the activities of charitable organizations To support the activities of charitable organizations and NGOs. 100% and NGOs. 2020 To implement at least 2 volunteer activities with To implement at least 1 volunteer activity with the the participation of our employees. 100% participation of our employees. 2020 To design and implement 2 programs / activities to To design and implement 2 programs / activities to address address local communities needs in the areas of sports, 100% local communities needs in the areas of sports, culture, 2020 culture, education or health (by 2020). education or health. 50 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ATTICA GROUP 51 VI We establish positive Employment Conditions 52 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT EMPLOYEES We are 99.3% of employees covered by voluntary benefits 1,779 14% employees women 100% of employees with full time employment contracts 100% of employees informed regarding Corporate Responsibility issues We commit to We achieved Cultivate a workplace focused on respect, equality, • W e employ 100% of our employees with full time safety and merit, as well as offer training opportunities to employment contracts. our employees, in order to facilitate their personal and • 100% of employees in Director positions are Greek. professional development. • N o grievances regarding our marine employees’ living conditions were filed. We follow • 1 00% of our employees received their annual leave, as Principles of the United Nations’ Global Compact planned. • W e conducted internal drills on Health and Safety issues 1 Support and respect protection of internationally proclaimed (such as response to emergency situations) to 100% of human rights marine employees. 2 Ensure not to be complicit in human rights abuses 3 Recognize freedom of association and right to collective • We trained at least once over 61% of our office employees. bargaining 4 Eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labour 5 Abolish effectively child labour 6 Eliminate discrimination in respect to employment and occupation ATTICA GROUP 53 We focus Air Quality & Energy Raw Materials & Solid Waste Water & Liquid Waste State Environment NGOs ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT EMPLOYMENT CONDITIONS Human Resources & Employment Safety & Security PASSENGER SAFETY Health & Safety Customers Employees RESPONSIBLE Responsible Communication MANAGEMENT Sales Network Equality & Diversity Shareholders Media Quality & Satisfaction Training & Development SOCIETY SUPPORT Citizens Associations and Unions Suppliers Local Communities Economic Growth Societal Support Responsible Procurement 54 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 1. Human Resources and Employment We sustain job positions Human Resources* Our business success is directly associated to our employees, Employment therefore we strive to create job positions, as well as lessen Type Permanent Fixed Term Full time Part time unemployment. Our activity also supports indirectly hundreds 197 (11.1%) of job positions throughout our value chain and the passenger Employees 1,582 (15 women in total) 1,779 0 shipping industry in general. It must be noted there are (number) (182 marine employees) seasonal variations in employment numbers onboard our Gender Female Male vessels, as the number of marine employees during spring Employees and summer months was higher by 36.7% compared to the 250 1,529 (number) autumn and winter months (1,728 employees compared to Age <30 30-50 >50 1,264). Employees 267 1,231 281 (number) Categories Nationalities Disabilities Foreigners Human Resources* Number 5 0 7 Post High School 1,779 Public School / Higher Education Postgraduate Level High School / Highest Education 2019 354 Education Employees 1,335 402 42 422 (number) Employment Tenure <5 years 5-10 years >10 years 1,823 Employees (%) 37.2 12.8 50 New Hires** Female Male <30 30-50 >50 2018 383 Employees 34 388 177 206 39 (number) 420 Turnover** Female Male <30 30-50 >50 Employees 33 321 101 169 84 1,205 (number) Turnover** Resignations Redundancies Other 216 Turnover 2017 38.7 61.3 0 reason (%) 240 Working Place Offices Vessels Employees 283 1,496 Employees (number) (number) Turnover (number)** Top Hierarchy Directors*** Employees Total New hires (number)** Management*** Employees 37 74 1,668 1,779 * D  ata refer to 31/12/2019 for office employees and to the average of 01/03/2019 (number) and 01/07/2019 for marine employees. ** New hires and turnover for the period 2017-2019 do not include university students *  ata refer to 31/12/2019 for office employees and to the average of 01/03/2019 D and cadets in Merchant Navy’s Officer and Coast Guard academies onboard our and 01/07/2019 for marine employees. vessels (who complete their internship under fixed term employment contracts), ** New hires and turnover for 2019 do not include university students and cadets in as well as our marine employees’ re-hiring within the same year (for whom a Merchant Navy’s Officer and Coast Guard academies onboard our vessels (who standardized dismissal and re-hiring process is in place). complete their internship under fixed term employment contracts), as well as our marine employees’ re-hiring within the same year (for whom a standardized dismissal and re-hiring process is in place). ***Top Management includes the Chief Executive Officer, Executive Directors and vessel Masters. Directors include office Directors, Staff Captains and Chief Engineers. We employ 100% of our employees with full time employment contracts ATTICA GROUP 55 It must be noted that: •T he average age of office and marine employees is 44.3 and 39.3 years respectively. •T he average employment tenure for office and marine employees is 14.5 and 10.9 years respectively. •T he turnover rate of office employees was 4.2% (out of which 2.8% redundancies and 1.4% resignations) and 22.9% for marine employees (out of which 14% redundancies and 8.9% resignations). •T here were 2 office employees who left before completing 12 months of employment, while the respective turnover rate of marine employees was 10.6% (besides the cadets in Merchant Navy’s Officer and Coast Guard academies onboard our vessels, who complete their internship under fixed term employment contracts). •T he turnover rate of female office employees is lower by 47.2% compared to male office employees, while the turnover rate of male marine employees is lower by 73.1% compared to female marine employees. We handle work-life balance •T he majority of our employees are from the prefecture Indicating our commitment to support our employees and of Attica, while there were no workers under freelance maintain work-life balance, we: arrangement working within the Group during 2019. • Ensure that all employees receive their entitled leaves. • Record and monitor work hours for all marine employees. 100% of employees in Director positions • Have defined rest hours for marine employees. are Greek • Ensure timely crew changes, in case it is required. • Ensure that all fees provided allow decent livelihood. • Compensate overtime work and do not force employees to We ensure proper living conditions for marine work overtime, under the threat of salary reduction, dismissal employees or any other sanction. We recognize the importance to establish proper living • Pay the entire wage to female employees in childbirth and conditions for our marine employees and their relation with a maternity leave without any deduction as a maternity bonus safe work environment and the crew’s psychology. Therefore: after their return to work, exceeding the relevant legislative • Crew cabins are located above the main deck. requirements. • We set temperature, ventilation and lighting conditions in Within 2019: accommodation areas according to relevant regulations. • 100% of marine employees worked at least once beyond the • We provide individual cabins to vessel Masters and Officers. typical work hours and there was no overtime work on behalf of our office employees. • We equipped entertainment halls with various recreation means (library, TVs, film projectors, board games) in all • The average overtime work for marine employees was 1.06 vessels, accessible by all marine employees. hours. • We systematically clean and sanitize accommodation areas. • All 2 women who received their maternity leave, returned and continued their work within our Group. • 3 women employees were granted reduced working hours due to raising a child. No grievances regarding our marine employees’ living conditions were filed 100% of our employees received their annual leave, as planned 56 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT We transparently inform our employees 2. Health and Safety Regardless of their employment type, we inform all new hired office employees about: We ensure Health and Safety onboard our vessels •O  ur organizational structure and culture. Our main commitment is to create a safe work environment for •O  ur Regulation of Professional Conduct & Business Ethics. our marine employees. Therefore: •T  he Emergency Situations Response Plan for offices. • There is a Safety Committee in each vessel, which consists •T  he terms and conditions of the Group Insurance program, of all supervisors and represents all work areas onboard which applies to employees with over 6 months employment vessels (departments). The Committee also discusses Health, contracts. Hygiene and Safety issues during its monthly meetings and in emergency incidents and notifies the Group regarding its •M  ain work issues and procedures, such as leaves and findings. absences, training, communication and performance appraisal. • We do not include Health and Safety issues in our employment contracts, since respective issues are covered by national •C  orporate Responsibility issues. or industry collective agreements and international hygiene, Furthermore, it must be noted that: accommodation and safety agreements, which have been incorporated in the relevant national legislation, as well as •O  ur employment contracts include documents which national or industry collective agreements, which are available describe the way we expect employees to behave (e.g. in our vessels. corporate manuals). • We require marine employees to hold competency certificates •P  rior to their employment, all employees receive their in training areas such as vessel safety, rescue equipment, employment contracts. firefighting and first aid, prior to their employment onboard our •W  e have informed all employees at least once regarding vessels, and oblige them to maintain valid certificates. Corporate Responsibility issues. • We continuously train our marine employees on Health, •W  e conducted 17 internal communication activities regarding Hygiene and Safety issues (such as response to emergency Corporate Responsibility issues to all our employees in 2019. situations), during which 3 employees were trained on maritime safety and vessel and port infrastructure safety for a total duration of 72 training hours within 2019, while overall 96 vessel Officers have been trained on prevention of serious :) Good Practice diseases. • We provide the necessary personal protective equipment and One Group/One Crew relevant training to all marine employees. To strengthen our employees’ commitment, we organise • We ensure proper employment conditions, such as an annual corporate half-day event called One Group/One temperature, ventilation, lighting and sanitation. Crew for the last 3 years, with the participation of all office • We have equipped our vessels with the appropriate employees, during which: equipment and conduct audits on alcohol consumption to •T he Chief Executive Officer refers to important events of all marine employees. No such non-compliance incidents the previous year, announces financial results and focuses occurred within 2019. on specific issues such as our Vision, Values and the • We record and monitor accidents and Health and Safety Group's Strategy for the next five years. incidents, in order to take corrective actions and eliminate •W e held 4 presentations by renowned external speakers respective risks. from the sectors of sports, academic community, corporate • We immediately replace injured and sick marine employees responsibility and brand strategy, which all focused on our with other employees, in order not to have crew numbers culture and Values, in order to strengthen teamwork and lower than legal requirements. our employees’ ability to achieve their goals. •E ach Department reviews its objectives, while the Chief Executive Officer and the Executive Directors announce the current year objectives. •W e organize a cocktail party to strengthen our employees’ interpersonal relationships. ATTICA GROUP 57 We ensure Health and Safety in offices • Establish favorable employment conditions to support susceptible office employee groups, such as pregnant Besides creating a safe work environment for marine employees and employees working in night shifts (for whom employees, we are also committed to ensure Health and we ensure additional security measures). Safety for our office employees. Within this context, we: • Ensure proper employment conditions, such as security, air •C  omply with the provisions of Law 1568/85 and Law conditioning, ventilation, lighting and sanitation. 3580/2010 regarding employee Health and Safety. • Ensure equal access from persons with disabilities to our •H  ave created a six-member Health, Safety and Environment offices, via parking space with ramp, wheelchair and properly Team, which designs and proposes our overall strategy designed WC. on employee health and safety issues related to their workplace, as well as protection of our assets, passenger • Expect from subcontractors who work on our behalf to safety and marine environment. provide health insurance from a public social institution to their employees, with the respective percentage reaching •H  ave developed a comprehensive Security Measures Plan. 100% in 2019. •H  ave created a Health, Safety and Environment Division The following table summarizes our overall Health and Safety to properly implement preventive systems and protection performance. It must be noted that: measures for employees and buildings. • There are no employees with high incidence or risk of •M  aintain an Incident Book and record any accidents and disease associated with their work within 2019, while there incidents within workplace, in order to apply measures to were no occupational diseases among our employees. prevent Health and Safety risks. • There were only minor accidents with minor injuries involving •H  ave communicated via e-mail and posts on the corporate our employees within 2019, without any accidents to office Intranet instructions for emergency situations to all office employees. employees, such as: • The total absenteeism rate for female office employees Fire. compared to male office employees is higher by 41%. Earthquake. • There were two lawsuits for marine employees’ injuries filed Bomb threat. in 2019, which are expected to be discussed within 2020. Robbery. • There were no relevant fines or other sanctions imposed by Hostage situation. the respective authorities. Sabotage. • Two previous lawsuits for marine employees’ injuries were discussed within 2019 and the cases are still pending. Arson. First Aid. Heat wave. Flood. •H  ave communicated instructions for emergency situations and preventive protection measures. Within this context, we trained 76 employees (26.8% of office employees) on Health and Safety issues, such as emergency situations, use of proper protective equipment, First Aid and evacuation procedures, for a total duration of 137 training hours. •H  ave defined and communicated office evacuation plan with predetermined assembly points, in order to safely evacuate office employees, visitors and external collaborators. •H  ave appointed Fire Safety Team and Emergency Care Team and clearly defined their members’ responsibilities. •H  ave installed loudspeaker system to signal evacuation in emergency situations. •E  nsure that emergency exits are clear of obstructions and are clearly marked. •H  ave installed anti-slip strips in staircases. 58 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 3. Equality and Diversity ::: Policy Equal Treatment and Human Rights According to our Regulation of Professional Conduct & Business Ethics, we: • Apply equal treatment regarding our recruitment practices and appraise our employees fairly and objectively. • Commit not to tolerate any retaliation towards employees who report any human rights violations. Health and Safety We commit to meritocracy 2017 2018 2019 Our commitment towards meritocracy follows the principle Employees’ fatal accidents (number) 0 0 0 to treat all our employees equally, which enables their Collaborators’ fatal accidents (number) 0 0 0 professional development to depend solely on their performance and skills. We do not allow any kind of Accidents (number) 14 32 10 discrimination due to gender, religion, age, ethnic group, Men 14 29 9 social or national origin, disability, beliefs, sexual orientation, Women 0 3 1 or participation in employee unions, as we take into Accidents with absence >1 day (number) 12 31 8 consideration each employee’s experience, personality, Accidents with absence <3 days (number) 2 5 2 performance, skills and qualifications regarding any work Accidents with absence >3 days (number) 12 27 8 aspect (e.g. salaries, professional advancement). Furthermore, Absence from work due to accidents (hours) 0 0 0 we do not allow any comments among employees for all Average days of absence per injury (days) 23.5 46.5 43.3 issues above, in order to prevent any form of harassment (e.g. Medical treatment cases (number) 68 114 128 sexual). Injury Rate (rate)** 0.78 1.47* 0.36 As a result of our focus on the equal treatment of women: Men 0.88 1.49* 0.37 • The overall percentage of women in office and vessels is Women 0 1.33* 0.32 54.8% and 6.4% respectively. Occupational Disease Rate (rate)*** 0 0 0 • The overall percentage of women in all management Men 0 0 0 positions (including supervisors) in offices and vessels is Women 0 0 0 36.3% and 4.3% respectively. Lost Days Rate due to injuries or occupational diseases (rate)**** 18.44 70.43* 15.72 • The percentage of female office and marine employees in Men 20.66 71.39* 15.96 Director positions is 14.3% and 1.9% respectively, without any Women 0 63.58* 13.87 female office and marine employees in Top Management positions. Absenteeism Rate due to injuries 157.9 408.52* 140.4 and occupational diseases (rate)***** • The percentage of female office and marine employees Men 177.72 419.58* 143.44 with fixed term employment contracts compared to male Women 0 337.35* 117.94 office and marine employees is lower by 50% and 94.2% respectively. * Data refer to Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries. ** Injury Rate (IR): Number of injuries x 200,000 work hours / Total work hours. • The total training hours of female office employees *** Occupational Disease Rate (ODR): Number of occupational diseases x 200,000 compared to male office employees are lower by 32.8%, work hours / Total work hours. without any female marine employees participating in **** Lost Days Rate due to injuries or occupational diseases (LDR): Total work days lost x 200,000 work hours / Total work hours. training programs in 2019 (not including internal drills ***** A  bsenteeism Rate due to injuries and occupational diseases (AR): Total absent conducted onboard vessels). work days x 200,000 work hours / Total work days. We conducted internal drills on Health and Safety issues (such as response to emergency situations) to 100% of marine employees ATTICA GROUP 59 Percentage of Women We respect the right of employees to participate in unions and strikes 14 Although there is no employee union within our Group, we 2019 5.4 respect the right of employees to freedom of association and participate in employee unions, while no operations in which 10.5 the respective rights may be at significant risk have been identified. It must be noted that: • 100% of marine employees participate in employee 15.5 unions related to their job position and through them to the Panhellenic Seamen’s Federation (PNO). Also, 2 4.2 2018 office employees are elected members of the Panhellenic Federation of Shipping and Tourism Employees (PASENT), to 12.1 which all office employees belong. • 100% of employees are covered by individual agreements, 13.3 based on industry collective agreements. 2017 • The minimum notice period regarding operational changes 4.9 for marine employees is 3 days, with a minimum notice period of 24 hours for Domestic lines and 7 days for Adriatic Women employees (%) Sea lines included in employment agreements. We follow, as Women in Director positions (%) a minimum, the relevant regulatory requirements regarding Women in all management positions (%) operational changes for office employees. • All our marine employees’ work was interrupted during the 4 strikes or lock-outs organized by the Panhellenic Seamen’s We do not tolerate child, forced and compulsory labor Federation (PNO) within 2019, due to their opposition to the We respect the internationally recognized principles of tax and insurance revisions by the Greek government, with human rights, as described within the Universal Declaration the time lost due to strikes being 1,000 mandays, which of Human Rights and the ten Principles of the UN Global corresponds to approximately 0.2% of marine employees’ Compact we have signed. At the same time, we are certified total working time. No office employees participated in any and audited according to the Maritime Labour Convention’s strike or lock-out within 2019. respective principles. Based on these principles, we are committed not to: •E mploy any person below the legal age work limit. •E ncourage or tolerate any forced and compulsory labor in any of our premises. •E mploy any person through organizations or agencies involved in trafficking or other forms of forced labor. In 2019: •N o areas or operations were assessed for child or compulsory labor risks. •T here were no significant investment agreements and contracts with clauses on human rights. 60 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT We ensure confidentiality of personal data • The ratio of percentage increase in annual total compensation for the highest-paid individual to the median We respect the right of employees to safeguard their percentage increase in annual total compensation for all personal data and we are committed to implement a wide office employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) is range of technical and organizational measures, which non0.4:1. exhaustively include: • The ratio of percentage decrease in annual total • Have authorized the use of specific surveillance systems compensation for the highest-paid individual to the median to monitor crucial access areas to our offices (such as percentage decrease in annual total compensation for all staircases, outside perimeter, central cashier and parking marine employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) is garage) and vessels according to the respective legislation 1.89:1. (such as garages), which include CCTV system with cameras and security cards to monitor access to office areas such • There were 18 lawsuits filed by marine employees for labor as servers and UPS, and we only allow employees from disputes (with claims over €30,000), which are expected to the Health, Safety and Environment Division to access the be discussed within 2020. surveillance footage. • Regarding 10 previous lawsuits filed by marine employees for • Do not monitor any office work areas and we monitor certain labor disputes (with claims over €30,000), these cases were vessel work areas for security purposes (such as garages discussed within 2019, with 6 first instance and 4 appeal and engine room), without collecting any personal data. decisions pending respectively. • Require written consent on behalf of employees, in case required to disclose personal data to any person with preferential relationship (such as doctors or lawyers). We offer additional benefits • Do not withhold personal documents (such as identification We offer a number of voluntary benefits, which cover all our cards, passports or any other personal papers). office and marine employees. It must be noted that 99.3% of our office and marine employees (employees with permanent employment contracts and with fixed term employment contract of over 6 months) are covered by a sickness We apply a fair and transparent salary system insurance program and all subcontractors’ employees working One of our main objectives is to equally reward our on our behalf in our offices are covered by public insurance, employees’ contribution, to both maintain high levels of while office Top Management members and Directors are satisfaction, as well as attract highly qualified workforce. For covered by an additional retirement program, for which this reason, our employees’ remuneration system is aligned approximately €320,000 were spend in 2019, compared to with the applicable industry labor agreement on the basis €310,000 in 2018. of transparency and equal treatment. At the same time, we compensate all employees within the agreed time period and Additional Benefits we do not deduct salaries due to disciplinary offenses or other deductions except those stipulated by law. Marine Office It must be noted that in 2019: Employees Employees Expanded life insurance • The minimum salary is equal to the lowest salary defined in to all employees, their spouses the industry labor agreement in force. and their children • The average salary for male office employees and Managers Coverage against disability/ compared to female office employees and Managers is incapacitation higher by 2.8% and 38% respectively, due to factors such as Postgraduate program professional experience, qualifications and expertise. support Christmas cheques for every • The average salary for male office Directors compared to child up to 14 years old female office Directors is lower by 45%. Annual Christmas festive event • There are no differences between the average salary for Provision of free passenger male and female marine employees in all job positions, as and private vehicle tickets and their salary solely depends on their specialization. meals onboard our vessels (upon availability) • The ratio of annual total compensation for the highest-paid Discount for passenger and private individual to the median of annual total compensation for vehicle tickets for first-degree relatives all office and marine employees (excluding the highest-paid (upon availability) individual) is 9.36:1 and 4.49:1 respectively. Discount for certain items from vessel shops Food arrangement ATTICA GROUP 61 4. Training and Development We develop our employees Internal Advancements: Our priority is to support our employees’ development and cover job openings from existing employees. As a result of this policy, the percentage of permanent job openings in offices covered by internal candidates reached 10% within 2019, compared to 7.5% in 2018. Job Descriptions: In our attempt to ensure individual and organizational effectiveness and maximize employee satisfaction, we have started to record in written job descriptions and responsibilities for all employees. During 2019, we updated our office employees’ job descriptions, a process completed for 85% of office employees, while a detailed job description is available for 100% of marine employees. We train our employees Training Program: To design our annual Training Plan, we consider: • Identified training needs. • Responsibilities and requirements for every job position. • Changes in the shipping industry (e.g. legal framework). We deliver a wide range of training programs and seminars for our marine and office employees each year, which indicatively include: • Marine employees: The following data summarize the results of our training Corporate Responsibility (e.g. responsible procurement). practices and overall performance. It must be noted that data Foreign languages. do not include internal drills conducted onboard our vessels. Safety and security issues. Within 2019: Response to pollution incidents. • We conducted trainings on our human rights policies and processes to 2 office employees, with a total duration of Fire fighting. 80 training hours, without any relevant trainings to marine Cleaning processes. employees. • Office employees: • We conducted training programs on Corporate Responsibility issues to our office employees, with the participation of 13% Shipping. of employees, 92% of Managers and 96% of Directors and -F inance / Taxation (e.g. International Financial Reporting Top Management members, as well as to marine employees, Standards). with the participation of 1% of vessel Officers and 6% of -M anagement issues (e.g. Strategy, Corporate Governance, Master and Senior Officers. Protection of Personal Information, Human Resources, • We included Corporate Responsibility issues in 3 in-house Internal Audit, Legal). training programs related to environmental management, Information Technology. responsible procurement and responsible communication issues. Marketing. • We trained 10 marine employees on safety and Corporate Foreign languages. Responsibility issues. Safety. • We conducted training programs on digitization with a total Corporate Responsibility (e.g. environmental protection). duration of 230 training hours. First Aid. • Total cost of training programs exceeded €40,700, compared to over €54,200 in 2018. Digitization. Cybersecurity. 62 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Employee Training We appraise our employees We implement a Performance Appraisal System for our office 38 and marine employees, with a three-phase Performance 2019 Appraisal System for office employees to identify their 183 strengths and areas for improvement and improve their overall performance: 5,921 Performance Plan 52 ge 1 Sta 274 2018* 7,057 Stage 2 Performance Annual Assessment Stag Management/ 17 e3 Guidance 2017* 122 The Performance Appraisal System for office employees 5,221 consists of 5 main areas: 1. Performance Criteria. Training programs (number)** Employees trained (number)** Personal Objectives. Training hours (number)** Performance Standards (one of which is Compliance with * Data refer to Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries. Procedures). ** Training data include office employees and marine employees who were trained on Attributes (Common Attributes and Team Leading Position management issues; they do not include marine employees’ training to renew or receive new competency certificates and/or internal drills conducted on vessels. Attributes). 2. Appraisal Summary. 3. Employee Professional Requirements. We trained at least once over 61% of our office employees 4. Training and Development Activities. 5. Comments. At the same time, we appraise all vessel Officers and marine Employee Training employees (including employees whose employment tenure onboard our vessels has expired) four times per year, in order Averages 2017* 2018* 2019 to ensure efficient crew selection and proper vessel manning. Office employees The appraisal results are included in a relevant Report Training per employee (hours) 24.8 30.1 20.6 which is forwarded to the Marine Personnel Department and Training per male employee (hours) 19.4 23 27.5 assesses marine employees’ performance, skills and diligence Training per female employee (hours) 29.5 36.6 14.8 throughout their service onboard our vessels. Training per employee in Top Management positions (hours) 50.1 30 9.8 Performance Appraisal Training per employee in management positions (hours) 34.5 39.3 14.7 0 Training per employee in administrative 29.6 53.3 57.8 2019 0 positions (hours) Marine employees** 100 Training per employee (hours) 0.2 1.1 0.1 Training per male employee (hours) 0.2 1.1 0.1 0 Training per female employee (hours) 0.1 1.1 0 2018 0 Training per employee in Top Management 4 2.6 1.8 positions (hours) 100 Training per employee in management positions (hours) 0.3 3.2 0.3 0 Training per employee in administrative 0.5 1.2 0.1 positions (hours) 2017 0 * Data refer to Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries. 100 ** Average training hours for marine employees refer to training on management issues and do not include marine employees’ training to renew or receive new competency Office employees appraised (%)* certificates and/or internal drills conducted on vessels. Office Managers appraised (%)* Marine employees appraised (%) * N  o performance appraisal for office employees took place for the period 2017-2019, as the Performance Appraisal System was under review. ATTICA GROUP 63 5. Achievements 2019 and Future Objectives We committed Progress We aim By To improve our performance on Corporate Responsibility To improve our performance on Corporate Responsibility issues related to Employees by 6% (by 2020). 100% issues related to Employees by 6%. 2020 To conduct performance appraisal for 100% of office To conduct performance appraisal for 100% of office employees with a new Performance Appraisal System. 0% employees with a new Performance Appraisal System. 2020 To include specific Corporate Responsibility objectives To include specific Corporate Responsibility objectives in formal appraisal process for employees, Managers 0% in formal appraisal process for employees, Managers 2020 and at least one Board of Directors member. and at least one Board of Directors member. To include specific Corporate Responsibility objectives To include specific Corporate Responsibility objectives in Top Management members’ formal appraisal process 0% in Top Management members’ formal appraisal process. 2020 (by 2020). To update our employees' job descriptions according To complete the update of our employees' job descriptions to our new organizational structure. 75% according to our new organizational structure. 2020 To integrate Corporate Responsibility issues into To integrate Corporate Responsibility issues into the other categories of in-house training courses. 50% the other categories of in-house training courses. 2020 To conduct a Corporate Responsibility e-learning course To conduct a Corporate Responsibility e-learning course for our new office employees. 25% for 150 marine employees. 2021 To apply a process to monitor health and safety To apply a process to monitor health and safety incidents (e.g. injuries, diseases, absences, fatal incidents (e.g. injuries, diseases, absences, fatal accidents) of subcontractors’ employees working in our 0% accidents) of subcontractors’ employees working in our 2020 offices. offices. 64 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ATTICA GROUP 65 VΙΙ We ensure our Passenger Safety 66 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT CUSTOMERS We are 14,896 journeys annually 323,309 calls to corporate customer service phone lines 1,200 questionnaires in vessels 45 vessel inspections from local authorities 353,417 members in the Loyalty & Reward program seasmiles (for food hygiene and safety) We commit to Safeguard the health and safety of our passengers and • We maintain 5 corporate websites, with over 4.5 million offer them the best possible travel experience, in order to unique visitors annually and handle 2 mobile applications meet their needs and expectations during their journey. with over 22,600 downloads. • We trained 80% of Marketing Department employees on responsible communication and marketing issues, for a We follow total duration of 48 hours. Principles of the United Nations’ Global Compact • We informed 456,214 passengers through information SMS for early arrival at the Piraeus port or changes or 7 Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges cancellations of scheduled journeys in Domestic and 8 Promote greater environmental responsibility Adriatic Sea lines (77% of passengers on these routes who have registered their mobile number). We achieved • We send 2,813 notifications to serve passengers to our vessels, out of which 596 concerning passengers with • We conducted internal drills and trainings on passenger reduced mobility and 12 concerning passengers with safety procedures to 100% of marine employees. sensitivity to allergens. • The overall performance of our vessels in Domestic and • The average score of evaluations registered through Adriatic Sea lines from ‘Mystery Passenger’ survey for Blue dedicated devices onboard Blue Star Ferries and Star Ferries, Superfast Ferries and Hellenic Seaways reached Superfast Ferries vessels reached 4 and 4.11 for Hellenic 86%, 83% and 84% respectively. Seaways on a 5 point scale. • We were subjected to 45 inspections from local authorities • We kept our vessels’ departure time at 84% and arrival for food hygiene and safety, with no recorded nontime at 56% of schedules. compliance incidents. • We increased our seasmiles loyalty and reward program members by 34.7%. ATTICA GROUP 67 We focus Air Quality & Energy Raw Materials & Solid Waste Water & Liquid Waste State Environment NGOs ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT EMPLOYMENT CONDITIONS Human Resources & Employment Safety & Security PASSENGER SAFETY Health & Safety Customers Employees RESPONSIBLE Responsible Communication MANAGEMENT Sales Network Equality & Diversity Shareholders Media Quality & Satisfaction Training & Development SOCIETY SUPPORT Citizens Associations and Unions Suppliers Local Communities Economic Growth Societal Support Responsible Procurement 68 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 1. Safety and Security Within 2019: • Four lawsuits for passenger injuries onboard vessels in 2014, We ensure passenger safety onboard our vessels 2017 and 2018, as well as a lawsuit for fatal passenger injury onboard a vessel in 2017 were filed, which are expected to We consider passenger health and safety onboard our vessels be discussed within 2020. as our indisputable obligation. Therefore, we: • A lawsuit for non-pecuniary damage related to the Blue Star •W  ere subjected to extensive vessel inspections from external Patmos grounding at Ios in 2017 was filed, which is expected bodies (Merchant Vessels Inspection and classification to be discussed within 2020. societies) in 2019. • Regarding previous legal cases: •H  ave established Safety Committee in each vessel, in order to examine and assess health and safety issues. A lawsuit for passenger injury onboard vessel in 2017 was rejected. •T  rain our employees on passenger safety procedures. Appeals were filed against court decisions which rejected •H  ave launched a safety program based on our Master and two lawsuits for alleged passenger injuries onboard vessels Senior Officers’ behavior evaluation, to enhance prevention in 2013 and 2016. and reduce risks associated with vessel safety. An appeal was filed against a court decision regarding a •C  omply with the International Convention for the Safety professional driver injury by a truck driver, during a vehicle of Life at Sea’s (SOLAS) standards regarding use of fire onboarding in 2016. extinguishing equipment, such as fire extinguishing systems in engines and all cabins, public areas and garages, and we train marine employees on the location and use of fire protection systems. •C  arry out regular maintenance of rescue equipment. •D  emonstrate use of lifejackets and display informative videos regarding use of lifejackets, assembly stations and rescue equipment. •E  nsure that fire doors are not blocked from luggage, chairs or other items. •H  ave placed clear signs with fundamental safety information. •H  ave equipped all our vessels with the necessary medical and pharmaceutical equipment. •H  ave made the Cardio Express telemedicine support service available to all vessels for the initial assessment of medical incidents at sea. •P  rohibit transportation of explosives, flammable, combustible and hazardous materials in general, except those permitted by the relevant legislation. We conducted internal drills and trainings on •S  trictly prohibit smoking in areas such as cabins, elevators, passenger safety procedures to 100% warehouses and garages. of marine employees •A  llow staying in vessel garages only to marine employees responsible to facilitate vehicles’ loading and unloading. •O  perate 2 reservation and ticketing systems, which are :) Good Practice certified by the relevant authorities and ensure that the number of issued tickets do not exceed the respective Emergency Response Team maximum number. We have created an Emergency Response Team to offer guidance to vessels and communicate with third parties on their behalf (such as the Ministry of Shipping and Marine Policy’s Search and Rescue Center, rescue teams, experts and Media), in order for vessels to focus on handling potential emergency situations, while at the same time, we have established a substitute Emergency Response Team. In 2019, the Emergency Response Team’s members met, regarding a fire incident on the Flying Dolphin XVIII (see Section V-2). ATTICA GROUP 69 We offer safe products and services :) Good Practice We strive to provide quality and safe products and services, in Addressing Infectious / Transmittable Diseases order to ensure our long-term business success. Therefore: • Contractors comply with the requirements of ISO 9001 According to an established procedure and the internal Quality Management System and ISO 22000 Food Safety drills conducted as required onboard all vessels to Management System, in order to eliminate risks (such as address incidents of infectious / transmittable diseases, materials or ingredients) that could potentially harm human we immediately notify and request assistance from the health. Within this context, we are informed regarding regular respective port authorities and external authorities (e.g. audit results conducted by contractors and proceed with Hellenic Center for Disease Control and Prevention) in corrective actions if required. case of respective incidents and lead the vessel to the nearest port. The patient is then rushed to the vessel’s • Audit our Management Systems (Quality, Environmental and infirmary, where we record in detail personal information Food Safety Management Systems), as well as the quality of and medical history and apply the necessary precautions products and services itself. for the crew or the doctor (such as hand disinfectant, • Have communicated to our contractors our notification surgical gloves and mask, disposable waterproof suit and process and information required (e.g. product details, apron and infectious waste disposal bags). Upon arrival, reason for recall, immediate corrective actions) in cases of the patient is escorted outside the vessel and handed products or services being recalled from shops, restaurants over to the respective authorities (e.g. HCDCP), while we and other vessel catering areas due to potential health and disinfect the cabins and areas visited by the patient and safety issues and we collaborate with contractors to ensure place all items handled in appropriate bags, which we removal of product or discontinuation of service. hand over to an external specialized company, following • Record audit findings and potential corrective actions with the competent authorities’ agreement. No incident of specific remediation time plan, which are communicated to patient with infectious / transmittable disease was reported all involved parties. in 2019. • Are annually audited by ABS (American Bureau of Shipping) for Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries vessels and LRQA (Lloyd's Register Quality Assurance) for Hellenic Seaways vessels regarding ISO certificates, with respective audits to contractors for their ISO 22000 certificates taking place from their own certification bodies. • Perform a ‘Mystery Passenger’ survey to upgrade our services, to ensure efficient operation, provision of quality services and prompt response to customer needs. The ‘Mystery Passenger’ survey was conducted in 2 phases with 3 visits to each vessel in Domestic and Adriatic Sea lines in 2019, during which at least 17 passenger service categories were evaluated, with no procedures and practices revised or improved as a result of these surveys. :) Good Practice The overall performance of our vessels in Domestic and Adriatic Sea lines from Missing Onboard Person Search ‘Mystery Passenger’ survey for Blue Star Ferries, Each vessel has developed a Missing Person Response Superfast Ferries and Hellenic Seaways Plan (SAA), in order to respond to confirmed cases of reached 86%, 83% and 84% respectively missing passengers onboard. According to this procedure, we inform all passengers regarding an incident and set up a search team to search throughout vessel areas (initially cabins, lounges, decks and WCs and subsequently engine room, crew premises, garages and warehouses). In case the missing person is not found until the arrival port, port authorities thoroughly check all passengers and search all vehicles during passenger disembarkation. Within 2019: •N o missing person incident was reported. •A n exemption decision was issued, regarding a missing person incident onboard Blue Horizon in 2015, with the compensation lawsuit for his death filed by relatives expected to be discussed. 70 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT :) Good Practice Vessel Inspections from Local Authorities Besides ourselves inspecting our vessels, we are subjected to additional scheduled or unscheduled inspections from local authorities. These inspections address our vessels’ Hotel Operations & Customer Services Department for health issues or hygiene certificates, either when the vessel is docked or at sea. Upon inspection completion, we proceed with the required corrective actions, according to the results from the draft audit report, which is filed in the vessel’s inspection archive. We assess inspection results for each vessel twice a year, in order to: • Identify repeated comments or cases of non-compliance. • Assess corrective actions already taken. • Proceed with further corrective actions, if deemed necessary. Food hygiene and safety: We have defined specific food hygiene and safety procedures, in order to provide high quality products. Within this context, our food and catering contractors apply food safety management systems. More We were subjected to 45 inspections from local specifically, we: authorities for food hygiene and safety, with no •H  ave the necessary cleaning/sanitation and food storage recorded non-compliance incidents areas, as well as specific catering areas. •P  rovide employees with the necessary clothing during food preparation, such as uniforms and head caps. :) Good Practice •S  pecify the use of disposable gloves to prepare cold kitchen meals (such as sandwiches and salads) and warm ‘PURE CABIN’ kitchen portions and we prohibit use of the same gloves to handle fresh and cooked foodstuffs, according to respective We were the world’s first passenger shipping company procedures. to introduce the ‘PURE CABIN’ category in one Adriatic Sea line vessel in 2010. Since 2011, we have expanded •R  equire employees to wash their hands before starting its use in three additional vessels in Domestic lines and and finishing their work, and after waste handling, use of we added 4 cabins per vessel in two more vessels in cleaners or chemicals, as well as after every contact with a 2017. Approximately 2.3% of all cabins onboard Blue Star phone, money, fresh foodstuffs or doorknobs, according to Ferries and Superfast Ferries vessels are ‘PURE CABINS’ respective procedures. and 1% of our overall passenger volume in these vessels •S  trictly prohibit smoking in food preparation areas. travel within ‘PURE CABINS’, which are provided at an •D  ining areas are daily inspected. extra charge. ‘PURE CABINS’ feature a state-of-the-art air and surface purifying system, in order to offer improved •O  n average, audit compliance with our procedures and accommodation conditions to passengers sensitive to practices once per month per vessel. These inspections airborne particles. After each use, ‘PURE CABINS’ are resulted in no findings or corrective actions taken within purified and a cleaning certificate with the corresponding 2019, as in 2018. inspection date is issued. •O  ur contractor carried out 94 inspections during 2019 in areas of interest, such as kitchens and bars, with no findings registered or corrective actions being required, as was the case also in 2018. Hotel services hygiene and safety: We focus to provide high quality hotel services onboard our vessels, since customer satisfaction is directly associated with their safe accommodation. Therefore, we systematically sanitize public and accommodation areas. ATTICA GROUP 71 We ensure protection of personal items :) Good Practice Indicating our commitment to ensure our passengers’ safety, safeguard their personal items and offer a quality travel Items and Luggage Found experience, we: •P  rovide safe storage for any property, money and valuables According to a formally established lost and found items whose value does not exceed €500 within each vessel’s procedure, we keep small and high value items which were Purser Office. found onboard a vessel for 21 and 30 days respectively. •U  tilize loudspeaker announcements to inform about safety of More specifically, we: personal items during their journey. • Destroy various items after 21 days have elapsed, except • Intensify inspections to luggage areas with additional marine for books (which are provided to the crew’s library), as employees on routes with increased passenger volume. well as foodstuffs, medicines and personal hygiene items (which are either immediately destroyed or after 3 days, •H  ave established a formal procedure to handle lost and depending on their kind). found items. • Keep travel and personal documents for 7 days and then •C  ompensate passengers in cases marine employees are hand them over to port authorities. responsible for damaged or ruined luggage or vehicle during boarding/disembarkation or during the journey. • After 30 days have elapsed for valuable items, we: -D  eposit monetary amounts to the charitable organization Compensations supported by each vessel (see Section V-2). 2017 2018 2019 -S  end electronic equipment for recycling by the Lost/found or damaged items (number) 5,027 5,078 5,741 Information Technology and Telecommunications Adriatic Sea lines (number) 291 382 447 Division, according to a specific procedure, without Domestic lines (number) 4,736 4,696 5,294 however any relevant equipment collected and forwarded for recycling within 2019. Compensations paid for luggage 52,438 32,937 34,552 and other damages (€) Compensations paid for vehicle 45,461 57,800 56,825 damages (€) We ensure protection of personal data Within 2019: •T  wo lawsuits for loss of car keys and loss of luggage in 2019 ::: Policy were discussed, with the cases still pending. Protection of Personal Data •A  passenger lawsuit for damages caused to a camper van in According to our Regulation of Professional Conduct 2017 was filed. & Business Ethics, we collect, process, use and store •R  egarding previous legal cases: personal data only to the extent required for their intended purpose or to fulfill our contractual obligations Two lawsuits for damages to a truck during vessel loading in accordance with our policies and procedures, as well in 2017 and to a private vehicle in 2018 were discussed and as the legal and regulatory framework which governs our the cases are still pending. operation. Two lawsuits for loss of unaccompanied parcel in 2015 and damages to a motorcycle during vessel loading/unloading in 2017 were closed following out of court settlement. -A  lawsuit for alleged damages to an unaccompanied vehicle in 2018 was discussed and the case is still pending. -A  lawsuit for delivery delay of a transported private vehicle in 2012 was rejected. 72 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT We strive to ensure protection of our customers’ personal During 2019, there were 2 complaints regarding confidentiality data, in order to establish solid and concrete trust or personal data security from our customers, without relationships. Therefore, we: however these complaints addressing critical impact or loss of •H  ave created a Data Protection Team, to properly and personal information for individuals involved. The complaints effectively respond to the protection of individuals concerned: regarding personal data processing and monitor the proper • Appearance of a wrong reservation to a customer, who implementation and compliance with the European Union’s entered incorrectly reservation and access codes to our new General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). We also website. Despite the fact that it was an isolated incident, we established a Security Breach Handling Team to investigate immediately proceeded with necessary technical corrections and manage security breach incidents, as well as the and informed the customer about the relevant clarifications adequacy of our policies, processes, technological means via e-mail. and security measures. • An automated message from the seasmiles program, •H  ave conducted a relevant training program and sent a which was sent to an incorrectly submitted e-mail address GDPR informative guide via e-mail to all office employees of a user who registered as a new member. As part of the and posted a relevant informative leaflet on all our vessels’ investigation, we informed the involved customers and bulletin boards to inform marine employees. implemented a safer registration mechanism, with an e-mail •H  ave developed policies and processes to comply with address confirmation being required before activating an personal data protection requirements, such as the account. Employee Training Policy on GDPR Issues and the Personal Data Violation Management / Response to Personal Data Violation Incidents process. •H  ave defined a dedicated phone number and email address to report suspected or confirmed data security violations to the Information Technology and Telecommunications Division. •H  ave developed an Electronic Incident Response Plan to restrict data security violations. •H  ave signed a contract with a specialized law firm to provide advisory services related to GDPR compliance issues. •H  ave signed an insurance policy contract against cyber attacks. •H  ave distributed a Greek and English GDPR informative leaflet to our vessels. •H  ave sent an additional personal data processing act to our partners, in order to ensure their compliance with the GDPR Regulation. •K  eep personal data collected from customers, professionals and website visitors in a secure database. •D  o not disclose any information to third parties, unless required by law and/or competent authorities. •S  eek individual consent to process personal data, exclusively for communication, statistical analysis and service improvement purposes. • Inform customers that incoming calls are recorded, prior to connect them with Customer Services and Call Center Divisions’ representatives. •H  ave been certified according to PCI DSS SAQ D v3.2.1 standard (Data Security Standard) for our security methods, practices and processes to safely handle, process and store cardholders’ data (including prevention, detection and response to cardholders’ data breaches and losses), as a result of a relevant inspection and evaluation process. ATTICA GROUP 73 2. Responsible Communication We responsibly advertise our products and services We aim to ensure our communication material is fair, legal, sincere, corresponds to reality, does not display or promote stereotypes and respects people’s diversity. Therefore, we: •F ollow the principles of the Hellenic Code of Advertising & Communication, issued by the Communication Audit Council. •H ave developed a Code for Responsible Marketing and Communication for our commercial activities, in order to be incorporated into our contracts related to communication and advertising issues. The Code was included in 50% of relevant contracts signed in 2019. •D o not use texts, audio or images that promote stereotypes. •E nsure use of proper communication and advertisements for our products and services, in collaboration with the Marketing and Sales Departments. •H ave structured our Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries websites, easily accessible by people with visual impairments. •D o not sell or provide any products and services which are either banned or disputed in foreign markets. We maintain 5 corporate websites, :) Good Practice with over 4.5 million unique visitors annually and handle 2 mobile applications with over Responsible Communication 22,600 downloads We have included our compliance with the principles and regulations of professional ethics and ethical behavior of the Hellenic Code of Advertising & Communication, issued At the same time, we maintain one corporate website and by the Communication Audit Council, into our Regulation manage a mobile application for AML, with over 81,000 unique of Professional Conduct & Business Ethics and our Code visitors and 2,900 downloads. for Responsible Marketing and Communication, which are also binding for collaborating advertising agencies, in order to ensure the responsible advertising and marketing :) Good Practice promotion of our activities. Labeling Allergens Furthermore, we state applicable conditions on Blue Star We require from prepackaged foodstuff suppliers to Ferries, Hellenic Seaways and Superfast Ferries websites comply with the European Regulation for Food Labeling regarding: 1169/2011 and clearly display whether their products contain specific ingredients included in the allergens list, •R egulations and boarding processes. according to Directive 2003/89/EC. At the same time, we •R eservations. have placed clear and detailed signs to inform consumers about allergens for every non-prepackaged meal within our •T icket issuing and cancellation. vessels (such as gluten, eggs, soy and milk). •T ransportation of pets. •S torage of personal belongings. We trained 80% of Marketing Department employees on responsible communication and marketing issues, for a total duration of 48 hours 74 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT We ensure prompt communication We strive to promptly inform our customers in case of cancellation or delays in scheduled routes, in order to minimize their potential discomfort. Within this context, we utilize a wide range of communication means, which include: • The websites www.superfast.com, www.bluestarferries.com and www.hsw.gr. • Radio. • Port authority representatives. • Various journal and information portals. • Communication via SMS (in case they have registered their mobile number). • Electronic newsletters. • Social media. • Phone calls. • E-mails. Furthermore, we proceed with at least Greek and English informative audio announcements in case of delays during the journey, which include their cause and the estimated delay time. In 2019, there were: Informative SMS Messages • Informative messages with social, environmental and 2019 272,814 cultural content communicated on all vessels with relevant information screens, which indicatively include: Water sports safety. 2018 259,472 Fire prevention. 2017 91,482 Ultraviolet radiation protection. The ‘Agoni Grammi Gonimi’ program. Informative SMS messages sent (number) The Hellenic Marine Environment Protection Association’s (HELMEPA) initiative for clean shores. Our initiative to distribute beach ashtrays (see Section We informed 456,214 passengers through VIII-3). information SMS for early arrival at the Piraeus port Various cultural and sports events, such as the Aegean or changes or cancellations of scheduled journeys Film Festival and Animasyros animation film festival and in Domestic and Adriatic Sea lines (77% of passengers the Panhellenic Aquathlon Swimming Championship of the on these routes who have registered their mobile Syros Nautical Club. number) •A  dedicated Greek and English poster to inform passengers onboard Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries who travel with a pet regarding responsible attitude towards the vessel and other passengers. •A  dedicated poster to inform Blue Star Ferries and Hellenic Seaways passengers about the Transportation Equivalent, which refers to the harmonization of sea transport and transportation cost with the land transportation cost for island residents and companies. ATTICA GROUP 75 3. Quality and Satisfaction We ensure equal treatment of all our customers, in order to enhance our customer-centric orientation. More specifically, We ensure that our services are affordable we: We recognize the unfavorable economic situation for • Have equipped all our premises and vessels (except Flying thousands of Greek households and we strive to provide Cat and Flying Dolphin vessel types) with the necessary affordable prices for our services, without however infrastructure to facilitate access from people with disabilities. compromising their quality, in order to overcome the financial • Do not impose extra charges on cabins for persons with crisis and maintain transportation volume. Depending on line disabilities. and destination, we offer: • Are promptly informed about the number of passengers with •E arly booking tickets, with up to 20% discount. disabilities on each route, in order to plan the availability of •T icket packages, with significant discounts. wheelchairs. •D iscounts in tickets for children, teenagers, young people • Check that emergency switches in cabins for passengers and people above 65 years old. with disabilities are fully operational before boarding. •D iscounts in selected destinations throughout the year. • Require that food rations for persons with sensitivity to allergens are prepared with separate food preparation •D iscounts throughout the year (such as Super Economy, equipment (such as frying pans, cutting boards, knives). Special Economy, Supersaver Economy, Saver Economy, for passengers and private vehicles, for Naval and Coast Guard • Have introduced procedures for clothing management and retirees, for combined Domestic and Adriatic Sea routes, for protection of passengers from allergens. Officers and soldiers). •D iscounts for members registered in our Loyalty and Reward program seasmiles. We send 2,813 notifications to serve passengers to our vessels, out of which 596 concerning passengers with reduced mobility and 12 concerning :) Good Practice passengers with sensitivity to allergens Supporting Tourism in Islands For the fourth consecutive year within 2019, we supported We ensure our customers’ travel experience the effort to reverse the negative tourism trend and strengthen the transportation volume in Lesvos, Chios, Leros and Kos, caused by the refugee crisis. For this :) Good Practice reason, we offered a 30% discount to 13,187 passenger and 3,402 private vehicles and motorcycle tickets for those with Family Cabins with Children Cartoons at least four overnight stays in these islands, in collaboration We have introduced family cabins marked with the with local municipalities and hoteliers’ associations. Bluestarino children cartoon and the Fasteritos children cartoons in all Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries vessels respectively, for families with small children who have booked a 4-bed external cabin. Upon availability, We ensure equal treatment of customers Reception desks offer these specially decorated cabins to our child passengers without any extra charge. ::: Policy Equal Treatment According to our Regulation of Professional Conduct & Business Ethics, we require from employees to equally treat all customers and partners, without any exceptions, and behave with caution and care during our transactions with vulnerable social groups. 76 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT :) Good Practice :) Good Practice ‘We do local’ Passenger Service Innovations Operating with respect for local communities is our main As we strive to develop new approaches to serve our objective and we strive to enhance the quality of services passengers and continuously improve the quality of our provided, while at the same time highlight local cultures’ services, we: unique features. Within this context, we have certified Blue • Have launched an e-ticket application on the Crete and Star 2, Blue Galaxy and Superfast XI according to the ‘We Adriatic routes. do local’ standard, through which an organization: • Have installed Seasmiles Kiosks on 19 Blue Star Ferries, • Promotes local customs and culture. Superfast Ferries and Hellenic Seaways vessels for faster • Presents local cuisine. passenger service and provision of information regarding • Supports local producers. our seasmiles Loyalty and Reward program. • Operates with respect towards the environment. • Have designed pet accommodation areas onboard Blue Star Delos and Blue Star Patmos, which feature easy access, a pet sanitation area and air conditioning. • Have installed vinyl flooring in all 67 cabins designated for pet accommodation, to facilitate area cleaning and disinfection. • Have specifically tailor-designed Blue Star Delos and Blue Star Patmos to address the needs of their route and facilitate passenger boarding, by introducing: Wider boarding / disembarkation staircase with stair escalator, instead of two staircases on the vessel’s left and right side. Two vehicle ramps, one larger than the other, in order to select which one to use depending on the cargo requirements and port infrastructure. To this end, we implement the following indicative actions Ability to reach appropriate speed, to perform a shortand initiatives: time journey. • Support local communities and cultural events and suggest visits to local sites and museums, as well as promote cultural activities. • Present local cuisine and support local producers of products such as talagani cheese from Mani, gruyere cheese from Crete, maceata spaghetti from Folegandros, skioufichta spaghetti from Crete, ouzo from Mytilene, Greek feta cheese and caper leaves from Naxos, while we also prepare Greek recipes in our vessels’ restaurants such as shrimps saganaki with feta cheese, Greek salad, traditional Cretan dakos, octopus with split peas and barley with seafood. • Respect the environment and implement environmental protection practices, such as paper and batteries recycling corporate initiatives, as well as use of a photovoltaic unit onboard one vessel (see Section VIII-1). • Employ Greek employees and support local workforce. ATTICA GROUP 77 We listen to our customers :) Good Practice In order to effectively serve our customers, we have established mechanisms to communicate and receive @sea Portal comments and complaints, which are handled by our In order to improve the services offered to our customers, Customer Services Division. These mechanisms include: we have launched the interactive and multifunctional • A call center and dedicated e-mail address for customers. @sea portal, where all Blue Star Ferries and Superfast • Written communication from customers. Ferries passengers can connect with any device (laptop, smartphone or tablet) via the onboard WiFi network and can • Private meetings with customers. access free-of-charge recreational material such as music, •C omments form, complaints form, Pure Cabins questionnaire TV and games, as well as information about: and A la Carte restaurants questionnaire, which are located •W  eather conditions. in various vessel areas, such as the Reception desk and the bar, regarding quality, variety and service. •V  essel location in real-time. •A specific form which is completed by the Reception desk, in •R  estaurant and bar menus. case verbal complaints are received or incidents are noted. •P  orts and destination information. •T he Complaints form, located in all vessels’ restaurants. • L oyalty and Reward program seasmiles. •T he dedicated devices in all vessels to evaluate the services provided. Evaluations Onboard Vessels 294,844 2019 220,298 74.7 284,399 2018* 196,874 69.2 :) Good Practice 271,674 Utilizing Questionnaires We have appointed a vessel Officer to collect and forward 2017* 188,937 passenger questionnaires to the vessel’s Master, who reviews them before being sent by the appointed vessel 69.5 Officer to the Customer Services Division, which documents observations in a ‘Passenger Observation Report’. The Report is forwarded monthly to our vessel Masters, the Total evaluations (number) Divisions’ directors and the catering contractor within each Positive evaluations (number) vessel and is the subject of meetings from all interested Positive evaluations to total evaluations (%) parties, in order to assess and define further corrective and preventive actions, if deemed necessary. * Data for 2017 and 2018 refer to Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries. The average score of evaluations registered through dedicated devices onboard Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries vessels reached 4 and 4.11 for Hellenic Seaways on a 5 point scale 78 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT We monitor our customers’ satisfaction We recognize the importance and our responsibility to offer ::: Policy reliable and responsible customer services, in order to ensure Compensations our business success. Within 2019, we: In case of journey delay, compensations are defined •R eceived over 345,800 calls in all our corporate customer according to the European Union legislation and the service telephone lines (including unanswered calls), Greek Passenger Charter of Rights and Obligations, with responding to 86.3% of incoming calls. However, the above compensation being related to the journey duration. data do not include unregistered calls during 06/08/2019Indicatively, passengers are entitled to compensation for 31/12/2019 due to a technical problem in the call center delays: database. • Of at least 1 hour, for journeys of less than 4 hours. •S ent 1,496 formal responses to customer complaints regarding product or service information (e.g. labeling, • Of over 2 hours, for journeys between 4 and 8 hours. pricing) and product or service use (e.g. features), with no • Of over 3 hours, for journeys between 8 and 24 hours. customer complaints regarding promotional activities (e.g. More specifically, in case the scheduled departure is marketing, advertising, sales) and without including relevant delayed for over 90 minutes, passengers are entitled to e-mails and incoming phone calls. compensation according to their ticket, or to: Customer Service •R emain onboard and receive free light meals or refreshments until their destination is reached. 2017 2018 2019 •R eceive a free meal for delays of over four hours, as well Formal response letters to comments, as free on vessel or hotel accommodation, when feasible 619 1,987 1,496 complaints and requests (number) and necessary. Adriatic Sea lines 120 176 120 Domestic lines 499 1,811 1,376 •B e compensated with 25% of the ticket value or other prior to agreement compensatory payment, in case they Formal thank-you letters (number) 179 143 192 were forwarded to their destination with the same or Adriatic Sea lines 27 47 41 another company vessel. Compensation depends on the Domestic lines 152 96 151 delay itself (e.g. 1 hour for journeys up to 4 hours), with Questionnaires in vessels (number) 878 982 1,200 the compensation increasing to 50% of the ticket value, in Total calls to customer service case the delay is double. 548,977 824,757 323,309** telephone lines (number) Calls to Customer Services •B e compensated with 200% of the ticket value and 66,318 66,846* 36,007 receive back the vehicle ticket value, in case on our own Division (number) Calls to Call Center Division responsibility they were not forwarded to their destination 162,813 232,583* 32,122 with the same or another vessel within 24 hours from the (number) Calls to Help Desk Division (number) 12,315 15,162* 15,645 scheduled departure time. Calls to Loyalty Division (number) 49,728 59,382* 70,025 During 2019: Calls to Capacity Domestic / 194,999 141,156* 95,688 •T here were 124 journeys with delayed arrival, for which Adriatic Division (number) we fully compensated passengers according to their Calls to Cargo Domestic / Adriatic Division (number) 62,804 64,405* 39,973 rights, while we acted beyond our obligations stipulated by the Passenger Charter of Rights and Obligations and Calls to Heraklion office (number) NR NR 33,849 offered additional benefits and compensations on 418 * Data refer to calls from Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries customers. occasions of passenger compensations. ** Data are not representative of the number of calls, as unregistered calls during •T wo passenger lawsuits with compensation claims due to 06/08/2019-31/12/2019 due to a technical problem in the call center database are not included. Additional 437,322 calls were handled by an external partner without a journey delay in 2018 were rejected. being forwarded to corporate customer service telephone lines. NR: Not reported •A passenger lawsuit with compensation claim due to a journey delay in 2018 was discussed and the case is still pending. We kept our vessels’ departure time at 84% and arrival time at 56% of schedules ATTICA GROUP 79 :) Good Practice Seasmiles Program Seasmiles Loyalty & Reward Program In 2011 we established the Loyalty and Reward program seasmiles, which provides members with exclusive 2019 353,417 benefits, gifts, special offers and high quality services, within three card levels. Members collect points for 2018 262,444 every ticket and product bought from bars, restaurants and vessel stores, which are automatically registered in their personal account and can be redeemed for 2017 242,483 future journeys, meals and drinks. At the same time, we have installed Seasmiles Kiosks on 19 vessels for faster Members in seasmiles program (number) passenger service regarding electronic data entry and automated seasmiles card issuance onboard vessels, while registered members of all ranks (Blue, Silver, Gold) We increased our seasmiles loyalty can be informed about collected points. and reward program members by 34.7% 80 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 4. Achievements 2019 and Future Objectives We committed Progress We aim By To improve our performance on Corporate Responsibility To improve our performance on Corporate Responsibility issues related to Customers by 17% (by 2020). 100% issues related to Customers by 17%. 2020 To establish a Customer Relationship Management To establish a Customer Relationship Management system (CRM) (by 2020). 0% system (CRM). 2020 To categorize complaints per category (e.g. delays, To categorize complaints per category (e.g. delays, price of tickets, price discrepancies) (by 2020). 0% price of tickets, price discrepancies). 2020 To systematically inform and train our customers on To systematically inform and train our customers on Corporate Responsibility issues. 100% Corporate Responsibility issues. 2020 To achieve an ‘as scheduled’ routes rate in Crete, To achieve an ‘as scheduled’ routes rate in Crete, Dodecanese and Ancona routes of over 90%. 75% Dodecanese and Ancona routes of over 85%. 2020 To increase communication for early arrival at the Piraeus port and changes or cancellations of scheduled journeys 100% through SMS by 5%. To apply a Responsible Marketing and Communication To apply a Responsible Marketing and Communication Code in our business activities. 50% Code in our business activities. 2020 To apply a process to monitor potential recalls of products or services from subcontractors due to possible 100% health and safety issues. To extend the infotainment platform @sea to Hellenic To extend the infotainment platform @sea to Seaways vessels. 0% Hellenic Seaways vessels. 2021 To install Infokiosks about the seasmiles program on 8 Hellenic Seaways vessels. 75% ATTICA GROUP 81 VΙΙΙ We reduce our Environmental Impact 82 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ENVIRONMENT We are 4,380 KWh energy produced from renewable energy sources €3.6 million environmental investment 119,785 kgr paper consumption 13,005 TJ energy consumption 1.005 million tonnes eCO2 We commit to We achieved Integrate sustainable development in our operations • We conducted internal drills on environmental protection and apply environmentally friendlier business practices, issues to 100% of marine employees. in order to reduce, where feasible, our environmental • We informed 100% of our employees on environmental impacts. protection issues. • We reduced our total energy consumption by 5.7% (equal to over 786,000 GJ). We follow • We reduced our total carbon dioxide emissions by 5.6% (equal to over 59,000 tonnes of CO2). Principles of the United Nations’ Global Compact • 80% of monitors and 60% of personal and laptop 7  Support a precautionary approach to environmental computers we use have energy-saving specifications. challenges 8 Promote greater environmental responsibility • We use refrigerants that do not affect the ozone layer 9 Encourage development and diffusion of environmentally (such as R134a, R404a, R407a) in 100% of refrigerators friendly technologies and freezers onboard our vessels. • We informed potentially over 2 million customers on Corporate Responsibility issues, such as environmental protection. • We used 22.3% recycled paper for all purposes and 62.4% recycled toners/ink cartridges. • We transported from Islands free-of-charge over 82 tonnes of materials for recycling. ATTICA GROUP 83 We focus Air Quality & Energy Raw Materials & Solid Waste Water & Liquid Waste State Environment NGOs ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT Human Resources & Employment EMPLOYMENT CONDITIONS Safety & Security PASSENGER SAFETY Health & Safety Customers Employees RESPONSIBLE Responsible Communication MANAGEMENT Sales Network Equality & Diversity Shareholders Media Quality & Satisfaction Training & Development SOCIETY SUPPORT Citizens Associations and Unions Suppliers Local Communities Economic Growth Societal Support Responsible Procurement 84 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 1. Air Quality and Energy We operate in a systematic way We are committed to operate responsibly regarding the We conducted internal drills on environmental environment and to minimize the negative environmental protection issues to 100% of marine employees impact, which inevitably originates from our operations. We informed 100% of our employees on Within this context, we: environmental protection issues •R  ecord our environmental performance. • Implement an Environmental Management System and evaluate our environmental impact annually. •W  ere the first group in the Greek passenger shipping In 2019: industry to implement ISO 14001 for our vessels and have • Total value of investment agreements that addressed certified 70% of our vessels (all Blue Star Ferries and Corporate Responsibility issues exceeded €15.5 million (44% Superfast Ferries vessels and 7 Hellenic Seaways vessels) of total investment agreements) with the purchase of Blue according to ISO 14001. Carrier 1 (see Section III-2), which is also equipped with all •W  ere the first passenger shipping group in Greece to submit required environmental certifications, as well as the supply of the Monitoring Plans for all Blue Star Ferries and Superfast air pollutants monitoring systems (scrubbers) for our vessels. Ferries vessels and have certified all vessels for the proper • We invested approximately €3.6 million for environmental and systematic monitoring, recording and disclosure of protection programs (solid and liquid waste disposal carbon dioxide emissions, much earlier than the projected investments, materials and equipment to remediate deadlines of the European Regulation EU MRV 757/2015. pollution incidents, internal and external inspections and •H  ave certified two vessels with the ‘Green Star’ environmental performance certificates). environmental protection certificate from a foreign • Apologetic statements were filed for two cases of vessel classification society to ensure pollution prevention from fumigation in 2019. all operations, such as environmental training for marine employees. • Regarding previous legal cases: •H  ave Energy Efficiency certificates issued for all our vessels An appeal against fines with a total amount of €62,151 in international routes. imposed by the Central Port Authority of Piraeus and the Central Port Authority of Ios due to limited pollution incident •D  emand an asbestos non-use certificate from our suppliers. caused by Blue Star Patmos in 2017 is expected to be •W  ere the first passenger shipping group in Greece to discussed within 2020. implement necessary actions for our vessels’ timely An exemption decision was issued to legal proceedings compliance with the European Union Ship Recycling regarding a limited pollution incident caused by the Regulation (EU SRR). vessel Artemis in 2016. Furthermore, an appeal against an •D  iscuss environmental protection issues during respective imposed fine of €27,200 is expected to be discussed, and meetings of each vessel’s Safety Committee. favorably be accepted due to the court's binding exemption decision. •T  rain employees on environmental issues and conduct internal trainings for all marine employees in all our vessels, on issues such as waste management and responsible use of water. Within 2019, we trained 130 office employees on environmental protection issues, for a total duration of 209 hours, while we conducted relevant external trainings to 13 office employees, for a total duration of 69 hours, compared to 3 office employees and 28 hours in 2018. •H  ave established a weekly drills and training plan for marine employees, in order to prevent pollution incidents (e.g. sea pollution) and train them to promptly and effectively respond to such incidents. •H  ave informed all office employees on materials recycling through letters and relevant posts on corporate Intranet. •H  ave appointed an employee to monitor climate change risks and identify potential areas to implement energy conservation initiatives, who prepares a relevant report at least annually or when deemed necessary. ATTICA GROUP 85 We manage our environmental footprint In order to identify the sources from which we can reduce our environmental impact, we calculate greenhouse gas emissions per energy source used, which mainly include oil (both as marine fuels and for onboard electricity generation, as well as for offices) and electricity (for office operations): Energy and Environmental Footprint Source Consumption Energy Environmental Consumption Energy Environmental 2018* Consumption Footprint 2019* Consumption Footprint 2018 (GJ) 2018 (tn eCO2) 2019 (GJ) 2019 (tn eCO2) Scope 1 Oil (vessels) 340,610 tn 13,783,552 1,064,011 321,601 tn 12,998,217 1,004,036 MGO 36,396 tn 1,554,109 116,686 27,943 tn 1,193,166 89,585 LSHFO 263,457 tn 10,590,971 820,405 260,944 tn 10,489,948 812,580 HFO 40,758 tn 1,638,472 126,920 32,714 tn 1,315,103 101,871 Heating oil (offices) 9,500 lt 3,013 25 2,400 lt 761 6.5 Diesel (offices) 0 0 0 200 lt 7 0.5 Gasoline (corporate vehicles) 6,121 lt 202 14 7,419 lt 245 17 Scope 2 Electricity (offices) 1,252,448 KWh 4,509 839 1,552,885 KWh 5,590 1,040 TOTAL 13,791,276 1,064,890 13,004,820 1,005,100 * Vessel data refer to all vessels we operated within the year without including chartered vessels and office and corporate vehicles data refer to Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries. Sources of conversion factors: International Maritime Organization (MGO, LSHFO and HFO), GHG Protocol GHG emissions from stationary combustion Calculation Tool V 4.1 May 2015 (Heating oil), GHG Protocol GHG emissions from transport or mobile sources Calculation Tool V 2.6 May 2015 (Diesel, Gasoline), IEA CO2 Emissions from Fuel Combustion 2016 edition 1 (Electricity) We reduced our total energy consumption by 5.7% (equal to over 786,000 GJ) We reduced our total carbon dioxide emissions by 5.6% (equal to over 59,000 tonnes of CO2) In order to achieve efficient fuel and energy consumption and • Adjust electrical appliances (such as refrigerators and better manage our environmental footprint, which reached freezers) at optimum use and operation levels, according to 0.16 tn, 6.5 GJ and 0.5 tn CO2 per nautical mile travelled both legislation and manuals. respectively, we: • Deactivate electrical appliances when not in use. • Have installed sunscreen films in our offices’ ground floor • Regularly clean vessel hulls and propellers for improved and mezzanine. energy efficiency. • Have installed solar absorption systems in selected areas of • Lower or turn down air conditioning in empty cabins. our offices to improve energy efficiency. • Purchase office equipment (such as computers and monitors) • Have introduced automations into our offices’ BMS for with ‘energy star’ specifications. efficient cooling / heating and have implemented various interventions to increase energy management efficiency, • Exclusively purchase and install LED advertising signs in our such as installation of specialized control sensors and vessels. definition, schedule and communication of critical alarms, • Have initiated the process to replace our corporate fleet scheduled timetables to reduce energy costs, as well as with new vehicles, which reached 72,586 km total distance additional configurations to power generators. travelled by vehicles and 10.2 lt/100 km average fuel • Have installed energy saving light bulbs (LED) in our Blue consumption in 2019, compared to 78,360 km and 6.2 lt/100 Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries offices and initiated km respectively in 2018. replacement of conventional light bulbs on our vessels with new LED bulbs. • Ensure optimum efficiency level for vessel engines to be used in each journey, in order to both preserve engines and avoid unnecessary fuel consumption. • Used specialized low resistance silicone anti-fouling paint on Blue Star Patmos, Flying Cat 6, Superfast I, Superfast II and Superfast XI to reduce fuel consumption. 86 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT :) Good Practice Participation in Programs We strive to be continuously informed about environmental protection issues, as we participate actively in European Union research programs and collaborate with internal combustion engine manufacturers (WNSD) in joint research projects to reduce emissions. At the same time, we participate in the European-funded programs Poseidon Med I and Poseidon Med II, which aim to explore the possibility to use environmentally friendlier marine fuels, as well as the MareBonus program. More specifically: • Poseidon Med I aimed to establish the legal framework and conditions to use Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) as 80% of monitors and 60% of personal and laptop a marine fuel in the Mediterranean and Adriatic Sea. computers we use have energy-saving specifications Liquefied Natural Gas is odorless, non-toxic and noncorrosive and is considered the world’s cleanest fossil fuel, as it has no SO2 emissions and can achieve 95%100% lower particulate matter emissions (PM), 85% lower :) Good Practice ΝΟΧ emissions and 25% lower CO2 emissions, compared to marine diesel oil. The program featured 19 partners from 5 member-States (Greece, Cyprus, Italy, Croatia and Installing Photovoltaic Panels Slovenia) and our Group was actively involved to submit Since 2014, we have installed a pilot photovoltaic panel pilot projects regarding vessel upgrading and building unit onboard Blue Star Delos, in order to reduce fossil fuels new vessels. used to generate electricity and gaseous pollutants in the • Poseidon Med II is a follow-up to ‘Poseidon Med I’ long-term. During 2019, we continued its operation with and ‘Archipelago-LNG’ programs and is funded by the positive results, as we reduced the use of vessel power European Union, with the participation of 26 partners from generators for electricity and consequently prevented three member-States (Greece, Italy and Cyprus), in order approximately 2,935 kgr of carbon dioxide emissions. to utilize LNG in six main European ports (Piraeus, Patra, Heraklion, Venice, Igoumenitsa and Limassol) and LNG Energy Produced from Renewable Energy Sources station in Revithousa. The program features studies to introduce and use LNG as a marine fuel in Southeastern Mediterranean Sea and design LNG supply network and 2019 4,380 related infrastructure on a broader scale. • MareBonus is a program of the Italian Ministry of 2018 4,380 Transportation, which is managed by RAM Spa to increase the use of vessels for freight transportation among Italian 2017 4,380 ports, in order to reduce traffic congestion on highways and air pollution. Electricity produced (KWh) Furthermore, we have signed a memorandum of understanding (MOU) with the Public Natural Gas Supply Company (DEPA) since 2016. Within this context, we continued our collaboration and information exchange to jointly examine parameters and conditions for use of LNG in our vessels and we seek to further develop our cooperation for new vessel design, based on the conclusions drawn. ATTICA GROUP 87 We reduce our impact on the ozone layer We reduce our atmospheric impact Buildings/Vessels: We cooperate with suppliers that do not Our air pollutants (except carbon dioxide, which is described use refrigerants which significantly affect the ozone layer (such above) mainly emanate from vessel engines during their as R22) during maintenance activities in offices and vessels, operation. To manage their impact, we: and instead exclusively use refrigerants that do not affect the •U  se marine gas oil (MGO) with 0.1% sulphur content when ozone layer (such as CO2, R134a, R404a, R407, R422). vessels stay within ports for over 2 hours, as well as low Refrigerators/Freezers: As part of our efforts to reduce our sulphur heavy fuel oil (LSHFO) with up to 1.5% sulphur impact on the ozone layer, we have placed refrigerators and content when vessels are in European waters. freezers with environmentally friendlier refrigerants in our •U  se machinery which complies with the legislative vessels. requirements regarding nitrogen oxides (NOX) and particulate matter (PM) emissions from vessel engines. •P  erform the necessary maintenance activities to ensure We use refrigerants that do not affect the ozone layer proper machinery function, as well as regular internal and (such as R134a, R404a, R407a) in 100% external inspections to certify their proper function through of refrigerators and freezers onboard our vessels relevant certificates (such as the International Air Pollution Certificate). •H  ave placed orders for exhaust monitoring systems (scrubbers) for 4 vessels, in order to further reduce sulfur oxide emissions (SOX). •P  roceed with corrective measures, if deemed necessary. SOx Emissions* Source 2019 MGO (tn) 50.2 LSHFO (tn) 4,697 HFO (tn) 2,224.5 TOTAL 6,971.7 * Data refer to all vessels we operated within the year, without including chartered vessels and are estimated SOx emissions based on average sulfur content values per type of fuel. At the same time, we replenish refrigerants and fire Source of conversion factors: BIMCO Shipping KPI System suppressant materials (which inevitably leak) in our offices and vessels with environmentally friendlier refrigerants, as their Ozone Depleting Potential (R-11 equivalent) is zero. Refrigerants and CO2 :) Good Practice Liquids 2017 2018 2019 Reduce Air Pollutants Stored (kgr) Used (kgr) Stored (kgr) Used (kgr) Stored (kgr) Used (kgr) Indicating our commitment to reduce air pollutants, we were the first passenger shipping company operating in Adriatic Sea lines to accept and sign the voluntary agreement Carbon dioxide ‘Ancona Blue Agreement’, which was proposed by the Port (CO2)* 49,678 0 86,884 0 86,884 0 Authority and Central Adriatic Ports Administration to further Refrigerants with reduce emissions of air pollutants in the atmosphere due impact on the ozone layer 0 0 0 0 0 0 to marine fuels, the implementation of which began in end (e.g. R11, R22) of 2018. The agreement includes measures beyond the Refrigerants relevant legislative requirements, such as: without impact • The use of marine fuel with 0.1% sulphur content from the 9,394** 3,278** 9,394** 2,309** 13,883 3,624 on the ozone layer (e.g. R134a, vessel’s approach to the port until the complete vessel’s R404a, R407a) departure. TOTAL 59,072 3,278 96,278 2,309 100,767 3,624 • Specific technical instructions to crews regarding the safe * Stored quantities include CO2 in fire extinguishing systems and CO2 stored in rescue switching of fuels for the engines’ smooth operation. equipment activation cylinders. ** Data refer to Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries. 88 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT We monitor noise levels Customer awareness: We believe we are morally obliged to raise customer awareness regarding environmental We strive to reduce noise pollution, since vessel docking and protection, not only during their journey, but also in their daily operation can be a potential source of noise. Indicatively, activities. Within this context, we: we ensure the use of machinery and mechanical equipment, which comply with the required standards on noise levels. •P ublish information and our activities related to environmental protection in our: -C orporate websites www.attica-group.com, We sensitize employees and customers www.bluestarferries.com, www.hsw.gr and Employee awareness: We recognize the importance our www.superfast.com. employees to be aware about the environment, and therefore Corporate magazines ‘On Blue’, ‘Route’ and ‘Thalasea’. implement initiatives to adopt environmentally responsible practices within the workplace. Within this context, we have Companies’ social media. placed designated signs to remind all Blue Star Ferries -R elevant press releases. and Superfast Ferries marine employees to turn off any •H ave placed designated signs in all Blue Star Ferries and unnecessary lights. Superfast Ferries vessel cabins to encourage passengers to turn off lights when not in use. :) Good Practice •P romote alternative and environmentally friendlier forms of transportation and travel, and offer travel packages which Reduce Consumption of Plastic Bags combine ‘Train and Vessel’ transportation for domestic and As we encourage our employees’ active participation European destinations. through ideas related to environmental protection, we have •P articipate in most Eurail & Interrail Pass products and launched the initiative ‘I want to be full before I leave…’, have created our own Interrail & Eurail Greek Islands Pass which was proposed by an office employee to reduce the for 5 destinations, which offers 5 free vessel journeys in repercussions from the use of plastic bags. Blue Star Ferries and Hellenic Seaways domestic routes to More specifically, we have distributed double-sided cards holders railway passengers, which is currently in the Top 10 to all office employees with the inscription ‘Please, do preferences of railway passengers in Europe. not replace me… / I want to be full before I leave…’ and •D isplay on all vessels with relevant informative screens encouraged employees to place them over their individual information on how to prevent forest fires, in cooperation office waste bin, in case the cleaning staff does not need to with the General Secretariat for Civil Protection (GSCP), an replace the bin’s plastic bag. agency within Ministry of Interior. We informed potentially over 2 million customers on Corporate Responsibility issues, such as environmental protection ATTICA GROUP 89 2. Raw Materials and Solid Waste We manage raw materials We recognize that raw materials are not inexhaustible, but We used 22.3% recycled paper for all purposes finite, and prioritize the use of natural resources as efficiently and 62.4% recycled toners/ink cartridges as possible. To achieve this, we implement programs to: • Monitor use of materials. Paper Use for Printing • Reduce materials used. • Reuse materials. • Recycle materials. 30.3% • Dispose materials properly. Reduce Impacts from Consumption of Materials Monitor Use of Materials P  aper with <70% recycled 69.7% content Paper with >70% recycled content Reduce Dispose Reuse Recycle Materials Materials Materials Materials Used Properly Paper Use for Commercial Purposes 98.8 2019 We reduce materials used 20.6 We implement initiatives to reduce use of materials, within the context of our efforts for efficient use of natural resources. Indicatively, we: 93.5 • Entirely use multifunction printers and photocopiers at 2018 our offices, whose 93% of mechanisms, spare parts and consumables are recycled and refurbished. Furthermore: -W e have initiated development of a process to increase 83.2 use of materials from recycled input raw materials, in order 2017 to examine the possibility of purchasing materials/items 25.8 from recycled raw materials during new purchases and replacement of materials already used with others that originate from recycled raw materials, and at the same time Paper use (tn) Use of recycled or certified paper (%) have started a relevant process for purchasing of electronic equipment and printing paper. -T he percentage of recycled or certified paper and recycled toners/ink cartridges we used was 22.3% and 62.4% We reuse materials respectively, compared to 28.1% and 72.9% respectively in We reuse consumables, where possible, as we: 2018. • Return loading pallets back to our suppliers, in order to reuse -B esides using recycled paper and recycled toners/ink them. cartridges, we do not use any other recycled materials. • Use clean damaged sheets, towels, pillowcases and other • Purchase refurbished electronic equipment, with a total of fabrics to clean various surfaces and as tows in the engine 323 devices and peripherals purchased for our offices and room, with over 48,000 sheets, pillowcases, duvet cases and vessels in 2019, such as laptops, computer monitors, servers, towels reused within 2019, which corresponds to 100% of the telephone devices, power supplies and memory modules for respective damaged materials. laptops and desktops. • Have installed air dryers in WCs of all our vessels, in order to reduce use of paper for hand drying. • Ensure the efficient use of spare parts and other supplies (such as consumables), in order not to store large quantities. • Have installed chemical dosimeters onboard our Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries vessels and train marine employees on their proper use, in order to ensure efficient use of cleaning chemicals. 90 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT We recycle materials Waste associated with our activities is a direct result primarily of our vessel operations, and secondary a result of our office operations (i.e. paper, toners): Material Consumption and Recycling Material 2018 2019 Consumption Recycling Consumption Recycling Paper 118,896 kgr 3,970 kgr* 119,785 kgr 42,786 kgr from offices Toners/ink cartridges for printers/ 1,819 units 1,764 units 1.4 m3 from vessels 752 units* faxes/photocopying machines (1,270 were recycled) (1,101 were recycled) 144 units from offices Domestic batteries 289.2 kgr 54 kgr* 352 kgr 264 kgr Vessel batteries 13,523 kgr* 9,723 kgr* 13,700 kgr 9,247 kgr 3,663.6 kgr (in use) 3,663.6 kgr (in use) UPS batteries 490.3 kgr (consumption) 490.3 kgr 206.7 kgr (consumption) 206.7 kgr Accumulators NR NR 14,052.2 kgr 9,410 kgr 2,800 kgr electrical/IT equipment IT equipment (computers, 782 units 21.1 m3 IT equipment 739 units from warehouse printers etc.) / electrical 18,781 light bulbs (152 units) 39,288 light bulbs 2.2 m3 IT equipment equipment and light bulbs 12.2 m3 light bulbs 330 LED luminairies from vessels 9 units IT equipment from offices** 10 m3 light bulbs Cooking oils 75,565 lt 37.7 m3 from vessels 69,400 lt 24.5 m3 from vessels Lubricants 2,397,160 lt 493.3 m3 2,579,454 lt 434.5 m3 Medicines and pharmaceuticals 6,603 units 743 units from vessels 10,242 units 5.1 m3 from vessels Chemical substances 204,891 lt NR 194,965 lt NR * Data refer to Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries. ** Additional quantities of IT equipment from offices have been collected and are pending to be forwarded for recycling. Data do not include cables and IT equipment peripherals (e.g. memory modules, hard drives). NR: Not reported Hazardous waste: The total quantity of 10,551 m3 liquid and solid hazardous waste collected in 2019 (such as waste which ! Did you Know contain oil or mercury, lubricants, biodegradable waste from Paper Recycling kitchen and accommodation areas, light bulbs, IT equipment and toners), was forwarded to specialized hazardous waste Paper recycling can significantly contribute to reduce management companies, which comply with strict standards consumption of raw materials and energy, as the use of regarding environmental protection and apply proper one tonne of recycled paper instead of one tonne of nontreatment methods, out of which 4.8% was recycled, while recycled paper: no hazardous waste was reused or transported abroad to be • Consumes approximately 40%-50% less energy and treated. water. Various materials: As part of our efforts to effectively manage • Reduces air pollution by 70%-75% and water pollution by material consumption and recycling, we: 30%-40%. • H ave initiated a process to redesign management of all • Prevents logging of 17-20 trees. types of waste produced due to our activities. • Significantly reduces waste volume in landfills. • H ave placed recycling bins in our Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries offices and vessels to collect and forward for recycling paper, packaging cardboard, toners, electronic equipment, fluorescent lamps, domestic batteries and UPS / laptop / mobile phones batteries, as well as paper, metal and plastic recycling bins in 1 Hellenic Seaways vessel, in order to promote recycling throughout daily activities of employees and passengers. • C ollect and forward for recycling used cooking oils from vessels. ATTICA GROUP 91 Medicines and pharmaceutical materials: We forward expired medicines to pharmacies that have joined the :) Good Practice collection program, regardless whether these have been used. However, we do not forward pharmaceutical materials Sponsoring Recycling Activities such as syringes, mercury thermometers, scalpels and serums. Within the context of our social contribution, we are the main sponsor of the Municipality of Patmos in Dodecanese Materials Recycling and all South Aegean Region islands, in order to transport recyclable materials from islands to the Hellenic Recovery Recycling Corporation (HE.R.R.Co) in Attica. The total 67 quantity of free-of-charge transported materials (such as 151.2 paper, plastic and aluminum) for recycling on behalf of the Municipality of Patmos through our vessels within 2019 was 16.8 82.5 tonnes. 75 2019 We transported from Islands free-of-charge 67.5 over 82 tonnes of materials for recycling 100 35.3 We properly manage solid waste We recognize our obligation to protect the environment from 19.7 solid waste and garbage, which mainly emanate from our vessels’ operations. Therefore, we: 20.5 • Train our marine employees on our ‘Waste Management 24.1 Manual’, which describes our waste collection procedures. 71.9 • Do not allow any hazardous waste and garbage disposal 2018 at sea, even if allowed to be disposed at sea by relevant 100 legislation. 49.9 • Do not discharge food or any related garbage at sea. 57.4 • Have placed designated signs to remind passengers and employees not to throw waste overboard. 11.2 • Have determined specific collection points for waste generated onboard our vessels. • Deliver all garbage and solid waste from our vessels to 2.8 appropriate reception facilities of licensed contractors 18.1 within ports after each journey, while no solid waste was transported abroad. 7.1 Solid and Hazardous Waste 100 2017 100 44,053 100 2019 6,300 5.2 3.3 100 49,821 Accumulators (%) Paper per employee (kgr/office employee)* 2018 7,209 Lubricants (%) Domestic batteries (%)* Vessel batteries (%)* 100 UPS batteries (%) Cooking oils (%) Toners/ink cartidges (%)* 36,071 Medicines and pharmaceuticals (%) 2017 9,000 * Data for 2018 refer to Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries. 100 Solid waste (m3) Solid waste indicator (m3 per million passengers) Hazardous waste management (%) 92 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 3. Water and Liquid Waste :) Good Practice We monitor water consumption Drinking Water Quality Assurance We aim to contribute to better manage water resources in the We have established a procedure to supply, manage safely long-term, being aware of the responsible approach required and sample drinking water, in order to ensure the quality of on this issue. Therefore, we: water used and consumed onboard our vessels, according to which we: • Use extensively seawater onboard all Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries vessels and 1 Hellenic Seaways vessel after • Use separate water hose to supply water, which is solely appropriate treatment, for activities such as cooling engines intended for this purpose and is kept away from any and cleaning decks. potential sources of contamination. • Perform only absolutely necessary external cleaning and • Ensure water hose runs for a few minutes prior to washing activities, in cases of rainfalls or bad weather. connect it to the drinking water supply tank, in order not to introduce stagnant water or external materials to the • Have installed photocell-operated water faucets in public supply tank, which could potentially pose health risks. WCs onboard Blue Star Delos and Blue Star Patmos. • Regularly clean and sanitize drinking water tanks, • Have installed pilot flow control filters to conserve drinking exceeding legislative requirements, and ensure water onboard 7 vessels (Superfast I, Superfast II, Blue Star continuous chlorination of drinking water. 1, Blue Star 2, Blue Star Paros, Blue Star Naxos and Blue Star Delos). • Sanitize shower heads, sprinklers in bars and filters in washbasins located in cabins, public areas, bars and • Plan and select the minimum number of hydrants to be used kitchen twice a month. during water supply. • Collaborate with an external partner to collect drinking • Check water meters before water supply has began and water samples. after it has ended and have appointed a vessel Officer to monitor and confirm the actual water supply. • Analyze water samples in accredited laboratories, which issue a respective report with results and suggest • Use pressure machinery, where possible, and ensure their corrective actions, in case there are any problems. No proper maintenance. such incidents occurred within 2019. • Ensure proper and regular maintenance of water production equipment and dictate immediate notification of any failures to the Technical Division. • Have placed designated signs to remind Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries passengers and marine employees to use water responsibly in accommodation, sanitary and catering areas, with the water consumption indicator reaching 0.0343 m3/passenger in 2019. • Proactively check and immediately respond to potential damages in our office water supply system. • Ensure that water leakages (such as in pipes, shower heads and flushers) or any other leakages are immediately managed, as well as perform all necessary maintenance activities on vessel systems. Within 2019, there were no significant leakages of any material (e.g. oil or chemical substances spills) or marine pollution incidents. Water :) Good Practice 2017* 2018* 2019 Water consumption (m3) 237,255 205,690 303,872 Response to Pollution Incident Vessels 235,331 203,733 300,899 We have equipped all our vessels with ‘Shipboard Oil Offices 1,924 1,957 2,973 Pollution Emergency Plan’ (SOPEP) to effectively respond Water sources (%) to any pollution incident or risk of pollution, which may arise Public water supply 59.2 72.4 80.4 during the vessel’s fuel supply or due to an accident (e.g. networks (140,365 m3) (148,985 m3) (244,313 m3) collision, grounding). According to SOPEP, we describe Seawater 40.8 27.6 19.6 in detail and have specifically defined the employees (96,890 m3) (56,705 m3) (59,559 m3) responsible for immediate actions to reduce the impacts * Data refer to Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries. from a potential pollution incident. ATTICA GROUP 93 We manage liquid waste ? Issue of Consideration Being aware that uncontrolled liquid waste disposal at seas can significantly affect the marine environment, we: Biodiversity • Do not dispose processed sewage water from sewage As water covers 71% of our planet, preserving the balance systems within ports, exceeding the respective legislation. of marine ecosystems and biodiversity are crucial for • Regularly monitor operation of wastewater treatment humankind. The intense growth of human activities and systems. the associated environmental pollution have significantly degraded the natural environment within a very short period • Comply with relevant regulations regarding bilge and ballast of time. Consequently, many organisms fail to adapt to water management. these new conditions, with their survival being threatened. • Deliver all liquid waste from our vessels (lubricants and fuel According to the United Nations’ ‘Millennium Ecosystem waste) to licensed contractors within ports. Assessment’ report, the extinction of species due to human intervention occurs 1,000 times faster than it would naturally Liquid Waste* and 1/4 of the planet’s mammals face extinction in the coming years. The situation is even more critical for the marine environment, as it is estimated that 60% of coral reefs 6,005 will extinct by 2030, due to illegal fishing and pollution. 2019 108 Marine Biodiversity: We recognize the importance of marine 3,492 biodiversity and our obligation to reduce the risk of disrupting it. Therefore, we: 4,218 • Abide to the relevant legislation concerning the abstraction 45 and use of seawater as ballast water in our vessels, in order 2018 to avoid transfer of marine organisms into other non-native 1,376 ecosystems. • Do not use the toxic substance tributyltin (TBT) in anti-fouling 4,343 paints for our vessels. • Use exclusively environmentally friendlier cleaning agents 2017 46 during cleaning activities of garages, decks and exterior 1,755 surfaces in general. • Promote beach cleaning by producing and distributing beach ashtrays for free through our central agencies and vessels. Liquid waste (m ) 3 Sewage water (tn)** Since 2007, we have distributed over 1,450,000 ashtrays to Bilge water (m3)*** passengers and citizens. * Data for 2017 and 2018 refer to Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries. ** Quantities of sewage water refer to cases where vessels are docked or during :) Good Practice maintenance/cleaning activities to the sewage network. *** Quantities of bilge water refer to quantities delivered to appropriate reception Vessel Rippling facilities of licensed contractors within ports. Vessel navigation while approaching or exiting ports inevitably creates rippling, which may affect: • Commercial activities in coastal areas, such as business We assess our impact on biodiversity activities in shores (e.g. bars/cafés, sun beds on beaches). • Bathers’ safety due to sudden appearance of waves. Land Biodiversity: We recognize the importance of biodiversity for the ecosystems’ balance and we do not For this reason, we comply with legislation and adhere to the conduct any activities within protected areas, as our offices cruising speed limits defined by the relevant provisions, in are located in an urban environment, without any adjacent order to minimize the respective impact. Within 2019: protected areas or areas of high biodiversity value (even • There were 2 lawsuits and 2 indictments for damages outside protected areas). to vessels caused by rippling, which are expected to be discussed. • A previous lawsuit regarding damage to another vessel due to rippling in 2018 was discussed and the case is still pending. 94 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 4. Achievements 2019 and Future Objectives We committed Progress We aim By To improve our performance on Corporate Responsibility To improve our performance on Corporate issues related to Environment by 34% (by 2020). 50% Responsibility issues related to Environment by 34%. 2020 To include environmental protection aspects as To install air pollutants monitoring equipment (scrubbers) specifications in our products’ and services’ design phase 25% on 5 vessels. 2021 (e.g. vessels). To upgrade our BMS system’s software. 25% To upgrade our BMS system’s software. 2021 To reduce electricity consumption in offices per employee by 5%. 2020 To further upgrade the photovoltaic panel unit To reduce electricity consumption per square meter in onboard Blue Star Delos (by 2020). 0% offices by 5%. 2020 To create an Eurail/Interrail Greek Islands Pass for 5 destinations in Greece. 100% To reduce noise level in office workplaces by 10%. 2020 To reduce water consumption per employee in offices by 5%. 2020 To train our office employees on environmental To train 100% of corporate vehicle drivers on safe and protection issues (e.g. recycling, renewable energy 100% economical driving. 2021 sources and technologies). ATTICA GROUP 95 ΙΧ 96 96 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT REPORT SUMMARY 1. About this Report The in accordance option of our Report: This Report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. This is the 11th Corporate Responsibility Report published by Attica Group. Your feedback: We welcome your thoughts, comments or proposals through the feedback form at the end of this Report Here in, we present the practices followed and or at the following address: the results achieved, through focusing on topics our Stakeholders are interested in and committing Corporate Responsibility Team in the long-term towards responsible business Attica Group operations. 1-7 Lysikratous & Evripidou Street, 17674 Athens E-mail: csr@attica-group.com The Principles we follow: The Report follows: • F or structure and content, the guidelines ‘Sustainability The symbols we use: For convenient reading of this Report, Reporting Standards’ (version 2016) of the Global Reporting please pay attention to the following main symbols, which are Initiative (GRI). widely used: • For principles, the UN’s Global Compact. :) Good Practice • F or presentation of quantitative data, the EFQM’s RADAR Indicates examples of good practices implemented. Card. ::: Policy The scope we refer to: The annual Corporate Responsibility Indicates sections from formal corporate Policies. Report: • R efers to the period 1/1/2019-31/12/2019 (unless indicated ! Did you Know otherwise in certain points). Indicates information of particular interest. • A ddresses all activities of ATTICA HOLDINGS S.A. (Attica Group), namely the provision of maritime transportation ? Issue of Consideration services for passengers, private vehicles and freight units Indicates issues of public interest and consideration. in the Eastern Mediterranean Sea, with references to the Group’s activities in the Morocco – Spain route in Chapter Development of Report: The Report has been developed by III (Attica Group), which are not included in the scope of this the Group’s Corporate Responsibility Team in cooperation with Report. STREAM Management: • Includes, as a norm, quantitative data for the period 2017Panagiotis Papadodimas 2019 for all quantitative indicators. Chief Administration & Transformation Officer • Includes data from direct measurement, while cases of data Christina Grigora estimations or restatements of data provided in our previous Marketing Manager 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report, are clearly indicated. Georgia Kokaliari • Includes data for the entire Group, while cases of data that Training & Development Manager refer only to Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries (i.e. excluding Hellenic Seaways) or only Africa Morocco Links Nikolaos Merkouris (AML) are clearly indicated. Safety, Security, Quality & Environmental Supervisor • D ata presented have been collected internally, in order to Dimitrios Roggas be published in this Report. Accounting Supervisor of AML Athens Office Antonis Strintzis ISO & Quality Assurance Head The limitations we recognize: We recognize limitations in the Report, which we intend to handle in future publications, such as presentation of more quantitative data and objectives. www.stream-eu.com ATTICA GROUP 97 completion (100%) under completion (75%) < progress (50%) 2. Summary Data _ off plan (25%) x not achieved (0%) Section 2017 2018 2019 Objectives 2019 Achievements 2019 Future Objectives MANAGEMENT We commit to adopt responsible policies and practices in our operations To improve our overall To improve our overall and to harmoniously performance on Corporate performance on Corporate cooperate with our Responsibility issues by Responsibility issues by Stakeholders, in order to 24% (by 2020). 24%. create mutual long-term value. To improve our performance To improve our on Corporate Responsibility performance on Corporate issues related to Owners by Responsibility issues 10% (by 2020). related to Owners by 10%. To improve our To improve our performance related to performance related to Management of Corporate Management of Corporate Responsibility issues by Responsibility issues by 25% (by 2020). 25%. Objectives in the Report 55 42 38 (number) To conduct a Stakeholder To conduct a Stakeholder Engagement process on issues related to Corporate _ Engagement process on issues related to Corporate Responsibility. Responsibility. To integrate the Corporate Responsibility Strategy 2018-2020’s target assessment score within the overall Group Strategy (by 2020). To include the Corporate Responsibility Strategy To include the Corporate 2018-2020’s quantitative Responsibility Strategy assessment score as 2020 score as a target target in the formal < within the formal appraisal process for Top appraisal process for Top Management members Management members. and at least one Board of Directors member. To develop a process To apply a process to to identify, prioritize identify, prioritize and and include Corporate include Corporate Responsibility issues in Responsibility issues in local and international local and international investment agreements. investment agreements. GRI disclosures in the Report (number, full + partial 56 + 18 66 + 18 66 + 19 coverage) We increased by Quantitative indicators in 4.4% the number of 210 225 235 quantitative indicators the Report (number) we make reference to within the Report. 98 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Section 2017 2018 2019 Objectives 2019 Achievements 2019 Future Objectives MANAGEMENT To include our Corporate To include our Corporate Responsibility Report’s Responsibility Report’s quantitative indicators in < quantitative indicators in our SAP ERP (by 2021). our SAP ERP (by 2021). To include perception To include perception measurement questions measurement questions regarding our Corporate regarding our Corporate Responsibility performance Responsibility performance (e.g. responsible promotion x (e.g. responsible promotion of products and services, of products and services, personal data protection, personal data protection, society support) in our society support) in our market surveys. market surveys. No violation cases Violation cases concerning concerning our our main principles and 0 0 0 main principles and rules of professional rules of professional behavior (number) behavior occurred. We have communicated Regulation of Professional Behavior to 100% of our employees. We informed 100% Office employees informed of office employees on anti-corruption NR 100 100 about our antiprocedures (%) corruption policies and procedures. Corruption incidents No corruption 0 0 0 (number) incidents occurred. No bribery incidents related to our employees occurred. We were subjected to 116 external Non-compliance incidents audits regarding recoded during external 0 0* 0 our Management Management Systems’ Systems, with no audits (number) recorded noncompliance incident. No non-compliance incident was recorded during audits of our contractors’ Management Systems. ATTICA GROUP 99 Section 2017 2018 2019 Objectives 2019 Achievements 2019 Future Objectives MANAGEMENT To establish a To establish a comprehensive Business comprehensive Business Continuity Plan to ensure continuation of our _ Continuity Plan to ensure continuation of our operations following operations following unexpected events (by unexpected events. 2020). To complete the implementation of our Fleet Management System for all our vessels. SOCIETY We commit to combine our business success with our country’s and partners’ To improve our To improve our development, as well as performance on Corporate performance on Corporate support local communities Responsibility issues Responsibility issues affected by our operations, related to Community by related to Community by in order to contribute to improving the quality of 10% (by 2020). 10%. life and prosperity of our society in general. To improve our To improve our performance on Corporate performance on Corporate Responsibility issues < Responsibility issues related to Suppliers by related to Suppliers by 180% (by 2020). 180%. We distributed over €470 million in economic value: over €94.2 million to employees (for salaries, benefits and insurance payments), €81.9 million for taxes (including VAT and port taxes), €29.9 million to providers of capital (for interest and return payments), Turnover (total sales with 271.54 365.4 405.4 €21.9 million to VAT) (million €) agents (for commissions), €205.6 million to suppliers (for purchases of goods and services), €2.8 million to society (for discount tickets, implemented programs, sponsorships and donations) and €34.5 million for investments. Profits after taxes (million €) 1.25 17.27 20.8 Cost of employees (including salaries, benefits 61.61 91.6 94.2 and insurance payments) (million €) Payments to suppliers 130.75 196.6 205.6 (million €) 100 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Section 2017 2018 2019 Objectives 2019 Achievements 2019 Future Objectives SOCIETY Investments (million €) 7.18 128 34.5 Training of sales network 248 1,920 22 employees (hours) We increased the total value of societal Social contribution (€) 1,599,360 2,224,319 2,776,805 support activities by 24.8%. We allocated 55% of sponsorships and donations to local communities. To support the activities of To support the activities of charitable organizations charitable organizations and NGOs. and NGOs. We implemented or To design and implement supported societal To design and implement 2 programs / activities to support activities in 2 programs / activities to address local communities 100% of the islands address local communities needs in the areas of we serve. needs in the areas of sports, culture, education or sports, culture, education health (by 2020). or health. We increased the total number of Discount tickets (number) 48,052 75,322 139,703 discount tickets offered by 85.5%. We increased the number of employees participating in To implement at least 2 volunteer activities To implement at least 1 Employee volunteers volunteer activities with and employee volunteer activity with 165 170 193 (number) the participation of our volunteering hours the participation of our employees. by 13.5% and 49.3% employees. respectively. We collected 282 Blood units from voluntary blood units through blood donation programs 70 113 99 our voluntary blood (number) donation programs in the last three years. We welcomed 1,047 young people Visiting school and from schools and 739 1,290 1,047 university students (number) universities visiting our offices and vessels. We supported the development of 86 students in Merchant Navy’s Officer academies. ATTICA GROUP 101 Section 2017 2018 2019 Objectives 2019 Achievements 2019 Future Objectives SOCIETY To consolidate/review the various procurement Suppliers (number) 1,110 1,451 1,487 processes per Department and establish a single Procurement Process. To develop a Policy for our Contractors’ Suppliers. To develop a Code of Conduct for Suppliers, including selection criteria to become a supplier. We have defined 10% of suppliers’ To integrate Corporate selection criteria Responsibility issues in to be related to selection criteria to become their responsible a supplier. operation. We spent 77.2% of Procurement expenditure total procurement 92.9 90.7 77.2 to local suppliers (%) expenditure to local suppliers. We spent 15.4% of total procurement Procurement expenditure expenditure to small 89.2 28.7 15.4 to SME suppliers (%) and medium-sized enterprises (up to 50 employees). EMPLOYEES We commit to cultivate a workplace focused on respect, equality, safety To improve our To improve our and merit, as well as offer performance on Corporate performance on Corporate training opportunities Responsibility issues Responsibility issues to our employees, in related to Employees by related to Employees by order to facilitate their 6% (by 2020). 6%. personal and professional development. We employ 100% of Employees (number, offices our employees with 201 + 1,004 286 + 1,537 283 + 1,496 + vessels) full time employment contracts. No grievances regarding our marine employees’ living conditions were filed. Women in overall 13.3 15.5 14 workforce (%) Women in Director 4.9 4.2 5.4 positions (%) 102 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Section 2017 2018 2019 Objectives 2019 Achievements 2019 Future Objectives EMPLOYEES 100% of employees in Greek employees in 100 100 100 Director positions are Director positions (%) Greek. Discrimination incidents 0 0 0 (number) Employees with entry level wage equal or higher than 100 100 100 the legal minimum wage or collective agreement (%) We trained at least Training hours (hours) 5,221 7,057* 5,921 once over 61% of our office employees. To integrate Corporate To integrate Corporate Responsibility issues into Responsibility issues into the other categories of < the other categories of in-house training courses. in-house training courses. To conduct a Corporate To conduct a Corporate Responsibility e-learning course for our new office _ Responsibility e-learning course for 150 marine employees. employees (by 2021). To complete the update To update our employees' of our employees' job job descriptions according descriptions according to to our new organizational our new organizational structure. structure. 100% of our Employees receiving their employees received annual leave, as planned 100 100 100 their annual leave, as (%) planned. We conducted internal drills on Marine employees Health and Safety participating in internal issues (such 100 100 100 drills on Health and Safety as response to issues (%) emergency situations) to 100% of marine employees. Fatal accidents (number, 0 0 0 employees) Accidents (number) 14 32 10 To apply a process to To apply a process to monitor health and safety monitor health and safety incidents (e.g. injuries, incidents (e.g. injuries, diseases, absences, fatal x diseases, absences, fatal accidents) of subcontractors’ accidents) of subcontractors’ employees working in our employees working in our offices. offices. ATTICA GROUP 103 Section 2017 2018 2019 Objectives 2019 Achievements 2019 Future Objectives EMPLOYEES Accidents with absence >3 12 27 8 days (number) Injury rate (rate) 0.78 1.47* 0.36 To conduct performance To conduct performance Employees participating in appraisal for 100% of office appraisal for 100% of office performance appraisal 0 / 100 0 / 100 0 / 100 employees with a new x employees with a new (%, offices / vessels) Performance Appraisal Performance Appraisal System. System. To include specific To include specific Corporate Responsibility Corporate Responsibility objectives in formal objectives in formal appraisal process for x appraisal process for employees, Managers employees, Managers and at least one Board of and at least one Board of Directors member. Directors member. To include specific To include specific Corporate Responsibility Corporate Responsibility objectives in Top Management members’ x objectives in Top Management members’ formal appraisal process (by formal appraisal process. 2020). CUSTOMERS We commit to safeguard the health and safety of To improve our To improve our our passengers and offer performance on Corporate performance on Corporate them the best possible Responsibility issues Responsibility issues travel experience, in order to meet their needs and related to Customers by related to Customers by expectations during their 17% (by 2020). 17%. journey. We conducted Marine employees internal drills participating in internal and trainings on 100 100 100 drills on passenger safety passenger safety procedures (%) procedures to 100% of marine employees. The overall performance of our vessels in Domestic Vessels’ evaluation within and Adriatic Sea the context of ‘Mystery lines from ‘Mystery Passenger’ (%, Blue Star 86 / 83 / 84 Passenger’ survey Ferries / Superfast Ferries / for Blue Star Ferries, Hellenic Seaways) Superfast Ferries and Hellenic Seaways reached 86%, 83% and 84% respectively. We were subjected to 45 inspections Inspections from local from local authorities authorities for food hygiene 45 49 45 for food hygiene and safety (number) and safety, with no recorded noncompliance incidents. Items lost/found or 5,027 5,078 5,741 damaged (number) Compensations for vehicle 45,461 57,800 56,825 damages (€) 104 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Section 2017 2018 2019 Objectives 2019 Achievements 2019 Future Objectives CUSTOMERS We trained 80% of Marketing Department To apply a Responsible To apply a Responsible Complaints regarding employees on Marketing and Marketing and responsible communication 0 0 0 responsible Communication Code in Communication Code in (number) communication and our business activities. our business activities. marketing issues, for a total duration of 48 hours. < To systematically inform To systematically inform and train our customers and train our customers on Corporate Responsibility on Corporate Responsibility issues. issues. We maintain 5 corporate websites, with over 4.5 million unique visitors annually and handle 2 mobile applications with over 22,600 downloads. To apply a process to monitor potential recalls Recalls of products and of products or services services due to health and 0 0 0 from subcontractors safety impacts (number) due to possible health and safety issues. Complaints regarding 0 0 2 customer privacy (number) To achieve an ‘as We kept our vessels’ To achieve an ‘as scheduled’ routes rate in departure time scheduled’ routes rate Delays in routes (number) 9 59 124 Crete, Dodecanese at 84% and arrival in Crete, Dodecanese and Ancona routes time at 56% of and Ancona routes of over 90%. schedules. of over 85%. Formal response letters to comments, complaints and 619 1,987 1,496 requests (number) To establish a To establish a Customer Relationship Management system x Customer Relationship Management system (CRM) (by 2020). (CRM). To categorize To categorize complaints per category (e.g. delays, price of tickets, x complaints per category (e.g. delays, price of tickets, price discrepancies) price discrepancies). (by 2020). Formal thank-you letters 179 143 192 (number) ATTICA GROUP 105 Section 2017 2018 2019 Objectives 2019 Achievements 2019 Future Objectives CUSTOMERS The average score of evaluations registered through dedicated devices Questionnaires in vessels onboard Blue Star 878 982 1,200 (number) Ferries and Superfast Ferries vessels reached 4 and 4.11 for Hellenic Seaways on a 5 point scale. We informed 456,214 passengers through information SMS for early arrival at the Piraeus port To increase communication or changes or for early arrival at the cancellations of SMS messages sent Piraeus port and changes scheduled journeys 91,482 259,472 272,814 to customers (number) or cancellations of in Domestic and scheduled journeys Adriatic Sea lines through SMS by 5%. (77% of passengers on these routes who have registered their mobile number). We send 2,813 notifications to serve passengers to our vessels, out of which 596 concerning passengers with reduced mobility and 12 concerning passengers with sensitivity to allergens. We increased our To install Infokiosks seasmiles loyalty Members in loyalty and reward program about the seasmiles and reward program 242,483 262,444 353,417 members by 34.7%. program on 8 Hellenic (number) . Seaways vessels. To extend the infotainment To extend the infotainment platform @sea to Hellenic x platform @sea to Hellenic Seaways vessels. Seaways vessels (by 2021). ENVIRONMENT We commit to integrate sustainable development To improve our To improve our in our operations and performance on Corporate performance on Corporate apply environmentally friendlier business Responsibility issues < Responsibility issues related to Environment by related to Environment by practices, in order to reduce, where feasible, 34% (by 2020). 34%. our environmental impacts. We conducted internal drills on Environmental protection environmental 1.9 2.1* 3.6 investments (million €) protection issues to 100% of marine employees. To reduce noise level in office workplaces by 10%. 106 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Section 2017 2018 2019 Objectives 2019 Achievements 2019 Future Objectives ENVIRONMENT We informed 100% To train our office of our employees employees on on environmental To train 100% of environmental protection protection issues. corporate vehicle drivers issues (e.g. recycling, on safe and economical renewable energy driving (by 2021). sources and technologies). We informed potentially over 2 million customers on Corporate Responsibility issues, such as environmental protection. To create an Eurail/Interrail Greek Islands Pass for 5 destinations in Greece. We reduced our total energy consumption Energy consumption (GJ) 9,827,535 13,791,276 13,004,820 by 5.7% (equal to over 786,000 GJ). To upgrade our BMS To upgrade our BMS system’s software. _ system’s software (by 2021). 80% of monitors and 60% of Electricity consumption personal and laptop 1,331,453 1,252,448* 1,552,885 (KWh) computers we use have energy-saving specifications. To reduce electricity consumption in offices per employee by 5%. To reduce electricity consumption per square meter in offices by 5%. To further upgrade the Electricity produced from renewable energy sources 4,380 4,380 4,380 photovoltaic panel unit onboard Blue Star Delos x (KWh) (by 2020). Prevention of CO2 due to energy use from renewable 2,935 2,935 2,935 energy sources (kgr) We reduced our total carbon dioxide emissions by 5.6% Total eCO2 emissions (tn) 760,920 1,064,890 1,005,100 (equal to over 59,000 tonnes of CO2). ATTICA GROUP 107 Section 2017 2018 2019 Objectives 2019 Achievements 2019 Future Objectives ENVIRONMENT To include environmental To install air pollutants protection aspects as specifications in our _ monitoring equipment (scrubbers) on 5 vessels products’ and services’ (by 2021). design phase (e.g. vessels). Use of refrigerants (kgr) 3,278 2,309* 3,624 We use refrigerants that do not affect the ozone layer (such Total ODP of refrigerants as R134a, R404a, 0 0 0 (number, R-11 equivalent) R407a) in 100% of refrigerators and freezers onboard our vessels. We used 22.3% recycled paper for all Paper used for all purposes 100.8 118.9 119.8 purposes and 62.4% (tn) recycled toners/ink cartridges. Paper used for commercial 83.2 93.5 98.8 purposes (tn) We transported Materials from recycling from Islands freeactivities, transported for 79 153 82 of-charge over 82 recycling (tn) tonnes of materials for recycling. Solid waste (m3) 36,071 49,821 44,053 Solid waste indicator 9,000 7,209 6,300 (m3 per million passengers) To reduce water Water consumption (m3) 237,255 205,690* 303,872 consumption per employee in offices by 5%. Liquid waste (m3) 4,343 4,218* 6,005 * Data refer to Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries. NR = Not Reported 108 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 3. Global Compact, Sustainable Development Goals, ISO26000 and GRI Tables The correspondence between the content of this Report and the Global Compact Principles, the Sustainable Development Goals, the ISO26000 International Guidelines, as well as the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI Standards 2016) General Disclosures, Management Approach and Topic-Specific Disclosures, is presented in the following tables. • Coverage of Global Compact Principles, ISO26000 Aspects and GRI Disclosures is characterized as Full (F), Partial (P) or Not Applicable (NA). • General Disclosures of GRI required for ‘Core’ option are indicated in grey background. • Management Approach, Topic Specific Disclosures and Boundaries for Material Topics (both for GRI related Topics and other Topics) are indicated on the Table, based on the Materiality Analysis conducted. • No external assurance has been conducted for the Material Topics. United Nations’ Global Compact Table Issue Principle Report Section Coverage Human Rights 1. Support and respect protection of internationally proclaimed human rights V-3, VI-3 F 2. Ensure not to be complicit in human rights abuses V-3, VI-3 F Labour Standards 3. Recognize freedom of association and right to collective bargaining V-3, VI-3 F 4. Eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labour V-3, VI-3 F 5. Abolish effectively child labour V-3, VI-3 F 6. Eliminate discrimination in respect to employment and occupation V-3, VI-3 F Environment 7. Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges V-3, VIII-1-3 F 8. Promote greater environmental responsibility VIII-1-3 F 9. Encourage development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies VIII-1 F Corruption 10. Work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery IV-1,2 F United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals Table Goal Principle Report Section 1. End poverty in all its forms everywhere V-1,2 2. End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture 3. Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages V-2, VI-2, VII-1 4. Ensure inclusive and quality education for all and promote lifelong learning V-2, VI-4 5. Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls VI-3 6. Ensure access to water and sanitation for all VIII-3 7. Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all VIII-1 8. Promote inclusive and sustainable economic growth, employment and decent work for all V-1,2, VI-1-3 9. Build resilient infrastructure, promote sustainable industrialization and foster innovation 10. Reduce inequality within and among countries VI-3 11. Make cities inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable 12. Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns VII-3, VIII-2,3 13. Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts VIII-1 14. Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine resources VIII-2,3 15. Sustainably manage forests, combat desertification, halt and reverse land degradation, halt biodiversity loss VIII-3 16. Promote just, peaceful and inclusive societies V-2 17. Revitalize the global partnership for sustainable development IV-VIII ATTICA GROUP 109 ISO26000 Table Aspect Report Section Coverage 1. Scope IX-1 F 2. Definitions IX-4 F 3. Understanding Social Responsibility IV-1,2 F 4. Principles of Social Responsibility IV-2,3 F 5. Recognizing Social Responsibility & Engaging Stakeholders IV-3 F 6. Guidance on Social Responsibility Core Subjects a. Organizational Governance IV-1 F b. Human Rights VI-3 F c. Labor practices VI-3 F d. Environment V-3, VIII-1-3 F e. Fair operating practices IV-1 F f. Consumer issues VII-1-3 F g. Community involvement and development V-2 F 7. Guidance on Integrating SR throughout the Organization a. Enhancing Credibility IV-VIII F b. Communication IV-2,3, VI-1 F GRI Content Index GRI Standard Report Section Coverage Boundary of Disclosure General Disclosures GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 Organizational Profile Yes (Group) 102-1 IX-1 F 102-2 III-2, VII-2 F 102-3 III-2, IX-1 F 102-4 III-2 F 102-5 III-2 F 102-6 III-2 F 102-7 III-2, V-1, VI-1 F 102-8 VI-1 F 102-9 III-2, V-3 F 102-10 III-2 F 102-11 V-3, VIII-1 F 102-12 IV-2, VI-3, VII-1, VIII-1 F 102-13 IV-2 F Strategy Yes (Group) 102-14 I F 102-15 I, IV-1 P Ethics and Integrity Yes (Group) 102-16 III-2, IV-1,2, VI-3, VII-2, VIII-1 F 102-17 IV-1 P Governance Yes (Group) 102-18 IV-1 F 102-19 IV-2 P 102-20 IV-2 F 102-21 IV-1 F 102-22 IV-1 P 102-23 IV-1 F 102-24 IV-1 P 102-25 IV-1 F 102-26 IV-2 P 102-27 IV-1,2 P 102-28 IV-1 P 102-30 IV-1 P 102-32 IV-3 F 110 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT GRI Standard Report Section Coverage Boundary of Disclosure 102-34 IV-1 F 102-35 IV-1 P 102-36 IV-1 P 102-38 VI-3 F 102-39 VI-3 F Stakeholder Engagement Yes (Group) 102-40 IV-3 F 102-41 VI-3 F 102-42 IV-3 F 102-43 IV-3 F 102-44 IV-3 F Reporting Practice Yes (Group) 102-45 V-1, IX-1 F 102-46 IV-3, IX-3 F 102-47 IV-3, IX-3 F 102-48 IX-1 F 102-49 IX-1 F 102-50 IX-1 F 102-51 IX-1 F 102-52 IX-1 F 102-53 IX-1 F 102-54 IX-1 F 102-55 IX-3 F 102-56 IX-1, 3 F Economic Topics GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 IV-1,3, V-1-3, VI-1,3, IX-3 F 103-2 IV-1, V-1-3, VI-1,3 F 103-3 IV-1,3, V-1-3, VI-1,3 F GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016 Yes (Group) 201-1 V-1 F 201-4 V-1 F GRI 202: Market Presence 2016 Yes (Group) 202-1 VI-3 P 202-2 VI-1 F GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts 2016 Yes (Group) 203-1 V-2 P 203-2 V-2 F GRI 204: Procurement Practices 2016 Yes (Group) 204-1 V-3 F GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 Yes (Group) 205-2 IV-1 P 205-3 IV-1 F GRI 206: Anti-competitive Behavior 2016 Yes (Group) 206-1 IV-1 F Environment Topics GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 IV-3, VIII-1-3, IX-3 F 103-2 VIII-1-3 F 103-3 IV-1,3, VIII-1-3 F GRI 301: Materials 2016 Yes (Group) 301-1 VIII-2 F 301-2 VIII-2 F GRI 302: Energy 2016 Yes (Group) 302-1 VIII-1 F 302-2 VIII-1 P ATTICA GROUP 111 GRI Standard Report Section Coverage Boundary of Disclosure 302-3 VIII-1 P 302-4 VIII-1 P GRI 303: Water 2016 Yes (Group) 303-1 VIII-3 F 303-2 VIII-3 F GRI 304: Biodiversity 2016 Yes (Group) 304-1 VIII-3 F 304-2 VIII-3 F GRI 305: Emissions 2016 Yes (Group) 305-1 VIII-1 F 305-2 VIII-1 P 305-4 VIII-1 P 305-5 VIII-1 P 305-6 VIII-1 F 305-7 VIII-1 P GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016 Yes (Group) 306-2 VIII-2,3 P 306-3 VIII-3 F 306-4 VIII-2 P GRI 307: Environmental Compliance 2016 Yes (Group) 307-1 IV-1, VIII-1 F GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Yes (Group) Assessment 2016 308-2 V-3 F Social Topics GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 IV-3, V-2,3, VI-1-4, VII-1,2, VIII-3, IX-3 F 103-2 V-2,3, VI-1-4, VII-1,2, VIII-3 F 103-3 IV-1,3, V-2,3, VI-1-4, VII-1,2 F GRI 401: Employment 2016 Yes (Group) 401-1 VI-1 F 401-2 VI-3 F 401-3 VI-1 P GRI 402: Labor/Management Relations 2016 Yes (Group) 402-1 VI-3 F GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2016 Yes (Group) 403-1 VI-2 F 403-2 VI-2 F 403-3 VI-2 F 403-4 VI-2 F GRI 404: Training and Education 2016 Yes (Group) 404-1 VI-4 F 404-2 VI-4 P 404-3 VI-4 F GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Yes (Group) Opportunity 2016 405-1 VI-1,3 F 405-2 VI-3 F GRI 406: Non-discrimination 2016 Yes (Group) 406-1 IV-1 F GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 2016 407-1 VI-3 P GRI 408: Child Labor 2016 408-1 VI-3 P GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor 2016 409-1 VI-3 P GRI 410: Security Practices 2016 410-1 V-2 F 112 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT GRI Standard Report Section Coverage Boundary of Disclosure GRI 411: Rights of Indigenous People 2016 411-1 NA GRI 412: Human Rights Yes (Group) Assessment 2016 412-1 VI-3 P 412-2 VI-4 F 412-3 VI-3 F GRI 413: Local Communities 2016 Yes (Group) 413-2 V-2 F GRI 414: Supplier Social Yes (Group) Assessment 2016 414-2 V-3 F GRI 415: Public Policy 2016 Yes (Group) 415-1 IV-1 F GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 2016 Yes (Group) 416-1 VII-1 P 416-2 IV-1, VII-1 F GRI 417: Marketing and Labelling 2016 Yes (Group) 417-1 VII-2 F 417-2 IV-1 F 417-3 IV-1 F GRI 418: Customer Privacy 2016 Yes (Group) 418-1 IV-1, VII-1 F GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance 2016 419-1 IV-1 F Other Topics (non GRI) GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 IV-1,3, V-2,3, VI-1, VII-1-3, VIII-1-3, IX-3 F 103-2 IV-1, V-2,3, VI-1, VII-1-3, VIII-1-3 F 103-3 IV-1,3, V-2,3, VI-1, VII-1-3, VIII-1-3 F Products and Services Yes (Group) Customers informed on Corporate VII-1,2, VIII-1-3 F Responsibility issues Audits and inspections for products and services VII-1 F quality (by number, outcome) Customer satisfaction surveys and IV-3, VII-3 F practices (results) Reductions in products and services prices VII-3 F Lost/found or damaged passengers’ VII-1 F personal items (number, compensations) Business Continuity Yes (Group) Proactive approaches to ensure IV-1 F uninterrupted operation Vessel Operations and Impacts Yes (Group) Proactive approaches on vessel safety VII-1 F standards and respective compliance Accidents within vessels V-2, VII-1 F (by number, type, reason, results) Non-compliance with regulations regarding IV-1 F exceeding vessel capacity (by number, outcomes) Non-compliance with regulations regarding rippling impacts to coastal areas IV-1, VIII-3 F (by number, outcomes) Responsible Buying Yes (Group) Average supplier payment time V-3 F Suppliers evaluation (by percentage, frequency) V-3 F Discontinuation of collaboration with V-3 F suppliers (by number, reason) ATTICA GROUP 113 GRI Standard Report Section Coverage Boundary of Disclosure Environment Yes (Group) Value of environmental protection investments VIII-1 F Employee training on environmental protection issues (by number, duration) VIII-1 F Marine pollution incidents (by number, type, reason, results) VIII-3 F Non-compliance with regulations regarding acoustic impact (by number, outcomes) IV-1 F Work Conditions Yes (Group) Percentage of employees informed regarding VI-1 F Corporate Responsibility issues Employees with overtime work VI-1 F (by percentage, average) Non-compliance with regulations regarding IV-1 F labour practices (by number, outcomes) Non-compliance with regulations regarding accommodation conditions for marine employees IV-1 F (by number, outcomes) Society Yes (Group) Participation in volunteering activities V-2 F (by number, percentage) Number of visiting school and university students V-2 F 114 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 4. Glossary Please pay attention to the following, frequently used terms: Term Refers to The mixture of water, lubricants and fuel produced during engine washing, as well as by ‘Bilge water’ accidental leaks. The various living organisms in an ecosystem (land, marine and aquatic), as well as the extent of ‘Biodiversity’ their genetic composition. The gaseous chemical compound derived from the combustion of fossil fuels (oil, gasoline, ‘Carbon dioxide’, ‘CO2’ natural gas, etc.) and organic compounds (wood, plastic, etc.), which contributes to the greenhouse effect. The maritime technical organizations who establish safety regulations for shipbuilding, ‘Classification societies’ as well as for the vessels’ equipment. The voluntary commitment of companies to include in their corporate practices economic, social ‘Corporate Responsibility’, ‘Corporate Social and environmental criteria and activities, which are beyond the legislative requirements and are Responsibility’, ‘Sustainable Development’ related to their impact on Stakeholders. The terms refer to the current economic growth that does not compromise the ability of future generations to satisfy their own needs. The total greenhouse gas emissions that arise directly (e.g. burning of fossil fuels for heating) ‘Environmental footprint’ or indirectly (e.g. by the use of products) from a company. The measurement unit of all greenhouse gases that contribute to global warming ‘equivalent CO2’, ‘eCO2’ (carbon dioxide-CO2, methane-CH4, nitrous oxide-N2O, fluorinated hydrocarbons-HFCS, perfluorocarbons-PFC’s, sulfur hexafluoride-SF6), expressed as equivalent carbon dioxide. The United Nations Global Compact, an initiative to encourage companies to align their ‘Global Compact’ business operation with 10 universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. ‘Group’, ‘we’, ‘Attica Group’ The legal entity ATTICA HOLDINGS S.A. (which this Report addresses). The International Maritime Organisation, which is a specialized organization to establish measures in order to improve safety of international shipping and prevent environmental 'IMO’ pollution from vessels, and is also responsible for legal issues related to liability and indemnify cases of maritime accidents, as well as facilitate international maritime traffic. The Convention of the International Maritime Organization to adopt concrete measures, ‘MARPOL’ in order to control and prevent pollution from vessels. ‘Passengers’ The people transported with our vessels. ‘Report’ The Corporate Responsibility Report 2019. The Chapter and section of this Report (e.g. used in the GRI, Global Compact and Stakeholder ‘VI-3’ etc. Tables). For example, the term ‘VI-3’ makes reference to Chapter VI (Employees), section 3 (Equality and Fairness). The declaration adopted by the United Nations General Assembly in 1948 with the fundamental ‘Universal Declaration of Human Rights’ rights to which all human beings are inherently entitled. ATTICA GROUP 115 5. Feedback Form 1. To which Stakeholder group do you belong? Employees Sales Network Associations and Unions NGOs Shareholders Suppliers Local Communities Media Customers State Citizens Other: ____________________ 2. What is your impression, about the following Chapters of this Report? Chapter: Excellent Good Neutral Mediocre Bad IV. Management V. Society VI. Employees VII. Customers VIII. Environment 3. What is your impression, about the following elements of this Report? Element: Excellent Good Neutral Mediocre Bad Sections have the right balance Important topics are covered Structure supports easy reading Texts are comprehensive Quantitative elements are complete Graphs included are comprehensive Layout is attractive/pleasant 4. Are there any topics, which are not answered (or not adequately covered) in this Report or do you have questions you would like to be answered in our next Report? __________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ __________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ __________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ __________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ 5. Are there any other comments/proposals you might have? __________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ __________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ __________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ __________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Personal Data (optionally): Name: __________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Organization: __________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Address: __________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Phone: __________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Εmail: Please fill out the form and send it to: Attica Group, Corporate Responsibility Team, 1-7 Lysikratous & Evripidou Street, 17674, Athens, e-mail: csr@attica-group.com All information on this form will be used only for evaluating this Report, through statistical analysis. Personal data are protected, as defined by the respective law regarding private information. 116 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT This Report has been printed on Fedrigoni X-PER paper with eco-certifications Long Life ISO 9706, Acid Free, ECF, Heavy Metal Absence CE 94/62. Printing: Development of content and layout: STREAM Management www.stream-eu.com ATTICA GROUP www.attica-group.com 1-7 Lysikratous & Εvripidou str. 176 74 Athens
