COP 2018-2019 General This Communication on Progress covers the period: From: 02-10-2019 T0: 02-10-2020 Statement of continued support by the chief executive officer To our stakeholders I am pleased to confirm that Atelier 2000 Uniforms-skrædderi A/S reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. When working with the Global Compact Ten Principles during the 2019-2020 period, Atelier 2000 has made progress implementing an integrated management system for quality, environment, occupational health and safety as well as CSR. Our company has subscribed to an electronic system that helps us handle our business processes, policies and registrations in an effective and structured way. Our main aim for the coming year is to continue building this electronic system, and feed it with the information necessary to make our work with due diligence more systematic, and fully integrate the Global Compact Ten Principles in our company’s strategies and daily practice. At Atelier 2000, we have continued our success with integrating local refugees in our company, and diversity at the workplace has been a focus area in the last year. Our employees from Syria, Afghanistan, Bosnia, Kosovo, Germany and Denmark are working together very well as a team, although there are some language barriers. To facilitate communication within our diverse team in the 2020-2021 period, we are offering free Danish language classes to those who struggle with language barriers. It is our aim to further promote integration and diversity at Atelier 2000. Sincerely yours Heidi Moisen Adm. Director Human rights and Labour Principles: Principle 1: Businesses should Assessment, Policy and Goals support and respect the Atelier 2000’s CSR policy confirms the Global Compact human rights protection of internationally principles and supports The Universal Declaration of Human Rights proclaimed human rights as well as the ILO and other internationally accepted standards. Principle 2: Make sure that Atelier 2000 will not trade with companies that do not comply with they are not complicit in these principles and standards. human rights abuses Assessment of the risks within our operational value chain occurs through the use of our code of conduct and the requirement that all our suppliers must follow this code. We have filled-in questionnaires from all our suppliers showing their commitment to Human Rights and Atelier 2000’s code of conduct. Atelier 2000 respects the employees’ right to representation, including the right to join industry associations. We do not tolerate harassment and we are committed to providing equal opportunities in employment and avoiding unlawful discrimination. Principle 3: Businesses should The well-being of our employees, both physically and uphold the freedom of psychologically, is one of our priorities and our aim is to keep association and the effective improving our working conditions and working environment to recognition of the right to ensure this priority. collective bargaining Principle 4: The elimination of Implementation and Measurement of Outcomes all forms of forced and Atelier 2000 has in place procedures regarding human rights and compulsory labour labour issues covering our internal and external operations. Principle 5: The effective In our own organisation, we make sure that all new employees are abolition of child labour informed about their rights, our policies and procedures upon commencement of work at Atelier 2000. Each new employee Principle 6: The elimination of receives a contract that covers amongst other things, human rights discrimination in respect of issues. employment and occupation. We conduct a work environment assessment once a year and hold evaluation meetings to determine whether our solutions and actions have been successful. In this connection, we also go through employee/management input and examine any new applicable laws and regulations on work environment issues. In the 2019-2020 period, we have discussed the structure of our work environment organisation. Since Atelier 2000 has been growing in the last years, we need to adapt the way we organise our work with health and safety. We aim to set up a new work environment organisation in the 2020-2021 period, which will also involve further education of those responsible for workplace health and safety. We have continued to raise awareness of the possibilities within our employee health insurance agreement. Both office and production staff are now regularly using the insurance advantages to get expenses covered for different kinds of therapies they would not have afforded without this financial compensation. This means that minor health issues are resolved faster and better, which results in potentially less sick leave and happier employees. We have continued our gymnastics programme with elastic bands to help prevent injuries in especially the neck and shoulder area. The introduction of an official instructor for the gymnastics sessions in 2019 has significantly increased the number of employees participating in the exercises. Over the past months, our gymnastics sessions have become a social event that also improves the mental work environment and promotes integration of our non-Danish employees who are eagerly participating and contributing to the gymnastics sessions. Integration of our employees from Syria has been a focus area for us in 2019-2020. The language barrier turned out to be an issue we needed to address. We have therefore offered free Danish language classes to those employees who keep struggling with understanding, speaking and/or reading and writing Danish. Language classes are held within normal working hours and are being well-received by our employees. We will continue working with non-discrimination and diversity at the workplace in the 2020-2021 period, so our international team at Atelier 2000 will become even better integrated. The Covid-19 pandemic has been a dominating issue since March 2020, when Atelier 2000 decided to shut down for several weeks to prevent the spread of the corona virus. After the lock-down, new measures have been introduced to avoid close personal contact, increase hand hygiene and cleaning frequency. Tailors who take measurements of customers need to wear personal protection to avoid infection. Atelier 2000 updates measures concerning Covid-19 according to the current restrictions and recommendations announced by the Danish authorities. We have clear policies regarding human rights and labour issues concerning our suppliers and we are undertaking due diligence as a way of managing these issues. Our human rights and labour policies are part of our management system for quality, environment, occupational health and safety as well as CSR, which we are currently implementing by means of an electronic system. This will make our due diligence work more systematic in the 2020-2021 period, and human rights an integral part of our overall business strategy. Environment Assessment, Policy and Goals Our aim is to reduce environmental impacts throughout our operations and uphold applicable laws and regulations. We expect that our business partners as a minimum uphold the laws and regulations that are applicable to their business. We encourage our suppliers to work with environmental issues by using third party official certification schemes and standards. Implementation and Measurement of Outcomes During the 2019-2020 period, we have completed our work with the Principles: integration of our environmental management system into one combined management system for quality, environment, Principle 7: Businesses should occupational health and safety as well as CSR. support a precautionary approach to environmental In order to successfully implement this synergetic management challenges; system, we have subscribed to an electronic platform that helps us Principle 8: undertake handle our business processes, policies and registrations in an initiatives to promote greater effective and structured way. Employees have been educated to use environmental responsibility; the electronic system effectively and we have built a framework and adapted to our company’s specific requirements. Principle 9: encourage the Our aim for the 2020-2021 period is to continue building this development and diffusion of electronic system to help our company fulfil the requirements of ISO environmentally friendly 14001, and make our environmental work more systematic and technologies. measurable. Regarding our suppliers, we have in place an environmental requirements document and it is used in our due diligence work. Additionally, we are continuously working with third party standards and certifications. Several of our suppliers in high risk countries such as Pakistan, China and Slovakia have implemented an ISO 14001 environmental management system, audit by a third party as well as Oeko-Tex certifications. We will continue our dialogue and cooperation with our suppliers regarding environmental issues. Principle 10: Businesses Anti-Corruption should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and Assessment, Policy and Goals bribery. Atelier 2000 makes it clear in our code of conduct that we do not tolerate corruption in all its forms. Implementation and Measurement of Outcome Our anti-corruption policy is an integrated part of our management system for quality, environment, occupational health and safety as well as CSR. In the 2019-2020 period, we have made progress in creating the preconditions for further implementation of a more strategic approach to anti-corruption issues. By implementing our management system through an electronic platform, we can handle policies and registrations more systematically than before – this also applies to the area of anti-corruption. We will continue to further implement our management system in the 2020-2021 period, so we can take a more strategic approach to anti-corruption and engage in a closer and more systematic dialogue with our suppliers. There have been no anti-corruption violations against Atelier 2000. Further Comments: Activities for the next year include: 1. Continue implementing our integrated management system for quality, environment, occupational health and safety as well as CSR using the new, electronic platform 2. Improving communication and implementation of policies, strategies and processes into our daily operations and cooperation with business partners 3. Re-organise Atelier 2000’s work with health and safety at the workplace and educate relevant personnel 4. Promote integration of our non-Danish employees and keep focussing on non-discrimination and diversity at the workplace
