2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Sustainability Report 2019 Report Scope (102-12, 102-46, 102-48, 102-49, 102-50, 102-51, 102-52, 102-53, 102-54, 102-56) Sustainability Report América Móvil has published a Sustainability Report annually since 2010; it describes our accomplishments Content regarding our employees, social development, and the environment in a clear and transparent manner in order to enhance our communication with our main stakeholders. This report includes América Móvil’s results CONTENT Message from the CEO 3 for the period between January 1st and December 31st, 2019. It was drafted aligned on the Global Reporting Company Profile 5 Initiative (GRI) Standards methodology, using the “in accordance” core option. Unless otherwise specified, we Updating Sustainability 15 report information regarding the 25 countries where we operate, which have been grouped by region. MESSAGE FROM THE CEO Connecting with Principles 34 The content of this report is based on our materiality assessments, our commitment to the UN’s 10 Principles of Activating Safety 64 the Global Compact and Sustainable Development Goals, and the methodology suggested by the Sustainability Sharing Development 72 Index of the Mexican Stock Exchange. Adhering to our commitment to share true and transparent information, Ernst & Young verified several of the indicators included in this report. The scope of the indicators that were COMPANY PROFILE Uploading Quality of Life 85 subject to verification and the report issued by Ernst & Young are referenced in the sections entitled GRI Content Appendix 110 Index and Independent Assurance Report. UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES ACTIVATING SAFETY SHARING DEVELOPMENT UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE APPENDIX 2 2019 Sustainability Message Report from the CEO CONTENT MESSAGE FROM THE CEO COMPANY PROFILE UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY (102-14) We believe that empowering people through connectivity, delivering CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES solutions that enable customers to achieve their own goals, while working along with our value chain in an ethical and environmental manner, is the best way we can provide value for our stakeholders and shareholders in ACTIVATING SAFETY the long run. SHARING DEVELOPMENT UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE APPENDIX 3 2019 Sustainability Report At América Móvil we are committed to build a better future During 2019, we made progress in promoting our Diversity and through connectivity. This is why we have built reliable networks Inclusion, Human Rights, and Anticorruption policies. Addithat promote economic development, education, health, tionally, we made ample communications and outreach camculture, reduction of environmental impacts, equality and paigns to promote our Code of Ethics and the use of América CONTENT inclusion through innovation and technological development. Móvil’s Whistleblower Portal. We continue investing so that our infrastructure, products and services enable the digital transformation that our users The implementation of the best “ESG” practices within our demand, both personally and professionally, to meet their Company have been possible due to the dedication of all our MESSAGE FROM THE CEO increasing communication needs. employees, as well as our suppliers and retailers network. It is with their talent, knowledge, professionalism and commitment Our “Smart Sustainability” strategy assures that our business that we have managed to advance in the fulfillment of our vision remains at the forefront and aligned with internatiogoals, which led to the Company’s distinction as the number COMPANY PROFILE nal best practices. Furthermore, our Corporate Sustainability one Company in the Mexican Stock Exchange Sustainability Executive Committee leads the efforts towards achieving our Index in 2019 and our inclusion in the Latin American Dow Jo2020 Sustainability Goals, in line with the UN Global Compact nes Sustainability Index (DJSI MILA Pacific Alliance) that reUPDATING SUSTAINABILITY Principles. cognizes the leading companies in sustainability in the region. We continue implementing corporate initiatives to reduce our There is still much to be done, but we are moving in the right environmental impact, so as to contribute to Climate Change direction and at great pace. We strongly believe that working CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES mitigation. For this reason, we joined the UN and GSMA efforts in an ethical and environmentally responsible manner is the towards contributing to limit global warming to 1.5°C by 2030, best way we can provide value for our stakeholders and shareas well as becoming carbon neutral by 2050. holders in the long run. Our focus is in creating value by living up to our values. ACTIVATING SAFETY Moreover, we work every day with our directors, employees, suppliers, retailers and contractors, to promote our values To conclude, I would like to state that we appreciate our shaand ethics to strengthen the high reputation that we have built reholders’ trust, which has enabled us to continue to grow throughout our history and to keep our leadership position in profitably in a highly competitive sector. SHARING DEVELOPMENT the industry. We align our value chain to our ethics and sustainability best practices through our “Commercial Integrity Policy” and training website. UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE Daniel Hajj Aboumrad CEO of América Móvil APPENDIX 4 2019 Sustainability Company Report Profile CONTENT MESSAGE FROM THE CEO COMPANY PROFILE UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY (102-1, 102-4) América Móvil has been for many consecutive years the leading company CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES in integrated telecommunications services in Latin America, as well as the largest telecommunications company worldwide in terms of total accesses, excluding China and India. We provide innovative communication ACTIVATING SAFETY solutions through our portfolio of value-added services and our world-class communications platform. América Móvil has presence in 25 countries in America and Europe. SHARING DEVELOPMENT UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE APPENDIX 5 2019 Company Presence Sustainability Report In Latin America, América Móvil operates under our telecommunication brands Telcel, Telmex, and Claro. In Europe we operate under the A1 brand through Telekom Austria Group, and in the United States under CONTENT TracFone. We also provide B2B services through our marketing and call centers division: CMI, Telvista and BrasilCenter. MESSAGE FROM THE CEO In order to meet the challenges of the new digital environment our companies Claro Enterprise Solutions and Global Hitss develop comprehensive solutions that enable productivity, cost and energy efficiencies and facilitate day to day customer COMPANY PROFILE connectivity. At the same time we provide content for different audiences through América Móvil Contenido, which includes Claro Video, Claro Música, Claro Sports, Uno TV, Editorial ConUPDATING SUSTAINABILITY tenido, iMúsica, among other brands. On January 24th, we completed the acquisition of Telefónica Móviles Guatemala, S.A. strengthen our position as one of the CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES leading telecommunications service providers in Central America, to continue offering integrated telecom services and to provide next generation services, including 5G. ACTIVATING SAFETY On December 18th, we completed the acquisition of 100% of Nextel Brazil from NII Holdings. With this transaction, we will continue to build our market position consolidating our operations as one of the leading telecommunications services SHARING DEVELOPMENT providers in Brazil, strengthening our mobile network capacity, spectrum portfolio and market position in the postpaid segment, particularly in the cities of São Paulo and Rio de Janeiro. UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE APPENDIX 6 2019 Main Brands and Businesses in the Countries Where We Operate total (102-1, 102-2, 102-3, 102-4, 102-6) Sustainability Report Austria and Eastern Europe * Main Brands Wireless voice, data and value added services(1) Main Businesses Fixed voice broadband, data and IT services(2) Austria A1 359,323 100% Equity Stake Pay TV Belarus A1 CONTENT Number of Accesses (in thousands) OTT services(3) Bulgaria A1 Percentage of Operation (millions of accesses) Croatia A1 51.00% 27,439 8% Macedonia A1 (1) Includes voice communication and international roaming services, interconnection and termination services, SMS, Serbia A1 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO MMS, e-mail, mobile browsing, entertainment and gaming applications. (2) Includes local calls, national and international long-distance. Slovenia A1 (3) Includes ClaroVideo and ClaroMúsica. (4) Services provided by non-concessionaire subsidiaries. * The harmonization of the brands within A1 Telekom Austria Group that was resolved in 2017 continued in 2019 with the successful brand launch in Belarus and North Macedonia, and will be completed COMPANY PROFILE united states in 2020 with the rebranding in Serbia. Caribbean TracFone 100.00% 20,876 6% UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY Mexico (Corporate Headquarters) Dominican Republic Claro 100.00% Puerto Rico Claro 100.00% 8,772 2% Telcel 100.00% CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES Telmex Infinitum (4) 98.80% colombia Sección Amarilla 100.00% 98,910 28% Telvista 90.00% Claro 99.40% 38,717 11% Central America ACTIVATING SAFETY brazil Guatemala Claro 99.30% El Salvador Claro 95.80% Claro 98.50% 88,536 25% SHARING DEVELOPMENT Honduras Claro 100.00% Nicaragua Claro 99.60% 19,897 6% Southern Cone Costa Rica Claro 100.00% Panama Claro 100.00% Argentina Claro 100.00% UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE Telmex 100.00% Andean Region Chile Claro 100.00% Telmex 100.00% 34,021 9% Ecuador Claro 100.00% Paraguay Claro 100.00% APPENDIX Peru Claro 100.00% 22,153 6% Uruguay Claro 100.00% 7 2019 Sustainability Report Million accesses As of December 31st 2019, 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 América Móvil had CONTENT 270 289 286* 281 279 276 278 359 million accesses Mobile MESSAGE FROM THE CEO 69 78 81 83 83 84 81 Fixed-Lines, Broadband and 278 million wireless subscribers (voice and data), COMPANY PROFILE Pay TV and 81 million revenue generating units (RGUs1). *Note: Starting in 2015, we have a prepaid CHURN policy in place to automatically cancel lines that show no activity during a specific term (established for each operation); accordingly, starting on that same year, we registered a 1 The RGUs of the fixed services include the number of fixed voice and data services accounts and Pay TV (which include the number of users of both Pay TV services as well as other digital services). UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY downturn in the number of mobile services accesses. CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES ACTIVATING SAFETY SHARING DEVELOPMENT UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE APPENDIX 8 2019 Infrastructure By the year ended December 31, 2019, our capital expenditures totaled (203-1) Sustainability Ps.151.8 billion, Report At América Móvil, we make numerous and continuous efforts to expand and improve our infrastructure, incorporating state-of-the-art technology to offer our cuswhich allowed us to increase our network, to expand CONTENT tomers the best connectivity solutions available today. our capacity and to upgrade our systems to operate with the latest technologies. Our efforts centered on building the best fiber-optic network in With convergent platforms, we are able to deliver high-quality Latin America in order to be able to carry data and long-disvoice, video and data products. MESSAGE FROM THE CEO tance services all the way from Argentina to the Southern US1 border and back. Our submarine cable, has a capacity of over Additionally, we have been expanding our coverage and im189 thousand km, including the AMX-1 submarine cable that proving quality and speed with a number of street cells and extends 17,500 km and connects the United States to Central indoor solutions. COMPANY PROFILE and South America with 11 landing points and provides international connectivity to all of our subsidiaries in these geograWe have 30 data centers in 11 countries, 18 in Latin America phic areas. The transmission capacity of the submarine cable and 12 in Europe, to manage a number of cloud solutions, such UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY is 90Tbit/second. as Infrastructure as a Service (“IAAS”), Software as a Service (“SAAS”), security solutions and unified communications. When operating at full capacity, the cable is able to process over 1.12 billion calls simultaneously, broadcast 11 million Our satellite network operated by Star One, is currently the larCONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES HD channels at the same time, and download 22 million gest in Latin America offering coverage over Mexico, the US, songs per second. Central and South America. We use these satellites to supply capacity for DTH services for Claro TV throughout Brazil and Committed with continuously increasing our infrastructure to in other DTH Operations, as well as cellular backhaul, video ACTIVATING SAFETY boost communication services in the Pacific Latin American rebroadcast and corporate data networks. In 2015 and 2016, we gion, we are working together in collaboration with Telxius to launched the Star One D1 and the Star One C4 to replace two install a brand new submarine cable. The new system´s initial limited capacity satellites. capacity will be 108 Tbit/second, with six fiber pairs and the SHARING DEVELOPMENT lowest latency from Guatemala to Chile. We expect that the subWe also continued working on enabling our Virtual Network marine cable will be ready to operate at the end of 2020. We also functions, aiming to replace existing physical infrastructure to have more than 923 thousand kilometers of land fiber-optic caimprove overall performance as well as our availability, flexibiUPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE ble. Our network passed approximately 79 million homes. lity, and scalability, while allowing cost and energy reduction, and on-demand allocation of network resources. With all theFurthermore, we have 256,514 base stations with 2G, 3G, 4G se improvements and efforts, we now have a redundant and 1 América Móvil does not own any mobile telecommunications facilities nor does it hold any mobile spectrum concessions in the US. Instead, or 4.5G technologies (of which approximately 68% are equiresilient network with enough capacity to meet any unexpecwe purchase airtime through agreements with mobile service providers APPENDIX pped with 3G, 4G and 4.5G capabilities) across Latin America ted increases in demand. and resell airtime to our customers. and Europe. 9 2019 Sustainability Economic Performance Report (201-1) 2018 2019 Million Pesos (MXN) Million Pesos (MXN) Million Dollars (USD) CONTENT 1,038,208 1,007,348 53,454 Economic Value Generated MESSAGE FROM THE CEO 983,691 937,034 49,723 Economic Value Distributed COMPANY PROFILE 54,517 70,313 3,731 Economic Value Retained* * Considering that the economic value retained is (102-7,102-45) equal to the annual net profit. UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY Note: For more information on our financial performance please click here. Data Centers: Percentage of Service Revenues1: CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES 2018 2019 Argentina 1 1 Brazil 4 4 ACTIVATING SAFETY Chile 1 1 Colombia 2 3 Ecuador 1 1 Mexico 2 4 SHARING DEVELOPMENT Peru 2 2 Dominican Republic 2 2 Austria 4 4 33.9% Fixed bundles2 UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE Bulgaria 6 6 33.7% Mobile prepaid Belarus 2 2 30.2% Mobile postpaid Total 27 30 2.2% Fixed voice APPENDIX 1 Does not include revenue from other telcos, which include interconnection and roaming. 2 Includes Fixed Broadband Pay TV and Fixed Voice in doubleand triple-play bundles. 10 2019 Sustainability Report CONTENT Our Mission Our Strategy Our Mission is to ensure that people in everyone of the To achieve our Mission, we implement strategies to mainMESSAGE FROM THE CEO countries where we operate have access to high quality tain our leadership position in each of the markets where we products and services with the latest technologically operate. We offer our customers innovative products and advanced telecommunications, in order to bring closer services of the highest quality and most advanced techtogether as many people as we can, having a positive nology and invest in our networks to optimize their capaCOMPANY PROFILE impact in their lives. city and coverage. We also implement new technologies that allow us to be more efficient, care for the environment and improve the daily experience of our subscribers. UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES ACTIVATING SAFETY Our Vision SHARING DEVELOPMENT Our Vision is to preserve our leadership in the telecomunications industry and to continue to be a change agent by providing connectivity and high UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE technological services in all the countries where we operate. We reaffirm our commitment to our clients, employees, commercial partners and shareholders. APPENDIX 11 2019 Our Values and Principles (102-16) Sustainability Report Our values and corporate ethics principles are the attributes that differentiate and guide us. We always keep them in mind and put them into practice on a daily basis as an essential foundation of our culture of excellence, productivity and leadership. CONTENT MESSAGE FROM THE CEO Honesty Business Creativity Compliance with the Law We are committed to maintaining the highest ethical stanWe foster corporate creativity as a means to provide socieWe operate according to applicable laws and regulations in dards. We must act honestly and with integrity at all times. By ty with solutions to address the social problems affecting the every country where we have a presence. We strictly abide by conducting ourselves with integrity we foster confidence and countries in which we operate, and we put this creativity in and comply with all of these laws, regulations, and other rules trust among ourselves and in our relationships with our cuspractice in our daily activities. in effect in each of our markets. We aim to be regarded as a COMPANY PROFILE tomers, suppliers, and other business partners. Such conduct Company that operates with strict adherence to the law at all also promotes respect towards our organization, which ultitimes. We also abide by our internal policies. mately contributes to the success of our business. UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY Productivity We are committed to improving quality, streamlining and optiCost Management CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES Human Development mizing our productive processes by controlling costs and exWe take care of our Company’s assets as if they were our own. We believe in the unlimited potential for the personal and propenses and adhering to the highest worldwide standards for They are the product of our work, and they are intended for the fessional growth of all people. This is why we respect and proour industry. benefit of our customers and our society. mote human rights in all of our activities. ACTIVATING SAFETY SHARING DEVELOPMENT Respect Optimism and a Positive Attitude Sustainability We value all our employees, customers, suppliers and commerWe believe that when facing adversity, a positive attitude and Our commitment is to be a change agent that promotes incial partners. We respect human rights and we treat everyone an optimistic perspective are essential for solving problems. clusion, economic growth and wellness in the countries where the same way. We do not tolerate any form of discrimination, we operate, while seeking a comprehensive balance among UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE and we are open to different cultures, customs, and beliefs, all economic, social and environmental aspects of our operation. of which add value to our business community. Therefore, we aim to comply with the best local and international practices. APPENDIX 12 2019 Our Objectives Sustainability Report • Increase our Net Promoter Score (NPS)1. We monitor our customer satisfaction levels using the NPS, seeking to increase and maintain our customer recomendation. CONTENT • Maintain CHURN rate2. We aim to retain our customers’ loyalty; by monitoring our CHURN rate we are able to determine the percenMESSAGE FROM THE CEO Customer tage of customers who drop out our service. Satisfaction • Improve the quality of our services. We constantly invest in our network infrastructure to improve our customers’ mobile commuCOMPANY PROFILE nications and overall experience. • Increase our suscribers’ base. We believe that offering high quality products and services will allow us to increase our subscribers’ base. UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY • Comply with income per service budget. We constantly work on Growth identifying new business opportunities that improve customer service in order to meet our revenue budget. CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES • Increase market share. Promoting teamwork across all divisions is key to retain and grow our long-standing market leadership. ACTIVATING SAFETY • Digital Transformation implementation. Accelerating business innovation through a technological platform that enables the Leadership processes’ standarization, as well as an efficiency and quality improvement that allow us to adapt and anticipate to the rapidly SHARING DEVELOPMENT changing market. • Increase EBITDA. Managing our resources efficiently allows us to UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE reach our projected results every year. Profitability 1 Indicator that measures the difference between the number of subscribers who recommend our services, APPENDIX and those who don’t. 2 CHURN rate. The number of mobile subscribers who drop our service during a specific period compared to the number of subscribers at the beginning of the period. 13 2019 The Challenge Sustainability Report The challenge for our industry is that reality changes constantly, demanding continuous modernization in our physical infrastructure. Hence, we will continue to allocate our efforts and resources to face this task. CONTENT The technological evolution has generated an exponential growth in connectivity and data traffic worldwide. According to Cisco’s data, in 2020 there will be 4.5 billion Internet users and 50 billion connections. Additionally, each time a new device is connected, such as a car or a television, potential connections will grow by another 50 billion, since each object has the ability MESSAGE FROM THE CEO to interact with the others. Likewise, in 2022 it is expected to have over 29 million connected devices all over the world, 18 million of which will be associated with the Internet of Things (IoT). It is at this new digital ecosystem that, among others, the IoT, cloud-based services, Big Data COMPANY PROFILE services, information analytics, e-commerce, Over the Top (OTT) services, and Artificial Intelligence, all converge. For them to work well they have to be connected at all times and latency must be equal to zero. This is why it is crucial that we have enough capacity and the UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY necessary infrastructure for our network to serve the transaction volume and data traffic that these demands. Furthermore, we are also transforming internally for new market requirements, allocating reCONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES sources to research and develop new procedures, areas, and services. To achieve this, we are incorporating the Agile Methodology in some of our work processes and teams. Beyond that, we are working on expanding our offering of proprietary services and solutions in ACTIVATING SAFETY order to continue the transformation process from a traditional telecommunications company to one that offers its own unique products and services for the new digital era. SHARING DEVELOPMENT UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE APPENDIX 14 2019 Sustainability Updating Report Sustainability CONTENT MESSAGE FROM THE CEO COMPANY PROFILE UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY Sustainability is a priority for América Móvil. By incorporating sustainability CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES in strategic decision-making in our daily operations, we are certain that we can maintain our market leadership. In 2019, we made significant efforts to implement our sustainability strategy and to work on achieving a set ACTIVATING SAFETY of objectives that could help us better contribute to economic, social, and cultural development in the communities where we have presence. SHARING DEVELOPMENT UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE APPENDIX 15 2019 Sustainability Report We have been working on updating our sustainability strategy • Safety, because the products and services that América In order to develop América Móvil’s since 2017. Our journey has included an in-depth materialiMóvil, as well as the projects in which it participates, help sustainability strategy, we followed several ty analysis, allowing us to identify the priority issues for our improve people’s and communities’ safety, either directly CONTENT stakeholders, integration of a Corporate Executive Sustainaor indirectly. guidelines and methodologies, bility Committee, the definition of a sustainability strategy, the including ISO 26000, SA8000, establishment of a first phase of 2020 goals, and the deploy• Quality of life, considering that the products and services MESSAGE FROM THE CEO ment of corporate initiatives throughout all our operations. that América Móvil offers help people to enjoy more free RobecoSAM, GRI, and the ten principles time, improve their health and wellbeing, and stay more The strategy has four pillars: connected to their loved ones. of the UN Global Compact, among others. • Development, given that the products and services that • Principles, values, and ethics management in América (102-12) COMPANY PROFILE América Móvil offers can be a relevant catalyst of personal Móvil ensures that the Company has a significant reputagrowth and promoter of economic activity in the communition, which we seek to extend along our value chain. ties where we operate. UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES ACTIVATING SAFETY SHARING DEVELOPMENT UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE APPENDIX 16 2019 Smart Sustainability Sustainability Report Connecting with Sharing Principles Development América Móvil’s values and ethics management ensures that América Móvil’s services and products can become a strong CONTENT the Company has a good reputation. This includes working driver and/or catalyst of economic activity and personal growth. with our suppliers, retailers, contractors, and employees. Related indicators: Related indicators: • Training through aprende.org. MESSAGE FROM THE CEO • Ethics and corporate governance. • Narrowing the digital divide. • Talent development. • Financial services. • Attracting and retaining talent. • Promoting entrepreneurship. • Customer service and satisfaction. • Developing small suppliers. COMPANY PROFILE • Promoting innovation. • Volunteering. • Managing the value chain and minimizing risks. • Local jobs. • Stakeholder engagement. UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY • Relationship with associations and organizations. • Work environment. CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES Uploading Quality of Life Activating América Móvil’s services, products, and projects help people Safety have more free time, enjoy better health, and be better connecACTIVATING SAFETY América Móvil’s services, products, and projects contribute to ted to their loved ones. freedom of expression and to improving safety for people and communities, directly or indirectly. Related indicators: • Lower emissions. SHARING DEVELOPMENT Related indicators: • Recycling. • Safety devices and solutions for people and industries. • Cloud-based and device-based health services. • Information Security. • Connecting projects for vulnerable communities. UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE • Privacy of information and communications. • Reducing emissions by bringing closer digital solutions. • Response to emergencies and natural disasters. • Conservation programs. APPENDIX 17 2019 Materiality (102-21, 102-29, 102-31, 102-47) Sustainability Report In 2017, we carried out an extensive materiality assessment The following chart shows the result of our materiality assessment: involving our main stakeholders in the majority of the countries where we operate. We performed the assessment following CONTENT the methodology suggested by the GRI Reporting Standards, Adapting to ESG risk Modernizing based on two criteria: the relevance of sustainability issues for climate change management infrastructure all the stakeholders, and their potential impact on economic, social, and environmental issues. Energy efﬁciency Managing supplier impacts Natural disaster aid plans MESSAGE FROM THE CEO Relevance for Internal and External Stakeholders We implemented the assessment in four stages: The first conEthical behavior and Preservation and Minimizing waste sisted of carefully designing the surveys to include relevant reporting mechanisms restoration generation of biodiversity issues concerning social, environmental, economic, and opeCOMPANY PROFILE rational issues in alignment with the UN Sustainable DeveEnvironmental footprint for Participation in Minimizing emissions Information security the life cycle of our products associations and and privacy lopment Goals. During the second stage, we surveyed more and services organizations than 28,500 people in the majority of our operations1, incluResponsible marketing Occupational health Connectivity, UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY ding internal stakeholders (board members, top management, and safety responsible and ethical and employees) and external stakeholders (academia, NGOs, use of technologies associations, chambers, authorities, corporate clients, consuPromoting competitiveness Narrowing the User satisfaction Developing tools mers, communities, retailers, investors, press, and suppliers). digital divide and complaint for the ﬁght CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES resolution against poverty The third stage consisted of analyzing the impact with América Móvil experts and members of the Sustainability Operating Performance evaluations Employee training Job creation programs and career plans Committee during which we analyzed the most relevant indicators for our operations. The fourth and last stage consisted ACTIVATING SAFETY Access to cloud-based tools Efﬁcient water use Diversity and equal opportunity Developing producers of determining the material issues for América Móvil. and entrepreneurs Fight against child Tools that increase productivity exploitation and forced labor SHARING DEVELOPMENT Social, Environmental, and Economic Impact of the Operations UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE 1 Except for Brazil. Peru and Austria incorporated materiality assessments that had been previously done using the same methodology. APPENDIX 18 2019 Risk Management (102-15, 201-2) Sustainability Report The Sustainability team, works closely with the Compliance Division formally created by the end of 2019, in order to identify risks and opportunities, make reCONTENT commendations to the responsible areas within the Company, and follow up on the implementation of prevention and mitigation plans. MESSAGE FROM THE CEO Effective risks and opportunities management is a core component of América Móvil’s sustainability strategy. Prompt detection and risk management contributes to the business resiCOMPANY PROFILE lience and development across all regions. Once potential risks have been identified, we establish measures through internal and external mechanisms to manage and mitigate them. América Móvil’s Sustainability and Compliance teams ensure that UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY the relevant departments within the Company effectively manage critical risks, employing tools such as self-assessment and internal and external audits. The Internal Audit division More common extreme temperature events or Increase of number and severity of tropical cyclones assesses risks related to fraud and corruption and identifies increase in the mean temperature High-speed winds physically affect the transmission towers’ CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES processes in the Company that are susceptible to them. Radio-communication equipment specifies the maximum infrastructure, customer service centers, telephone centrals temperature at which they can operate. Currently, air conditioand other buildings. Damages may include tower collapses, The América Móvil’s Sustainability and Compliance teams ners are used to comply with these specifications. An increase damage to the antennas and tidal waves that cause local flooreport quarterly to the Top Management, as well as to the in average temperature means that more powerful air condiding. Also, thunderstorms could affect radiofrequency comACTIVATING SAFETY Board’s Audit and Corporate Practices Committee, which is tioners should be used, or the usage period should be longer. munication and increase the need for emergency plants, and the top governance entity that generally oversees risk manaThis implies a greater consumption of energy, repairs, and reconsequently of fuel. They can also affect cabling and links. gement within the Group. In addition, extraordinary meetings frigerants, as well as a higher cost of A/C equipment and/or On the other hand, hurricanes may cause power or supplies are conducted as needed. replacement of existing equipment. During the past two years shortages and may affect the access to facilities. For the past SHARING DEVELOPMENT we have been analyzing the trend of energy costs and the lifeyears we have been developing: During 2018 and 2019, we conducted the largest risk identifitime and maintenance of equipment and our operating centers • A contingency plan that contemplates a preventive stage cation exercise so far. We identified potential risks for our opewhere the temperature may exceed 50°C. We have also created before the impact of the meteor, and describes the proceUPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE rations, including macroeconomic, regulatory, environmental, a scheduled replacement plan for more efficient refrigeration dure for when a phenomenon of this type occurs, including market, physical, social, and corruption risks, among others. equipment jointly with an operational plan in which the operacollaboration with authorities, suppliers and other relevant The following is a list of the most relevant risks identified, listing temperature of the radio-communication equipment can stakeholders, including an anti-looting plan. ted in no particular order. be increased. • An adaptation plan for the high exposure infrastructure APPENDIX according to the redesigned guidelines. 19 2019 Unexpected or short notice changes in We have strengthened our current protocols to better proceed Among other things, our competitors could: Sustainability air pollution limits in the event of a humanitarian crisis so we can quickly set-up • provide higher handset subsidies; Report The imposition of GHG emission limits or taxes to our own infrastructure at the service of the society and the authorities. • offer higher commissions to retailers; operations or crucial suppliers can become a problem due to In addition, we included in our contingency plans the impor• provide free airtime or other services (such as Internet access); the investment amount, the need and complexity of training, tance of collaboration with authorities to share information • offer services at lower costs through double, triple and the lack of new technologies and reporting difficulties, since that allows adequate and efficient logistics for recovery of the quadruple play packages or other pricing strategies; CONTENT each country has metrics and methodologies of their own. We affected area. • expand their networks faster; or are currently developing programs and projects for reducing • develop and deploy improved technologies faster, such as fuel consumption mainly by connecting remote base stations Competition in the telecommunications industry 5G technology MESSAGE FROM THE CEO to the electrical network, among other projects. We have been Our businesses face substantial competition. We expect that working along other members in the industry within the GSMA, competition will intensify in the future because of the entry of América Móvil’s priority has always been cost reduction and to encourage telecommunication industry suppliers to set amnew competitors, the development of new technologies, prooperational efficiencies, as well as continuous investment in bitious emission-reduction goals. ducts and services and convergence. We also expect consoliinfrastructure and capacity building in order to assure our COMPANY PROFILE dation in the telecommunications industry, as companies resmarket leadership driven by high quality services, solutions Changes in consumers’ EXPECTATIONS pond to the need for cost reduction and additional spectrum. and competitive prices. Furthermore, we continue working In the upcoming years, América Móvil’s largest consumer base This trend may result in larger competitors with greater finanto enhance customer experience to maintain and increase will be millennials, for either purchasing equipment or services cial, technical, promotional and other resources to compete brand preference. UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY as well as being the decision makers in corporate clients’ offiwith our businesses. ces and investors. Many studies have been done on this group’s consuming habits, and it has been concluded that they base their preferences and loyalty on their convictions, on the values CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES in which they believe, and on how companies respond to those values. These include the efforts in corporate responsibility that a Company makes and the perception they generate in society. In this way, failure to make strong social responsibility efforts in the ACTIVATING SAFETY three ESG spheres -environmental, social, and governancecan negatively affect the reputation of the Company, and therefore decrease sales and profitability. Our “Smart Sustainability” strategy aims to address the new generations’ interests and needs SHARING DEVELOPMENT by including them into the overall Company’s business strategy. Increasing humanitarian demands UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE There is a growing consumer demand for telecommunication companies to open voice, data and SMS communications for all people in the affected area in cases of emergency or humanitarian crisis. As well, the authorities, aid institutions and APPENDIX NGOs call for information, sharing collaboration that will help them have a more effective response to the emergency. 20 2019 Fixed-terms concessions and licenses Our concessions and licenses have specified terms, ranging Sustainability Report typically from five to 20 years, and are generally subject to renewal upon payment of a fee, but renewal is not assured. The loss of, or failure to renew, any one concession could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operaCONTENT tions. Our ability to renew concessions and the terms of renewal are subject to several factors beyond our control, including the prevalent regulatory and political environment at the time of MESSAGE FROM THE CEO renewal. Fees are typically established at the time of renewal. As a condition for renewal, we may be required to agree to new and stricter service terms and conditions. In some of the jurisdictions where we operate and under certain circumstances, COMPANY PROFILE mainly in connection with fixed services, we may be required to transfer certain assets covered by some of our concessions to the government pursuant to valuation methodologies that vary in each jurisdiction. It is uncertain whether reversion would ever UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY be applied in many of the jurisdictions where we operate and how reversion provisions would be interpreted in practice. Dominant carrier related regulations Additional radio spectrum capacity and Our regulators are authorized to impose specific requirements networks upgrade Corruption, Bribery and Money laundering CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES as to rates (including termination rates), quality of service, Licensed radio spectrum is essential to our growth and the quaWe operate in multiple jurisdictions many of them with high access to active or passive infrastructure and information, lity of our wireless services and for the operation and deploycorruption indicators and are subject to complex regulatory among other matters, on operators that are determined to ment of our networks, including new generation networks such frameworks with increased enforcement activities worldwihave substantial market power in a specific market. If domias 5G LTE technology, to offer improved data and value-added de. We have governance and compliance processes in plaACTIVATING SAFETY nant carrier regulations are imposed on our business in the services. We obtain most of our radio spectrum through auctions ce to prevent breaches of legal, accounting or governance future, they could likely reduce our flexibility to adopt compeconducted by governments of the countries in which we operate. standards and regulations. However, we may be subject to titive market policies and impose specific tariff requirements Participation in spectrum auctions in most of these countries rebreaches of our Code of Ethics, anticorruption policies and or other special regulations on us, such as additional requiquires prior government authorization, and we may be subject to business conduct protocols, and to instances of fraudulent SHARING DEVELOPMENT rements regarding disclosure of information or quality of sercaps on our ability to acquire additional spectrum. Our inability behavior, corrupt practices and dishonesty by our employees, vice. Any such new regulation could have a material adverse to acquire additional radio spectrum capacity could affect our contractors or other agents. Failure to comply with applicable effect on our operations. ability to compete successfully because it could result in, among laws and other regulatory requirements could harm our repuUPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE other things, a decrease in the quality of our network and service tation, subject us to substantial fines, sanctions or penalties América Móvil is committed to comply with all applicable laws and in our ability to meet the demands of our customers. and adversely affect our business and ability to access finanand regulations in the countries where we operate. cial markets. Nonetheless, through our Compliance Program, América Móvil participates within in the industry with associations we implement measures to better mitigate such impacts. APPENDIX that promote spectrum allocation in order to improve the quality of services that the telecommunication industry can provide. 21 2019 System Failure and Interruptions of Service Cybersecurity incidents and other Sustainability We need to continue to provide our subscribers with a reliable breaches of network Report service over our network. Some of the risks to our network and Cybersecurity incidents, and other tactics designed to gain acAny of these occurrences may result in a material adverse effect infrastructure include the following: cess to and exploit sensitive information by breaching critical on our reputation, results of operations and financial condition. • physical damage to access lines and fixed networks; systems of large companies, are evolving and have been in• power surges or outages; creasing in both sophistication and occurrence in recent years. Proper data governance CONTENT • natural disasters; Cybercrime, including attempts to overload our servers with We process large amounts of personally identifiable informa• climate change; denial-of-service attacks, theft, social engineering, phishing, tion of customers and employees and are subject to various • malicious actions, such as theft or misuse of customer data; ransomware or similar disruptions from unauthorized access compliance, security, privacy, data quality and regulatory re• limitations on the use of our base stations; or attempted unauthorized access to our systems could result quirements. Data mismanagement could result in data loss, MESSAGE FROM THE CEO • software defects; in the destruction, misuse or release of personal information regulatory investigations or sanctions, loss in reputation, and • human error; and or other sensitive data. While we employ a number of measucybersecurity risk. • disruptions beyond our control. res to prevent, detect and mitigate such incidents, there is no guarantee that we will be able to adequately anticipate or preTherefore, during the past years the Company has been strenCOMPANY PROFILE System failures may cause interruptions in services or reduced vent one. Since it may be difficult to detect or prevent evolving gthening its data governance though privacy policy and procapacity for our customers, either of which may have an adverse forms of cybersecurity incidents, our systems, and those of cesses, including the implementation of trainings and certifieffect on our operations due to, for example, increased expenses, our third-party service providers and of our customers, could cations aiming to prevent such breaches. UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY potential legal liability, loss of existing and potential subscribers, be vulnerable to cybersecurity incidents. reduced user traffic, decreased revenues and reputational harm. We have instituted measures to reduce these risks. However, there is no assurance that any measures we implement will be CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES effective in preventing system failures under all circumstances. Employee development and retention Many of our employees are members of labor unions with ACTIVATING SAFETY which we conduct collective negotiations on wages, benefits and working conditions. We use actuarial methodologies and assumptions such as discount rate, salary increase and mortality, among others, for the determination and valuation of our SHARING DEVELOPMENT employee benefits, including retirement benefits. We evaluate from time to time, with the support of specialists, our actuarial methodologies and assumptions, as well as the valuation of the UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE assets related to these benefits. Our talent attraction and development strategy aims to capture the best possible and diverse talent; failure can result in a heavy competitive loss. Our diversity culture plays a significant role in this development. APPENDIX 22 2019 Key actors in the value chain Concerns about health risks We rely upon various key suppliers to provide us with Portable communications devices have been alleged to pose Factors related to economic, political and social conditions Sustainability Report handsets, network equipment or services, which we need to, health risks, including cancer, due to radio frequency emissions. that could affect our performance include: expand and operate our business. If these suppliers fail to Lawsuits have been filed in the United States against certain • significant governmental influence over local economies; provide equipment or service to us on a timely basis, we could participants in the wireless industry alleging various adverse • substantial fluctuations in economic growth; experience disruptions, which could have an adverse effect on health consequences as a result of wireless phone usage, and • high levels of inflation, including hyperinflation; CONTENT our revenues and results of operations. In addition, we might our subsidiaries may be subject to similar litigation in the futu• changes in currency values; be unable to satisfy requirements under our concessions. re. Government authorities could increase regulation on elec• exchange controls or restrictions on expatriation of earnings; Government, reputational or regulatory actions with respect to tromagnetic emissions of mobile handsets and base stations, • high domestic interest rates; certain suppliers may affect us. which could have an adverse effect on our business, our reputa• price controls; MESSAGE FROM THE CEO tion, financial condition and results of operations. Research and • changes in governmental economic, tax, labor or other For example, the governments of the United States and Castudies are ongoing, to date there is no evidence of such health policies; nada, among others, are currently conducting a regulatory reeffects however, there can be no assurance that further research • imposition of trade barriers; view of certain international suppliers of network equipment and studies will not demonstrate a link between radio frequency • changes in law or regulation; and COMPANY PROFILE and technologies to evaluate potential risks. We are currently emissions and health concerns. Any negative findings in these • overall political, social and economic instability. unable to predict the outcome of such reviews, including any studies could adversely affect the use of wireless technology possible restrictions placed on our key suppliers. and, as a result, our future financial performance. Adverse economic, political and social conditions in Latin UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY America, the United States, the Caribbean or in Europe may inIn order to be able to identify third party risks within the vaThe Company is committed to adopt the international recomhibit demand for telecommunication services and create unlue chain, we are in the process of mapping critical business mendations and guidelines regarding electromagnetic fields in certainty regarding our operating environment or may affect partners in the following categories: main commercial partall our technologies in compliance with approved levels by the our ability to renew our licenses and concessions, to maintain CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES ners, non-substitutable and critical component commercial World Health Organization. or increase our market share or profitability and may have an partners, as well as, commercial partners with environmennegative impact on future acquisitions, which could have a tal, human rights, money laundering risks and anticorruption Economic, political and social conditions material adverse effect on our Company. risks. Moreover, all suppliers, retailers and contractors must Our financial performance may be significantly affected by geACTIVATING SAFETY adhere and sign our Commercial Integrity Policy in order to neral economic, political and social conditions in the markets Changes in fiscal regime be able to do business with us. This help us manage social where we operate. Many countries in Latin America and the We are subject to tax regulation in all the countries where we and environmental risk within our value chain. Caribbean, including Mexico, Brazil and Argentina, have unoperate. Future changes in such regulation could have matedergone significant economic, political and social crises in the rial effects in our business. SHARING DEVELOPMENT past, and these events may occur again in the future. We cannot predict whether changes in political administrations will América Móvil complies with all tax applicable laws and reguresult in changes in governmental policy and whether such lations in the countries where we operate. América Móvil does UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE changes will affect our business. not use tax structures intended for tax avoidance. For more information regarding risk management please APPENDIX review our 2020 Financial Report (20-F) avalable here. 23 2019 Corporate Sustainability Executive Committee Sustainability Report and Sustainability Management (102-18, 102-19, 102-20, 102-26, 102-32) In 2018, the Board of Directors endorsed the Corporate Sustainability Executive Committee (“The Committee”). The Committee’s goal is to define the strategies needed to CONTENT It’s main objective is to develop, deploy and ensure the alignment of our operations towards the sustainability bring the Company’s sustainability performance to the next strategy “Smart Sustainability”. level and to oversee their execution. The Committee reports periodically to the Company’s CEO and Board of Directors. During 2019, The Committee held four ordinary sessions and one MESSAGE FROM THE CEO extraordinary session. COMPANY PROFILE Board of Directors Alignment to the UN SDGs Materiality Assessment Create a Corporate Sustainability Update the Executive Committee Sustainability Strategy UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY CEO América Móvil Corporate Directors CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES and Deputy Directors ACTIVATING SAFETY Corporate Sustainability committee chair Executive Committee SHARING DEVELOPMENT LOCAL SUSTAINABILITY Independent Experts UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE EXECUTIVE COMMITEES APPENDIX Local Sustainability Operating Committees 24 2019 In order to include the points of Sustainability view of experts outside our operation, Report two independent directors participate in The Committee. CONTENT Among other responsibilities of The Committee, we can mainly mention the following: The Committee includes the following positions and their corresponding responsibilities: • Identifying material issues. • Establishing long-term goals and short-term milestones to manage issues deemed as priority. • Observe and ensure that the Committee fulfills its responsiMESSAGE FROM THE CEO • Designing mechanisms to translate the strategies and their objectives into actions within bilities. the operations. • Assess the performance of all Committee members. • Assigning responsible parties to achieve the objectives and oversee compliance. • Coordinate how responsibility for each of the sustainability • Facilitating compliance with the goals or objectives. Committee Chair objectives is assigned to the members of the Committee. COMPANY PROFILE • Establishing and support Local Sustainability Executive Committees to ensure governance • Develop the agenda and minutes for the Committee’s ordiof sustainability initiatives. nary and extraordinary meetings. • Convene directors to Committee sessions, including external UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY The members of the Corporate Sustainability Executive Committee are the following: and/or independent members. • Mauro Accurso ICT Expert for Latin America (external) • Work as a liaison between the Committee and external and/or • Gustavo Alanis Ortega CEO for the Centro Mexicano de Derecho Ambiental (external) Committee Secretary independent guests. • Ángel J. Alexander Flores International Human Resources CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES • Responsible for complying with one or several goals. • Alejandro Cantú Jiménez General Counsel and Chief Regulatory Officer • Coordinate the development of work plans to reach the goals • Roxana A. Flores Alexanderson Sustainability Manager under his or her responsibility. • Paula M. García Sabido Public Affairs Manager– (Committee Chair) • Present progress on the goals to the Committee and other • Daniela Lecuona Torras Investor Relations Officer ACTIVATING SAFETY Objectives Supervisor audiences. • José Marcos Linares Colin Deputy Director of Marketing, Cross Media and Content • Carlota Peón Guerrero Legal Consultant and Chair of The Ethics Committee • Rocío Rojas Ruiz Sustainability Manager • Responsible for establishing the strategic guidelines based • Daniel A. Tapia Mejía Compliance Officer on agreements reached for each country / operation. When SHARING DEVELOPMENT • Marcela Velasco Cámara Director of Corporate Marketing needed, this person can convene a meeting of the Committee, Business Representative: including all parties responsible for the business, division, or Director or Deputy Director country in order to discuss and address specific issues. UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE for a business or division APPENDIX 25 2019 2020 Sustainability Goals Sustainability Report Each of the internal members of The Committee has chosen to lead the efforts of at least one of the nine priority topics and has been working with their corresponding teams within the Company to implement them. CONTENT Issues 2020 Sustainability Goals1 Progress until 2019 1. Use 50% of clean energy sources and 94% commit to streamlining operations in MESSAGE FROM THE CEO order to minimize energy consumption2. Renewable Energy 2. Perform evaluations in more than 80% Exceeded of our employees. COMPANY PROFILE 99% 3. Improve work environment satisfaction results from 78% to 80%. Human Capital 4. Increase by 20% the number of subsUPDATING SUSTAINABILITY cribers in the Group’s education plat95% forms, maintaining an average of 2.5 courses per user. Education CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES 5. Increase by 1% the average brand NPS Exceeded for each country where we operate. ACTIVATING SAFETY Customer Service 6. Align 35% of our suppliers with our 75% Commercial Integrity Policy. 7. Assess 100% of our Tier 1 suppliers3 in 67% SHARING DEVELOPMENT sustainability performance. Value Chain 25% 8. Offer training to 30% of our local suppliers. UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE 0% 9. Achieve 0 fatalities. Health & Safety 1 2020 Sustainability Goals with respect to 2018. APPENDIX 2 Considers renewable energy from the grid. 3 Tier 1 suppliers, are the ones whose purchase orders exceeded USD 50M in 2018. 26 2019 Stakeholder Engagement This year we developed a (102-40, 102-42, 102-43, 102-44) Sustainability Stakeholder Engagement protocol Report We have identified nine América Móvil´s stakeholder groups with whom we that will allow us to align our subsidiaries’ maintain a constant two-way communication, for which purpose we have activities thus reducing risks and strengthening established several contact channels. CONTENT our social license to operate. MESSAGE FROM THE CEO Stakeholders Customers Communications Investors Suppliers Employees RETAILERS Associations and Authorities Community COMPANY PROFILE Media industry participation • Social networks • Corporate • Events and • Telephone calls • e-mail • e-mail • In-person • Partnerships • Programs and • Market Research Communications presentations • Events and in• Call center • Call center meetings • Agreements social events • Telephone calls & • e-mail • Conference calls person meetings • Internal Magazine • Trade Magazines • Special events • In-person • In-person UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY Call Centers • Press information • Operating and • Whistle-blower • Manuals &Training • Manuals &Training • Information shared meetings meetings • Website on website financial reports Portal • Internal • Advertising by the sector • Information • Whistle-blower • Chat • Events • Website • Sustainability Communication • Satisfaction • Whistle-blower requests Portal • Mobile phone apps • In-person • e-mail Report • Satisfaction surveys Portal • Audits • Sustainability Communication • Self-help modules meetings • Telephone calls surveys & • Whistle-blower • Sustainability • Whistle-blower Report Channels • Suggestion box • Whistle-blower • In-person meetings Performance Portal Report Portal CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES • Written letters Portal • Whistle-blower Evaluation • Sustainability • Sustainability • Blogs • Sustainability Portal • Whistle-blower Report Report • Whistle-blower Report • Sustainability Portal Portal Report • Sustainability • Sustainability Report Report ACTIVATING SAFETY Continuous / Annual Continuous / Annual Continuous / Continuous / Annual Continuous / Monthly Continuous / Monthly Monthly / Annual Monthly / Annual or Continuous / Annual Frequency Quarterly / Annual / Annual / Annual Unexpected audits • Quality of the • Transparency and • Transparency and • Transparency and • Code of Ethics • Transparency and • Research and • Compliance with • Investment in SHARING DEVELOPMENT service accountability accountability accountability • Respect for accountability Development the law, regulations, development • Follow up on • Timely information • Timely information • Health and safety human rights • Commercial • Transparency and and norms projects complaints and • Profitability • Supplier • Health and safety Integrity Policy accountability • Managing taxes • Good neighbor suggestions development • Compensation • Commercial • Timely information and contributions • Environmental Main • Coverage and and benefits benefits • Promoting best • Investment and job stewardship Expectations connectivity • Training and • Training and practices creation UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE • Competitive prices development development • Transparency and accountability • Timely information APPENDIX 27 2019 Relationship with Associations Sustainability Report and Organizations SDG América Móvil’s projects and actions with a high impact on these goals (102-12) As part of our long-term sustainability strategy, we UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) • Aprende.org, page 73 CONTENT established partnerships with several associations and organizations that contribute to our sustainability In order to align countries and companies with a common goal, • Aprende.org, page 73 objectives. the UN 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development has 17 goals. • Train for a Job, page 73 • Internet for All project, page 78 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO In 2019, we ratified our adhesion to strategic global initiatives, Aware of the importance of contributing to these goals, as one • Our employees, page 43 such as: of the most important telecommunications companies in the • Aprende.org, page 73 • UN Sustainable Development Goals world, América Móvil has taken concrete steps that have a • UN Global Compact Principles positive impact on eleven of these goals. COMPANY PROFILE • UN Business Ambition for 1.5°C Pledge and Science • Work benefits, page 47 Based Targets Initiative • UN Women Empowerment Principles For more information on the UN Sustainable • Digital customer service channels, page 62 • Research and development, page 86 UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY • GSMA We Care Program Development Goals, please click here. • Infrastructure, page 9 • Initiatives to reduce emissions, energy consumption, and fuel consumption, page 100 • Accessibility, page 95 CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES • Internet for All project, page 78 • Aprende.org, page 73 • Volunteering, page 79 • Social development projects, page 80 • Aid in natural disasters, page 71 ACTIVATING SAFETY • Value chain, page 56 • Disposal of handsets and accessories, page 104 SHARING DEVELOPMENT • Renewable energy, page 98 • Initiatives to reduce emissions, energy consumption, and fuel consumption, page 100 • Refurbishing electric and electronic equipment, page 104 • Disposal of handsets and accessories, page 104 UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE • Conservation of biodiversity with the WWF-Telmex Telcel Foundation Alliance, page 105 APPENDIX • Conservation of biodiversity with the WWF-Telmex Telcel Foundation Alliance, page 105 28 2019 SDGs Impact Measurement Sustainability The next step in our strategy is to measure the impact of our programs and their contribution to The results of phase I alone are worth reporting, for it has shown us how our programs have clear Report the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals. The main reason for doing this is to be aware of the contributions to specific targets of the SDGs. In the next table, we summarize just a few examples positive impact that our programs have on the society and the environment. By using the same of how América Móvil is setting the lead of SDGs integration into our sustainability strategy. indicators as the SDG targets, we can completely align our sustainability strategy with the UN’s. CONTENT With help from expert consultants, we analyze potential and specific quantitative impacts of América Móvil’s programs mentioned in the previous section. This exercise allowed us to identify the targets we are more likely to have a profound impact into, but also identify potential key MESSAGE FROM THE CEO performance indicators aligned with our programs as well as with the SDGs targets. Ultimately, América Móvil’s Programs Sustainable Development Goals’ Targets we will be ready to set quantitative goals for América Móvil’s contribution to specific targets of Aprende.org, Khan Academy, 4.5 Eliminate gender disparities in education and ensure the Sustainable Development Goals, so we can be among the first organizations worldwide to PruébaT, A1 Start Up Campus, equal access to all levels of education and vocational tramake specific commitments in quantitative terms. These two late phases, as shown in the figuTelmex Digital Library, Telcel ining for the vulnerable, including persons with disabilities, COMPANY PROFILE re below, will be conducted by the Company’s Sustainability Committee in the following years. and Claro Digital Villages… indigenous peoples and children in vulnerable situations UN Women Empowerment 5.5 Ensure women’s full and effective participation and equal Principles Alignment, We opportunities for leadership at all levels of decision-making UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY Care, Code of Ethics, Labor in political, economic and public life Equity Seal… Training and development 8.5 By 2030, achieve full and productive employment and CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES programs, Dupla Escola, Best decent work for all women and men, including for young peoBuddies, Train for a Job, ple and persons with disabilities, and equal pay for work of Phase I Phase II Phase III aprende.org, Campus Mobile… equal value Analyze the contribution of our Identify a set of key performance Set quantitative goals of ACTIVATING SAFETY programs to specific targets of indicators to measure our América Móvil’s contribution Energy efficiency programs, 9.4 Upgrade infrastructure and retrofit industries to make the SDGs programs impact aligned with to the targets of the SDGs in 2030 emissions reductions targets them sustainable, with increased resource-use efficiency those of the targets and initiatives, CDP, SBTi, R&D, and greater adoption of clean and environmentally sound teclimate change adaptation chnologies and industrial processes, with all countries taking SHARING DEVELOPMENT strategy… action in accordance with their respective capabilities UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE APPENDIX 29 2019 UN Global Compact Principles Sustainability Report Since 2016, at América Móvil and our subsidiaries we have made a tangible effort to observe the For more information on the United Nations Global Compact Ten Principles of the Global Compact and to align our operation to them. These Principles and please visit: www.unglobalcompact.org the initiatives that we are implementing to address each one of them are: CONTENT Principle Our initiatives Principle Our initiatives MESSAGE FROM THE CEO América Móvil’s Human Rights Policy is aligned with the Universal DeclaraAmérica Móvil has a section in both its Code of Ethics and its Human Rights tion of Human Rights of the United Nations, the Declaration on Fundamental 3. Businesses should uphold the Policy in which it is specified that it does not interfere when its employees Principles and Rights at Work proclaimed by the International Labour Orgafreedom of association and the exercise their freedom of association and collective bargaining. 1. Businesses should support effective recognition of the nization (ILO), and the Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights esand respect the protection of right to collective bargaining. This principle is also stipulated in América Móvil’s Commercial Integrity COMPANY PROFILE tablished by the United Nations. In addition, we recognize that as a telecominternationally proclaimed Policy that applies to our trading partners. munications service provider with operations in 25 countries we can be a human rights. constructive influence of human rights in the countries where we operate, so América Móvil has a section in both its Code of Ethics and its Human Rights we constantly look for ways to promote respect for human rights in a manner Policy in which we specify our commitment to fight and prevent all forms of UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY consistent with our domestic policies and all applicable legislation. 4. Businesses should uphold forced and compulsory labour. the elimination of all forms of Through América Móvil’s Commercial Integrity Policy we assess our forced and compulsory labour. This principle is also stipulated in América Móvil’s Commercial Integrity Posuppliers, retailers and contractors promoting alignment to the respect for licy that applies to our trading partners. CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES human rights throughout our value chain. América Móvil has a section both in its Code of Ethics and in its Human We also include a sustainability clause in the contracts, which states the Rights Policy which it is specific that we speak out against child exploitation following: 5. Businesses should uphold and take preventive measures. The supplier ensures that materials and/or products that have been used ACTIVATING SAFETY the effective abolition of child directly or indirectly by subcontractors throughout the value chain have labour. This principle is also stipulated in América Móvil’s Integrity Policy that 2. Businesses should make sure legal and sustainable provenance. The supplier ensures that the minerals applies to our trading partners. that they are not complicit in used in its products do not come from conflict zones or adjacent areas and SHARING DEVELOPMENT human rights abuses. therefore their purchase cannot finance armed conflict or human rights vio6. Businesses should We have an Inclusion and Diversity Policy, which specifically seeks to establilations. América Móvil may require proof of the above at any time and the sh the principles, criteria and guidelines that ensure a culture of inclusion and uphold the elimination of supplier must be able to prove that their products are “conflict-free”. non-discrimination; while ensuring equal opportunities for all people, when discrimination in respect of they start their careers, as well as when developing within the Company. UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE The supplier ensures that it does not violate any human rights and has leemployment and occupation. gitimate policies and mechanisms in place to ensure that human rights are We developed America Movil’s Environmental Policy, to make sure that we respected in its business and that of its suppliers. The supplier is commit7. Businesses should support conduct our operations and decision-making processes with the highest ted to preventing and mitigating any negative Human Rights impact related a precautionary approach to sense of responsibility and environmental care. Furthermore, the Policy will APPENDIX to its activities, products or services. environmental challenges. be applicable to all our employees, suppliers, retailers and contactors. 30 2019 Sustainability Report Principle Our initiatives América Móvil has a Commercial Integrity Policy addressed to all of our business partners: our suppliers, customers, retailers, contractors, consultants, CONTENT agents, and anyone linked to América Móvil or our subsidiaries globally. 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater We also include a sustainability clause in the contracts, which states the environmental responsibility. following: MESSAGE FROM THE CEO The supplier warrants that it complies with all environmental laws and regulations applicable to its operations. In addition, the supplier says that it has a waste management plan to prevent and treat the ones that he generates. América Móvil’s efforts on the Ninth Principle reflected through our many COMPANY PROFILE 9. Businesses should encourage energy efficiency programs, as well as through our circular economy prothe development and diffusion grams that aim to reduce the amount of e-waste by reusing the parts and of environmentally friendly components of electronic devices that can still be used, and properly distechnologies carding those that cannot be recycled. UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY We have an Anticorruption Policy to ensure that any activity carried out by 10. Businesses should work or on behalf of our Company is based on the ethics and values that characagainst corruption in all its terize us, condemning corruption, bribery, fraud or any other illegal act that CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES forms, including extortion may occur throughout our value chain. and bribery. ACTIVATING SAFETY SHARING DEVELOPMENT UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE APPENDIX 31 2019 UN Business Ambition for 1.5°C Pledge The Business Ambition for 1.5°C Pledge states that the next The final ICT sub-sectoral GHG emissions trajectories decade is critical for controlling and mitigating climate change. developed are consistent with all of the following approaches: Sustainability and Science Based Targets Initiative Report The approved sector-specific document that applies to us is • IPCC 1.5°C P2 scenario requiring a halving of emissions the ‘Guidance for Information and Communication Technology between 2015 and 2030. In line with our sustainability strategy and with the (ICT) companies setting Science-Based Targets (SBTs)’, • SBTi 1.5°C trajectory demanding 42% reduction over 10 years. intention of continuing to join actions to reduce clideveloped jointly by the International Telecommunication Union • A 1.5°C scenario, carbon budget approach based on the ICT CONTENT mate change, we continue to implement corporate (ITU), Global Enabling Sustainability Initiative (GeSI), GSMA and sector maintaining a fixed share of overall electricity usage initiatives to reduce our impact on the environment. its members and the Science-Based Targets Initiative (SBTi), (based on IEA ETP). That is why, in August 2019, in partnership with the with the purpose of supporting ICT companies in setting SBTs MESSAGE FROM THE CEO UN and the GSMA, we decided to strengthen Amériby using an absolute contraction approach and in alignment to Recognizing the urgency to take action in this matter, América ca Móvil’s commitment to mitigating our greenhouse decarbonisation pathways described in the recommendation Móvil is joining the global movement for leading companies gas emissions to limit global warming to a maximum from the ITU titled ‘GHG emissions trajectories for the ICT aligning their businesses with the most ambitious aim of the of 1.5°C and direct our efforts towards building the sector compatible with the UNFCCC Paris Agreement’, aligned Paris Agreement to limit global temperature to rise to 1.5ºC above COMPANY PROFILE carbon-neutral economy of the future. to the IPCC Special Report on 1.5°C and developed to be used pre-industrial levels through the two options outlined below: as a sectoral target-setting approach by the SBTi. • 1.5°C science-based targets, by aligning our GHG emission reduction targets across all relevant scopes, with 1.5°C emissions scenarios by 2030. UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY • Net-zero commitment, by setting a public goal to reach net-zero emissions by no later than 2050, consistent with our interim quantitative targets and in line with the criteria and recommendations of the Science Based Targets initiative. CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES UN Women Empowerment Principles ACTIVATING SAFETY In line with our commitment to promote gender equality and women’s empowerment in the workplace, marketplace and the community, we joined the UN Women Empowerment SHARING DEVELOPMENT Principles initiative. In 2019, we signed the agreement and we implemented our first self-diagnosis that will helps us identify opportunities for UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE improvement. APPENDIX For more information on the UN Women Empowerment Principles please click here. 32 Initiative Description Participating subsidiaries 2019 GSMA and the We Care Program • • Argentina Brazil Sustainability • Chile Report • Colombia Helping connect people with no access to Inter• Costa Rica América Móvil has been an active participant in the We Care Program since 2012. net or to mobile technology. • Ecuador This program is led by GSMA (Groupe Speciale Mobile Association), which repreDigital inclusion • Europe • Guatemala sents the interests of mobile service operators all over the world, including more • Honduras CONTENT than 750 operators and more than 400 companies in 219 countries. • Mexico • Argentina The initiatives of the We Care program aligned with the UN Sustainable Development Goals, Finding ways to protect children from unsafe • Colombia content online. allowing the mobile industry to become a catalyst for reaching those goals. • Europe1 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO Child protection The initiatives in this program and the América Móvil subsidiaries that participate in each of • Argentina • Brazil them are the following: • Colombia • Costa Rica COMPANY PROFILE • Dominican Republic For more information on the GSMA We Care Program, • Ecuador Implementing campaigns on how to ecologi• El Salvador please click here. cally dispose of mobile devices and recycling • Europe them, as well as conducting reforestation and • Guatemala UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY Environmental environmental stewardship activities. • Honduras stewardship • Mexico • Nicaragua • Panama • Paraguay • Peru CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES • United States • Colombia Enhace access to information and coordinate • Guatemala aid to people affected by natural disasters or • Mexico ACTIVATING SAFETY humanitarian crises. • Peru Response to natural disasters • Honduras and humanitarian crises • Argentina Develop initiatives that help decrease the number • Brazil SHARING DEVELOPMENT of mobile devices that get stolen. • Colombia • Costa Rica The GSMA Blacklist is an IMEIs centralized • Dominican Republic database of stolen terminals that is managed • El Salvador by the GSMA , to which operators can connect in • Guatemala fighting device theft order to upload or download information that will • Honduras UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE later serve to deny access of stolen handsets to • Mexico their networks. • Nicaragua • Panama Aims to reduce the gender gap in mobile Internet • Colombia and financial services in low and medium-inco• Chile APPENDIX me countries, and to unlock significant com• Dominican Republic mercial and socieconomic opportunities. We • Mexico now known that ehen women prosper, so do • Nicaragua 33 1 Austria, Croatia & Macedonia. Connected Women societies, companies and economies. • Serbia 2019 Sustainability Connecting with Report Principles CONTENT MESSAGE FROM THE CEO COMPANY PROFILE UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY The principles behind our actions at América Móvil are the basis of the CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES excellent reputation that we have in society and with our stakeholders. The framework of the principles with which we operate have enabled us to be sustainable over time and will allow us to maintain our leadership position ACTIVATING SAFETY in the industry. SHARING DEVELOPMENT UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE APPENDIX 34 2019 Corporate Governance Sustainability Report and Ethics Management Corporate Governance (102-5,102-19,102-22,102-23,102-24, 102-25,102-26) Our Corporate Governance practices are the basis for our Based on equity ownership reports filed in accordance with the At América Móvil we guide our actions based on sustainable development. This is why we constantly update US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), the following taCONTENT our Corporate Governance and Ethics Management and improve our policies, while implementing new tools that ble shows the parties who owned more than 5.0% of the shares practices. We constantly work on strengthening and enable us to manage them successfully. We also adhere to of any of the Company’s class of shares as of March 31st 2020: communicating these practices, as well as homolointernational best practices in Corporate Governance, which Shareholder Shares owned (millions) Percent of class(1) MESSAGE FROM THE CEO gating them through all our operations worldwide, serve as a benchmark for our investors and Board of Directors AA Shares: so that we consolidate as one of the most important in their decision-making process. América Móvil, S.A.B. de C.V. Family Trust (2) 10,894 52.9% telecommunications companies in the world. is a Sociedad Anónima bursátil de Capital Variable organized under Mexican law. Our shares are currently listed for trading Inversora Carso (3) 4,381 21.3% in Mexico, in the Mexican Stock Exchange (BMV:AMX) and in Carlos Slim Helú 1,879 9.1% COMPANY PROFILE the United States, in the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE: L Shares: AMX/AMOV). Inversora Carso (3) 6,020 13.4% Family Trust (2) 5,998 13.4% UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY Carlos Slim Helú 3,072 6.8% BlackRock, Inc. (4) 2,616 5.8% (1) Percentage figures are based on the number of shares outstanding as of March 31, 2020. CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES (2) The Family Trust is a Mexican trust that holds AA Shares and L Shares for the benefit of members of the Slim Family. In addition to shares held by the Family Trust, members of the Slim Family, including Carlos Slim Helú, directly own an aggregate of 3,558 million AA Shares and 9,570 million L Shares representing 17.3% and 21.3%, respectively, of each series. According to beneficial reports filed with the SEC, none of these members ACTIVATING SAFETY of the Slim Family, other than Carlos Slim Helú, individually directly own more than 5.0% of any class of our shares. (3) Includes shares owned by subsidiaries of Inversora Carso. Based on beneficial ownership reports filed with the SEC, Inversora Carso is a Mexican sociedad anónima de capital variable and may be deemed to be controlled by the Slim Family. SHARING DEVELOPMENT (4) Based on beneficial ownership reports filed with the SEC. UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE For more information on the equity stake of América Móvil and its main subsidiaries, as well as the Corporate Governance structure and how it works, please review APPENDIX our 2019 Annual Report in Form 20-F, which is available at: www.americamovil.com 35 2019 At América Móvil our Corporate Governance policies, overseen by our Board of Directors, ensure that the business is manaAt América Móvil, the Shareholders’ Meeting is our highest governance body. We hold ordinary and extraordinary to the share buyback program; and (v) determine the way in which income will be allocated. In addition, any operation that Sustainability Report ged under ethics and transparency principles, while our decimeetings, and in order to assure the members’ attendance, the involves 20% of the Company’s consolidated assets or more in sion-making process is based on our mission, vision, values summon is sent with at least 15 days in advance. Extraordinary a single year, must be approved by the Shareholders’ Meeting. and philosophy. We adhere to all governance principles, incluMeetings are held to address specific issues such as reforms The Shareholders’ Meeting monitors progress on decisions ding the Board, our employees and every party related to Améto the Company Bylaws, mergers or divestitures, transforming made by the Board of Directors, which includes 11 directors CONTENT rica Móvil, integrated in the following documents: the legal structure of the Company, and canceling trading of selected by the holders of Series AA and Series A shares, the Company’s shares on the Mexican Stock Exchange or on voting together, and by two Board members, who are in turn • The América Móvil, S.A.B. de C.V. Bylaws1. any other foreign Stock Exchange. All other matters need to selected by holders of Series L shares. Carlos Slim Domit is • Our Code of Ethics2. be addressed during Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings. The the Chairman of the Board of Directors and Patrick Slim Domit MESSAGE FROM THE CEO • Our Corporate Governance Policies. Ordinary Meeting must be held at least once a year to discuss is the Vice-Chairman; neither of them holds a management • Our Control Policies Applicable to Transactions Involving (i) approval of the financial statements for the previous year; position within the Company. América Móvil’s Shares and other Securities issued by AMX3. (ii) name directors, determine their remuneration4, and analyze • Mexican securities laws and regulations in all the internatheir independence; (iii) determine which members of the Board COMPANY PROFILE tional markets where our shares are traded, including the of Directors will participate in the Audit and Corporate Practices For more detailed information on the members of the Board Mexican Securities Law (Ley de Mercado de Valores), the Committee; (iv) approve the sum the Company will assign of Directors, please view our 2019 Annual Report in Form Sole Document for Issuers (Circular Única de Emisoras), the 20-F available here. UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY internal bylaws of the Mexican Stock Exchange (Reglamento Interior de la Bolsa Mexicana de Valores), and the Code of Best Corporate Practices (Código de Mejores Prácticas Corporativas) published by the Corporate Coordinating Council CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES (Consejo Coordinador Empresarial). • Applicable laws and regulations in every country where we operate. ACTIVATING SAFETY SHARING DEVELOPMENT 1 Our bylaws are available at: https://www.americamovil.com/English/corporate-governance/ current-corporate-bylaws/default.aspx 2 Our Code of Ethics is available at: https://www.americamovil.com/English/corporate-governance/ code-of-ethics/default.aspx UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE 3 Our Control Policies are available at: https://www.americamovil.com/English/corporate-governance/ Securities-Trading-Policy/default.aspx 4 The members of the Board of Directors and the Audit and Corporate Practices Committee received approximately $5.3 million pesos, while the relevant executives received close to APPENDIX $70.1 million pesos during the reporting period. 36 2019 Audit and Corporate Practices Committee The Board of Directors met 6 times in 2019, with an average The current members are Ernesto Vega Velasco, Rafael Moisés América Móvil is also obligated to present annual reports on the Sustainability Report attendance rate of 83%. Attendance for the last meeting of Kalach Mizrahi, and Pablo Roberto González Guajardo, all of main activities of the Board of Directors and the Audit and Corthe year, where the effectiveness of the Board was assessed, whom are independent directors. Its responsibilities include porate Practices Committee to the Mexican Banking and Secuit was 93%. To operate correctly, two auxiliary committees overseeing the management, guidance, and execution of the rities Commission (Comisión Nacional Bancaria y de Valores) support the Board: the Executive Committee and the Audit Company’s businesses, for which it reports on the internal and the Mexican Stock Exchange (Bolsa Mexicana de Valores), CONTENT and Corporate Practices Committee. The Audit and Corporate control and internal audit mechanisms applicable to the which publishes the reports on its website. Our Internal Audit Practices Committee held 6 meetings and had an average Company and its subsidiaries. Likewise, the Committee division is responsible for performing three main audits: (i) a attendance rate of 79.2% in 2019. analyzes operations with related parties in order to identify Risk Management Audit that reviews several operating procesMESSAGE FROM THE CEO potential conflicts of interest. Furthermore, the Corporate ses, as well as the integrity of our operations and how they are Executive Committee Executive Sustainability Committee and the Ethics Committee performing; (ii) a SOX Audit, which ensures that we are meeting The current members are Carlos Slim Domit, Patrick Slim Domit, report periodically to the Audit and Corporate Practices with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and that our and Daniel Hajj Aboumrad. This body of the Board of Directors Committee. Our shareholders constantly review the functions public financial information is accurate; and (iii) Special Audits, has the faculty to approve and offer opinions and alternatives carried out by the Board of Directors and its Committees. The whose goal is to offer support to different divisions within the COMPANY PROFILE to the Board of Directors on certain issues specified in the securities regulations currently enforced and applicable to our Company to review a specific process or activity. Company Bylaws. Company in Mexico establish the basis upon which the Board of Directors is obliged to report to the shareholders activities UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY carried out during the fiscal year. Diversity Policy for our Top Management and Board of Directors CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES Objective and Scope In accordance to best corporate practices, América Móvil promotes diversity and recognizes the value of having people with diverse backgrounds occupying positions at different divisions ACTIVATING SAFETY and levels within the Company and in the administrative bodies. General Principles Our organizational chart and administrative bodies include SHARING DEVELOPMENT professionals in different fields and of diverse academic backgrounds, age, and gender who share a strong social commitment and reflect plurality in the views of our stakeholders in relation to the services the Company offers. UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE The selection process for América Móvil’s top management and Board members is based on the merits of each candidate, taking into account the experience, independence, and knowledge that will contribute to managing the Company in an APPENDIX optimal and efficient manner. 37 Compliance, Ethics and 2019 Human Rights Management Sustainability Report (102-17, 205-2, 412-2) In 2019, in order to address the new challenges that According to America Movil’s Compliance Program, we act In 2019, we trained the 100% the Company has identified, we created a multidiscibased on our values as an essential part of our culture of inCONTENT plinary team comprised by professionals with different tegrity. Our Code of Ethics serves as the ethical guideline for backgrounds, from different areas of our organizathe decision-making process. It also establishes the following of our employees tion including operations, audit, IT, and legal, among obligations for every América Móvil employee: to read and adothers, to integrate a new high-level independent divihere to the Code of Ethics, comply with its principles, behave in our Code of Ethics – Code of Conduct MESSAGE FROM THE CEO sion, whose main purpose is to assure compliance in in an ethical manner, and report any deviations from the Code. through a digital course that lectured with a practical all of our operations and enhance a more comprehenfocus and specific case studies. sive risk management strategy. In order to reinforce and ensure that our employees are familiar COMPANY PROFILE with it, during 2019 100% of América Móvil employees took an Our Compliance Division will report to the Top Management, online course on the Code of Ethics through our online educaIn the case of A1 Telekom Austria Group, training sessions opworking within three main strategic pillars: preventing, detection platform Capacítate Carso1. The Code of Ethics is available timized for the target groups are provided on a regular basis ting and mitigating risks among subsidiaries. This year the for all employees to review on the corporate website. New emto firmly embed the notion of integrity throughout the Group. UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY team focused on enhancing our Privacy, Anticorruption, Moployees are introduced to it as part of their induction process. Group-wide training uses a practical focus and specific case ney Laundering Prevention, and Social Security. studies to shed light on compliance topics. As a result in 2019, 4,700 employees and managers participated in classroom compliance training. In addition, they completed over 21,300 I nt e r n CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES al a Ri sk compliance e-learning courses in 2019. To resolve any open de n c e nd E M xt e a n ma pl i a m cy r questions, employees of the A1 Telekom Austria Group can co ption n Priva ts P o l na u l a ai l o ent t i f ic atio also contact the “ask.me” compliance helpdesk, which dealt ru matio an Righ em I d e n Due Hir i A to r ag i sk T Secur r Hum ecurity with around 530 questions altogether in 2019. ity a ntic ry lR s D ACTIVATING SAFETY nd cial S evention o Tra il c ie R eg Environ n So ing Pr men d Inf r Aud i ing ence er i ig g Finance, t nd st o nin g The América Móvil Ethics Committee has an on-going comFisc al a ru tin Felony & Mon a ey L l & munication program for our Code of Ethics. Also, América Món au Ant vil’s Whistle-blower Portal is fully operating in order to conSHARING DEVELOPMENT it Compliance centrate all grievances related to any of our operations. With this initiative, we reaffirmed our commitment to our corporate ci values and with international best practices in this area. UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE a l p lin a ed i t h i z e d ry ure Rem e t e ia a l in de is D ve c t tio n ltid c i St r pend O nt ion e Pr jec u M Spe w uct ence tiv io n b l d an ion es e Lev izat APPENDIX High a n Org Excluding A1 Telekom Austria Group. 1 38 2019 CORPORATE ETHICS COMMITTEE The members of the Corporate Ethics Committee are: • Coordinating training programs for employees on the Comforms of blocking Telemarketing calls were established locally Sustainability Report • Ángel J. Alexander Flores, Human Resources International pliance Program. to prevent these situations from happening again; while at • Jorge A. Arteaga Castillo, Audit Deputy Director • Addressing questions and concerns related to ethical isa corporate level, we are aligning all our operations towards • Alejandro Cantú Jiménez, General Counsel and Chief sues, organizational behavior and culture, and offering reinternational best practices, including European privacy Regulatory Officer commendations on topics included in the Code of Ethics protection standards. CONTENT • Roxana A. Flores Alexanderson, Sustainability Manager and compliance with internal policies and bylaws. • Paula M. García Sabido, Public Affairs Manager and Chair Finally, Brazil also paid four tax-related significant fines. Two of the Sustainability Committee Significant Fines Report1 (419-1) of them related to incorrect application of tax exemptions in MESSAGE FROM THE CEO • Gabriel Juárez Lozano, Accounting and Comptrollership During the past year, Claro Perú paid a significant fine based a product sold during 2013 and 2014; another one was due to Deputy Director on the lack of certain information in a special offer of 2009. failure to deliver a tax obligation to the State Government of • Fernando Ocampo Carapia, Finance and Administration To date, such offer is no longer in effect. Sao Paulo in 2004; and the last one due to non-presentation Director of intercompany contracts in a timely manner. Claro Brazil COMPANY PROFILE • Carlota Peón Guerrero, Legal Consultant and Chair of the Claro Brazil had two customer management significant fines in has implemented internal processes and alignments with the Ethics Committee 2019. The first one, related to alleged violations to the “Register areas involved to avoid recurrences. • Rocio Rojas Ruiz, Sustainability Manager for Blocking the Receiving Telemarketing Calls” in 2008, and • Daniel A. Tapia Mejía, Compliance Officer the second one due to alleged breaches to the consumer The average amount of all these fines did not exceed the $480 UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY protection code in 2014. Operational improvements and new thousand US dollars. The Committee, which was created in February 2018, holds monthly ordinary sessions, and makes quarterly reports to the Audit and Corporate Practices Committee. During 2019, the CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES Committee held eight meetings with an 85% average attendance rate. The following are among the main functions of the Corporate ACTIVATING SAFETY Ethics Committee: • Reviewing and modifying the Code of Ethics. • Creating and reviewing all the Company’s policies, bylaws SHARING DEVELOPMENT and other internal procedures. • Reviewing reports presented by all operations. • Discussing relevant recurring issues identified in reports and implementing actions to address them. UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE • Following-up on the investigations of reports and applying the corresponding sanctions. • Consulting with external experts for certain investigations. • Overseeing compliance with internal policies. APPENDIX 1 A significant fine is defined as a fine of USD$100,000 or more. 39 2019 Whistle-blower Portal This is the second year that we have a centralized WhistThe Ethics Committee will decide the applicability of a report, Corrective measures for employees involved in reports of vioSustainability Report le-blower Portal available to all our employees in our 25 opeassigning a deadline and person responsible for carrying out lations to the América Móvil Code of Ethics, include programs rations, as well as all our stakeholders around the globe1, that the investigation and, if the report is applicable, determine any aimed at improving behaviors and monitoring by the local Huhas enabled us to better listen to their concerns. Our Whistcorrective measures. man Resources division, in addition to chats on ethics. Furle-blower Portal allows reports on fraud, false or inadequate thermore, administrative and verbal disciplinary sanctions CONTENT information, use or disclosure of restricted or limited informaWe have been carrying out local campaigns to inform the emwere imposed, and controls were implemented seeking to pretion, theft, use or inadequate disposal of resources, bribery, ployees about the Whistle-blower website. At many of our vent further violations to the Company’s Code of Ethics. corruption, conflicts of interest, illegal payments, extortion, operations, employees have received online training on the money laundering, as well as other kinds of reports such as procedures and benefits of this communication tool. Because of the success of the platform, the investigation proMESSAGE FROM THE CEO damage to the integrity, health and safety of the people, incedure, and the resolution of the cases, along with a strong oujury to a person’s dignity, biased or discriminatory treatment, From January to December 2019, we received 1,918 complaints treach and communications campaign, we expect the number impacts on freedom of speech, personal data or any other huthrough the Portal2 from our operations, 429 were under review, of complaints to keep rising while we reinforce the compliance man rights, environmental damage, work-related harassment, 619 concluded as a violation to the Code of Ethics and 870 were culture within the Company. COMPANY PROFILE or sexual harassment, among others. deemed invalid. Throughout América Móvil, a total of 55,255 hours were allocated to the complaint’s investigation process For more detailed statistics on the América Móvil Whistle-blowers can opt to remain anonymous. A report numsubmitted through the portal. Of the total number of complaints Whistle-blower Website, click here. UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY ber and password are generated for each report, and the whistentered into the portal, only 5% refer to information privacy and le-blower can view the status of the report at any time. Once 0.2% to freedom of speech. the report is received, the corporate manager standardizes the information and sends it to the country manager if he believes Valid CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES américa móvil the information is subject to being assessed locally. Upon reAllocation and Notification to the implementation of corrective whistle-blower ceiving the report, the country manager will share it with the whistle-blower website Whistle-blower measures and system update Local Ethics Committee and will support them in managing Report generated Corporate with closing of valid report and monitoring the report until it is determined whether it is Committee ACTIVATING SAFETY Report recieved applicable or not. Accepted by top management Review by the Corporate Invalid # of the report and password System update with Notification to the Reports on a member of the Local Committee or any of our top Ethics Committee closing of invalid report whistle-blower executives, will be assigned to the América Móvil Corporate Review by the Local SHARING DEVELOPMENT Invalid Committee who will be in charge of responding to it. Reports Ethics Committee on any of the members of the Corporate Committee, the ComAccepted Accepted Detailed investigation mittee itself, or the Corporate Manager, will be redirected to Corporate Manager Local Manager Local UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE the rest of the team, who will be in charge of the investigation. Closing and Supervisors and Supervisors Committee Valid 1 The América Móvil Whistle-blower Portal is available at: * Prior to updating the report in the system, the Corporate Manager Rejected https://denuncias.americamovil.com/ oversees the investigation process carried out by the Local Committee. 2 Some complaints from Telmex, TracFone and Europe subsidiaries Once the Corporate Manager grants its approval to the Local Committee’s APPENDIX are still being received through their whistleblower channels. decision and process, the update is processed into the system. System update with Notification to the However, they are included in the figures reported above. Rejected closing of invalid report whistle-blower 40 América Móvil Policies 2019 (205-2) Sustainability Anticorruption Policy 3 Report At América Móvil we act ethically and responsibly, América Móvil is firmly committed to prevent corruption. Our In 2019 we designed a training program on anticorruption that and we are certain that it is the right way to conduct Anticorruption Policy is based on applicable law and internawill be deployed through our online platform Capacítate Carso our business. Our Code of Ethics and Corporate Gotional best practices. The goal of the policy is to ensure that all and will be available to all our employees and our value chain CONTENT vernance Policies set forth the most important comactivities performed by our Company or in its name are aligned in 2020. mitments in areas such as business integrity, labor to the ethics and values that we are known for, condemning practices, health and safety, human rights, privacy, corruption, bribery, fraud, or any other illegal act across our Responsible Advertisement and Communication Policy and environmental management. value chain. We updated our Responsible Marketing Policy in order to hoMESSAGE FROM THE CEO mologate América Móvil’s communication with our stakeholHuman Rights Policy 1 At the majority of the countries, we have implemented an anders in all our operations worldwide. The respect for human rights is particularly important for ticorruption clause in every contract we sign with suppliers. América Móvil, since we are convinced that we can play a The Policy states that we promote our products and services COMPANY PROFILE key role in promoting compliance with human rights at all our Our Anticorruption Policy clearly states that América Móvil through responsible marketing and advertising strategies and operations and across our supply chain. All our operations strictly prohibits giving or receiving bribes, directly or indirectcampaigns, which align with our corporate values and princiare obliged to understand and apply our human rights Policy, ly, in cash or in the form of gifts, entertainment, trips, loans, ples, as well as to the legal framework of each country where which is based on the UN’s Universal Declaration of Human fees, vacation time, job offers, personal services, or any other we operate. UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY valuable offering. Furthermore, we are committed to: Rights, the Declaration Related to the Fundamental Labor Rights adopted by the International Labor Organization (ILO), • Adhering to anticorruption laws in the countries where we Commercial Integrity Policy 4 and the Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights operate; We expect that suppliers, customers, retailers, commercial partadopted by the UN. This policy is also aligned with the Com• Complying with all applicable financial information laws ners, contractors, consultants, agents, and those who do busiCONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES pany’s Code of Ethics and with the ten principles of the Uniand regulations; ness with América Móvil entities worldwide, henceforth-comted Nations Global Compact. • Performing all negotiations, purchases, and financial mercial partners, follow América Móvil Policies, and conduct transactions in adherence to our internal procedures and business responsibly with integrity, honesty, and transparency. ACTIVATING SAFETY Inclusion and Diversity Policy 2 keeping records that can be reviewed by an audit; The goal of our Inclusion and Diversity Policy is to establish • Ensuring that all payments we make are exclusively for For this reason, in 2019 we requested all our commercial partthe principles, criteria, and guidelines that will ensure a culgoods and services offered to our Company; ners to answer our Evaluation Questionnaire and share our ture of inclusion and diversity in the workplace, offering equal • Adopting internal controls and reporting any cases in which commitment to align our value chain to América Móvil Policies SHARING DEVELOPMENT opportunities for all, not only in terms of income, but also for an employee commits an act of corruption; and and the highest international standards, including human rights, their permanence and growth within the Company. • Promoting practices to help in the fight against corruption anticorruption practices, labor rights, environmental protection, across our value chain. health and safety, conflicts of interest, among others. An example of the growing role that women are playing across UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE Our top management in Mexico and Latin America were offeour organization is that the Corporate Ethics Committee and the Corporate Sustainability Committee are both chaired by women. red an anticorruption course in 2019 to raise awareness on the 1 Our Human Rights Policy is available here. policy clause in every contract we sign with value chain. 2 Our Inclusion and Diversity Policy is available here. 3 Our Anticorruption Policy is available here. APPENDIX 4 Our Commercial Integrity Policy is available here. 41 2019 Human Capital Model Sustainability Report Our Human Capital Model is focused on business performance and a positive We thrive by acknowledging that the people are the center of our strategy. We base our Corporacustomer experience. We believe that one of the key strengths of our model te Human Capital Model on our Code of Ethics and Equal Employment Opportunities guidelines relies on the relative independence that we provide to each of our subsidiaries to and policies, Internal Communications and Human Capital Analytics, Labor Relations and Staff manage their own personnel within general corporate human resources policies Services. The model, always considering dignity, equality, respect and human rights, divides key CONTENT and guidelines. actions in four main domains: Customer Oriented 1) Organizational Structures and Compensation • Organization structures • Personnel and compensation We perform periodical analysis of our job descriptions and market job valuation to align them MESSAGE FROM THE CEO • Salaries and compensation management managment equality towards business requirements. Additionally, we have productivity programs and bonus based • Analysis of job functions and job • Time management descriptions • Benefits administration on companies’ performance indicators (EBIT). • Job valuation • Payments and Terminations • Compensation scales, salary c tures Pers onn • Accountable transferences to ranges and market studies tr u and el M official entities and third parties 2) Personnel Management and Payroll COMPANY PROFILE • Productivity programs l S sation Pa • Social security, health The Corporate HR Department has oversight of the payroll and benefits management, health and bonus linked to Organ en and safety and environment iz ment and safety indicators and it establishes general guidelines regarding personnel management. Company performance and ation age an oll indicators (Ebit) Com a yr UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY p 3) Personnel Training and Development dignity respect The Corporate HR Department establishes guidelines and indicators for climate assessments, • Human Resources •Personal Growth performance appraisal systems, and required training and development programs, along with Inventory and e • Health HR inventories to detect valuable talent. We promote personal and professional training of our key employees onn e el • Culture and recreation Pers d Dev am l-bein CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES identification l • ASUME (Continuous employees according to the position needs. All promotions are based on merit. • Recruitment and anlo T r a in Ws g Personal development, Selection pm in g o c i al ogr self-competence, balanced • Onboarding to Company ent S Pr growth) 4) Social Well-being Programs and Position We promote personal and social well-being of our employees contributing to their integral im• Performance appraisal systems ACTIVATING SAFETY and indicators provement through several human development programs, especially “ASUME”. This program • Training and development programs human rights aims to achieve the development of the individual by driving personal growth and their contribu• Organizational Climate Organizational Culture tion to their social environment, focusing in a balanced personal growth based on the following aspects: physical, affective, social, economic, esthetic, intellectual, moral and spiritual. SHARING DEVELOPMENT Code of Ethics and Equal Internal Communications and Labor Relations and Employment Opportunities Human Capital Analytics Staff Services UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE APPENDIX 42 2019 Talent Development (102-7, 102-8, 102-41, 401-1, 405-1) Sustainability Report At América Móvil we care for our employees and we are convinced that their development constitutes one of the strategic pillars driving our growth. We attract and retain great talent and have grown into a professional and committed team. CONTENT Attracting and retaining talent MESSAGE FROM THE CEO As of December 31st 2019, the América Móvil family includes: COMPANY PROFILE 191,523 employees where 37% are women and 63% are men, 99% are permanent positions, and only 1% are temporary. UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY In addition, 21,398 employees out of the global figure work in businesses other than telecommunications. CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES Our employees as of 2019: 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 ACTIVATING SAFETY 173,174 191,156 195,475 194,431 191,851 189,448 SHARING DEVELOPMENT 191,523 UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE APPENDIX 43 PERCENTAGE OF FULL TIME EQUIVALENTS (FTEs) by region 2019 18,344 Sustainability 9.4% Report 858 Europe 0.4% United States 10,751 5.5% CONTENT Caribbean Region 87,803 45.1% 184,553 Mexico 9,526 100% MESSAGE FROM THE CEO 4.9% total Colombia 10,372 31,946 COMPANY PROFILE 5.3% 16.4% Central America Brazil 7,018 7,935 UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY 3.6% 4.1% Andean Region Southern Cone CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES FTEs by country or region and gender by type of contract Permanent Contract Temporary Contract ACTIVATING SAFETY Country / Region Women Men Women Men Mexico 31,540 55,356 375 532 SHARING DEVELOPMENT Brazil 11,082 20,858 4 2 Colombia 4,290 5,237 Southern Cone 3,350 4,504 43 38 Andean Region 3,096 3,896 13 14 UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE Central America 3,375 6,995 1 1 United States 239 324 61 235 Caribbean Region 4,298 6,229 105 118 Europe 7,091 11,078 66 109 APPENDIX Total 68,361 114,476 668 1,049 44 2019 (401-1) Sustainability Report Our employees have the right of freedom of association, so they can decide to be member of a union or engage in collective bargaining agreements in accordance with the applicable labor laws in every country where we operate. By the end of 2019, CONTENT 64% of our employees were unionized1. Percentage of new positions BREAKDOWN OF JOBS BY GENDER AND POSITION OF filled by internal candidates4 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO FTEs OCCUPYING PERMANENT POSITIONS2 Number of Percentage filled Position Women Men Total Country / Region new positions by internal candidates COMPANY PROFILE Entry level 9,486 9,882 19,368 Mexico 367 86% Employees with no staff 47,648 82,339 129,987 Southern Cone 786 24% Employees with staff 3,404 8,221 11,625 Andean Region 224 29% UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY 2nd level manager 923 2,432 3,355 Central America 211 82% 1st level manager 331 1,088 1,419 United States 26 100% Executive 79 375 454 Caribbean Region 395 83% Total 61,872 104,337 166,209 Total 2,009 56% CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES For América Móvil it is important to This year we created 2,009 new ACTIVATING SAFETY maintain a low employee turnover. In 2019 our turnover rate was SHARING DEVELOPMENT 12.9% (3) positions across the organization, of which UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE internal candidates occupied 56%. 1 The number of unionized workers seems lower than the one reported in 2018, because we broadened the scope of businesses included in our disclosure. APPENDIX 2 This figure excludes Europe. 3 This figure excludes our Call Centers. 4 Brasil and Colombia did not open any new position in 2019. This table does not include Europe’s information. 45 2019 Sustainability Report CONTENT MESSAGE FROM THE CEO COMPANY PROFILE UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY Diversity To date, we have 34.3%1 women (405-1) In 2019, there were 2,276 América Móvil employees with a Diversity among people enriches us all, helps us to disability increasing gradually compared to the previous year, CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES better understand the needs of different groups in the in management positions and distributed as follows: markets in which we operate, allows us to expand our 45% in management positions • 66% have a motor disability, with Brazil employing the opinions and perspectives, and gives us the opportuhighest number of people with this kind of condition. nity to be more tolerant and respectful of the different with a commercial role. • 8% have a visual disability, with Brazil employing the ACTIVATING SAFETY points of view and cultures in a globalized world. highest number of people with this kind of condition. Level Percentage of women2 • 14% have an auditory disability, with Brazil employing the This is why in 2019, in line with our commitment to promote 1st level manager highest number of people with this kind of condition. gender equality and women’s empowerment in the workplace, 35.8% • 3% have an intellectual disability, with Brazil employing the SHARING DEVELOPMENT Executive marketplace and the community, we committed to foster the UN 30.9% highest number of people with this kind of condition. Women Empowerment Principles towards equal opportunities. Women in management positions • 5% have a visceral disability, with Ecuador employing the with a commercial role3 45.1% highest number of people with this kind of condition. UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE América Móvil recognizes talent regardless of gender. • 5% have multiple disabilities (two or more of those mentioOf the total part-time employees4 with a permanent position ned above, with Guatemala employing the highest number within the Company, 45% are women. This reflects that offeof people with this kind of condition. ring flexibility at work allows women to better adapt the rest 1 Includes:Females in all management positions, including junior, middle APPENDIX and senior management. Telmex is not included. of their activities. 2 Telmex is not included. 3 Females in all management positions, including junior, middle and senior 4 Working less than 40 hours per week. 46 management as a % of all such managers. Work Benefits 2019 (102-35, 102-36, 401-2) Sustainability Report All our employees, with no exception, receive a fair salary and the benefits as stipulated by applicable laws in the countries where they work. Furthermore, we offer additional benefits in some of our operations such as: life insurance, private CONTENT health insurance, temporary or permanent disability insurance, dental insurance, parental leave, financial aid for purchasing school supplies, preferential prices for purchasing our devices, shuttle service to and from our work centers, financial aid to cover funeral expenses, and paid leave in the event of death in the family. MESSAGE FROM THE CEO We also adhere to the provisions in applicable laws regarding employee leave, whether their reason for leaving was termination, retirement, or because they resigned voluntarily. COMPANY PROFILE It is important to point out that in the countries and regions where we operate1, the compensation offered to both men and women (whether they are unionized or not) is equal, reflecting our culture of gender equality. UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY Many of our subsidiaries have an internal maternity and paternity policy in place. Some of our operations, offer additional maternity and paternity benefits, for example Colombia gives a child birth bonus and they allow the new moms to have one hour break for nursing until the baby CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES turns 6 months old. Argentina offers a gradual return to activities after maternity leave. In Brazil and Ecuador, the internal maternity policy offers 60 and 6 extra days per maternity leave respectively. Brazil, Nicaragua and Argentina also exceed through internal policy the days of paternity leave by 10, 1 and 4 days respectively. In Peru, a paternal bonus is given to either parent at the ACTIVATING SAFETY birth of the child. The retention rate SHARING DEVELOPMENT after maternity and paternity leave in America Móvil is UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE 81%. 1 This analysis excludes Europe. APPENDIX 47 Performance Evaluations 2019 (404-3) Employees who received performance Sustainability evaluations by region and gender 20191 Report Every year we carry out performance evaluations across the In 2019, more than 90% of our employees across the Group organization to identify areas in which our employees can imparticipated, for a score of 79.75%. We continue to strengthen prove their skills and to detect specific talents. Evaluation proour efforts to communicate and engage our employees in the CONTENT cesses are carried at all levels within the Company and analyze process to assess our work environment in order to achieve Country / Region Women Men % of employees performance in competencies such as establishing productiour 2020 goal. ve relationships at the workplace, focus on customer service, Mexico 28,369 49,321 88% leading work teams, a vocation for service, leadership, innovaBrazil 7,422 15,533 83% MESSAGE FROM THE CEO tion in sustainability, talent development, and communication Colombia 4,224 5,154 98% skills, among others. Southern Cone 3,257 4,368 94% Andean Region 2,659 3,379 85% Many of our subsidiaries carry out the performance evaluaCentral America 3,113 6,561 93% COMPANY PROFILE tion process by employing the Success Factors platform; other United States 229 312 96% countries do so with an internally-developed tool. Also, in Caribbean Region 4,054 5,942 90% some of our operations, we assess goal achievement and esTotal 53,327 90,570 88% tablish performance, professional and personal growth plans UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY for every employee. This allows us to measure the individual contribution to reaching the Company’s strategic goals. Work Environment CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES The 2020 objective of our Smart Sustainability Strategy At América Móvil we carry out annual work environment satisestablishes the goal to evaluate more than 80% of our faction surveys in order to understand our employees’ percepemployees. To date, we have exceeded the level of participation tion of the Company, and to identify how each of the divisions of our goal. We will continue strengthening our continuous in our subsidiaries is performing in terms of several work-reACTIVATING SAFETY evaluation culture. lated topics such as respect within work teams or satisfaction with employee benefits, among others. Likewise, the survey allows us to have a very specific idea of what our improvement goals should be and, based on this, design specific acSHARING DEVELOPMENT In 2019, we have been able tion plans for each division that includes those items where to evaluate opportunities for improvement are detected or to identify best 88% practices, when needed. UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE Since 2011, we have been applying the working environment survey every year at all our subsidiaries. One of the 2020 obof our headcount. jectives of our sustainability strategy is to improve the result of our working environment survey from the current 78% to APPENDIX 1 Europe and BCC are not included in performance evaluation figures. 80% satisfaction, and to increase the level of participation from 87% to 89%. 48 Training 2019 (404-1, 404-2) Sustainability Report At América Móvil we make a constant effort to proAVERAGE TRAINING HOURS PER POSITION OF FTEs 144,956 mote the growth of our employees. A key component of this effort is to offer constant training, both online employees1 CONTENT and in person, in every division and at every level. at América Móvil, took The objective of these training courses is to update our employees on the new telecommunications solutions we offer Position Entry level / Position without command Average training hours 6,025,590 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO our customers, in response to the new era of the digital world 5% employees with lowest compensation 73 training hours we are living in today. During 2019, some of the courses we Staff without command 31 in diverse topics. Accordingly, offered were: Staff with command 45 2nd level manager 27 84% of our employees participated COMPANY PROFILE Digital Transformation Trainings 1st level manager 40 in at least one training course. Executive 18 1 Europe and BCC are not included in training figures. Total 37 UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY 1. Introduction to Digital Transformation 2. Cloud Foundations 3. Network Foundations CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES 4. Introduction to IT 5. Introduction to Programming 6. Cibersecurity ACTIVATING SAFETY 7. Web Identity 8. Technical Support 9. Fundamentals of Web Apps Development SHARING DEVELOPMENT 10. Platform Manager 11. Data Analytics 12. IoT Development UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE 13. Cloud Implementation 14. Virtual Learning Environments APPENDIX 49 2019 Average training hours per gender per position per FTEs Sustainability Report Average training hours Average training hours Position female FTEs male FTEs CONTENT Entry level / Position without command 69 76 5% employees with lowest compensation Staff without command 30 31 Staff with command 53 42 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO 2nd level manager 23 28 1st level manager 44 39 Executive 21 17 Total 37 36 COMPANY PROFILE UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY Hours of training by region and gender 2019 CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES Total training hours Total training hours Country / Region female employees male employees Mexico 979,458 2,054,068 ACTIVATING SAFETY Brazil 73,462 112,304 Colombia 125,468 166,326 Southern Cone 88,777 149,805 SHARING DEVELOPMENT Andean Region 176,160 211,235 Central America 169,186 290,151 Caribbean Region 675,057 730,753 United States 9,483 13,898 UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE Total 2,297,051 3,728,539 APPENDIX 50 2019 Sustainability Report In Peru, we designed and implemented CONTENT a virtual training program for the Claro Care Centers, reaching more than 1,400 employees. MESSAGE FROM THE CEO COMPANY PROFILE In Guatemala, we have the Claro University program (Programa de Universidad Claro), where two Masters degrees are offered, UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY one in Marketing -with 22 studentsand one in Project Management -with 25 students-, as well as a degree in Business Our subsidiaries perform their own process to detect training The following are among our best practices in talent Administration, specializing in Telecommunications, or in Saneeds (DNC for its acronym in Spanish), so that the training development: les and Service -with 250 students-. CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES and development programs in which our employees participate address specific needs in each operation. The following are Global Hitss has a corporate e-learning platform with both In El Salvador, we offer a Technical Contractors’ certification among the training programs implemented in the Company: technical and human development courses, which purpose is program, which pursues to certify the entire contractors’ wor• Programs for developing managerial skills, including trato promote our employees active learning with 24/7 availability. kforce, evaluating the knowledge and abilities required to insACTIVATING SAFETY ining high-performance teams, project management, and The Company also has a training area, which manages the tall residential services. coaching programs. identification of specific training needs, as well as identifies • Technological training. alternatives to specific training needs according to the In Chile, within the Digital Transformation and Technological • Developing managerial abilities. operation. This area has a certified procedure, documented by an Evolution strategy, we developed an online and classroom-traSHARING DEVELOPMENT • Human development programs, such as communications, international quality standard (ISO 9001:2015, ISO 27001:2013). ining plan focused on helping our employees to modernize and negotiations, and interpersonal competencies workshops. face the digital transformation. This year, we also developed 30 • Developing competencies such as creativity and innovaIn Colombia, as part of the Comprehensive Leadership School, training courses equivalent to 462 hours. This allowed us to traUPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE tion, as well as agile methodologies. we implemented the comprehensive mapping and communiin 85 of our specialists in the technical area. On the other hand, cation programs, and the change management program. We we developed 11 online courses where over 370 employees took also consolidated the unique offering that puts the Capacítate 3 of them in average. Carso website at everyone’s reach. APPENDIX 51 Continuous Improvement In 2019, more than 2019 46,000 (404-2) Sustainability Report At América Móvil we are particularly concerned with implementing continuous improvement processes and mechanisms.Therefore, we offer regular training to our employees on these. employees globally CONTENT received formal training on different continuous-improvement-related issues, Among our certifications, we can mention SCRUM, different ISO certifications, Lean Six Sigma, Java and Oracle Certifications, and Agile Certified Practitioner. with an investment of $133 million pesos1. MESSAGE FROM THE CEO In addition, in order to keep up with the continuous market changes, we are incorporating the Also, the transformational edge of the customer experience strategy in Central America led to: Agile Methodology in some of our work processes and teams. This allows us to be more effec• Implementing a design thinking cycle to improve processes. tive and efficient in developing new products and services. For example, in Telcel we have iden• Developing five product journeys: Prepaid Mobile, Postpaid Mobile, Fixed-line Residential tified four key management processes in which we have applied agile principles, allowing us to Broadband, Digital TV and Satelite TV. COMPANY PROFILE better respond to new expectations. • Developing six sub-journeys at the checkout journey process, generating ideas to solve each of the grievances at the corresponding phases. TELCEL´S AGILE PHILOSOPHY • Defining and sharing viable ideas at a regional level (Central America). • Defining and designing aligned ideas at a regional level, (Central America). UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY Agile principles TRAIN YOURSELF CARSO (CAPACÍTATE CARSO) 1. Enhance clients’ experience The goal of the Train Yourself Carso (Capacítate Carso) platform is to permanently train and 2. Collaborative work develop our employees. By using this platform, employees are able to view the courses that CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES 3. MVP* deliver have been assigned to them based on their job profile, the time left to finalize them, as well as 4. Accept changes the courses they have already completed. 1. Effective communication 2. Functional services 5. Turn solutions into ecosystems on long-term agreements on excesive documentation 6. Continuous improvement On the other hand, the platform enables the team in charge of the training programs to obtain statisACTIVATING SAFETY 7. Adapt the best technology to Telcel tical information, from the particular information on a given employee to general data on a specific subsidiary or group. The team will also be able to appoint courses offered in one operation to the * “Minimun Viable Product” rest of the Group, thus encouraging the exchange of best practices across the whole Company. SHARING DEVELOPMENT 3. Clients’ experience 4. Response to change In Ecuador, the number of courses on contractual agreement on general plan UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE offered online increased 32%, As a result of our continuous improvement efforts, in Ecuador we were able to increase bill payments and ten courses were designed and enabled in by including a payment button in the App. In 2019, USD $3.3M were collected from customers through the Train Yourself Carso platform. With this, employees were able to complete 10,410 courses on the platform. a CF payment method; by 2020 our goal is to implement this method for other forms of payment. APPENDIX Furthermore, by implementing in-store Wi-Fi experience we provided customers with additional information that complements the 360 view and boosts commercial in-store sales management. 1 These figures do not include Europe, BCC, Argentina, Uruguay and Paraguay and Claro Enterprises Solutions 52 operations. Certifications1 TELCEL TELMEX Global HitsS Telvista BRAZIL Colombia 1. ISO/IEC 27001 1. Distintivo ESR 16. Microsoft Gold Partner Data Center 1. ISO 27001 1. ISO 9001 1. ISO 27001 1. ISO 27001 2. ISO 9001 2. Calidad Ambiental Nivel de Desempeño 17. Microsoft Gold Partner Cloud 2. ISO 9001 2. SPC 2 TYPE II 2. ISO 17025 2. ISO 9001 2019 3. 4. ISO/IEC 20000-1 Distintivo ESR 1 (PROFEPA) 3. Calidad Ambiental Nivel de Desempeño 18. Microsoft Gold Partner Small and Midmarket Solutions 3. PCI DSS 3.2.1 3. ISO 14001 3. 4. CEEDA SAP in Infrastructure Sustainability 2 (PROFEPA) 19. Microsoft Gold Cloud Productivity Operations Report 4. ISO 14001 20. Oracle Gold Partner 5. SAP in HANA Operations 5. Distintivo Ambiental Oro (UNAM) 21. SAP in HANA Operations 6. ISO/IEC 20000-1 6. ISO/IEC 27001 22. SAP in Hosting Operations 7. Level V HSHA WCQA 7. ISO/IEC 27017 23. SAP in Operations Control Center for 8. RUC 8. ISO/IEC 27018 Application Operations 9. Equity Labor Ministry of CONTENT 9. Gold Partner-Cisco 24. ISO/IEC 20000-1 Labor and the Presidential 10. Gold Partner-Teldat 25. ISO 9001 Ministry for Equity for 11. Avaya Diamante 26. ISO 22301 Women, with the technical 12. Authorized Reseller -Juniper 27. PCI DSS support of United Nations 13. Cisco Cloud and Manage Service Master 28. ISO/IEC 38500 Development Program 14. SAP in Cloud and Infraestructure 29. Reporte Tipo II ISAE 3402 /SOC 1 (UNDP) MESSAGE FROM THE CEO Operations 30. Level V HSHA-WCQA (ICREA 5) 15. VMWare Partner 31. Dictamen NFPA75 Costa Rica 1. Esencial Costa Rica COMPANY PROFILE Ecuador Peru Dominican Republic CHILE Uruguay Paraguay UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY 1. OHSAS 18001 1. ISO/IEC 27001 1. Equaling RD Gender Equality (Ministry 1. ISO 20000 1. Certificado UNIT 1. ISO 14001 2. ISO 9001 2. ISO 9001 of the Dominican Republic and the United 2. PCI DSS 3.2 de Sistema de 2. ISO 9001 3. TIER III Nations Development Program) 3. Cisco Gold Partner Gestión de la 2. Great Place to Work 4. SAP in Cloud and Infraestructure Operations Calidad 3. Autorized Economic Operator Operatior 5. SAP in Certified Hosting Operations CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES type Importador Certified level (AEO) 1 6. ISO/IEC 20000-1 7. SOC 1 TYPE II 8. Crime prevention model certification 9. ISO 27001 10. TIER Design 11. TIER Facility ACTIVATING SAFETY TracFone US 1 The scope of the certifications exhibited above, in many cases cover only country-specific processes / operation 1. PCI DSS v3.2.1 Merchant Level 1 and not necessarily the entire operation. If you require specific coverage and scope information on certifications 2. HITRUST CSF certification of the NIST Cybersecurity Framework by country or operation, please contact contacto-rse@americamovil.com SHARING DEVELOPMENT Austria Belarus Bulgaria Croatia Macedonia Serbia Slovenia 1. ISO 9001 1. ISO 9001 1. ISO 14001 1. ISO 9001 1. ISO 9001 1. ISO 14001 1. ISO 14001 2. BGF (Gütesiegen Berufliche Gesundheitsförderung) 2. ISO/IEC 27001 2. OHSAS 18001 2. OHSAS 18001 2. ISO 45001 2. ISO 37001 2. EMAS UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE 3. ISO 19600 3. ISO 14001 3. PCI DSS 3. ISO/IEC 20000-1 3. ISO 14001 3. ISO 14001 3. ISO/IEC 27001 4. ISO 5001 4. ISO 37001 4. ISO/IEC 27001 4. ISO/IEC 27001 4. ISO/IEC 27001 4. ISO 37001 5. EMAS 5. ISO 19600 5. ISO 9001 5. ISO 22301 5. ISO 22301 5. ISO 19600 6. ISO 27001 6. Cisco Gold Partner 6. ISO 37001 6. ISO/IEC 20000-1 7. Eco Datacenter 7. ISO 37001 7. ISO 19600 7. ISO 37001 8. ISO 20000-1 8. ISO 19600 8. ISO 19600 APPENDIX 9. ISO 37001 10. ISO 19600 53 2019 Health & Safety (403-9 , 403-10) Sustainability Report Caring for the health and safety of our employees and Furthermore, we assess our Company’s performance in Health Our absentee rate1 in 2019 contractors in their daily activities, as well as that of and Safety in three main fields: our suppliers, retailers and customers who visit our for all our operations was 0.00037%. CONTENT facilities, is one of our main strategic goals in our 1. Providing a healthy and safe place to work. effort to assure a safe and healthy work environment. • Eliminating sources or events that could cause injuries or affect one’s health. This is why, beyond compliance with local applicable laws • Identifying risks, along with their probability and severity. MESSAGE FROM THE CEO and regulations, we are fostering a health and safety culture • Defining work-related accidents or incidents. within our operations supported by management systems, to minimize the risk of accidents, and to prevent workrelated 2. Preventing injuries and accidents. Furthermore, we seek to identify risks and/or dangers that injuries or illnesses. • Defining work-related injuries in a person’s physical, could be driven by changes in trends, in order to implement COMPANY PROFILE mental or cognitive condition. improvements in our processes. We are also training brigadiers The leadership and commitment of our executive team has • Aligning safety guidelines along the organization. in each work facility to provide support in case of emergency been fundamental in advancing towards the alignment and (fire, earthquakes, floods, evacuation, and first response, UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY certification of all our operations under ISO:45001. This stan3. Preventing decline in the employees’ health conditions. among other scenarios). dard has proved to be a best practice adopted by thousands of • Defining progressive decline in workers’s overall physical, organizations around the globe. Plus, the certification provides mental or cognitive health condition, during his worklife. Fatalities confidence to our clients and investors that our Company not • Promoting employees’ constant health monitoring to During 2019, we had two work at height incidents that resulted CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES only cares for our employees and the workers of our allies in detect inconsistencies at an early stage. in the loss of one Telmex employee and one Telmex contractor. our value chain, but also keeps in mind the productivity and • Establishing processes to ensure that The Company is reinforcing health and safety policies in all continuous improvement of our processes, while developing the workplace is safe and the employees’ our operations regarding mandatory training and equipment innovative services and solutions for our clients. functions have been adequately assigned. requirements, as well as hazard prevention campaigns to avoid ACTIVATING SAFETY future accidents. SHARING DEVELOPMENT UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE Eliminating dangers, reducing Developing a culture of safety, Complying with legal Increasing productivity by incidents at the workspace in which employees take an requirements and standards reducing personnel absences and preventing work-related active role required by our clients and rotation APPENDIX injuries/illnesses 1 This absentee rate excludes Europe, Colombia, United States and Ecuador. 54 2019 Work related injuries and illnesses in 20191 Sustainability Number of injuries Cases of work-related illnesses2 Report 72% of operations taught employees the Company’s emergency protocols and provides training workshops, so that employees could react in a timely and appropriate manner to risky and Country / Region Women Men Women Men emergency situations. CONTENT Mexico 381 1,049 1 2 Brazil 27 124 More than 76% of operations provided height and electrical risk management programs to miniColombia 69 44 3 1 mize employee risks and accidents. Therefore, regular medical examinations were provided, along Southern Cone 21 12 with training on how to safely perform height work and the proper use of protection equipment. MESSAGE FROM THE CEO Andean Region 8 1 Central America 16 53 In 80% of subsidiaries, we held road awareness and training workshops. Caribbean Region 53 89 77 119 United States 76% of América Móvil operations offer safety and hygiene programs. COMPANY PROFILE Total 575 1,372 81 122 76% have other programs that seek to improve workers’ working conditions. Some of them are Besides the corporate programs and guidelines of our subsidiaries, we implement measures at Telvista’s safe enterprise certification and the fall prevention bed in Colombia. UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY our operations aimed at improving the health and safety of our employees and customers who visit our facilities. The following are among the most relevant measures and results obtained: Colombia stands out for the health and safety programs implemented in 2019: 76% of our operations have ergonomics programs at work, such as adaptation of areas in order Ergonomics Program (Sistema de Evaluación Musculoesquelético), this program aims to preCONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES to reduce occupational hazards and injuries. For example, Colombia has a musculoskeletal epivent, through the identification, evaluation and intervention of biomechanical labor risk factors demiological surveillance system to identify, evaluate and intervene biomechanical risk factors on the Mobile Business Unit and Fixed Business Unit. The different activities of the surveillance in work in the mobile and fixed business areas. program include concepts of position, committees, effectiveness of program compliance, inspections and training. ACTIVATING SAFETY On the other hand, in 76% of our subsidiaries have programs for stress management. Some of the operations such as Colombia, El Salvador and Argentina offered employees training, talks, Health and Nutrition Program (Yo cuido de tí, tu cuidas de tí mismo), aims to provide prevention workshops and material to identify and handle stressful situations. tools and information to prioritize health risks in our employees such as respiratory, musculoskeletal and infectious conditions in our customer service centers (CAVs), through training on SHARING DEVELOPMENT Around 88% of the Company’s operations have health and/or nutrition programs, in which mainhealthy habits and promotion of physical activity. ly were offered to take care of our employees’ diet and promote healthy habits that improve their quality of life. Strategic Road Safety Program (Campaña de Seguridad Vial), aims to reduce the frequency and UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE severity of road accidents. In 2019, disabling cases were reduced by eight and disability days 76% of countries trained brigadiers in the workplaces for withdrawal and emergency assessment. were reduced 56% (680 days less), compared to 2018 as a result of the intervention in the human factor and means of transport (safe vehicles). Coverage was 1,010 trained employees out of a total of 1,150 scheduled, in 16 cities. APPENDIX 1 These figures exclude BCC, Uruguay, Paraguay, Claro Enterprise Solutions and Europe. 2 An occupational illness is any illness whose cause is attributable to the workplace environment or labor activities conditions and exclude all other general illnesses such as the flu. 55 2019 Managing the Value Chain (102-9, 204-1, 308-1, 408-1, 409-1, 414-1, 414-2) Sustainability Report Each of the links in América Móvil’s value chain is of vital importance and the result of the final conjunction of all its elements is what helps us offer a highquality customer experience. This is why we maintain close commercial ties with CONTENT all leading industry and telecommunications suppliers to offer the best service with the best products, technologies and devices, to all mobile-service units for residential and commercial markets. MESSAGE FROM THE CEO By December 31st, 2019, we had contracts with more than 38 thousand suppliers and over 5 thousand retailers globally. COMPANY PROFILE Our supplier relationship is based on a strategic centralized model that allows us to achieve economies of scale and synergies for our subsidiaries. Likewise, we have strategic suppliers in every country to address local issues, particularly in terms of network maintenance, customer service platforms, and call centers. UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY Procurement Support and Labor Relations comprehensive solution CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES Ensuring employee compliance and alignment with our Code of Ethics Registration, pre-screening Contractor Performance and selection management evaluations ACTIVATING SAFETY Based on risk level Labor HSE • Quality • Planning • Security • Compliance • Delivery • Other SHARING DEVELOPMENT UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE Market search and Contract and Contract execution operating and supplier selection allocation processes and management commercial closing continuous cycle APPENDIX Interaction of several divisions at different moments in the process 56 2019 Percentage of local suppliers1 This year we continued developing the global program to As part of our commitment to contribute to the Sustainability (204-1) identify our key direct and indirect suppliers. The objective of economies of the countries where we operate, Report Country % of local suppliers this program is to develop plans that will enable us to minimize on average more than 85% Mexico Telcel 94% risks across our value chain. Supplier assessments were based Mexico Telmex 94% on the following criteria: Global Hitss 95% 1. Critical Suppliers for the type of provision: They are those CONTENT Mexico Telvista 98% active suppliers that are critical from the point of view of Brazil 97% their impact to our business. That is, for the type of goods of our suppliers are local, Colombia 90% or services that they supply to the Company: that number in some operations is higher than 90%. MESSAGE FROM THE CEO Guatemala 67% • Provider of goods / services to the end user: is the proCosta Rica 64% vider of goods (phones, tablets, devices, accessories, b. Environmental High Risk Suppliers. El Salvador 80% modems, etc.) or services (installation, care, operation, • Water. Honduras 57% maintenance) for customers / end users. • Emissions. Nicaragua 77% • Non-Substitutable Supplier: is one that cannot be easily • Waste. COMPANY PROFILE Panama 63% replaced by another supplier. • Biodiversity. Argentina 93% • Critical Component Supplier: is the business partner c. Money Laundering and Illegal Financial Activities High Paraguay 85% that provides essential goods or services for the contiRisk Suppliers: are those whose geographical operation UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY Uruguay 91% nuity of operations. is in the countries of the FATF blacklists. Chile 90% • Lobbying Agencies or Third Party Management ConPeru 93% sultants or Construction Contractors: Those who carry From the total number of suppliers evaluated in 20192, 31% Ecuador 94% out activities or relationships with authorities, comwere identified as critical due to the type of provision, of which CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES Puerto Rico 66% munities, civil society organizations, among others on 19% supply us a good or service that has direct contact with Dominican Republic 74% behalf of the Company, so they could generate signifithe user, 3% are non-substitutable suppliers, 5% are critical United States TracFone 94% cant risks, mainly in the area of corruption. component suppliers, 1% are suppliers that engage with stakeUnited States Claro Enterprise 88% 2. Critical for internal supplier management practices: They holders on behalf of the Company and 3% fall into more than ACTIVATING SAFETY Solutions are those active suppliers that, by not incorporating the one of the previous categories. On the other hand, we identiAustria 87% best practices in the field of human rights, environmental fied that around 12% are critical for their internal management Belarus 97% stewardship and money laundering prevention could conspractices, of which 4% has opportunity areas regarding human Bulgaria 89% titute a reputational risk for our Company. rights management, 2% in environmental stewardship, and 6% SHARING DEVELOPMENT Croatia 81% a. Human Rights High Risk Suppliers. has opportunities in anticorruption. Macedonia 79% • Health & Security. Serbia 83% • Labor. UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE Slovenia 81% • Data and Communications Privacy. Total 85% • Conflict Zones. 1 At América Móvil, we consider as a local supplier when it operates in the same country where we acquire its products and services. APPENDIX 2 Excluding: Telmex, AMCO, TracFone, Belarus, Bulgaria, Croatia, Macedonia, Serbia, Slovenia, BCC and Claro Enterprise Solutions. 57 2019 In terms of our value chain, we have established three 2020 Commercial Integrity Policy Sustainability Clause in Supplier Contracts sustainability goals to be included in our “Smart Sustainability” Sustainability Report strategy, defined as follows: Suppliers, customers, retailers, commercial partners, contracFor several years now, we have included a sustainability clau1. To align 35% of our suppliers with our Commercial Integrity tors, consultants, agents, and those who do business with se in our supplier contracts addressing topics such as enviPolicy. América Móvil entities worldwide, henceforth commercial ronmental stewardship, protection of their employees’ human To date, 26% of our suppliers and 35% of our retailers have partners, are expected to follow América Móvil Policies, and and labor rights, as well as the legality of the inputs they use CONTENT signed our Policy. to conduct business with integrity, honesty, and transparenfor making their products, ensuring their materials are not 2. To assess 100% of our Tier 1 suppliers1 in sustainability cy. For this reason, we request that all our commercial partsourced from conflict areas. Currently, more than 85% of our performance. ners answer our self-assessment questionnaire and commit handset suppliers globally have signed contracts including By the end of 2019, we reached 67% of progress towards to align with América Móvil’s polices. our sustainability clause. MESSAGE FROM THE CEO achieving this goal. 3. To offer training to 30% of our local suppliers. During 2019, 100% of our main suppliers and retailers were asThe clause states the following: This year, we developed an online tool similar to the Carso ked to align with this Policy, and the adhesion is a mandatory Train Yourself platform, in order to provide comprehensive requirement for new commercial partners. This year, we also Suppliers ensure that the materials and/or products that have COMPANY PROFILE training for our allies (suppliers, retailers, and contractors) developed a manual for the implementation of the Commercial been used directly or indirectly by any sub-contractors across across our subsidiaries in Latin America, and offered traiIntegrity Policy for the legal teams in our subsidiaries. the value chain are of legal and sustainable origin. Suppliers ning to the relevant managers in each operation. ensure that the materials used in making their products are UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY not sourced in conflict areas, or areas adjacent to them, and that, correspondingly, they are not financing armed conflicts or human rights violations. América Móvil can at any time demand proof of this and suppliers must be able to provide eviCONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES dence that their products are “conflict-free”. Suppliers ensure that there are no human rights violations involved in their operations and that they have legitimate poACTIVATING SAFETY licies and mechanisms in place to ensure that human rights are being respected in their own business and in those of their suppliers. Suppliers commit to preventing and mitigating any SHARING DEVELOPMENT negative impact on human rights resulting from their activities, products, or services. Suppliers ensure that they adhere to all applicable environUPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE mental laws and regulations in their operations. Additionally, suppliers guarantee that they have a plan to prevent and adequately manage the waste they generate. APPENDIX 1 Tier 1 suppliers, are the ones whose purchase orders exceeded USD 50M in 2018. 58 2019 Third Party Risk Evaluation Model: Colombia Case Sustainability Report Since 2010 our team in Colombia has evolved the value chain evaluation model from a financial Our Assessment has two phases: A first filter assessing anticorruption, money laundering and risk assessment approach towards a mature supplier enabling model, evaluating 100% of our counter-terrorism to determine whether they are suitable to be included in our value chain; and suppliers based on 88 criteria, including the following: a second evaluation performed by a third party based on Claro Colombia’s methodology. This evaluation is valid for one year, and those allies that have not updated their evaluation are not CONTENT eligible for new projects. Finally, we close the loop by participating in the PAR Alliance, a joint effort of several public and private institutions that aim to align local suppliers to international best practices. The alliance MESSAGE FROM THE CEO provides training and follow up to our suppliers in key material issues for our Company, and we include the relevant GRI, SAM and Global Compact indicators in the evaluation criteria for our Human Talent and Health, Safety Finance and tenders, in order to contribute to the development of competitive and sustainable value chains Social Commitment and Environment Governance in the region. COMPANY PROFILE We continue working towards the harmonization of our value chain practices across operations • Social responsibility • ISO 14001 Certification • Financial Indicators considering the experience of Claro Colombia and our European subsidiaries. UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY programs • Matrix of environmental • 550/1116 Law • Welfare plan criteria • Embargo CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES • Labor inclusion of vulnerable population • Physical Infraestructure, facilities and equipment • • FIFO Terrorism Financing Value Chain Development • ISO 9001:2015 • 5G-SST Implementation and Money Laundering Certification • Road Safety Policy Prevention In 2019, in collaboration with the Carlos Slim Foundation, we developed a training • Foreign workers • Alcohol and Drugs Policy • Anticorruption platform available to América Móvil’s commercial partners, (suppliers, retailers • Payroll and social • Working at Heights • Due diligence and contractors) as well as courses to develop more competitive and sustainable ACTIVATING SAFETY security Certification • Code of Ethic value chains, according to the different business needs. • Hiring schemes • Endowments • Employee records • Emergency Brigades The staff of the subsidiaries who will assign the courses for our commercial partners were • Medical exams • Business Continuity Plan trained on the management of the platform. In addition, supplier information is being compleSHARING DEVELOPMENT • Freedom of Association ted to assign training invitations. Acknowledging the differences in kind, size, and criticality of our allies, we base our strategy on The first course to be offered for our commercial partners is our online training regarding the UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE the segmentation of all of our third parties according to the amount spent in our procurement principles included in our Code of Ethics. Courses will be available to all our allies’ employees, budget, and the identification of critical suppliers (those who have direct contact with our end most importantly for the ones related to the product or service provision to our Company. consumer) and non-replaceable suppliers. In consequence, the depth and periodicity of the assessment that each ally is subject to, depends on how they are classified. APPENDIX 59 2019 Customer Experience Sustainability Report In line with the ongoing technological transformation, We are located wherever our customers need and we provide América Móvil is evolving to ensure the preference of them service through their preferred channel. our consumers by offering them a memorable expeToday almost 88% rience based on their particular needs. Last year we CONTENT focused our efforts in a transformational process from a Company that offers customer service into Personal Service Channels Self-Service Channels one that connects with user experiences, placing our Customer Service Centers MESSAGE FROM THE CEO customer at the center of our strategy. (CSCs) Virtual IVR of transactions Agent IVR Visual IVR are made through self-service channels, We offer our customers products and services that are reliaChat Virtual Chatbot thus addressing the trend in consumer behavior toward ble, flexible, innovative, attractive, and with a greater coveUSSDs self-service, while 12% are carried out in channels that offer COMPANY PROFILE rage, we promote an open communication and a continuous Social Networks personal service, including our Customer Service Centers and improvement process in order to meet their communication App our Call Centers. and technology needs. Web UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY During 2019, we continue adapting our internal processes to create an interconnected system at the operation level so we can offer a unique customer experience. We are constantly making technological changes that will enable us to face the exCONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES ponential growth in data traffic, video downloads, smartphone use, and cloud-based services, as well as the Internet of Things. s ervice • mu ds ACTIVATING SAFETY device service nd improv re a ltio e M SHARING DEVELOPMENT s integrated services customer support convergence UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE uity cus es serv APPENDIX om vic ec biq er u ic er-o t onti riented s nui ty and 60 2019 Percentage of service by channel1 Sustainability Report Telcel: To evaluate NPS, in 2019 we conducted more than 330 thouWe implemented the Telcel Fingerprint initiative for customer Country / Region Personal Service Channels Self-Service Channels sand surveys in our Latin American operations, thus giving us service channels, such as CSCs and retailers. Through this iniMexico 195,725,645 1,653,284,690 the possibility to better understand if the user experience in tiative, we prevent identity theft by including data and fingerprint CONTENT Brazil 292,642,985 363,124,990 their different devices, is according to expectations. In addivalidation according to official identity documents for new cusColombia 52,422,917 1,091,883,052 tion, we measure how the use of applications and their interactomers. We also provide them the possibility of including fingerSouthern Cone 41,176,822 616,995,891 tion with our channels affects positively on customer loyalty. prints and data of third parties designated and authorized by the Andean Region 35,817,601 775,063,503 lawful holders to make transactions with the Company on their MESSAGE FROM THE CEO Central America 16,359,053 117,994,288 To measure NPS, we ask our customers how likely they would behalf. These actions help us to provide greater transparency Caribbean Region 17,945,591 85,325,251 be to recommend our service, based on their own experience. and accountability for our customers regarding the collection United States 47,430,064 448,073,230 The following are a few examples of the positive responses we and self-service payment processes, while reducing the number Europe 62,815,779 699,608,472 obtained versus local competitors in some of our operations: of complaints on balance clarifications. COMPANY PROFILE Total 762,336,458 5,851,353,367 MOBILE NPS Colombia Dominican Republic Argentina El Salvador Chile At América Móvil, we work to improve the experience of our Mobile NPS 57 46 36 45 51 UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY customers. Among the initiatives we continue to carry out this NPS vs.1st competitor 28 21 17 32 38 year, it stands out the agreement upon all operations to evolve our approach from Customer Service to Customer Experience. In 2019, we consolidated our customer experience strategy FIXED NPS Chile Ecuador Argentina Dominican Republic Peru CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES 53 31 36 34 2 through two approaches: (1) evaluate customer satisfaction Fixed NPS integrating components of Big Data Analytics and Artificial InNPS vs. 1st competitor 23 9 17 22 -9 telligence, so that with this information, every Country/ Operation could develop strategies to enhance customer expeOur 2020 sustainability goal established as part of our “Smart Sustainability” strategy is to increase by an average of 1% the ACTIVATING SAFETY rience. (2) Considering all markets different and many of the brand NPS for each country where we operate. For 2019 the brand NPS for America Móvil is 40 points that represents a positive strategies to better address the customer are local, we deciincrease of 9 points versus the previous year. ded to establish an aligned metric to measure customer loyalty among countries/operations that could help us identify if After exceeding our goal, we decided to establish a more ambitious one that consists in surpassing SHARING DEVELOPMENT the strategies that every operation puts in place, worked. This our competitors’ NPS and increasing the gap. To achieve this, we continue our efforts to offer a metric is the Net Promoter Score (NPS) indicator. By focusing satisfactory and timely based customer experience according to their needs and expectations. on the customer and analyzing its behavior, it allows us to unUPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE derstand the root cause of what is not working, preventing bad Our best practice operations in brand NPS are: experiences to happen or solving problems in advance. BRAND NPS Dominican Republic Colombia Argentina El Salvador Honduras Brand NPS 40 41 38 37 37 Brand NPS 15 27 26 26 29 APPENDIX 1 These figures exclude BCC, Claro Enterprise Solutions, Global Hitss, AMCO, 1st competitor OPITEL and AMOV. 61 2019 Digital Channels Sustainability Report América Móvil has a division whose goal is to ensure 80% or more of our operations have an online store. In addiThe number of transactions done through our that our customers have a complete and satisfactory tion, we seek to continue the automatization process we have digital channels has been increasing experience in a digital environment. This division is in place by integrating different initiatives such as: steadily over the past few years. constantly monitoring our commercial websites and • Integrating pick up options like pick up in the store. Today, more than 2 billion CONTENT creating solutions to manage them, while at the same • Integrating various payment options, for example payment time implementing innovative digital customer serviagainst delivery. ce processes that help us improve and simplify the • Increasing the offer of products, such as: IoT, wearables, MESSAGE FROM THE CEO life of our subscribers. accessories, among others. management and support transactions • Integrating customer portability, a process that previously Their main goals include implementing functional web archiseemed exclusive to the offline channel. are being performed through tectures, the digitalization and automation of processes centered on consumer needs, generating savings for the whole We also have a centralized Web Content Manager that is handdigital channels. COMPANY PROFILE Company, and innovation in digital solutions. led locally by each operation. Currently, more than 300 of our employees work remotely on this platform, thus standardizing With our digital channels, today our customers can: view our the way in which these websites look, behave, and evolve. UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY whole catalogue of products and services, compare plans and prices, monitor their consumption levels, express their satisfaction level, pay invoices, increase credit in their pre-paid phone lines, get answers to their questions in our FAQs secCONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES tion, and chat with our advisors. In response to the digital era, all of América Móvil’s service tools aimed at creating a simpler and more efficient experienACTIVATING SAFETY ce for our customers. Accordingly, 100% of our regions have a website, Facebook, Twitter, Instagram; 96% of our telecom operations offer self service channels, 88% through self service apps: Mi Claro/Mi Telcel /My A1/TracFone Wireless My AcSHARING DEVELOPMENT count/Mi Telmex; and the rest of them through a web version. Nearly more than 50% of the countries provide customer service through Whatsapp, while Macedonia, Belarus and Bulgaria UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE use VIBER, an app that is similar to Whatsapp. In Colombia, ChatBot and WhatsApp services were made available achieving a homogenous and unified interaction expeAPPENDIX rience through the design of interactive menus, transactional actions, and personalized attention. 62 Colombia: Simplified service model implementation. In our Currently our customers have access to different types of USSDs represent 2019 constant interest in modifying and enriching, the operational transactions through this channel, among the most popular Sustainability Report processes that directly affect the relationship with the customer, we find the opportunity to develop one of the most important projects in terms of customer experience. MAS Project, are: e-commerce access, roaming activation, bill payments of postpaid services, top up packages of prepaid lines, check balances and consumption details, information plans, technical 53% “Model of Simplified Attention” (Modelo de Atención Simplifivisits, transfer of land services, Wi-Fi network personalization of self-service transactions, cada), had as its main objective to make available to our cusand password update, among other services. Apps are in second place with 24%, virtual IVR is in third CONTENT tomers all the possible options for self-service in digital chanplacewith 12%, and in fourth place Web with 10%. Other nels, free of charge, available to everyone to solve requests in The e-commerce implemented three new sales flows focuself-service channels employed by our customers include real time in an agile and timely manner. Through the project, sed on 100% automated processes. Cellphone and technolovisual IVR, Chat with an agent, virtual Chatbot, Networks, more than 90 developments were made in the different digital gy financing process through their bill is now available to the Web, among others. MESSAGE FROM THE CEO channels (App, Website, IVR and USSDs). Here are just some final customer. With the digitalization of these e-commerce of the many transactions or queries that our customers have processes, we experienced a 2.8 time’s growth of the channel Chile: Sernac-Subtel recognized Claro Chile as the enterprise available today: in terms of cellphones and technology sales compared to the that better solves customer inquiries. In addition, they increa• Consultation and review of current and previous months previous year. sed the Company’s ISN in 16% versus previous year. AdditioCOMPANY PROFILE invoices. nally Claro Chile obtained the first place in continuous impro• List of payments made over time. In addition, we improved audio response (IVR) trees for servivement by ALCO. • Our prepaid customers have the detail of the use of their ce and sales operations, identifying the most frequent queries UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY recharge. of the customers in the menu, gift minutes to other numbers Telmex: Amatech obtained the national price “Excel User Ex• Detail of the financing of cellular equipment. and prepaid top up with credit card implementing the option to perience and Contact Centers” (“Excelencia en la Experiencia • Make configurations easily to solve Internet and TV issues transfer a call directly to a consultant specialized in first condel Cliente y Centros de Contacto”) to the contact centers inat home. tact. Therefore, we offer a simplified enterprise customer menu. dustry, by the Mexican Teleservice Institute, (Instituto MexicaCONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES no de Teleservicios IMT). Implementation of the Claro Club platform. Through the App 1,163 websites from authorized sales agents were published Mi Claro, we integrate the Claro Club portal in order to deliver using geolocation, so our customers can better localize where In the 14th Price edition, Amatech won for the “Best Customer benefits and experiences for our users, including: to purchase our products and services from anywhere in the and Service Strategy” (Mejor Estrategia de Servicio a Clientes) ACTIVATING SAFETY • More than 85 alliances with commercial establishments, country with an internet connection. for demonstrating the ability of our staff and the organization, delivering over 350 thousand coupons with discounts and to positively impact the satisfaction of our customers. more than 14,000 invitations to own or sponsored events. According to the SIC report, Claro Colombia is the telecommunications operator with the fewest complaints and claims Global Hitss: Together with Telcel and Telmex, Global Hitss SHARING DEVELOPMENT In 2019, our self-service App Mi Claro implemented 230 new by number of users, since we implemented the “SIC Facilita” sponsored the SAP NOW Event to share knowledge and infunctionalities and user experience improvements, held an platform, by 2019. novative tools. Additionally, position the Global Hitss brand, App rating above four stars in Play Store and App Store and showing the alliance of these three companies under the UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE accumulated more than 12 million downloads. Argentina & Uruguay: Deployed an inclusive attention model in América Móvil brand as an integrator of SAP solutions that all sales centers nationwide by an on-demand sign language accompanies the customer throughout the process, offering translator’s service in order to assist deaf-mute or hearing-ima single point of contact. paired people. With this implementation, Claro Argentina beAPPENDIX came the first operator in the country to provide an inclusive assistance service. 63 2019 Sustainability Activating Report Safety CONTENT MESSAGE FROM THE CEO COMPANY PROFILE UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY Safety has become one of the top priorities for communities, governments, CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES and people in general. New technological trends and the way in which society is now interacting with them is one of the main reasons why we have a strong focus on safety issues. Therefore, in América Móvil we constantly work so ACTIVATING SAFETY that the solutions and services we offer not only allow people to feel safer when using them, but also helps us to be one step ahead and contribute to the overall safety of the societies where we operate. SHARING DEVELOPMENT UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE APPENDIX 64 América Móvil Security Strategy 2019 information security Sustainability Report América Móvil has an all-encompassing Security Strategy that includes cybersecommittee curity, data and communications privacy, based on three main pillars: processes compliance with the legal and processes CONTENT Integrity: Personal information must remain complete and exact, for regulatory framework which we will establish the corresponding measures. MESSAGE FROM THE CEO technology iso 27001 information security technology Availability: Information must be available to its owners or authorized management system users at the exact moment they need it. COMPANY PROFILE people people Confidentiality: Personal data will be used exclusively by authorized personnel who have the necessary justification to use it. UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY integrity availability confidentiality CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES ACTIVATING SAFETY SHARING DEVELOPMENT UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE APPENDIX 65 2019 Information Security This year we offered training on information security issues to more than Sustainability 128,000 Report Given the fact that information security is crucial for We also have a Corporate Information Security Managing our operations, we constantly assess and update Committee, which meets once a month and is in charge of our Information Security Strategy, with the purpose operating América Móvil’s Information Security Strategy of protecting América Móvil’s infrastructure and across operations. employees and over 47,000 CONTENT the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of all the information that we manage. Our strategy relies The functions of this Committee include the following: on prevention, continuous improvement, and best • Adopting information security policies and procedures. MESSAGE FROM THE CEO practices sharing among all the companies in the Group. • Establishing strategies to comply with the guidelines that external parties contribute to increase confidentiality, integrity, and availaacross the whole América Móvil Group1. We have a General Information Security Policy in place, which bility of information assets. provides guidelines for each operation to follow when setting • Implementing mechanisms that contribute to complying Furthermore, each subsidiary has its own local Information Seup their local security framework, as well as to assure an with best practices to protect information assets. curity Committee. These inter-disciplinary committees incluCOMPANY PROFILE efficient communication of these policies to all employees. • Coordinating the assessment and implementation of prode employees from different divisions (IT, engineering, finance, jects supporting information-security related activities. operations and maintenance, among others), and are chaired We have a Corporate Information Security Executive Committee • Overseeing plans for communicating security guidelines. by the local heads of information security. Additionally, every UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY that oversees the implementation of our Information Security • Analyzing security-related incidents to determine solutions operation has a C-Level executive responsible for reviewing the Strategy, main functions of this Committee are: and preventive actions. Cybersecurity Strategy. Each country determines a Strategic In• Identifying main business risks focused on its operation • Evaluating new and existing infrastructure that supports formation Security Plan, updated either annually or bi-annually. and services, as well as its technological environment. critical business processes. CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES • Developing and managing the security strategy by creating • Coordinating the committees of each of our operations. As part of these strategic plans, each of our operations has an and monitoring the Strategic Information Security Plan. • Supervising improvement measures in incidents reported annual awareness plan and outreach initiatives to ensure that • Managing and executing corporate and local information by the operations. information is available to all employees. In 2019, we offered security budget. • Supporting other divisions in the process of complying with online and in person courses and maintained constant comACTIVATING SAFETY • Determining priority actions in the face of a current, preinformation security guidelines. munication via e-mail, Intranet, and screen savers on corporasent or future threat. • Coordinating and ensuring that all efforts and resources te computers regarding issues such as: invested in tools, controls, and monitoring are consistent 1. Personal data protection The members of this Committee are: with assuring availability, integrity, and confidentiality. 2. Phishing, malware, access control, virus, fraud, pill, inciSHARING DEVELOPMENT • Ángel Alija Guerrero, Director for Mobile Operations • Reporting to the CEO any incidents that could compromise dents response • Jorge Arteaga Castillo, Audit Deputy Director critical information, as well as the potential impact and re3. Suspicious mails • José Gilberto Fragoso Gómez, Information Security Manager mediation plans. 4. Secure password UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE • Carlos García Moreno, Chief Financial Officer 5. Safely and responsibly Internet surfing • Paula M. García Sabido, Public Affairs Manager 6. Information confidentiality • Macario Lopez Albarrán, Director for Operations and 7. Clean desk Maintenance 8. Information Privacy Policies APPENDIX • Daniel Tapia Mejía, Compliance Officer • Oscar Von Hauske Solís, Director for Fixed-Line Operations 1 These figures exclude BCC, Claro Enterprise Solutions, OPITEL and AMOV. 66 Training sessions on information security and privacy 2019 carried out in 2019 by country or region1 Sustainability Report Argentina, Central Dominican Issue Mexico Brazil Colombia Chile Ecuador Peru Puerto Rico Paraguay, Uruguay America Republic Cybersecurity CONTENT IoT Risk Management Accesses Control Case MESSAGE FROM THE CEO Secure Password Protection of Personal Data Identifying and Managing Sensitive Information Safe Desktop/ Virtual Space/ Computer Equipment COMPANY PROFILE Phishing / Identity Theft / Social Engineering / Social Networks Identifying and Managing Security-Related Incidents Handset Security UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY Malware / Ransomware Visible Credentials Use of Original Software CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES Safety Policies Physical Safety e-mail ACTIVATING SAFETY Fraud Prevention / Free Browsing Safety Decalogue Good Online Habits SHARING DEVELOPMENT Safe Remote Work Wireless Networks Confidentiality of Information UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE Proper Use of Computers Outside the Corporation Unsafe Apps APIS and Micro-services Security Check List in Developing Web Apps APPENDIX 1 These figures exclude BCC, Claro Enterprise Solutions, OPITEL and AMOV. 67 2019 Sustainability Report To stay updated on the most recent trends, at least once a year Our operations currently certified in ISO 27001 are: HPE and Aruba Networks we organize the América Móvil Security Symposium. In 2019, it • In Mexico: the Telcel Personal Data Protection Process, the both recognized Telmex as took place in Mexico City from May 21st to the 25th, attended Network Operation Centers (NOC) at Scitum and Telmex, by 29 Information Security officers from our subsidiaries in and Datacenter Triara’s Co-location Service. the Best Service Provider CONTENT Argentina, Brazil, Central America, Colombia, Ecuador, Puerto • In Brazil: the Security Operation Center. Rico, Dominican Republic, Chile, Peru, United States and Mexi• In Colombia: the Security Operations Center (SOC), Manain Latin America co. The topics covered were information security trends, the ged Security, Collocation, e-mail Security for corporate cusdue to its high quality and state of the art technology. Internet of Things, standards, challenges, opportunities, digital tomers, Datacenter Triara, and Claro Fixed-line operation. MESSAGE FROM THE CEO transformation and access controls. • In Chile: Claro Chile Collocation Service. Due to the high-level security systems and solutions delivered • In Europe: we have the Certificate in A1 Digital in Austria, to our clients, Triara Data Centers in Monterrey and Queretaro Through our strategy, we manage information security within Bulgaria, Macedonia, Croatia, and Slovenia. received the 5th Level ICREA Certification for the 13th conseour Company by efficiently safeguarding important data, both cutive year. COMPANY PROFILE financial and confidential, and minimizing the risk of illegal or All our operations processes align to ISO 27001 and other non-permitted access by third parties. In order to assure the international standards, which guarantee the correct During 2019, we had no incidents deriving in sanctions at any proper implementation of our strategy and the ISO 27001 Saoperation of the activities. We also have other certifications of our subsidiaries due to the continuous prevention efforts UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY fety Management System, we have established an inter-opesuch as PCI DSS, SOC 1 Type II, SOC 2 Type II, Level V HSHAperformed by our Information Security division. ration communication mechanism that allows us to manage WCQA, Eco Datacenters, to mention some of them. our needs and send alerts in a timely manner. 64% of our operations have an Intelligence Team to address CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES all possible cyber-threats. For example, in Argentina, Uruguay and Paraguay we have teams integrated by both internal and external partners, while in Puerto Rico we have an external team. Meanwhile, TracFone’s cyber security area has a team ACTIVATING SAFETY Currently, specialized in different technologies responsible for detecting 44% of our operations possible cyber risks. SHARING DEVELOPMENT have the ISO 27001, Among many of the accomplishments regarding information security achieved by our subsidiaries during this year, we can while the rest of them continue working to obtain mention that Claro Brazil established an official channel for the certification. reports concerning suspicious e-mails, while Central America UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE implemented a tool that provides greater visibility on malware threats that could affect end users so that they can be detected in a timely manner. Our subsidiary in Puerto Rico acquired and implemented the Automated Information Security Incident APPENDIX Management System (SIRP). 68 2019 Privacy Management Sustainability Report Protecting personal data and privacy in communications constitute one of the top challenges for telecommunications companies. At América Móvil we place particular attention on safeguarding these isCONTENT sues. We have a Privacy Policy1 in place that sets the guidelines for personal data protection as well as privacy in communications. MESSAGE FROM THE CEO Personal Data Protection We have established the necessary guidelines for the adequaCOMPANY PROFILE te use of personal information and the physical, technical, and administrative security measures that all our operations, employees, subcontractors, and authorized third parties need to UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY comply with. This information is available for the owner or for authorized users whenever is needed. All of our operations are constantly working on improving their In A1 Telekom Austria, we launched the “Greenlight App”, In order to assure that América Móvil’s employees strictly CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES privacy management. For example: which supports security and privacy by designing, optimizing comply with the framework of this policy, we carry out contiapproval and tracking relevant security projects and changes. nuous communication and awareness campaigns striving for In Claro Colombia, we assured the supervision of allied coma comprehensive understanding of our policy. panies managing personal data from users, which must remit In Central America, we established a protocol for identity maACTIVATING SAFETY evidence of their own personal data protection policy. In this nagement in all the applications that the user will be able to Our operations have several information security and persocountry, two trainings in privacy issues were completed, one access, while we monitor the five critical operation processes nal data protection guidelines in place. In face of continuous for all the employees, and the other for specific employees using Data Lost Prevention (DLP) technology. innovation in the industry, we are working on enriching and that handle personal data. Also, a personal data risk mastandardizing them in order to maintain the trust of our cusSHARING DEVELOPMENT trix was elaborated with the purpose of implementing conIn 2019, Telcel modified its Privacy Notice, reinforcing our tomers in terms of how we handle their personal information. trols that can ensure the safeguarding and monitoring of our commitment to treat our customers´ personal data in a fair clients’ personal data. and transparent manner. This Privacy Notice follows internaUPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE tional best practices in privacy and applicable laws, and it also Digital Rights Association recognized Claro Chile, as the Comensures that our customers have, at all times, the power to 1 Our Personal Data Privacy Policy is available here. pany that best safeguards its clients’ personal data. decide on their own personal data. APPENDIX 69 2019 Sustainability Report Privacy in Communications Our privacy communication protocols are fundamental to keep CONTENT the trust of our customers, and assure compliance to applicable regulations. At América Móvil we are committed with the protection of huMESSAGE FROM THE CEO man rights and freedom of speech. For this reason, our policies forbid interference with the communications of our customers, and listening to, manipulating, monitoring of conversations, and interference in data transmission or the revelation of its COMPANY PROFILE existence or content. Disclosing information is only allowed when properly required UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY by competent authorities and in the cases provided by applicable law, in each of the countries where we operate. In order to comply with these requirements, we have defined strict security procedures and criteria to verify the validity of each CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES request received by the authorities. ACTIVATING SAFETY SHARING DEVELOPMENT UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE APPENDIX 70 2019 Emergency Response Sustainability Report We constantly prepare for contingencies and natural Predictable events Unpredictable events disasters by developing emergency response protocols as well as business continuity and business recovery plans that allow us to anticipate and to reestablish Hurricanes Volcano eruptions, earthquakes CONTENT affected services as soon as possible. Meteorological Geological This year we are strengthening our crisis management protocols as well as corporate business continuity guidelines in order to MESSAGE FROM THE CEO Presidential visits Fires, explosions, chemical risks align our operations towards global preparedness best practices. Summits Technological Additionally, we participate in GSMA’s initiative and collaborate with the authorities and other companies in our industry to COMPANY PROFILE share best practices and strengthen our emergency response Elections, traffic jams, demonstrations, Storms, tornadoes, floods protocols for these incidents. To be prepared and ready to face social unrest contingencies and disasters, we classify events as predictable Social Meteorological UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY or unpredictable. Vandalism, terrorism, humanitarian crisis CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES others We have protocols in place to respond to incidents caused by natural phenomena that will help minimize damages due to cliACTIVATING SAFETY mate events of great magnitude to our infrastructure, while at the same time ensuring that we have the human and material resources needed to reestablish service as soon as possible. SHARING DEVELOPMENT We apply these protocols in all areas that are susceptible to facing natural phenomena. The plans include both preventive and corrective measures. UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE APPENDIX 71 2019 Sustainability Sharing Report Development CONTENT MESSAGE FROM THE CEO COMPANY PROFILE UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY (203-2) At América Móvil, one of our main objectives is to CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES promote social development within the communities In 2019, where we operate. We believe that finding a solution América Móvil invested almost ACTIVATING SAFETY to world poverty is key for economic growth, progress, and social development. Our duty in the countries where we operate is to continue being a catalyst of 10.3 million USD in corporate citizenship and philanthropic contributions, development and inclusion, contributing to building 22% of which were donations in kind. SHARING DEVELOPMENT a better world, aligned with the United Nations Sustainability Development Goals. UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE APPENDIX 72 2019 Aprende Sustainability Report At América Móvil we are committed to use our techThis includes, among others, the Aprende, Train for a Job (CaAmong the main achievements of this program in our subsinology and resources to narrow the digital divide and pacítate para el Empleo), Self Evaluation Test (PruébaT), and diaries, we can mention: help transform people’s lives. Khan Academy platforms. To achieve this goal, we continue our communication and outreach efforts to take this tool to Guatemala: In the education center Maranatha, young people CONTENT Through the Aprende.org platform, we have partnered with the the most vulnerable populations. are accompanied and mentored during 4 months to help them Carlos Slim Foundation to make a contribution in eliminating complete different training in the platform, including working barriers to education and training worldwide, by offering highTrain for a Job (CAPACÍTATE PARA EL EMPLEO) trades and English classes, and then receive counseling to quality educational content and tools to everyone who has The Aprende platform includes a section entitled Train for a help them find a job or be an entrepreneur. MESSAGE FROM THE CEO access to connectivity, regardless of age, gender, location, Job (Capacítate para el Empleo) that offers online tools for all income nor educational background. people who wish to obtain free training on several working traThis year, 50 youngsters des in different production sectors, regardless of their backAprende.org is a free-of-charge digital platform that favors inground or previous experience. COMPANY PROFILE clusion by making available to its 8,840 subscribers, job-traiparticipated in this program. ning courses as well as cultural and educational content, from This Carlos Slim Foundation initiative has allowed employees preschool to Master courses in Spanish from prestigious uniand members of society to increase their knowledge base in UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY versities such as MIT, Harvard, Berkeley, UNAM and the Sorseveral areas. bonne, among others, thanks to the partnerships we have established with Coursera, Udacity, and EDX. CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES The platform can be accessed through the Aprende mobile app and the www.aprende.org website. América Móvil also contributes to bringing this platform closer to a greater number of users by delivering smartphones to people who could not ACTIVATING SAFETY afford one, in neighboring communities to our operations. We also offer free browsing on the platform through our networks in Mexico, Panama, and Dominican Republic. SHARING DEVELOPMENT We are certain that with education we can promote development in the communities where we operate. Accordingly, our 2020 goal established in our “Smart Sustainability” strategy UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE is to increase by 20% the number of users within our different learning platforms, maintaining an average of at least 2.5 courses per user. APPENDIX 73 Colombia: “Claro for Colombia” (Claro por Colombia) positioned the Train for a Job (Capacíta2019 te para el Empleo) platform as a technology-based solution to the problems of coverage and access to training for employment and entrepreneurship. Allowing through technology that all Sustainability Report Colombians (especially those in a condition of vulnerability) can access quality free content, from any part of the country to be trained, certified and improve their occupational profile. This year, CONTENT this program benefited more than 322 thousand people MESSAGE FROM THE CEO that attended over 1 millon courses. Ecuador: The “Train with Claro” (Capacítate con Claro) program was launched in February 2016 as part of the programs and efforts aimed at offering Ecuadorian people more development and COMPANY PROFILE well-being opportunities based on learning. By the end of 2019, UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY this program had benefited 583,604 people. CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES El Salvador: With the help from the Gloria de Kriete Foundation and the Salvadoran Institute for Professional Training (Insaforp), ACTIVATING SAFETY 295,221 Salvadorians were trained in different courses in the platform. SHARING DEVELOPMENT Panama: In association with the Make me Shine Foundation (Fundación Hazme Brillar), this year UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE 4,205 people were trained on the use of the platform. APPENDIX 74 2019 Sustainability Report Self Evaluation Test (PRUÉBAT) The Self Evaluation Test (PruébaT) program is included on the Aprende.org. Its objective is All initiatives to promote the use of to offer learning experiences for teachers, students, and parents, free-of-charge. The program Self Evaluation Test (PruébaT) impacted more than CONTENT 930 thousand people. strives to strengthen knowledge and capabilities that are indispensable in life. This section includes tools that enable the educational community to get familiarized with Thus, representing a significant increment of 51% of users the PISA test, an internationally-recognized test developed by the Organization for Economic MESSAGE FROM THE CEO compared to the results of the previous year. Cooperation and Development (OECD). The goal is to evaluate the knowledge base of young people all over the world and to incorporate essential abilities for their participation in society, with particular emphasis on mathematics, language, and science. The test is applied every three years, rotating the emphasis on each of these areas. COMPANY PROFILE Khan Academy Seeking to strengthen academic excellence and the quality of education in Colombia, in 2019, Through a joint venture between the Carlos Slim Foundation and Khan Academy, we translate the “Evaluate to Advance Strategy” was implemented by the Ministry of National Education, in the contents of this platform into Spanish in an effort to provide access to a broader number of UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY association with the Carlos Slim Foundation and the Claro for Colombia (Claro por Colombia) users in the region. program. This strategy includes the application of the Improve Yourself Tests (Supérate Test) through the Self Evaluation Test (PruébaT) platform, over 289 thousand students carrying out Khan Academy is an educational platform that offers several educational resources via videos more than 167 thousand tests in over 4 thousand educational institutions all over Colombia. that subscribers can use to strengthen their learning skills, regardless of their prior education. CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES More than 400 children and teenagers from 37 cities participated in the semifinals. The platform grants access to information on different topics at basic, intermediate, and higher education levels. Thanks to the Carlos Slim Foundation, it was possible to adapt a free tool, so elementary students of the 3°, 5°, 7°, 9° y 11° grade were evaluated in topics such as: mathematics, literature, ACTIVATING SAFETY environmental education, English language, citizenship, natural and social sciences. SHARING DEVELOPMENT UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE APPENDIX 75 2019 2019 Aprende National Tour Sustainability This year we carried out the third Aprende national tour through Resultados Aprende.org Report Mexico, visiting low-income communities in Tuxtla, Tijuana, Orizaba, Monterrey, Leon, Hermosillo, Guadalajara, Chihuahua, Variety of Courses/ Registered and Mexico City. During the tour we provided smartphones for Total Countries / Variety of Classes / Programs % of Women % Men Hits Lessons/ Schools / Users Territories courses Video-lessons more than 5,000 people that otherwise would not have been Lessons Held Colleges adapted by FCS CONTENT able to afford one, and trained them on the use of the devices and the platform. Train for a Job 4,168,778 46.79% 53.21% 194 417,150,448 16,299,170 329 (Capacítate para el Empleo) Three years after the first tour took place, the Carlos Slim Aprende 1,750,278 46.85% 53.15% 184 112,189,732 4,500 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO Foundation and the Telmex Telcel Foundation continue to Self Evaluation Test 4,625,628 42.21% 38.47% 173 122,685,314 30,622,418 14,782 33,306 (PruébaT)1 bring technology closer to people, enabling them to have access to world-class educational content through the AprenKhan Academy 15,101,269 61.12% 38.88% 188 208,651,213 26,458,325 4,896 de.org platform, offering them job-training and the possibility COMPANY PROFILE Aprende Total 25,645,953 194 860,676,707 73,379,913 19,678 33,306 to obtain official certifications for their studies, which in turn could provide them better opportunities in life. Furthermore, Average courses per user 2.9 the platform offers job listings for graduates. UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY 1 In the case of Self Evaluation Test (PruébaT) 19.32% of users did not report gender. This year, a tour was also carried out through the northern, CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES southeast and pacific region of Nicaragua. With the help of many different organizations, we reached 51,998 people, ACTIVATING SAFETY training them on the Aprende platform and its uses. SHARING DEVELOPMENT UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE APPENDIX 76 2019 Narrowing the Digital Divide Sustainability Report At América Móvil we are constantly working on initiaAs telecommunications companies, we can play a role to help The following are the most relevant activities we carried out tives and projects that contribute to narrow the diginarrow the digital divide. This is why at América Móvil we alloduring 2019: tal divide in the countries and communities where we cate resources to contribute to this cause. operate. The Latin America and Caribbean regions face • In Mexico, in collaboration with the Carlos Slim Foundation CONTENT considerable challenges in terms of the adoption, use, Throughout the whole Company we invest in different actiand the Telmex-Telcel Foundation we developed the affordability, and access to information technologies. vities to bring Internet closer to all and include in the digital “Reconnected Program” (Reconectados), in order to era the elderly, children from low-income families, people in include senior citizens in the digital world by teaching The current digital transformation era has repercussions on remote locations, and people with disabilities, among other them how to use technology to stay connected and to MESSAGE FROM THE CEO the way in which we live and perform our activities, both pervulnerable groups. The activities carried out this year include improve their wellbeing. In 2019, we traveled 11 cities in sonal and professional. This includes our daily actions, such workshops on education and awareness on the safety of the nine states of the Mexican Republic with the “Reconnected as online banking transactions and complying with important Internet, environmental stewardship, and the use of social Program” (Reconectados). This year we reached over government requirements, such as paying taxes. Accordingly, networks, among others. 1,000 seniors and gave each one of them a smartphone COMPANY PROFILE people with no access to the Internet or a smartphone are left with the Aprende.org app already downloaded. Since the behind. As technological advances continue to penetrate our beginning of the program we have contributed to enrich lives, the digital divide will continue to grow. the lives of 7,000 seniors with the help of young students UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY collaborating with us to train the seniors in the different uses of their new phone as well as the app, emphasizing in programs related to health, culture, scholar subjects, hobbies, and job training. CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES • The “Telmex Digital Library” (Biblioteca Digital Telmex) is a free comprehensive education initiative equipped with state-of-the-art technology, that establishes a bridge in ACTIVATING SAFETY the teaching-learning process through creative worldclass activities for children’s development, as well as youngsters and adults, enabling them to excel in their academic and professional performance. The Telmex SHARING DEVELOPMENT Digital Library furnishes spaces with equipment and Internet access at schools and education-oriented public spaces, computer equipment loaning service for their later UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE use at home and digital literacy activities, job training, human development, and entrepreneurship with the use of technologies. Thanks to this program, more than a million users have been benefited. APPENDIX 77 2019 Sustainability Report • In August 2019, Telmex installed “Digital Libraries” (Bibliotecas Digitales) in 4 migration • In Honduras, we offer the “Internet is Everyone-Connection to the World program” (Internet es stations in Mexico, located in the municipalities of Acayucan, Veracruz; Tenosique, Tabasco; Todos-Conexión al mundo), providing broadband access to the Internet at education facilities, Ciudad Juarez, Chihuahua; and Tapachula, Chiapas. The aim of these libraries is to bring including public schools, academies, and libraries, as well as community centers, and public technology and education closer to this vulnerable group. The number of beneficiaries was remote-access centers. Thanks to this project, we benefited over 74,500 people this year. CONTENT 3,351 people, mostly children. • Since 2000, Claro Guatemala, in alliance with Fundamex, the Mexican Embassy, and the Ro• Claro’s “Digital Villages” (Pueblos Digitales) in Costa Rica is one of our most important protary Club, provides internet connectivity to the Educational Center Rotario Benito Juárez, jects in this country. These awareness activities aim to reduce the digital divide and increawho offers education for high IQ children in poverty. This benefits 312 children. MESSAGE FROM THE CEO se digital literacy in the country. More than 30 Digital Villages were organized in the Greater Metropolitan Area and in rural areas where Claro is the only operator available. During these • In Mexico, we have the “Academica”(Académica) platform, hosted by Telmex, that gathers events, the project offers technology-related workshops, as well as lectures and the opportueducational contents from prestigious international institutions, working with them to share nity to participate in experience areas. This allows the participants to learn basic Internet conthe knowledge and make it accessible to those who wish to learn and develop their potential. COMPANY PROFILE cepts, productive uses, and training on how to face the considerable impact of social networks and technology. Furthermore, participants get the opportunity to experiment with virtual and • “Digital Hub Iztapalapa TELMEX Telcel” (Aldea Digital Iztapalapa TELMEX Telcel), are proaugmented reality. Thanks to this project, nearly 7,000 people were benefited this year. grams aimed to reduce digital divide. During 2019, the Iztapalapa Digital Village brought the UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY community closer to new technologies in a playful way to promote their economic, social • In Europe, the “A1 Internet for All” media literacy initiative is helping children, young people, and human development, which contributes to improving their quality of life, benefiting more adults, and seniors to actively participate in and personally benefit from the digital transforthan 174 thousand people. mation that is increasingly expanding into new areas of the economy and society. Since the CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES beginning of the program in 2011, it has benefited over 191,200 people. • In Paraguay, we have established 24 “Claro Telecenters” (Telecentros Claro) throughout the whole country. These are digital centers in public education institutions where low-income • In Chile, we have the “Mobile Classroom” (Aula Móvil) program, which travels all over the people are trained on the use of the Internet, as well as online training in platforms such as country supporting the most vulnerable sectors by offering digital literacy to low-income “Capacítate para el Empleo”, benefiting over 7,000 people. ACTIVATING SAFETY people. This year we reached 1,200 people. • In Ecuador, the first “Info-center” (Infocentro) on the Galapagos Island was opened, where • Also in Chile, the “Digital Inclusion for the Elderly program” (Inclusión Digital para Personas 5,000 people from the community have access to information and communication technoMayores) sets up digital laboratories with computers connected to the Internet where selogies with satellite connectivity through Claro’s network. SHARING DEVELOPMENT niors are trained on the use of digital ecosystem, benefiting over 400 people. • In Argentina, over 250 employees volunteered in the “Claro and you for the children” (Claro + • In Brazil, we have the “Knowledge Vessels program” (Naves do Conhecimento), which proVOS por los chicos) program, which benefits young students from low-income communities, UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE vides Internet access to highly vulnerable communities in the municipality of Rio de Janeiro, providing them with connectivity. promoting inclusion, education, and civic responsibility through technology, benefiting close to 124,000 people. APPENDIX 78 2019 Volunteering and Sustainability Report Development Projects In Mexico, Telmex has an important volunteer network, which In addition, non-governmental organizations across the includes both active and retired employees, as well as family country can register their demands directly on the platform. At América Móvil we make a significant effort to conmembers. In 2019, 4,591 Telmex volunteers donated 38,672 tribute to the growth of society and our communities. hours to different social projects. The program has two main pillars: CONTENT We achieve this by means of our own internal initia• “Together We Are One” (Todos somos Uno), which are cotives or by joining efforts with several organizations, Claro for Colombia’s (Claro por Colombia) volunteer activillective actions that mobilize a large number of volunteers government institutions, and associations. ties are carried out with the participation of Claro’s and Global in joint efforts. Organized by committees, the volunteers Hitss’ employees and their families. This year, 366 volunteers work on predefined dates or in emergency situations. MESSAGE FROM THE CEO We select the initiatives very carefully, taking into account their participated in 16 activities, donating 2,219 hours of their time • “With You” (Contigo), consisting of individual actions. potential impact, the number of people who will participate, and benefiting 4,113 people. Through the platform, the volunteers create their profiles, and the benefits they will bring. describe their skills, and explain their availability and the In 2019, we relaunched the “Voluntary Connection” (Conexión audience with which they identify. On the other hand, instiCOMPANY PROFILE Voluntaria) program in Claro Brazil, which gives employees tutions list the activities for which they need help. Volunteering more autonomy for voluntary work. Through an online platform, volunteers can participate in face-to-face and remote actions. UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY In 2019, we had 10,589 volunteers CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES ACTIVATING SAFETY 25% more than 2018 of whom 63% participated in different efforts during their workday. SHARING DEVELOPMENT We invested a total of 48,648 hours in volunteering efforts, of which 37% were carried UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE out during the normal workday. APPENDIX 79 2019 Social Development Projects (413-1) Sustainability Report At América Móvil we seek to have a positive impact on the communities where we operate. For this reason, we carry out several social development proCONTENT grams and at the same time support organizations and institutions that implement projects whose goals are aligned with ours. MESSAGE FROM THE CEO Some of the most relevant programs and projects we carried out over the course of the year are: COMPANY PROFILE Mexico: • At Telmex we carry out several programs to sponsor and • In the framework of the commemoration of the “National contribute to the development of children and seniors liOrgan and Tissue Donation Day”, Telmex carried out seUPDATING SUSTAINABILITY ving in vulnerable conditions, such as the Telmex “Smiles” veral activities nationwide to create awareness and inform (Sonrisas Telmex), book narration and reading sessions, the Mexican population about the importance of organ visits to orphanages, accompaniment activities at migrant donation. We visited 52 locations; handed out over 4,000 homes, “Campaign for a Mexico with no Hunger” (Campagreen ribbons to employees; more than 15,600 people reCONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES ña Por un México sin Hambre), collecting food supplies, received information on organ donation; and 171 volunteers forestation, the permanent Red Cross Fund Raising efforts, contributed to this initiative. and collecting gifts to be distributed at orphanages and children’s hospitals, among others. All these programs be• Through the “(Red) Initiative”, we contributed to the fight Colombia: ACTIVATING SAFETY nefited more than 20,000 people. against HIV vertical transmission from mother to son, so it is reduced to zero in the coming years. When the program • “Soul Mate Friends” (Amigos del Alma) is a project carried • Telmex and Telcel support every year the Teleton’s TV started in 2011, 1,200 babies a day were born with HIV. Toout in partnership with the Best Buddies Foundation since fundraiser for girls, boys, and teens who have a disability, day, this has been reduced to 400. 2014. Its objective is to design strategies aimed at creating SHARING DEVELOPMENT cancer, or autism. With this program we benefit more than social and labor inclusion spaces for people with cogniti38,000 people, donating over 5 million USD. ve disabilities. Currently, three such young people are performing the job of Customer Service Auxiliaries at some of UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE our Customer and Sales Centers (CAV for its acronym in Spanish) in Bogotá. Every customer who has been served by a Soul Mate Friend has been satisfied with the service and recognizes that at Claro we believe in the potential of APPENDIX people with cognitive disabilities and give them the opportunity to develop. 80 2019 Sustainability Report CONTENT Brazil: • The “Trajectories of School Success” strategy is a UNICEF • The “Educational Connection program” (Educonexão) goal initiative, carried out together with Claro Institute and other is to transform Brazilian education by adopting technoMESSAGE FROM THE CEO partners, to reduce school dropouts in Brazil. The website logy and updating the infrastructure of municipal public provides national, state, municipal and school flow indicaschools. The schools connected to paid TV and broadband tors taken from the School Census. This initiative facilitates service, are offered with training courses for teachers on a comprehensive diagnosis of age-grade distortion in the the use of digital technologies in the classroom. We beCOMPANY PROFILE country and helps identify when a student is two or more nefited over 12,700 teachers and students this year. Sinyears behind in school, in order to offer a set of recommence the beginning of the program in 2011, more than 2,200 dations for the development of educational policies that proteachers have been trained and over 63,800 students have mote access, permanence and learning of these students. In been benefited. UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY addition to dropout and failure rates, the site offers statistics by gender, race and location that show the relationship • “Mobile Campus” (Campus Móvil) is a project aimed at probetween school backwardness and Brazilian inequalities. moting education, innovation, and the entrepreneurial spiCONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES With an investment of over 250,000 USD, this year more than rit in young university students wishing to create, develop, 2,300 people where directly benefited by this initiative. and start projects with a social impact. The selected participants are constantly mentored by innovation specialists • The “Dual School Program” (Dupla Escola) is an initiative that help them improve their projects. They also participate ACTIVATING SAFETY that offers Secondary Education integrated with the tein a telecom event in São Paulo, which has a programming Nicaragua: chnical and vocational course in telecommunications for marathon, lectures and workshops held by experts. This students in Rio de Janeiro. This program forms young teprogram benefited over 600 youngsters, who have develo• Claro Nicaragua is actively contributing to the “Teen Smart lecommunications technicians who are later employed by ped 217 projects all over the country. International project”, which provides free education in SHARING DEVELOPMENT Claro Brazil. Currently there are more than one hundred health topics, emotional intelligence, prevention of sexual young people enrolled in this program. • For the third consecutive year, Claro Institute ratified our abuse and harassment, as well as on-line counseling to support to the “Teleton’s” TV fundraiser for children with young people, between 10 and 24 years old, through the disabilities (Associação de Apoio a Criança Deficiente, UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE educational platform jovensalud.net. During this year, over AACD) in Brazil, donating R$200,000. 400 youngsters were benefited through this program. APPENDIX 81 2019 Sustainability Report CONTENT MESSAGE FROM THE CEO COMPANY PROFILE UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES Croatia: Macedonia: ACTIVATING SAFETY • A1 developed an “Internet protection App for parents” • For the second consecutive year, the “Safe Internet proDominican Republic: (Aplicación de Protección en Internet para los Padres de gram” (Internet Seguro) was developed, and implemented Familia) and organized an event to raise awareness of the with more than 1,000 4th grade students, educating them SHARING DEVELOPMENT • We collaborated with the 2019 International Education threats that children face online. The app was launched in on the safe use of Internet and data protection. Congress entitled “I Learn” (Aprendo). This is the most imMarch of 2019, followed by a marketing campaign. portant annual activity in terms of contributing to educaSlovenia: UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE tion policies and updating the public agenda in terms of education. It has been held uninterruptedly for 21 years, • Through the “Between the Lines” (Med Vrsticami) project, making it the most influential event in its specialty in the 23,000 notebooks were given away by A1 Slovenia, in which Dominican Republic and Caribbean. 1,600 teachers particihigh quality literature is hidden in every line of the notebook, APPENDIX pated in this year’s edition. motivating Slovenes to read at least a few lines per day. 82 2019 Driving Awareness Program Sustainability Report One of América Móvil’s main concerns is the high incidence of traffic accidents related to distractors. In response to this, every year we implement initiatives that contribute to creating awareness about this problem. CONTENT In Mexico, we have been participating for the past 7 years in the “Drivers For Road Safety” initiative (Pilotos por la Seguridad Vial) in collaboration with the Carlos Slim Foundation and other public and private institutions. Up to date, nearly 552 conferences were lectured on road safety culture for more than 145 thousand students. MESSAGE FROM THE CEO This year, the leading characters from “Mickey: Road Adventures” -the Disney Junior show-, accompanied by the Latin America and European renown drivers Abraham Calderón, Rubén Pardo, Benito Guerra and Memo Rojas -members of the Telmex Telcel Racing Team-, continue COMPANY PROFILE to raise awareness among kids and parents regarding road signs with a touch of fun and humor. In Costa Rica we carry out the “¡Ring, ring, pum!” program aimed at children between the ages UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY of 4 and 10. In the Digital Village of the Children’s Museum, we had a pavilion dedicated to Road Safety. This is one of the most important topics in Costa Rica, since one of the most frequent violent death causes is traffic accidents. Therefore, we partner with companies and government entities that share campaigns on the road issue, where we teach boys, girls, teens, teachers and CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES families in general, about the safe use of automobiles, the importance of not drinking liquor, as well as the correct use of mobile devices while driving a vehicle. The Safety Zone consisted of different stands, with simulators of vehicles and motorcycles ACTIVATING SAFETY and VR glasses that mimed conduction with different degrees of alcohol; a city with different traffic signals for participants to learn while playing; and the “Clarín show”, where we taught the children the song of the campaign and we gave away booklets for painting and brochures with information. There was also a traffic-themed photobooth and different brand motleys took SHARING DEVELOPMENT photos with the children. UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE APPENDIX 83 2019 Promoting Sustainability Report Entrepreneurship and In Mexico we collaborate with the “Knowledge Communities fied by the company, in the following areas: (1) Children and Innovation in the Community project” (Comunidades de Conocimiento), which brings toParents in the Digital World, (2) New Solutions Based on Big gether public and private entities as well as civil associations Data, (3) Cognitive Automation, (4) Online Marketing Automawith expertise in an issue of interest for the community, maintion, and (5) Security Services. 240 startups registered for a CONTENT One of América Móvil’s approaches to contribute to ly innovation, entrepreneurship, technological development, multi-stage selection process. During a three-day innovation the communities’ development is to support instiand digital tools. With this project, TELMEXHub engages with camp, employees from several parts of the company worked tutions and organisms aimed at promoting entre459 communities benefiting more than 178 thousand people with ten start-ups to develop solution approaches, of which MESSAGE FROM THE CEO preneurship and innovation through supporting the through digital channels and more than 322 thousand in site. the best four were implemented. most cutting-edge projects in telecommunications, services, and the use of mobile technologies. “A1 Start-up Campus” enables and integrates external innoLikewise, Telmex México has made available its “Académica” vation into our organization by cooperation with start-ups website to education institutes, establishing more than 500 In Brazil we carry out the “Rinobot” project in collaboration and supporting the Economic European Union (EEU) start-up agreements with High Schools, Universities, and International COMPANY PROFILE with the local university, Universidad Federal de Juiz de Fora. ecosystem. The Co-creation Program of A1 brings the combiResearch Centers to offer a space that fosters creation, training, The goal of this initiative is to promote innovation and new tenation of internal innovative drive and external idea generation and development. The website offers more than 160 online chnologies through the development of robotics projects. to life. The program was launched in spring 2019 with a call to courses through which more than 424,900 teachers and stuUPDATING SUSTAINABILITY the start-up ecosystem to solve particular challenges identidents have received training. Furthermore, in this program we collaborate with a digital library that enables us to host freeof-charge content, such as dissertation thesis, magazines, and research papers, offering more than 400,000 educational mateCONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES rials to the more than 400,000 subscribers on the website. In Nicaragua, the “Regional Investment Connect-Impact Hub” took place, where different organizations, and a total of 100 ACTIVATING SAFETY investors and entrepreneurs, participated in several activities aimed to promote social entrepreneurship. In Europe, this year we launched the “A1 Coding Labs for Kids SHARING DEVELOPMENT program”. It consists of a one-week event were children and youngsters have the opportunity to create their own computer games for the first time using the programming languages UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE scratch and python. The children are also taught the basics of robotics and use LEGO bricks to build a number of models, which they then bring to life using programming language. In 2019, the A1 Coding Labs gave over 50 children and young people an inAPPENDIX sight into the complex and fascinating world of programming. 84 2019 Sustainability Uploading Report Quality of Life CONTENT MESSAGE FROM THE CEO COMPANY PROFILE UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY The products, services, and solutions we offer to our customers intend CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES to increase their quality of life. At América Móvil, we constantly work to empower our clients and consumers through connectivity and innovation, enabling them to take advantage of the benefits of an increasingly digital ACTIVATING SAFETY world. Accordingly, we focus our efforts to offer state-of-the-art products and services that directly influence the quality of life of our customers, clients and the society as a whole. SHARING DEVELOPMENT UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE APPENDIX 85 2019 Innovation Sustainability Report The world has been undergoing a digital transformation for some years now, which demands better connectivity between people and among devices. This transformation is constantly offering users more benefits in their private and professional lives. CONTENT At América Móvil, we are constantly investing in modernizing our infrastructure, capacity, products and services so that they are up to the challenge posed by this transformation. These investments allow us to be better prepared to address future communication technologies’ reMESSAGE FROM THE CEO quirements, such as the 5G network, the Internet of Things (IoT), new cloud-based services, or artificial intelligence, among others. COMPANY PROFILE A quick look at mobile communications technologies Voice and first data Voice and high-speed High broadband and services since data services minimal latency 2002 2013 >2020 UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY 9.6-236 Up to Targeted kbps 400 Mbps > 1 Gbps CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES 1G 2G 3G 4G 4.5G 5G ACTIVATING SAFETY We No data presented the transmission 0.3-42 Mbps 4.5G GigaRed SHARING DEVELOPMENT Voice telephony Voice and Offers 10 times more 1985-2002 broadband services speed than the 4G network 2008 2018 UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE APPENDIX 86 2019 Digital Transformation Claro Colombia Sustainability Report Aligned with our strategy that focus in the customer as the center of our business Since 2019, we have been promoting innovation processes from different areas with the we seek to assure he or she has at all times, a positive experience with our brands. deployment of the SIT methodology (Sistematic Inventive Thinking), through 30 coaches, trained in the matter. The support is through SIT sessions focused on the development and To achieve this, we are incorporating the Agile Methodology in many of our work processes and improvement of increasingly efficient products and services for our users. The sessions consist CONTENT teams in our operations. This methodology is based on the principle that interaction between on a solution design for problematic situations, which have been previously identified by the multifunctional teams within an organization, promoting constant collaboration within the team management, such situations could be, the absence of a product or a customer discontent focusing on customers and end user’s needs, streamlining response times, and making the regarding a product or service. The dynamics for the innovative process are: planning process more flexible and adaptive as the project progresses. 1. Identification of problem by management; MESSAGE FROM THE CEO 2. Selection of the two coaches that will conduct SIT sessions; Therefore, we developed a pilot process that aims to accomplish the following: 3. Analysis of the business opportunity; 4. Development of sessions with groups of 6 people; and, 5. Session outcomes report to management for prioritization. COMPANY PROFILE This methodology has been applied in the following projects: UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY Project Business Agile Skill Process • Claro Gaming is a platform aimed at video game lovers (mobile, PC, console and fixed InPortfolio Architecture Methodology Development Automatization ternet), includes games, tournaments, specialized multimedia content, alternative payment methods for in-game purchases, wider band Internet packages with faster speed and a latency reduction solution to improve the gaming experience of its users. The Claro Gaming CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES C u l t u r a l C h a n g e service is active for Claro subscribers, upon entering the “Mi Claro” application. • Claro Gamers a solution for subscription to +800 games including 200 of the most imporWith the Agile Methodology, we are achieving the following: tant in the market. ACTIVATING SAFETY • Practical solutions to improve users’ quality of life; • Improved agility within the processes in the Company; • Claro Gaming Package improve the download and upload speed, a solution aimed at PC or • Immediate positive tangible results for the user; console players for their homes with Claro broadband services. • Improved our project management; SHARING DEVELOPMENT • Innovative ad-hoc products with the use of technology; • World Gamer (Mundo Gamer) a service for users who enjoy electronic sports content. In • Increased productive and accountability; that segment, Claro will offer: e-Sports tournaments, community-dedicated awards and • Empowered employee’s with decision-making capacity. specialized broadcast services. UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE • “Change management” focus including KPIs for continuous follow up and improvement. • Haste it is a subscription service (to the home broadband bill) developed between Claro, All of our subsidiaries are working on innovation and continuous improvement having made Ericsson and Haste that seeks to stabilize the lag when playing (a more efficient game). The great strides and accomplishing important goals, among which the following are worth noting: solution uses real-time network intelligence, which is composed of software that, thanks to APPENDIX artificial intelligence, knows the best routes to send information packages and thus improve the connectivity when playing. 87 Austria 2019 • Free Apps Beta an application container where prepaid 5G Use Cases. Research Partnerships with notable scientific considering the following criteria: 1) “cost reduction“; 2) “sales Sustainability users can use the applications at zero cost, while the cost and industrial partners and joint projects with the national increase“; 3) “customer experience improvement“, and 4) Report of MBs is sponsored by different brands. During the pilot and international institutions are supporting A1 in the launch “process optimization”. The target is to improve A1 with the phase, brands such as: enlaU, Beats, DIDI, Grin, Lime, Cabify, of future technologies for marketand customer-oriented least resources/input. In the background, designated teams of Civico, Merqueo and others participated. The applications communications solutions. A1 is partnering with the 5G employees within a department tend to manage these ideas, will be in a section called “Free Apps” within the “Mi Claro” Playground Carinthia which offers educational and research along with their regular functions, so that such ideas are CONTENT application. The user can navigate with zero cost, as long establishments as well as companies and start-ups the unique channeled to the correct business department, where they are as he enters from “Free Apps”. opportunity to test products and applications around 5G and evaluated and if applicable, implemented. subsequently the Internet of Things (IoT) under laboratory MESSAGE FROM THE CEO • Guardian Kids a solution that seeks to avoid child pornoconditions, try them out in live operation and develop them to Bulgaria graphy, the solution uses an artificial intelligence algorithe point of market maturity. National help lines, we are including 0700 free calls for disabled thm that detects percentage of skin and erogenous zones; people and we implemented A1 Guard, as a special application in case of detecting anomalies, it sends a blurred image A1 Telekom Innovation. Internally, A1 Idea Management (UWE for elder and vulnerable people to protect them from fraud calls. COMPANY PROFILE to the child’s parents. In 2019, it had around 30 thousand Ideas) UWE stands for “user simply know it” (User Wissen’s registered users. Einfach). Every employee can submit a valuable contribution to the Company success through the “UWE ideas” platform Ecuador UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY We created Affordable Internet Service which is a 5MB Internet service for $9.99 dollars to improve internet adoption in vulnerable groups, in the cities of Guayaquil, Quito, Ibarra, Machala and Manta. The innovation process is based on 3 elements: CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES Design Thinking; Lean Start-up, and Agile Development. This work scheme is our focus for the creation and design of new products and services, which have a high level of uncertainty. The Lean Start-up process is critical to reduce that uncertainACTIVATING SAFETY ty and includes the following steps: Ideation; Business Model Design; Customer Validation; MVP Design (Minimum Viable Product), and Agile Based Development. Thanks to the effect SHARING DEVELOPMENT of the Lean Start-up application, during the past 2 years, we achieved cost savings of at least $1 million dollars. UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE APPENDIX 88 2019 Internet of Things (IoT) Sustainability Report New technological advances are being released every day, and are changing our lives in ways we never could have imagined. We now communicate differently and the way in which we buy things, use transportations, and even how we work, has also changed. To address these changes, cities have had to modernize themselCONTENT ves and upgrade their telecommunications networks. This new digital era has transformed us into a transactional society in which all processes and economic and social activities have gradually become more automated. Every day it appears MESSAGE FROM THE CEO as if those technologies that make our activities easier are more readily available for everyone. By employing a mobile device, we are now able to carry out a series of tasks that a while ago were unimaginable, such as having food delivered to our homes or making our supermarket COMPANY PROFILE purchases from home, asking for transportation through an app, monitoring our health, and sharing data with our doctor without having to visit his office. These are just a few examples of the many things we can do from our smartphones. UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY Just five years ago, we would have been unable to do any of these things. Today we cannot imagine living without them. In the same way in which we witnessed these technological advances over the past years, we will see even more progress over the next ones regarding technologies CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES aimed at improving our cities and making our daily lives easier. Furthermore, in order to accompany our industry, cities, and people in the digital transformation, we must be able to develop new digital services and solutions. ACTIVATING SAFETY In June 4-6, 2019, a new edition of the Mobile360 Latin America symposium took place in Mexico, for which América Móvil was once again the Host Sponsor. At this encounter, the debate and discussions were around challenges, opportunities, trends, changes, and advancements that our industry faces due to the technological evolution and the increasing demand for a digital SHARING DEVELOPMENT transformation in every city in the world. At América Móvil we strive to contribute to the path that digital transformation will take in Latin UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE America. The goal is to achieve development within our nations, to narrow the digital gap, and to have an impact on achieving a better quality of life for the inhabitants of the region by offering them smart solutions that will provide greater safety, comfort, and productivity. APPENDIX 89 2019 Enabling Digital Transformation, Managed Connectivity Services for Sustainability Efficiency and Sustainability local and global IoT Original Equipment Report Carbon emission and climate change are advancing to becothe use-cases are constantly emerging across practically all Manufacturer (oem) and Solution Providers me the greatest challenge of our time. While we are doing our industries from Transport, Manufacturing, Agriculture, Health CONTENT duties as individuals and corporations, América Móvil believes Care to Smart Cities, Smart Buildings, Smart Energy and Utilities. América Móvil provides Managed Connectivity Services for that it also has the potential to enable millions of customers manufacturers of connected products and solution providers across all industries to achieve more efficient and sustainable And with new use-cases and more industries deploying IoT such as connected cars, fleet and asset tracking solutions, operations using innovative communication technologies. technologies the requirements to the communication servismart meters, environmental sensors and many more. ManaMESSAGE FROM THE CEO ces and infrastructure are evolving too. In the early days M2M ged Connectivity Services rely on the existing 2G, 3G and 4G The number of connections for Internet-of-Things (IoT) and solutions simply used a SIM card in an adapted cellphone to infrastructure of mobile network operators but provide many Machine-to-Machine (M2M) devices, that América Móvil transmit sensor data via SMS. This has changed dramatically functionalities to securely manage the connectivity and to auoperates, is growing over 30% every year. While the principle since then. Nowadays, the IoT devices are purpose-built and tomate the lifecycle of a connected product from manufactuCOMPANY PROFILE of transmitting real-time data from remote sensors to enable manufactured in the millions with global supply chains and ring to activation, continuous monitoring and termination. proactive decision making is common to all IoT applications, complex logistical processes. Data is the primary means of transmission and data security one of the biggest concerns. In 2019 América Móvil has started to deploy its IoT HUB-architecture, that allows IoT customers to access and to use the UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY network of any subsidiary within the territory of América Móvil with a unified Connectivity Management Platform and a single integration point. Using eSIM-technologies, which allow CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES the remote provisioning of a device after manufacturing, product manufacturers can rely on a single-stock-keeping-unit of SIMs that can be used in any country. ACTIVATING SAFETY For manufacturers of connected products and IoT solution providers this means that they can create a product for the global market and provision the right communication profile of each country once the product is imported and sold in its destination SHARING DEVELOPMENT market. This simplifies the supply chain immensely and reduces the costs of having country specific derivates of each device. Along with the technological infrastructure, América Móvil UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE has implemented a global IoT business unit. With tailormade offerings and streamlined processes multinational and global IoT customers can now receive services and support for all countries within the América Móvil territory from a single APPENDIX point of contact. 90 2019 Private LTE enables IoT use-cases in remote areas, off-shore Sustainability and even underground Report Throughout 2019 América Móvil has engaged in a number of projects for private LTE networks. In situations where the use of public network infrastructure is not suitable or the public networks CONTENT are not available, América Móvil delivered a private network that is relying on infrastructure that is fully or partially dedicated to a specific customer. Application areas are underground mining, off-shore drilling rigs, remote agricultural areas where MESSAGE FROM THE CEO public networks do not reach. Private LTE networks are also used in scenarios where security and quality criteria require customized or dedicated configuration of network components such as power plants or sensitive manufacturing facilities. COMPANY PROFILE Customers with private LTE networks can reap all the benefits of a globally applied standard such as the availability of network equipment, low-cost devices and trained personnel as well as a fully dedicated and customized network configuration optimized to the customers’ needs. UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY América Móvil provides private LTE networks tailored to the customer requirements and delivers turn-key solutions from network planning, implementation and operation to fully integrated IoT applications that run on top of the network. CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES With private LTE networks América Móvil enables its customers to continuously monitor their facilities and assets and optimize them for more efficiency and sustainability. ACTIVATING SAFETY Building the infrastructure for a sustainable future In 2019 América Móvil has implemented the next generation of Low-Power-Wide-Area (LPWAN) SHARING DEVELOPMENT networks for IoT devices: NB-IoT and LTE-M. These technologies will enable devices to operate at ultra-low energy consumption, improved network reception and most importantly at much lower costs. LPWAN will enable a new category of devices that will further drive the growth of IoT connections. First non-commercials trials have been conducted in 2019 and a full commercial UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE launch will follow in 2020 and 2021. APPENDIX 91 2019 Health Services Sustainability Report Health Services are among the areas in which techSIIVAC As of December 2019, SIIVAC has records of more than nology and telecommunications can have a major impact on the quality of life for people. Fully aware of this, at América Móvil we allocate resources to In Mexico we have been working with the Carlos Slim Foundation to promote the use of the “Comprehensive Vaccine Information 2 MILLION children CONTENT projects that will enable people in the communities System” (Sistema Integral de Información en Vacunas SIIVAC). where we operate to enjoy these benefits. This digital system helps people who are applying vaccines in the field to identify and monitor children’s vaccination history. In Colombia we implemented the “MyDoctor” (MiDoctor) a five years old or younger, operating in over MESSAGE FROM THE CEO telemedicine solution for virtual medical assistance, where The system includes a symptom surveillance capability, which 3.5 hundred health units with more than 7 thousand doctors provide medical advices 24 hours per day to Claro consists of a continual and systematic collection, analysis, and people in charge of applying vaccines. Colombia’s customers. interpretation of disease-related data in order to assess the cuIt also has detailed information on more than rrent health of the population and identify an outbreak or epideCOMPANY PROFILE In Austria, the “Medical Data Network” connects doctors, hosmic, in order to intervene and control it in a timely manner. 17.4 billion doses of vaccines pitals, laboratories, and other medical institutions with each one and share updated and timely information. This program that have been applied. UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY provides infrastructure for some areas of the Austrian e-card system. The “e-care terminal”, multimedia hospital bed, helps to a hospital with several services with nursing staff’s work processes. Currently, the interconnected Austrian pharmacies and CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES the electronic medication (e-medication) ensure the safeness of the patient when taking their medication, as well as providing a better overview of prescribed and dispensed medication. ACTIVATING SAFETY SHARING DEVELOPMENT For more information on this program, please visit the following website: https://www.salud.carlosslim.org/innovacion/vacunologia/ UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE APPENDIX 92 2019 Sustainability Report The SIIVAC includes: CASALUD • An “Electronic Vaccination Record” (CEV for its acronym The goal of the “CASALUD Strategy”, created by the Carlos The strategy centers on the person and supporting them in Spanish) which compiles, manages, and monitors every Slim Foundation, is to address one of Mexico’s main public through a series of Digital Health tools. The MIDO Proactive CONTENT child’s adherence to the National Vaccination Program and health problem, particularly among low-income populations, Prevention Strategy focuses on taking metrics for opportune includes the information in the National Record. It also maby timely identifying chronic illnesses, including diabetes, high detection and evaluates, in a systematic and comprehensive nages the “Protect Them” (Protégelos) app, whose goal is blood pressure, and obesity. It achieves this by re-engineering manner risks such as obesity, high blood pressure, diabetes, to integrate into the CEV all vaccines offered by the private prevention and first-contact health services processes. and kidney disease. It also helps identify patients before they MESSAGE FROM THE CEO health sector in Mexico. The CEV has been implemented in get sick, as it bases its proactive evaluation on a preventive 18 Mexican states. Deloitte, GSMA, and the Broadband Commission have recogniapproach. It includes: zed the CASALUD strategy as one of the top innovative models • The free “Vacunaction” (Vacunacción) app, whose goal is to detect chronic illnesses worldwide. Up to date, the program, • The MIDO Module and the MIDOv4.0 online system opeCOMPANY PROFILE to offer adequate and sufficient information on vaccines, is implemented in the 32 Mexican states. Currently, CASALUD rates through modules installed in health units and public allowing people to make informed decisions in this regard. operates at over 12.4 hundred first-contact Health Units natioplaces that detect chronic diseases with help of intelligent The app enables parents to monitor their children’s vaccine nally and monitors more than 1.7 million patients diagnosed algorithms that identify risk factors and offers immediate UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY schedule from their handsets. with a chronic disease. feedback, whether in person or by digital means. • MIDO v4.0 Information System. This innovative digital platform has been enriched with Big Data elements to CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES identify up to 21 different risk profiles based on responding to a questionnaire and taking basic measurements. • MIDO at School is a specific algorithm used to detect risk ACTIVATING SAFETY factors and nutritional disorders in children over 5 years old. • MIDO Pregnancy offers the required evaluation of pregnant women who are at risk of developing high blood pressure, SHARING DEVELOPMENT gain excessive weight, or develop diabetes, by employing a series of tools and sophisticated algorithms. UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE APPENDIX 93 2019 Sustainability Report Several technological tools support the CASALUD Strategy: • The Structure Record of the Health Units (Cédula de Estructura de Unidades de Salud y UNEMES) is an online platform that enables the user to see the state of a Health Unit’s inCONTENT frastructure to handle chronic diseases. • Interactive Online Health Education Platform (PIEENSO Plataforma Interactiva de Educación En Salud Online) aimed for health personnel (doctors, nurses, promoters, etc.) to update MESSAGE FROM THE CEO their knowledge and improve the quality of care they provide to the population. The academic offer is at the diploma level in specific topics such as maternal and perinatal health, chronic diseases, vaccinology, women’s cancer and genomics. Up to date we have more than 86 thousand graduates, including physicians, nurses, social workers, promoters, and COMPANY PROFILE other members of the health team in Mexico and several Latin American countries. • “AbastoNET” online platform to monitor the availability of medications and lab inputs. This UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY is achieved by sending daily notifications on prescriptions that have not been filled and lab tests that have not been performed, as well as by issuing automatic scarcity reports. • The Digital Health Portfolio (Portafolio Digital de Salud) is an interactive compilation of suCONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES pport tools that reinforce the work done by health professionals and improve the quality of care that includes a selection of practical clinical guidelines, a portable electronic medical record and a Vademecum. It is available on web version, as well as for download as an Android app. ACTIVATING SAFETY • Virtual Meeting to Follow-up on Operations (Reunión Virtual de Seguimiento de la Operación REVISO) whose goal is to strengthen the way in which the Ministry of Health manages the health system. Measures include promoting coordination and communication with and within the state health systems; standardizing and automating the program operation and SHARING DEVELOPMENT its processes; sharing best practices both in operation and in management; constantly informing and communicating. UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE For more information on the CASALUD Strategy, please visit the following website: APPENDIX https://www.salud.carlosslim.org/innovacion/casalud/ 94 2019 Accessibility Sustainability Report To provide accesible information to people with The web, information and communications technologies have The initiative was launched by the World Wide Web Consortium disabilities is a Human Right established in the 2008 consolidated as an effective tool to help people with disabilities (W3C), an international community that develops open stanConvention for the Rights of Persons with Disabilities enjoy their human rights and basic freedoms. Support and asdards to ensure the long-term growth of the Internet, launched signed by 173 countries. Given that inclusion is a sistance technologies operate as a means to balance opportuthe initiative. CONTENT priority for América Móvil, every year we make an nities for disabled people. effort to make our communications channels more The initiative also benefits seniors, people with temporarily reaccessible to all. We are convinced that connectivity generates empowerment duced capacities, or people with slow Internet access or who and helps narrow the income gap, for this, reason we work live in remote areas. MESSAGE FROM THE CEO According to the World Health Organization (WHO) around constantly on developing websites that are accessible to all. 1 billion people or 15% of the world’s population have some We make sure that everyone can have access to content puform of disabilities. Thus, converting them in the world’s We participate in the Web Accessibility Initiative whose goal is blished on our americamovil.com, telcel.com, and telmex.com largest minority. As the United Nations Development Proto develop strategies, guidelines, and resources that will help websites. Web accessibility implies that people with disabiliCOMPANY PROFILE gram (UNDP) reports, 80% of people with disabilities live in implement accessible websites for people with hearing, cogties, the elderly and/or people who are not familiar with the Indeveloping countries. Moreover, 20% of the poorest populanitive, neurological, physical, visual, or language disabilities ternet are able to use and browse these websites with the same tion worldwide have some kind of disability, according to the through assistance technologies. effectiveness than the rest of the population. UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY World Bank estimation.1 CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES ACTIVATING SAFETY SHARING DEVELOPMENT UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE 1 For more information please visit the following website: https://www.un.org/development/desa/disabilities/ APPENDIX resources/factsheet-on-persons-with-disabilities.html 95 2019 Sustainability Report The websites telcel.com and telmex.com comply with or surpass the requirements established by the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines 2.0 Level AA, certified by an external verifier. We continue working to achieve the same level in the rest of the websites of our subsidiaries. CONTENT Our websites include the following features: MESSAGE FROM THE CEO Keyboard access to links to the main content of each site. COMPANY PROFILE Option to change text size in every page. Every image used can be replaced by an explanatory text. UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY Use of headings that represent the structure of the website. CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES All hyperlinks are explicit and self-explanatory. ACTIVATING SAFETY We have implemented an alternative mechanism in case a device is not able to run Java Script or any other script in our website. SHARING DEVELOPMENT We have made sure that text color and the background have the necessary contrast for easy reading. UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE We have used the Cascading Style Sheet to control how the pages are shown. APPENDIX 96 2019 Environmental Sustainability Report Stewardship At América Móvil, we operate and make decisions Our goal is to empower people through connectivity and Our commitments with this strategy focus on three fundamenwith the highest sense of responsibility towards the to work constantly -inside the Company and with our value tal fronts: protection and conservation of ecosystems, climaCONTENT environment. This is why we consider important chainto ensure that we are eco-efficient, ergo operating as te change preparedness, and the promotion of a circular ecoto develop policies and procedures that enable us environmentally-friendly as possible. nomy. Likewise, the foundations of the policy are the training to frame and channel all efforts towards the same and promotion of a culture of environmental protection with all MESSAGE FROM THE CEO goal: to always be as eco-efficient as possible with a In order to achieve this, we based our efforts in two main axes: our stakeholders, and the development of robust environmencontinuous improvement approach. tal management systems, with clear and ambitious short, me1. Minimizing the environmental footprint of our operations, diumand long-term goals. We are committed to comply with the environmental stanservices and products throughout their whole life cycle. dards and regulations applicable in all our operations. We COMPANY PROFILE also share best practices in environmental regulation across 2. Compensating our environmental externalities so that the the whole organization. Company’s footprint gets closer and closer to zero. UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY Eco-efficient operations CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES Ecosystems protection Preparation for Promotion of ACTIVATING SAFETY and conservation climate change Circular economy SHARING DEVELOPMENT Management, leadership and communication UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE APPENDIX Education and culture 97 2019 Energy (302-1) Sustainability Report Renewable Energy Our Austrian subsidiary The telecommunications industry is a high demand energy In order to achieve our goal of operating in a more eco-efficient operates its entire network on a sector. This is why one of our biggest efforts for environmental manner, one of our most important initiatives is to use renewaCONTENT stewardship is making our operations every year more ecoefficient energy-wise. ble sources of energy, mainly wind and solar. During 2019, 20% of our subsidiaries had Power Purchase Agreements and/or, 100% carbon-neutral basis autogenerated renewable energy. since 2014. One of our 2020 sustainability goals, included in our “Smart MESSAGE FROM THE CEO Sustainability” strategy, is that 50% of the energy we use coFuel Consumption The A1 Telekom Austria Group operates two large mes from clean energy and to commit to streamline operaIn addition, we use different fuels to supply our car fleet and tions in order to minimize energy consumption. To achieve power plants in order to enable our base stations to offer photovoltaic farms of its own. One in Belarus, which this, we will continue to implement projects that are showing connectivity to consumers in remote areas with no access to has produced more than 27 million kWh good results, while at the same time introducing new projects electricity. During 2019, we consumed over 54 million liters of COMPANY PROFILE that have a high impact in terms of energy. gasoline, 48 million liters of diesel, and 369 thousand liters of biodiesel. In addition, since some of our operations require LP per year since 2016, and one in Austria, During 2019, across all our operations our energy consumpgas, ethanol, and natural gas, in 2019 we consumed more than which has produced around 125.000 kWh UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY tion was 6.2 million Megawatts/hour (MWh). 774 thousand liters of LP gas, 5.4 million liters of bioethanol, and 1.3 cubic meters of natural gas. of electricity per year since 2013. CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES Energy Consumption by country or region Fuel consumption by region or country Electricity consumption Gasoline Diesel Biodiesel LP Gas Bioethane Fuel Oil CNG Natural Gas Country / Region MWH Consumed Country / Region (lts) (lts) (lts) (lts) (lts) (lts) (m3) (m3) ACTIVATING SAFETY Mexico 2,319,492 Mexico 43,163,648 6,603,630 0 460,290 0 0 0 0 Brazil 1,379,276 Brazil 5,169,891 1,024,403 0 0 5,427,151 0 0 1 Colombia 430,472 Colombia 138,569 10,502,459 0 0 0 0 0 0 Southern Cone 469,088 Southern Cone 376,158 2,566,287 0 0 0 0 0 3,000 SHARING DEVELOPMENT Andean Region 233,771 Andean Region 571,127 2,129,346 0 11,659 0 0 0 0 Central America 382,472 Central America 1,159,566 7,502,621 0 0 0 0 0 0 Caribbean Region 258,289 Caribbean Region 3,151,775 11,072,588 0 116,075 0 0 0 0 UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE United States 8,642 United States 5,716 0 0 0 0 0 0 13,581 Europe 714,388 Europe 633,493 6,901,758 369,238 186,476 24,166 161,267 4,487 1,352,475 Total 6,195,890 Total 54,369,941 48,303,092 369,238 774,500 5,451,317 161,267 4,487 1,369,057 APPENDIX 98 2019 Emissions (305-1, 305-2, 305-3) Sustainability Report We constantly monitor the direct and indirect greenhouse gas Greenhouse gas emissions by country or region emissions of our operations in order to develop projects that Country / Region Scope 1 Direct Scope 2 Indirect Scope 3 Emissions Outside Total Emissions Emissions (Ton CO2e) Emissions (Ton CO2e) (Ton CO2e) of Scopes (Ton CO2e) will allow us to mitigate them and be more eco-efficient and CONTENT Mexico 184,600 1,118,410 1,770,849 0 3,073,859 environmentally friendly every year. Brazil 41,008 549,598 207,284 8,233 806,123 Colombia 33,818 57,960 516,293 0 608,071 During 2019, our total greenhouse gas emissions added up to Southern Cone 13,783 205,145 454,900 0 673,828 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO 8,437,814 tons of CO2e, almost reaching our objective of 600 Andean Region 27,076 163,044 219,892 0 410,011 thousand tons of CO2e of direct greenhouse emissions scope Central America 34,273 88,537 314,965 0 437,776 1 and 2,500,000 tons of CO2e of indirect greenhouse emissions Caribbean Region 232,742 109,936 294,813 0 637,491 scope 2, incluing the 2019 revised scope and methology. United States 39 3,733 1,299,574 0 1,303,347 COMPANY PROFILE Europe 24,948 193,222 268,189 939 487,297 Total 592,287 2,489,586 5,346,759 9,172 8,437,804 Joining the UN Business Ambition for 1.5° C Pledge This year, América Móvil joined the UN Business Ambition for UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY 1.5°Pledge, committing to reduce our GHG emissions during the next decade, which is critical to contribute to controlling As a result of this, América Móvil is committing and mitigating climate change. to reduce its scope 1 CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES and 2 GHG emissions by e Following up on this commitment, we joined GSMA’s Climate Action working group to develop the “Guidance for ICT CompaACTIVATING SAFETY nies Setting SBTs in line with 1.5°C decarbonisation pathways” in partnership with other institutions such as ITU (International Telecommunications Union), GeSI (Global Enabling Sustai52%, as well as our absolute scope 3 GHG emissions 13.5% nability Initiative) and SBTi (Science Based Target Initiative). Additionally, we started working on the development of our by 2030, from 2019 levels. SHARING DEVELOPMENT own Science Based Target (SBT) towards 2030, aligned to the approved industry guidelines. 7% Scope 1 emissions We will build the reduction strategy considering: promoting (direct emissions – fuel and refrigerant consumption). industry collaboration towards aligning common partners in In order to consider 2019 as our base year, we increased the 30% Scope 2 emissions our supply chain, raising awareness and engaging with our UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE scope of our 2019 calculations to include other América Móvil (indirect emissions – electricity consumption). customers, retailers and local suppliers, as well as continue Businesses that were not previously considered in our disclo63% Scope 3 emissions identifying together with our operation teams in all our subsisures. At the same time, we worked along with consultants to (produced outside our control but as part of our value chain). diaries, the efficiencies and reduction opportunities to achiedevelop a more accurate calculation of our footprint. ve these goals. APPENDIX 99 2019 Initiatives to Reduce Emissions, Energy Consumption, Sustainability and Fuel Consumption Report (302-4, 302-5) Our subsidiaries carry out several initiatives tailored to the Also, we achieved savings of 9.8 million paper sheets per year, Peru particular needs of their operation. This year we worked on reducing the amount of paper by 24%. Throughout this year, we developed an electric-efficiency plan the following: in 9 base stations. We will continue this project through 2020. CONTENT Europe Also, in some stations we increased the working temperature Mexico A1 Telekom Austria Group uses innovative logistics concepts from 23°C to 27°C in order to reduce AC working time. Telcel replaced power generation motors through gas, subsand video conferences and implements digital solutions that MESSAGE FROM THE CEO tantially reducing carbon emissions. enable flexible and mobile forms of work in an attempt to reCentral America duce the number of kilometers traveled by its vehicle fleet. It In Costa Rica, we contributed to the cleaning project for GuaDuring 2019, we continue to strengthen our Paperless Platalso uses sustainable propulsion models such as gas, hybrid calillo Beach, which has severe pollution issues. Also, over 350 form integrating six new procedures, including Telmex to the and electric vehicles. Claro employees volunteered in a reforestation project in the COMPANY PROFILE platform, and enabling digital signage to corporate contracts. forest reserve of Quebradillas. The Group has set itself the target to increase energy efficienIn Telmex, we substituted 650 vehicles, reducing over 467,000 cy by 80% (baseline: 2019) until 2030. This year, energy effiIn Panama, we renovated 6% of our diesel fleet and 9% of our galiters of gasoline for 200,000 liters of diesel. ciency has already increased by 8%. In addition, we have the soline fleet, as well as purchasing efficient vehicles for our sales UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY goal to reach carbon neutrality by 2030 by reducing its carbon force. And in Honduras we renovated 20% of our diesel fleet. We developed a project for optimizing areas and equipment footprint and a gradual switch to renewable energy sources. in plants for energy consumption reduction adapting the venIn Nicaragua we renovated solar system batteries in 13 sites. tilation and cooling equipment using outdoor air-cooling and Also, in September 2019, we decided to expand the “enerCONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES optimization of air conditioning in equipment improving thergy-efficient telephone exchanges” pilot project, which has In Guatemala we continue to optimize 70% of batteries usage mal conditions. been ongoing since 2017, to other locations in Austria. We in order to save fuel in sites. also used hotspot suction as an energy-efficient cooling techWe reduced the consumption in our 50 top consuming power nique, as well as heat pumps to cover the heat requirements Brazil ACTIVATING SAFETY plants with various actions. of five telephone exchanges. Photovoltaic systems were also We changed refrigeration gas R-22 and R-410 to a greener opimplemented in ten exemplary telephone exchanges to achietion in all stand-alone stores, reducing also the necessity of Colombia ve further energy-efficiency increases, resulting in a potential compression and energy use. SHARING DEVELOPMENT In 2019, we implemented the supply and installation of hybrid energy saving of up to 30%. photovoltaic energy systems that allow the reduction of backup plants’ operation hours, their maintenance, and also decrease Dominican Republic the fuel consumption in the base stations that operate 24 We are evaluating a project for the installation of a solution with UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE hours a day with power plant, thus reducing the CO2e. To power cabins for the generator’s ignition, reducing fuel concounteract the negative environmental impact of the fuel used sumption used to generate backup electricity on mobile sites. in power supply, the Company began in 2019 the installation of 19 hybrid energy systems that combine the solar photovoltaic We replaced air conditioning equipment with high-efficiency APPENDIX source with the power plants. equipment and eliminated freon R-22 refrigerant. 100 2019 Climate Change Related Risks and Opportunities Sustainability Climate Change Related Risks Report América Móvil consider climate change very seriously, therefore, beyond identifying risks we make strong commitments to address them properly, in order to minimize Risk Short term management Long term implications the probability and/or severity of them. There are already some regions where we operate that have carbon taxes. SeCONTENT Further to our disclosure in our Updating Sustainability section, we pick up the thread on cliveral scenarios predict that carbon limimate related risks and complement our disclosure with identified climate related opportunities, tations and/or taxes in several regions The Company is already working in a longfollowing on the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) recommendations. e or countries could rise. We are monitoterm strategy to lower its emissions as miniring possible taxes in the regions where mum as possible, in order to reduce risk. MESSAGE FROM THE CEO Carbon pricing we operate and taking provisions so we can mitigate the economic impact of them as much as possible. More restricting regulations on existing COMPANY PROFILE goods and services could have a big We expect harder regulations in efficiency, reeconomic impact to the Company, essource intensity and life cycle management. pecially if unwarned and/or little tranWe work together with the Industry to address UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY sition time is granted. Like the previous these issues with the value chain, peers, and Regulation risk, we are constantly monitoring posorganizations, in order to be able to provide of existing sible changes in regulations to be presolutions beyond the stakeholders’ expectaproducts and pared as much as possible. We are wortions and to be one step ahead of regulations. CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES services king along the industry to cover these regulations changes. Most fuel is used for on-site power generation over remote base stations that cannot be conACTIVATING SAFETY América Móvil’s main raw materials are nected to the grid. In the near future, we expect electricity and fuels. Fuel-based geto have two options for these base stations: nerated electricity and fuel prices ten1) the grid’s expansion reaching those sites or dencies show an increase in trend. The 2) have reliable and not expensive renewable SHARING DEVELOPMENT Company strategy is to minimize the energy generation on those sites. consumption of fuels or fuel-based raw Regarding the possible increase in device’s raw Increase cost of materials when economically feasible. materials, this could reduce our customers’ abiUPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE raw materials On the other hand, increase in raw mality to afford them in some of the regions where terials could affect the price of technowe operate. We will continue working within our logical devices used in our operations. value chain to promote a circular economy and especially the recycling/reuse of the materials APPENDIX in discarded electronic devices. 101 2019 Climate Change Related Opportunities Sustainability Report Risk Short term management Long term implications Use of recycling. As an important part of the life cycle of the products we sell, we take great We expect stakeholders to keep inpride in being also an important player in the recovery of the end-use of those. We develop, creasing their demands for positive Climate change might acute our stakeholders communications and outreach campaigns year on year to foster an electronic waste recycling social and environmental impacts of social and environmental expectations. The culture, which we are sure will keep growing around the world and could therefore represent a CONTENT the products and services they acquiCompany’s sustainability strategy towards reputational opportunity we can continue capitalizing. Shift in re. In América Móvil we are constantly 2030 addresses this matter, so we can capitaconsumer updating our materiality to meet our lize such risk into an opportunity. Use of lower-emission sources of energy. Most of América Móvil’s emissions comes from MESSAGE FROM THE CEO preferences stakeholders’ expectations. electric energy consumption (Scope 2 emissions), the appearance of lower emissions sources We covered this risk and our mitigation Beyond our contingency plans, we are currently of energy represents a great opportunity for the Company in financial, reputational and resilience strategy in the previous section. Due to working on a regional vulnerability assessment reasons. Renewable energy has proved not only to be a cleaner source, but also a more reliable the location of some of our operations, for physical climate change events. This asone. In addition, micro-generation and on-site in remote base stations is already a problem that COMPANY PROFILE extreme weather events can have sesessment would help us locate the more suscould be addressed with clean energy. rious financial impacts for the Comceptible regions to extreme weather events, so Extreme pany in terms of damages to physical we can then perform vulnerability assessments Use of supportive policy incentives. There are already several organizations or governments weather events infrastructure and insurance pricings. and preparations at an asset level. who offer incentives to migrate to cleaner production systems or cleaner energy suppliers. UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY Our equipment will require more cooled air to We expect these incentives to grow, and we should be able to capitalize these opportunities, keep their maximum operation temperature at especially by combining this with the opportunity for increasing coverage in remote sites. level, which means more expenses in air condiRising mean temperature can have tioning equipment, maintenance and operation. Use of new technologies. Given the nature of the Company’s operations, América Móvil always CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES two consequences for the Company’s A drastic increase in the mean temperature employs cutting edge technology. More reliable, efficient and environmentally friendly technology operations: 1) for our equipment norin some areas could restrict labor hours for could greatly benefit the Company, so we are constantly in the process of developing or seeking it. mal operation, which was covered in outside jobs in some regions. Keeping the Rising mean the previous sections; and 2) for our safety of our employees as our priority, we Development and/or expansion of low emission goods and services. This could represent the ACTIVATING SAFETY workforce. Both having financial imwould need to incorporate heat waves, rise in greatest opportunity for the Company, for lately, hi-tech goods and services rely on connectivity temperature pact in our operations. mean temperatures, UV exposure and other and Internet as their platform. The Telecommunications Industry could have potential role heat-exposure conditions into re-planning in addressing climate change, for it enables other industries to meet their reduction goals SHARING DEVELOPMENT our workforce base stations maintenance through connectivity solutions. América Móvil is already capitalizing this opportunity with two and other installation routines. strategies: 1) providing fast, reliable and ample coverage connection within our markets; and 2) our Customer Relationship and Value Added Services areas developing B2B solutions. UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE APPENDIX 102 2019 Waste (306-2, 301-3) Sustainability Report In order to reduce our environmental footprint, at Non-hazardous waste by disposal method by country or region América Móvil we constantly work on projects that Country / Region Recycled (Tons) Reused (Tons) Landfill (Tons) Incinerated (Tons) Total 2019 helps us improve the way in which we dispose of Mexico 3,927 168 1,280 5,376 CONTENT the waste we generate. All these projects focus on Brazil 1,931 1,931 reusing, recycling, and controlled confinement for Colombia 2,245 946 1 3,192 waste that can later be reclaimed. Southern Cone3 2,539 1 294 2,8474 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO Andean Region 649 88 736 In 2019, we reused 3,2471 tons of discarded technological waste Central America 1,571 42 1,613 through different suppliers. Likewise, we generated 5,6792 tons Caribbean Region 3,247 539 3,786 of hazardous waste, which we disposed of in accordance to the United States 530 107 637 COMPANY PROFILE regulations of the countries where the waste was generated. Europe 2,730 800 1,061 4,591 Total 19,370 169 4,007 1,150 24,708 There is an increase of more than 2.6 tons (around 12%) of waste compared to the previous year mainly because of the 3 A deviation was identified in the sum of non-hazardous waste for South Cone in 2018, the correct figure is 3,054 tons. 4 The total includes 12.5 tons of waste disposed through confinement. UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY integration of the data of Telvista in Mexico and TracFone in the United States. Also, the network modernization and maintenance contributed CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES to the increase of waste in 2019. Besides, the renovation of some of the administrative sites increment the furniture and equipment waste. ACTIVATING SAFETY Moreover, Ecuador reported a significant improvement in the control and manage of waste, especially in their warehouse. SHARING DEVELOPMENT In addition, Puerto Rico reported an uncommon use of batteries in the last quarter of 2017 and during 2018, due to the Hurricane Maria that hit the island in September 2017. UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE 1 In 2018, a deviation was identified in the sum of discarded technological waste through different suppliers, the correct figure is 4,260 tons. 2 A deviation was identified in the sum of hazardous waste in 2018, the correct figure is 4,601 tons. Moreover, in the Dominican Republic, an alliance with authorized companies took place in 2019, allowing to 116,150 tons of batteries have a second life, APPENDIX thus assuring that this material did not end up in landfills. In addition, Telmex in Mexico reported 5,990 liters of lubricant oil that were recycled. 103 2019 Disposal of Mobile Phones and Accessories, Sustainability Promoting Circular Economy Report América Móvil occupies a strategic position; this implies that Costa Rica we have a great responsibility, as we are the link between the With the “Una Nueva Sabana” Program, we create awareness companies that make mobile devices and end consumers. in Claro Costa Rica’s employees in the importance of a comprehensive waste management, specifically at the final dispoCONTENT Therefore in order to foster a circular economy, we offer our sal stage. Also, in La Lima de Cartago area, as part of the Earth As a result, 100% consumers ways in which they can adequately dispose discarDay and Environmental Day, we worked with several society ded devices, which are sent to specialized companies or orgasectors, identifying waste pollution, to properly collect and nizations that reuse as many of the components as possible dispose. Over 15,000 people -employees, their families and MESSAGE FROM THE CEO and adequately dispose of anything that cannot be recycled or general populationparticipated. of the non-hazardous waste reused, promoting a circular economy. Dominican Republic generated in Brazil WERE recycled, COMPANY PROFILE The following are some of the initiatives carried out by our subsidiaries: Fostering circular economies, in Dominican Republic, we de97% in Central America and veloped a project that seeks to collect electronic equipment in our stores and channel them to companies that can properly 89% in Southern Cone. Mexico reuse, recycle and dispose the equipment components. UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY During 2019, within the “Green Program” (Programa Verde) of GSMA and ANATEL, Telcel gathered more than 59.8 thousand Europe devices and over 320 thousand tons of accessories through Our subsidiaries in Austria and Bulgaria reuse user’s returned more than 500 containers that we have placed in our stores devices that are still functional and technologically up to date CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES and corporate offices; so that our customers and employees for reuse. In Bulgaria alone, approximately 10,000 devices a may adequately dispose their old cellphones and other used month undergo this refurbishment process. electronic devices. Twice a year, the Company implements awareness campaigns in social media to strengthen our reFor 2030, the A1 Telekom Austria Group aims to push a circuACTIVATING SAFETY cycling culture and to encourage all our stakeholders to join lar economy in the company and to collect around 50,000 old efforts towards achieving a circular economy. devices every year for recycling. In 2019 alone, we collected 64,500 devices in Europe. Colombia SHARING DEVELOPMENT Since 2009, in Colombia we have “The Reverse Logistics ProPeru cess” (Proceso de Logística Inversa), which includes the recoSince 2010, through our “Project I Recycle, I am Claro” (Yo Revery and remanufacturing of equipment, promoting a circular ciclo, Yo Soy Claro), we have collected over 178 tons of waste UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE economy. Through this project, we are saving approximatefor its further reuse and recycle, promoting consciousness in ly 492,000 cubic meters of water, equivalent to 197 Olympic our society about environmental care and the correct disposal swimming pools. In addition, we prevented the production of of Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE). 809.5 tons of electronic and electrical equipment waste by inAPPENDIX creasing the life of different materials. 104 2019 Water Sustainability Report Even though water is not a material issue for us, we seek to use it responsibly. At América Móvil we use water mainly for human consumption, but in some cases, we use water for Data Center refrigeration systems, where we use high-efficiency closed cycle systems. América Móvil consumes 4.5 million cubic meters of water. All of the Company’s water discharges complied with CONTENT the regulations of the regions where we operate. MESSAGE FROM THE CEO Biodiversity (304-2, 304-3) One of the pillars of our Environmental Policy is the protection and conservation of the ecosystems, we have established partnerships with local governments and COMPANY PROFILE associations whose goals are aligned to ours. As a telecommunications company, we are able to have a positive impact on the environment by integrating mobile technologies into the protection of species. UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES This year, more than ACTIVATING SAFETY 88,000 USD were invested in the different biodiversity and conservation programs held by the WWF-Telmex Telcel Foundation PARTNERSHIP, SHARING DEVELOPMENT which result in many social and environmental benefits, such as new employment opportunities, environmental education, ecotourism, UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE reforestation, and community cohesion, among many others. APPENDIX 105 Conservation Program for the Monarch BUTTERFLY Since the beginning of the program, more than 2019 Sustainability 13,500 hectares have been Report Since 2003 the WWF and TELCEL-TELMEX Foundation • Providing community brigades with equipment and traiPartnership has been implementing a “Conservation Program ning for environmental monitoring of over 43,600 hectares reforested, with nearly 15 million for the Monarch Butterfly” (Programa de Conservación para la of forests in the Monarch Region. Mariposa Monarca) whose goal is to preserve this species in CONTENT Mexico, including their migration and hibernation. The program • Raising awareness of more than 40 thousand people trees planted has been successful in, among other things, eradicating through environmental education. clandestine logging, creating sustainable community MESSAGE FROM THE CEO businesses, protecting and restoring forests, developing The WWF and TELCEL-TELMEX Foundation Partnership hosan economic strategy that provides the communities with ted a reforestation day, where América Móvil’s employees and which were produced in 13 community greenhouses. alternative business opportunities linked to the forest family members participated, as well as the community and conservation, and publishing scientific articles deemed as the inhabitants of El Rosario. This program also aims to create awareness of the importance technical basis for managing the Reserve. of forests in our country. These forests provide multiple enviCOMPANY PROFILE This program has been carried out for 16 years. During this ronmental services, such as water and oxygen, as well as proDuring 2019, we registered a decrease of 25.4% in the degratime, more than 13,500 hectares have been reforested with viding housing for the monarch butterfly, and also benefiting dation of the forest in the core zone of the monarch butterflies’ nearly 15 million trees, of which almost 12 million come from other species, including amphibians, reptiles, 132 species of UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY biosphere, compared to 2018. the 13 greenhouses supported by Telcel. birds, 56 mammals and 423 types of plants. As part of the Alliance’s environmental awareness program, over a thousand volunteers from Telcel, WWF and their faCONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES milies, coming from Puebla, Queretaro, Guadalajara, Morelia, León, and Mexico City planted 15 thousand trees in the Monarch Butterfly Reserve. ACTIVATING SAFETY The main achievements of the program include: • Establishing 3 modules for sustainable wood transformation, which capacity to saw is 3,000 cubic meters of wood. SHARING DEVELOPMENT These modules produce 6 million pesos for the agricultural communities that own them. UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE • Establishing a 31 module-network that produce mushroom, and a module that processes more than 25 thousand bags of inoculated substrate, whose profits reaches 2.6 million pesos for the producing families. APPENDIX • Strengthening tourism activities. 106 2019 Jaguars Protection Program Sustainability Report For 15 years, we have carried out the “Jaguars Protection Program” (Programa de Protección de Jaguares), in partnership with the National Alliance for the Conservation of Jaguars and the The WWF and TELMEX-TELCEL Foundation Partnership. CONTENT The goal of the program is to promote and sponsor projects that contribute to the environmental policy and establish a link between different sectors in society to ensure the preservation of jaguars, their prey, and their habitats in Mexico. MESSAGE FROM THE CEO In 2019, four jaguars, two males and two females, were captured and tracked in Laguna Om, allowing us to study the differences in their behavior. COMPANY PROFILE In addition, this year we placed for the first time trap chambers in trees to analyze the arboreal biodiversity in Laguna Om, UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY which allowed us to register unseen species, such as the weasel and the anteater. Since the beginning of the Program we have achieved: • Development of the Insured Conservation| Standards for Ja• We hosted the Mexican Jaguar in the XXI Century Forum as CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES guar tool (“Conservación Asegurada | Estándares para Jawell as the Ecology and Conservation of Jaguar and Other • Creation of Jaguar Guarding Centers (“RESJAGUAR”), and guar JAGS+”), where a group of jaguar conservation experts Neotropical Felines International Symposium in order to construction of the first site in Oaxaca aimed at the rehareflect best practices for the management and conservation assess the situation of the jaguar in America. bilitation and temporary maintenance of jaguars for their of critical areas where these species inhabits, as well as ACTIVATING SAFETY potential release. maintaining, securing and recovering jaguar populations. • Integration of the Latin American Alliance for the Jaguar Conservation to facilitate the link between strategies that • Development of the WWF Jaguar Conservation Strategy • Two jaguar censuses were conducted in Mexico, allowing guarantee the conservation of these species, its preys, and (“Estrategia de Conservación del Jaguar de WWF”), which us to estimate a population of approximately 4,800 adult its habitat. SHARING DEVELOPMENT seeks to ensure a priority landscapes network that guaranindividuals, demonstrating that despite the continuous tee the permanence and recovery of jaguars, their habitats change in the Mexican landscape, large forest areas with and the ecosystem services they provide. To date, 57 biolarge jaguar populations are still preserved. UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE logical corridors have been identified throughout Mexico, which are essential to maintain connectivity between jaguar populations. APPENDIX 107 2019 Conservation of Marine Species Sustainability in the Sea of Cortez Report In 2019, we celebrated the eleventh anniversary of the “Conservation Program for Priority Marine Species” (Programa de Conservación de Especies Marinas Prioritarias en el Mar de Cortés) in the Sea of Cortez. This program, in which we collaborate with the WWF and TELMEX-TELCEL CONTENT Foundation Partnership, is the only one in the Gulf of California that focuses on 15 marine species that are in danger of extinction, divided into three large groups: whales, marine turtles, and sharks. MESSAGE FROM THE CEO The work carried out under this program includes the integration of experts and group leaders in research and conservation, promoting science in the region and the proper management of species and their habitats, through three strategic pilars: science and research, conservation and management, and communication and environmental education. COMPANY PROFILE In 2019, we were able to identify a 16% decrease in the injuries caused by whale shark sightseeing boats in La Paz Bay, compared to 2017, when the WWF and TELMEX-TELCEL Foundation Partnership implemented a strategy to address this situation. This project used for the first UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY time, cellular technology provided by Telcel, to regulate the observation of threatened species in the Gulf of California, which included real-time monitoring with GPS technology on all vessels of sight-seeing service providers, and training for captains and guides, among other measures. The project proved to be easily replicated in other areas such as the Riviera Maya CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES or Riviera Nayarit, as well as to protect other species within the Sea of Cortez, such as the humpback whale. Among the most relevant achievements since the beginning of the program are: ACTIVATING SAFETY • Establishing the first Mexican shark marking research group. To date, 158 white sharks of 12 different species have been marked, 36 stations have been placed in northwestern Mexico, SHARING DEVELOPMENT photo identification of 147 white sharks along with 512 whale sharks, acoustic marking of 58 individuals, acoustic marking of 18 bull sharks in Cabo Pulmo National Park, the identification of 15 giant rays; and satellite marking of 8 hawksbill turtles. UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE • Creating a shelter for the whale shark in La Paz Bay. • Protecting 200 km of nesting beach in Los Cabos. APPENDIX • Implementing the first study of climate change at nesting sites using 156 thermosensors on 12 nesting beaches. 108 2019 Nature at Your School (LA NATURALEZA EN Sustainability TU ESCUELA) Program Report This very successful program of the WWF and TELMEX-TELCEL Every edition of the program, in collaboration with personnel • A teacher’s guide with academic competencies, didactic Foundation Partnership has been operating since 2014. Its specialized in technology, communication, and environmensequences, and teaching methodology. goal is to create awareness among Mexican students about tal education, we designed and published the following digital CONTENT the need to protect vulnerable species and their habitats. and printed materials: • A student’s guide, including the same elements as the teaAfter a presentation made by scientists and the Alliance’s cher’s guide plus a self-evaluation format and collaboraspokesperson, students are requested to create a collaborative • A microsite to exhibit the artworks and the polling process, tion model. art work. The most representative pieces are reserved for hosted at lanaturalezanosllama.com website. MESSAGE FROM THE CEO exhibition at the Soumaya Museum and the most outstanding • Insert on the specifications of each artwork. students are invited to visit research programs on the field. • The “Learn More” document (“Para saber más”) as well as a pamphlet with information on the species. • Presentation for the exhibit session. COMPANY PROFILE • Art catalogue of the exhibit in the Soumaya Museum, with • Illustrative videos for the presentation. photographs and curator information on the artworks. • Invitational videos, documentaries, and a video memoir of UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY each stage. • A traveler’s guide for expeditions. CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES The 2019 edition of the program named “Monarch Planet” featured the importance of protecting the Monarch Butterfly and its forests, visiting 26 states of the country with the collaboration of more than 27 thousand students from 309 schools. ACTIVATING SAFETY This year, the website hosting the program received over 16 million interactions in a week. The winners of the 2019 edition of the Program were: SHARING DEVELOPMENT Lia Fernanda Vázquez Martínez, Leydi María Santos Santiago, Alba Nury Cedillo Trejo, Maidelin Getsemani Mora Conde, and UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE Lisette Ximena Vázquez Cruz, from Colegio La Salle Veracruz, whose artwork titled “México Monarca”. APPENDIX 109 2019 Sustainability Report Appendix CONTENT MESSAGE FROM THE CEO COMPANY PROFILE UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY Information and contact CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES If you wish to share with us your opinion on the contents of this report, please contact us via any of the following channels: ACTIVATING SAFETY E-mail: contacto-rse@americamovil.com Phone number: +52 (55) 2581 3700 ext. 1097 Website: http://www.americamovil.com SHARING DEVELOPMENT UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE APPENDIX 110 2019 Associations in which we participate (102-13) Sustainability Report We are members or national and foreign associations and organisms that support our industry or in some way benefit society. CONTENT América Móvil Brazil Groupe Speciale Mobile Association (GSMA) Associação Brasileira de TV por Assinatura United Nations Global Compact (UN Global Compact) Associação Brasileira de Recursos Telecom International Telecommunication Union (ITU) Associação Nacional de Operadores de Celulares MESSAGE FROM THE CEO 5G Américas Conselho de Desenvolvimento Econômico e Social Asociación Interamericana de Empresas de Telecomunicaciones (ASIET) Sindicato Nacional das Empresas de Telefonia e de Serviço Móvel Celular e Pessoal (SindiTeleBrasil) Grupo de Institutos, Fundações e Empresas (GIFE) A1 Telekom Austria Group COMPANY PROFILE 5GAA – 5G Automotive Association e. V. Bulgaria Next Generation Mobile Networks Alliance United Nations Global Compact (UN Global Compact) respACT Bulgarian Red Cross ETNO Bulgarian Charities Aid Foundation UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY GSM Memorandum of Understanding Bulgarian Donors' Forum UN Global Compact CSR Academy Austria Chile CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES klimaaktiv mobil project partner Asociación de empresas de telefonía móvil (ATELMO) United Nations Global Compact (UN Global Compact) ICARE Electromobility model region Vienna Cámara de Integración Chileno Mexicana (CICMEX) Code of Conduct on Data Centres Energy Efficiency Asociación de Exportadores y Manufacturas (ASEXMA) ACTIVATING SAFETY respACT Sofofa (Sociedad de Fomento Fabril) klimaaktiv partner Acceso TV Argentina Colombia Cámara de Comercio Argentina Mexicana (CCAM) Asociación de Exportadores y Manufacturas (ASEXMA) SHARING DEVELOPMENT Cámara de Informática y Comunicaciones de Argentina (CICOMRA) Andesco Cámara Argentina de Internet (CABASE) Cámara Colombiana de Informática y Telecomunicaciones (CCIT) Cámara de Comercio de los Estados Unidos en Argentina (AMCHAM) Cámara de Comercio Colombo Mexicana UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE Cámara de Sociedades Asociación de Empresarios de Colombia (ANDI) Cámara Argentina de Comercio Electrónico (CACE) Asociación de la Industria Móvil de Colombia – ASOMOVIL Groupe Speciale Mobile Association (GSMA) Groupe Speciale Mobile Association (GSMA) Asociación Interamericana de Empresas de Telecomunicaciones (ASIET) Cámara de Comercio Colombo Americana – AMCHAM APPENDIX Cámara Argentina de Comercio Cámara de Comercio Electrónico 111 2019 Costa Rica Ecuador Sustainability Cámara de Tecnologías de Información y Comunicación Cámara de Comercio de Quito Report Cámara de Infocomunicación y Tecnología Cámara de Comercio de Guayaquil Alianza de Empresas para el Desarrollo Cámara Binacional de Comercio Ecuador – México Cámara de Comercio Americana Costarricense Cámara de Industrias de Guayaquil CONTENT Cámara de Industria y Comercio Costa Rica –México Cámara Ecuatoriano Británica de Guayaquil Asociación de Empresas de Telecomunicaciones (ASETEL) Croatia United Nations Global Compact (UN Global Compact) El Salvador Cámara Americana de Comercio de El Salvador MESSAGE FROM THE CEO Dominica Republic Asociación Nacional de la Empresa Acción Empresarial por la Educación (EDUCA) Cámara de Comercio e Industria de El Salvador Acción Pro Educación y Cultura (APEC) Cámara Salvadoreña de Telecomunicaciones Asociación de Comerciantes e Industriales de Santiago (ACIS) COMPANY PROFILE Asociación Dominicana de Empresas FINTECH (ADOFINTECH) Guatemala Asociación de Empresas Industriales de Herrera (AEIH) Cámara de Comercio e Industria Guatemalteco Mexicana (CAMEX) Asociación de Industrias de la Región Norte (AIREN) Cámara de Comercio de Guatemala (CCG) Asociación de Industrias de la República Dominicana (AIRD) Gremial de Telecomunicaciones UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY Asociación Dominicana de Constructores y Promotores de la Vivienda (ACOPROVI) Cámara de Industria de Guatemala (CIG) Asociación Dominicana de Empresas de Exportación (ADOEXPO) Fundación de Empresarios Mexicanos (FUNDAMEX) Asociación Dominicana de Empresas de Inversión Extranjera (ASIEX) Honduras CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES Asociación Hoteles y Turismo de la República Dominicana (ASONAHORES) Cámara de Comercio e Industrias de Siguatepeque Asociación Nacional de Jóvenes Empresarios (ANJE) Cámara de Comercio e Industrias de Tegucigalpa Asociación Nacional de Usuarios No Regulados (ANUNR) Cámara de Comercio e Industrias de Puerto Cortes Cámara Americana de Comercio de la República Dominicana (AMCHAM) Cámara de Comercio e Industrias de Progreso Yoro ACTIVATING SAFETY Cámara de Comercio Dominico Mexicana (CADOMEX) Cámara de Comercio e Industrias de Roatan Cámara de Comercio y Producción de la Vega, Inc. Cámara de Comercio e Industrias de Tela Cámara de Comercio y Producción de Santiago (CCPS) Cámara de Comercio y Producción de Santo Domingo (CCPSD) Mexico Consejo Coordinador Empresarial (CCE) SHARING DEVELOPMENT Cámara Dominicana de las Tecnologías de la Información y la Comunicación (CAMARATIC) Asociación Nacional de Telecomunicaciones (ANATEL) Confederación Patronal de la República Dominicana (COPARDOM) Telecom CIDE Consejo Nacional Empresa Privada (CONEP) Asociación de Internet MX Fundación Dominicana de Desarrollo, Inc. (FDD) UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE Fundación Institucionalidad y Justicia (FINJUS) Red Nacional de Apoyo Empresarial a la Protección Ambiental (ECORED) APPENDIX 112 2019 Nicaragua Slovenia Sustainability Cámara de Comercio y Servicios de Nicaragua Founder of the independent Si.voda Fund Report Cámara Minera de Nicaragua United Nations Global Compact (UN Global Compact) Cámara de Urbanizadores de Nicaragua Forum EMS Cámara de Comercio Americana de Nicaragua (AMCHAM) Green Network CONTENT Unión Nicaragüense de Responsabilidad Social Empresarial (UNIRSE) Uruguay Cámara Empresarial Mexicana Nicaragüense Cámara Uruguaya de Tecnologías de la Información Cámara Nicaragüense de Internet y Telecomunicaciones United States MESSAGE FROM THE CEO Panama Democratic Attorney General Association (DAGA) Cámara de Comercio Industrias y Agricultura de Panamá Democratic Governors Association (DGA) Cámara de Comercio Industrias y Agricultura de Chiriqui Democratic Legislative Campaign Committee (DLCC) Cámara de Comercio Veraguas Republican Attorney General Association (RAGA) COMPANY PROFILE Paraguay Republican Governors Association (RGA) Cámara de Operadores Móviles del Paraguay (COMPy) Republican Legislative Campaign Committee (RLCC) Centro de Regulación, Normas y Estudios de la Comunicación (CERNECO) Republican Lieutenant Governors Association (RLGA) Cámara de Anunciantes del Paraguay (CAP) National Lifeline Association (NaLA) UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY Federación de la Producción, la Industria y el Comercio (FEPRINCO) The Wireless Association (CTIA) Peru National Lifeline Association (NaLA) Asociación para el Fomento de la Infraestructura Nacional (AFIN) The Wireless Association (CTIA) CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES Sociedad de Comercio Exterior del Perú (COMEXPERÚ) Serbia Asociación Nacional de Anunciantes (ANDA) United Nations Global Compact (UN Global Compact) Consejo Nacional de Autorregulación Publicitaria (CO¬NARP) Co-founder of the Business Leaders Forum Serbia, the first alliance of socially responsible Asociación de Buenos Empleadores (ABE) companies in the Republic of Serbia ACTIVATING SAFETY Groupe Speciale Mobile Association (GSMA) Cámara de Comercio Americana del Perú (AMCHAM) Puerto Rico Asociación de Industriales SHARING DEVELOPMENT Asociación de Ejecutivos de Ventas y Mercadeo Cámara de Comercio de Puerto Rico Alianza de Proveedores de Telecomunicaciones UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE Centro Unido de Detallistas Puerto Rico Hotel and Tourism Association Asociación de Condóminos y Acceso Controlado APPENDIX 113 2019 GRI Content Index (102-55) Sustainability Report Indicator Disclosure Page Reference GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES, 2016 CONTENT 102-1 Name of the organization 5, 7 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 7 102-3 Location of headquarters 7 102-4 Location of operations 5, 7 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO 102-5 Ownership and legal form 35 102-6 Markets served 7 102-7 Scale of the organization 10, 43 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 43 COMPANY PROFILE 102-9 Supply chain 56 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain No significat changes in the supply chain 102-12 External initiatives 2, 16, 28 UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY 102-13 Membership of associations 111 102-14 Statement from senior decision maker 3 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 19 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 12 CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 38 You can find more information in the Annual Report/20 F: 102-18 Governance structure 24 https://s22.q4cdn.com/604986553/files/doc_financials/2019/ar/2019-20-F-EN.pdf 102-19 Delegating authority 24, 35 ACTIVATING SAFETY 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics 24 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social topics 18 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees 35 You can find more information in the Annual Report/20 F: 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body 35 SHARING DEVELOPMENT https://s22.q4cdn.com/604986553/files/doc_financials/2019/ar/2019-20-F-EN.pdf You can find more information in the Annual Report/20 F: 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body 35 https://s22.q4cdn.com/604986553/files/doc_financials/2019/ar/2019-20-F-EN.pdf You can find more information in the Annual Report/20 F: 102-25 Conflicts of interest 35 https://s22.q4cdn.com/604986553/files/doc_financials/2019/ar/2019-20-F-EN.pdf UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE APPENDIX 114 2019 Sustainability Report Indicator Disclosure Page Reference GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES, 2016 CONTENT 102-26 Role of the highest governance body in setting purpose, values, and strategy 24, 35 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and social impacts 18 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics 18 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting 24 It is reviewed by the Sustainability Commitee MESSAGE FROM THE CEO You can find more information in the Annual Report/20 F: 102-35 Remuneration policies 47 https://s22.q4cdn.com/604986553/files/doc_financials/2019/ar/2019-20-F-EN.pdf You can find more information in the Annual Report/20 F: 102-36 Process for determining remuneration 47 https://s22.q4cdn.com/604986553/files/doc_financials/2019/ar/2019-20-F-EN.pdf COMPANY PROFILE 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 27 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 43 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 27 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 27 UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 27 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 10 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 2 CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES 102-47 List of material topics 18 102-48 Restatements of information 2 102-49 Changes in reporting 2 102-50 Reporting period 2 ACTIVATING SAFETY 102-51 Date of most recent report 2 102-52 Reporting cycle 2 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 2 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 2 SHARING DEVELOPMENT 102-55 GRI content index 114 102-56 External assurance 2, 119 UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE APPENDIX 115 2019 Sustainability Report Indicator Disclosure Page Reference GRI 201: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE, 2016 CONTENT 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 10 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change 19 GRI 203: INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS, 2016 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported 9 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 72 GRI 204: PROCUREMENT PRACTICES, 2016 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 56, 57 GRI 205:ANI-CORRUPTION, 2016 COMPANY PROFILE 205-2 Communication and training about anticorruption policies and procedures 38, 41 GRI 206: ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR, 2016 You can find more information in the Annual Report/20 F: 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices https://s22.q4cdn.com/604986553/files/doc_financials/2019/ar/2019-20-F-EN.pdf UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY GRI 301: MATERIALS, 2016 301-3 Material used by weight or volume 103 GRI 302: ENERGY, 2016 CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 98 You can find more information in the independent assurance appendix 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 100 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 100 GRI 304: BIODIVERSITY, 2016 ACTIVATING SAFETY 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity 105 304-3 Habitats protected or restored 105 GRI 305: EMISSIONS, 2016 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 99 You can find more information in the independent assurance appendix SHARING DEVELOPMENT 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 99 You can find more information in the independent assurance appendix 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 99 GRI 306: WASTE, 2020 306-2 Management of significant waste-related impacts 103 You can find more information in the independent assurance appendix UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE GRI 307: ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE, 2016 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations No significant fines were reported in environmental issues APPENDIX 116 2019 Sustainability Report Indicator Disclosure Page Reference GRI 308: SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT, 2016 CONTENT New suppliers who have passed certain assessment and selection filters based on 308-1 56 environmental engagement criteria. GRI 401: EMPLOYMENT, 2016 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 43, 45 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time 401-2 47 employees GRI 403: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY, 2018 403-9 Work-related injuries 54 You can find more information in the independent assurance appendix COMPANY PROFILE 403-10 Work-related ill health 54 You can find more information in the independent assurance appendix GRI 404: TRAINING AND EDUCATION, 2016 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 49 You can find more information in the independent assurance appendix 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs 49, 52 UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews 48 GRI 405: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY, 2016 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 43, 46 GRI 408: CHILD LABOR, 2016 CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor 56 GRI 409: FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOR, 2016 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor 56 GRI 412: HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT, 2016 ACTIVATING SAFETY 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies and procedures 38 GRI 413: LOCAL COMMUNITIES, 2016 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs 80 SHARING DEVELOPMENT GRI 414:SUPPLIER SOCIAL ASSESSMENT, 2016 414-1 New suppliers who have passed certain selection filters based on social engagement criteria 56 414-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 56 GRI 419: SOCIOECONOMIC COMPLIANCE, 2016 UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic arena 39 CYBERSECURITY INFORMATION Countires Certified in Management Security System 53, 68 APPENDIX 117 2019 SASB Financial Materiality Sustainability Report América Móvil’s materiality covers all the most relevant topics for the company’s stakeholders, as explained in detail en the materiality section of this report. Nevertheless, this section covers specifically the relationship with the SASB Telecom Services Financial Materiality and their accounting metrics as explained CONTENT in the table below. SASB Telecom Services Financial Materiality MESSAGE FROM THE CEO Dimension Material topic Accounting Metric Energy consumption is one of the most important material topics for América Móvil. All relevant indicators, such as efficiency, renewable energy and so on, Environment Energy Management COMPANY PROFILE are elaborated in the Energy subsection in the Sharing Development Section of this report. Our data and communication privacy practices are generally explained in our Code of Ethics and in our Privacy Policy. UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY To comply with applicable local regulations, the user data privacy and resData Privacy ponsible advertising notices vary in each of our operations. All of them are accessible to the general public. Social Capital CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES For litigation indicators, please refer to the Significant Fines Report subsection in the Connecting with Principles section of this report. All cybersecurity relevant indicators are widely covered in the Activating SaData Security fety section of this report. ACTIVATING SAFETY All the relevant waste related indicators are disclosed in the Waste subsection in the Sharing Development sections of this report. Best practices of end-ofBusiness Model & Innovation Product end-of-life Management life-cycle of mobile devices collection programs in our subsidiaries are shown as well. There were no monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated SHARING DEVELOPMENT with anticompetitive behavior regulations in the reported year. There is no difference between average actual sustained download speed of Competitive Behavior & Open owned and commercially-associated content and non-associated content. Leadership & Governance Internet UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE América Móvil considers connectivity as a catalyst for development, knowledge sharing, productivity and quality of life improvement for the society as a whole. This is demonstrated by all the programs developed and/or deployed by the Company shown in this report. APPENDIX 118 2019 Verification Letter (102-56) Sustainability Report Av. Ejército Nacional 843-B Tel: +55 5283 1300 CONTENT Antara Polanco Fax: +55 5283 1392 11520 Mexico, D.F. ey.com/mx MESSAGE FROM THE CEO Independent Limited Verification Report To the Board of Directors of América Móvil S.A.B de C.V.: COMPANY PROFILE Scope of our Work • Review of the support documentation through analysis. We have undertaken an independent limited verification of the performance indicators • Recalculations, as well as sampling, to increase the certainty of the indicators reported. included in Annex A and presented in the Sustainability Report (the “Report”) of America Movil, S.A.B. de C.V. (“America Movil” or the “Company”) corresponding to the year calendar UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY 2019, based on with the reporting criteria set forth in the GRI Standards (the “Criteria”). It is worth mentioning that the scope of this review is substantially less thorough than a reasonable assurance engagement. Therefore, the assurance provided is also lesser in The preparation of this report is the responsibility of America Movil’s Management. America comparison. This Report shall in no way be considered an audit report. Movil’s Management is also responsible for the information and the assertions contained therein, defining the scope of the Report and the management and control of the information systems that provided the reported information. Conclusions CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES Based on our work described in this Report, nothing has come to our attention that causes Our work was conducted in accordance with International Standard on Assurance us to believe that the information and performance indicators selected are not presented, in Engagements (ISAE) 3000 issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards all material respects, in accordance with the applicable criteria. Board (IAASB) of the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC). This standard requires that we plan and perform our engagement to obtain limited assurance about whether the This report has been exclusively prepared for the Board of Directors of America Movil, S.A.B report is free from material misstatement and that we comply with ethical requirements, de C.V., in accordance with the terms of our engagement agreement. ACTIVATING SAFETY including the independence requirements included in the Code of Ethics of the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants (IESBA). Mancera, S.C. A Member Practice of Ernst & Young Global Limited Standards and verification procedures SHARING DEVELOPMENT The verification procedures performed focused on the following: • Interviews with the individuals responsible for the information to understand the activities performed and the procedures used to gather the information. • Review of the structure and content of the Report in accordance with the GRI Standards. Saúl García Arreguín UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE • Understanding of the procedures used in compiling and consolidating quantitative and qualitative data, as well as their traceability. Partner June 26th, 2020, Mexico City APPENDIX 119 2019 Sustainability Report Annex A: Verified information and performance indicators CONTENT Performance indicators MESSAGE FROM THE CEO Scope of the Compliance GRI / Reported Disclosure title level UNIT KPI information1 (Clauses) information COMPANY PROFILE 2,320,555 MWh of electric energy 43,163,648 Liters of gasoline Mexico 6,603,630 Liters of Diesel 460,291 Liters of LP gas UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY 1,379,276 MWh of electric energy Energy consumption within 5,169,891 Liters of gasoline IP2 c. the organization Brazil 1,024,403 Liters of Diesel CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES 5,427,151 Liters of bioethane 1 m3 of natural gas 430,472 MWh of electric energy Colombia 138,569 Liters of gasoline ACTIVATING SAFETY 10,502,459 Liters of Diesel Mexico 184,600 Ton CO2 e Direct GHG emissions Ton CO2 e IP2 Brazil a. 41,008 (Scope 1) SHARING DEVELOPMENT Colombia 33,818 Ton CO2 e Mexico 1,118,410 Ton CO2 e Energy indirect GHG Ton CO2 e IP2 Brazil b, c. 549,598 emissions (Scope 2) Colombia 57,960 Ton CO2 e UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE 1 America movil’s own indicator with coverage of the information regarding to operations of Telmex & Telcel in Mexico and to Claro for Brazil & Colombia. 2 America Movl’s own indicator based on GRI. APPENDIX 120 2019 Sustainability Report Scope of the Compliance GRI / Reported Disclosure title level UNIT CONTENT KPI information1 (Clauses) information 3,927 Tons of non-hazardous waste generated (recycled) Mexico 168 Tons of non-hazardous waste generated (repurposed) Waste by type and disposal Brazil 1,931 Tons of non-hazardous waste generated (recycled) MESSAGE FROM THE CEO IP3 method4 2,245 Tons of non-hazardous waste generated (recycled) Colombia 0.7 Tons of non-hazardous waste generated (incinerated) 946 Tons of non-hazardous waste generated (landfill) COMPANY PROFILE 1,027 Total number of accidents (men) 360 Total number of accidents (women) Mexico 1 Total number of illnesses (men) 1 Total number of illnesses (women) UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY 124 Total number of accidents (men) Number of occupational 27 Total number of accidents (women) ID3 accidents and illnesses by Brazil gender 5 0 Total number of illnesses (men) CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES 0 Total number of illnesses (women) 44 Total number of accidents (men) 69 Total number of accidents (women) Colombia 1 Total number of illnesses (men) ACTIVATING SAFETY 3 Total number of illnesses (women) 367,319 Training hours for entry level / Position without command (men) 194,453 Training hours for entry level / Position without command (women) SHARING DEVELOPMENT Total training hours per 1,539,773 Training hours for staff without command (men) Mexico, Brazil, 404-1 year per employee category a. Colombia 792,779 Training hours for staff without command (women) and gender 208,620 Training hours for staff with command (men) UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE 87,033 Training hours for staff with command (women) 3 America Movl’s own indicator based on GRI. 4 Hazardous waste generation was reviewed for Mexico, Brazil and Colombia (2,839 tons). 5 Accidents and illnesses that caused lost days. APPENDIX 121 2019 Sustainability Report Scope of the Compliance GRI / Reported Disclosure title level UNIT CONTENT KPI information1 (Clauses) information 36,392 Training hours for 1st level manager (men) 10,588 Training hours for 1st level manager (men) 31,543 Training hours for 2nd level manager (men) MESSAGE FROM THE CEO 9,791 Training hours for 2nd level manager (women) 3,603 Training hours for executive (men) 808 Training hours for executive (women) Fines generated by Mexico, Brazil, COMPANY PROFILE ID6 0 Number of fines generated by cibersecurity incidents cibersecurity incidents Colombia UPDATING SUSTAINABILITY CONNECTING WITH PRINCIPLES ACTIVATING SAFETY SHARING DEVELOPMENT UPLOADING QUALITY OF LIFE 6 America Movl’s own indicator APPENDIX 122
