Our Business 1 Take on tomorrow Contents 01 02 03 Our Business Highlights Strategy & 4 of the year Performance 2019 9 29 04 05 06 Sustainable Corporate Audited Financial Tommorrow Governance Statements 40 57 71 Dhiraagu Annual Report 2019 4 Our Business Our Business 5 Our Vision Our Mission Enrich lives through digital To lead the market through services excellence in customer experience Our Values Collaborate Innovate Serve Inspire We work together to We constantly innovate We keep our customers We empower people, and offer our customers a to provide our customers at the heart of all we do, never lose sight of the seamless experience with the latest and best in because we win when bigger picture of nationdigital services they do building and growth Dhiraagu Annual Report 2019 6 Who We Are Presence As the leading digital and communication • We overcome geographic barriers and stay services company in the Maldives, our close to our customers through the nation’s business is to inspire and empower largest retail and distribution network of our customers to ‘take on tomorrow’ 23 partners, 17 wholesalers, 221 agents, 8 and thrive in the digital future. overseas agents and over 3,800 retailers. Through our extensive network, we curate • We provide the widest coverage in innovative technologies and capabilities to Maldives, which includes all of the country’s deliver connectivity and content to a diverse 187 inhabited islands, all resort islands range of customers across the country. Our and all major industrial islands. customers include individuals, consumers and their communities, small businesses, large • We have linked the Maldives from North to South enterprises and government organisations. through a 1,253 km long fibre optic submarine cable network which supports the nation’s largest With over 500,000 customers and employing 3G and 4G LTE and fixed broadband network. 99% trained qualified Maldivians present in 10 strategically located operating centres • In July 2019, 5G became a reality for Maldives. across the country, we remain the largest We were the first in Maldives and the first in telecommunications provider in the Maldives. South Asia to have launched 5G commercial Our core strengths are in our leading services. As pioneers in bringing the latest network and our people. We continue to technology to the country, we are excited about harness these strengths to secure new the opportunity 5G offers as an enabler for opportunities in emerging digital areas. new services and enhancing connectivity to our customers across the country. 5G is now With 31 years of working together to available in selected areas of 3 population know and serve our customers better centres; areas in Greater Male’, Addu City, than anyone else, we continue to lead by Hithadhoo and Haa Dhaalu Atoll, Kulhudhuffushi. consistently delivering the latest and best experience digital technology has to offer. Our Business 7 Fibre To The Home: Bridging Communities Dhiraagu Annual Report 2019 8 Our Products Achievements & Services & Awards We offer a broad suite of connectivity and content • Presented with the ‘Corporate Governance to customers through our mobile, internet, data, Award’ by Corporate Maldives IPTV, mobile money and fixed services which have been tailored to meet the needs of both • Dhiraagu Maldives Road Race (DMRR) was individual consumers and businesses. recognised among the top 3 races for quality of engagement in social initiatives by the Association We have made significant investments in our of International Marathons and Distance Races network infrastructure to extend our full coverage across the country and ensure reliable international • Dhiraagu Maldives Road Race (DMRR) wins the Bronze connectivity, to maintain our network resilience to Award for the ‘Best Use of Technology’ in Sports at the meet the rising demand for data and content, including prestigious Sports Industry Awards Asia 2019 (SPIA) through the rollout of commercial 5G services. With purpose-built solutions for small and medium enterprises and customised fully integrated enterprise solutions for our corporate and government customers, we help our customers achieve ease of operation and improved performance. Our ICT infrastructure and managed solutions are designed to enable our customers to access, communicate and store information securely to better serve the community. Our Business 9 Financial Highlights Revenue EBITDA Profit After Tax 2019 2019 2019 MVR 2,859m 3.5% MVR 1,495m 5.5% MVR 942m 4.1% 2018 2018 2018 MVR 2,762m MVR 1,418m MVR 905m Earnings Per Share Free Cash Flow Dividend Per Share 2019 2019 2019 MVR 12.39 4.1% MVR 965m 56.4% MVR 12.00 0.8% 2018 2018 2018 MVR 11.91 MVR 617m MVR 11.91 Capital Investment Return On Capital Employed (Roce) 2019 2019 MVR 313m 22.9% 2018 38.8% -3.7 P.P MVR 406m 2018 42.8% 1 Return on capital employed (ROCE) for 2019 was 38.8% versus 42.5% in 2018. Like-for-like ROCE for 2019 would have been 42.1% (excluding impact from IFRS 16 changes). Dhiraagu Annual Report 2019 10 Commercial Highlights 2019 Our Business 11 Dhiraagu Annual Report 2019 12 Key Sponsorships Maldives Paramotor Expedition Dhiraagu Maldives Mamen Pre-School As the official partner of the first ever Tennis Open Futsal Tournament Paramotor Expedition in the Maldives, we Title sponsor of the most prestigious One of it’s kind annual futsal tournament raised awareness on single-use plastic tennis tournament in the Maldives. among all the pre-schools in greater Male’. pollution while promoting Sports and Adventure Tourism in the Maldives across the country. Dhiraagu Male’ Open As the title sponsor of Dhiraagu Male’ Open Mamen Interschool 2019, we encouraged youth and adults to Bike Championship compete in a safe and enjoyable environment Title sponsor of this championship to whilst motivating them to participate in promote an active lifestyle and increase the swimming as a competitive sport. popularity of cycling amongst youth. Fannu Expo ‘Raalhu Gudi’Kite Surfing Platinum Sponsor of the largest local talent exhibition held in the Maldives. We were the Digital Partner of this Kite Fest that navigated the entire length of the Maldives from the very South to the North. Club Maldives Cup We supported this key initiative to empower Platinum sponsor of the largest and engage young people across the country futsal tournament in Maldives. to care, love and respect our oceans. Dhiraagu Dhivehi Premier League Capital Market Forum Title sponsor of the national football league. Co-sponsor of this annual event hosted by CMDA to discuss the development of the capital market as an alternative avenue for Dhiraagu Top Achievers Award financing local businesses and its impact on Title sponsor of the Top Achievers Award business growth and progress of the economy. recognising the achievements of the nation’s top performing higher secondary students. Our Business 13 Key CSR Highlights Dhiraagu Maldives Road Race Ramadan Donation MVR 721,652 raised through Dhiraagu MVR 366,190 10% of the proceeds from Maldives Road Race 2019 was donated Ramadan Data Bundles donated to Maldives to 11 partner NGOs working in the area Association of Persons with Disabilities (MAPD) of child protection and support. Girls To Code Dhiraagu Special Sports Festival An exclusive programme to encourage and inspire women to join technology Participation by 14 schools, 4 NGOs and fields by teaching them how to code. over 400 children with various disabilities Surf Smart Startup Grind X Helping to create a digital safe The second Startup Grind X event in Maldives to environment and educating young inspire, educate and connect startup communities people to positively connect online Lean Startup Machine The world’s leading startup workshop in Maldives. Drones For Resilience To promote the use of drone technology for enhanced preparedness and disaster management Angelhack Maldives The world’s largest hackathon series Care For The Oceans Supported beach clean-ups in Sh. Feydhoo, Techstars Startup B. Eydhafushi, K.Dh. Kulhudhuffushi , A.Dh. Weekend Maldives Dhangethi, Fuvahmulah and Addu City. An entrepreneurial journey to network, learn how to pitch, fine tune and demo new business ideas. Dhiraagu Annual Report 2019 14 Chairperson’s Opening Remarks Dear Shareholders, trusted partner to help them win victories in positive overall, despite a difficult period with their lives and businesses. We wholeheartedly system changes, cost pressures, and intense On behalf of the Board of Directors, it is my believe that the digital revolution has the competition. Gross revenue improved to MVR pleasure to present the Annual Report for power to make significant, positive progress 2.9bn driven by strong growth from data and 2019. As one of the largest listed companies on our nation’s socio-economic well-being. By enterprise services. Despite increases in costs, in the Maldives, our Board believes that we fostering more connected, smarter and more net profit improved to MVR 942m and Earnings have many responsibilities to shareholders, sustainable communities, digital technologies per share grew by 48 laari to MVR 12.39. partners, customers, as well as the country. will open up more opportunities, empower more people and enable businesses to flourish. I convey my appreciation to our shareholders Our primary focus has always been to harness for their continued confidence in us. The Board the latest technology in order to enrich the I am pleased to update our shareholders continues to value return to our shareholders lives of our customers and become their most that our 2019 financial results have been with dividends as the primary measure for Our Business 15 shareholder returns. The Board recommends first operator to commercially provide 5G in serve our customers with innovative technologies a full year dividend of MVR 12.00 per share, South Asia. We launched 5G in selected areas and help us return value to our shareholders. which amounts to a total dividend of MVR 912m, of 3 major population centres across the of which MVR 315m (MVR 4.14 per share) has country, demonstrating the true spirit of our Meeting and exceeding customer been paid out as interim dividend during 2019. vision for a ‘DigitalRaajje’. We are very excited expectations remains at the heart of all about the potential of 5G and the new wave of our development initiatives. We are The telecom market is tough and highly of innovation that it heralds in for transport, grateful for our customers’ continuing to competitive in nature. With emerging healthcare, disaster relief, public safety, trust in us, and choosing to stay with us. technologies, the industry is dynamic in nature energy efficiencies, and entertainment. and our tech-savvy customers demand access to the latest technology, digital products, and services. Furthermore, digital disruption has “We wholeheartedly Ismail Waheed continually added pressure on our traditional Chairperson revenue lines. We fully appreciate that believe that the digital sustained growth and cost efficiencies in our revolution has the power core business need to be complemented by to make significant, selectively entering new adjacent markets to unlock additional and new revenue streams. positive progress on our nation’s socio-economic Our Fibre To The Home service, now available to well-being” 75% of national households across 58 islands; which spans the breadth and width of the country, is a testament to our continued commitment to keep the Maldives connected to the outside During the period under review, we bade world. It enables our customers to be ‘always farewell to the longstanding Batelco appointed on’ and ‘always connected’ to their families and Non-Executive Director Mr. AbdulRahman friends and do business anytime, anywhere. Fakhro in January 2019 and welcomed the This is a reflection of our Company’s long and appointment of Mr. Khalid Hussain Taqi as proud history of investing in next-generation his replacement to the Board in March 2019. technologies to expand coverage, improve I wish to thank Mr. Fakhro and acknowledge resilience, whilst overcoming geographical his valuable contributions to the Board. barriers in order to contribute to nation-building. Further details regarding Board appointments can be found in our Governance Report. As pioneers of ushering in the latest technology to the Maldives, it is no surprise that we were The progress we made this year is the result of our the first to launch 5G in the Maldives and biggest strength; the collaborative efforts of our achieve a significant milestone of being the determined employees and their commitment to Dhiraagu Annual Report 2019 16 We will continue to use the latest technology and re-model our networks to ensure better quality of service to our customers. Major work was also done to improve our business support systems and to create additional digital channels for customers to access Dhiraagu. ‘#DigitalRaajje’ was launched in April to leverage the power of the latest digital communications technology towards the social and economic well-being of our island nation. The programme complements our vision to use our services and capabilities to enrich people’s lives by providing intelligent connectivity, which can make individual lives easier, healthier, smarter and for communities’ bolster disaster response, revolutionise education, improve healthcare and extend financial services. Our high-speed Fibre To The Home services are now available to 75% of national households. Demand feature with premium local and CEO’s The extension of our FTTH network to 58 islands international content. The fact these results across the country, has made it the largest and were achieved despite the challenges faced fastest fibre network in the country. But more Message both externally with market dynamics, and importantly this investment has meant that internally whilst carrying out significant education and healthcare are more universally upgrade work on our network and business accessible, it has also created opportunities support systems, shows the resilience, focus to build digital skills and capabilities to lift and resolve of our teams to deliver increased economic participation in those communities With the strong commitment and dedication of value to our customers, and shareholders. and thereby realise our commitment to our teams Dhiraagu continued to deliver on its bridge the digital divide and foster strong, strategic objectives, which resulted in growth Providing a better customer experience is at the resilient, inclusive digital communities. of customer numbers on our business in the heart of everything we do. Significant investments highly competitive mobile, fixed broadband, were done to upgrade mobile coverage, and With the commercial launch of 5G in selected enterprise and managed services categories. enhance quality, which is increasingly becoming areas of 3 population centres; Greater Male’ We held our market position, and enter new challenging, especially in the Greater Male’ Area, Addu City Hithadhoo and Haa Dhaalu markets by offering digital tracking services area with the new buildings coming up at a Kulhudhuffushi, we became the first in Maldives as well as becoming the first IPTV service very fast, rate making it a constant battle to and the first operator in South Asia to have provider in Maldives to offer a Video-Onre-align our signals to reach the deep indoors. offered 5G services on a commercial basis. 5G Our Business is the next generation of digital technologies Department of Judicial Administration and 2.9bn. Results from operating activities and net 17 and we are very excited to explore opportunities linked all the courts of Maldives through a profit increased by 4% despite increases in costs. it can offer, for the country’s digital future, dedicated high-speed internet network. Earnings per share grew by 48 laari to MVR 12.39. and enabling new ways of living and working. With the launch of 5G we have demonstrated As a corporate citizen, we continue to play a vital We invested MVR 313m in our network and our commitment to stay ahead at the forefront role in nation-building and societal development systems during the period, with our focus on of technology and our resolve to “Take on and support the United Nations Sustainable improving mobile and fixed broadband experience. tomorrow” and commitment to offer future Development Goals (SDGs) and have been a We announced two milestone achievements services and stay relevant for our customers. signatory to the United Nations Global Compact reflecting our investment commitments to deliver since December 2012. We are committed to the 10 high-speed broadband, with the achievement Through our Broadband offers, we continued principles of the United Nations Global Compact of 75% coverage of national households of to focus on providing customers with greater that promote the core areas of Human Rights, our fibre broadband network and the first 5G flexibility, more personalisation and make lives Labour, the Environment and Anti-Corruption. network in the Maldives and South Asia. and business simpler. To meet the expectations of an increasingly connected digital society, Highlights from the year include a programme to Our balance sheet remains strong, with cash we launched ultra-fast internet speeds of up cultivate a startup culture and foster innovation position of MVR 486m at 31 December 2019, to 1Gbps for the first time in the Maldives. The among potential young entreprenuers. During an increase of MVR 150m vs the prior year. We service is now available to both residential the year, 26 young Maldivians fresh from school returned a dividend of MVR 767m during the and business customers on 13 islands. completed our ongoing apprentice program; a accounting period, including MVR 452m as key initiative targeted at Maldivian youth to gain final dividend for the financial year 2018 and an In collaboration with the Commercial Bank of work experience and develop skills. As a champion interim dividend of MVR 315m for the financial Maldives we integrated personal bank account for supporting and empowering persons with year 2019 as we demonstrate our commitment transfers between bank accounts and our mobile disabilities, we organise an annual sports event to deliver returns to our shareholders. money service DhiraaguPay. This was a key step for children with various disabilities. Over 400 in the progress made on our aspiration to offer children, 14 schools and 4 NGOs participated in My team and I are committed to work with financial inclusion that overcomes geographical this year’s Dhiraagu Special Sports Festival. We the Board of Directors, and key stakeholders barriers and create a cashless society. were also very proud to celebrate the success including the Government and the regulatory of the young athletes who won gold and silver authorities to ensure our plans are aligned We want everyone to benefit from being for Maldives at the 2019 Special Olympics World to deliver the nation’s strategic development connected to digital technologies. We make Games for persons with intellectual disabilities. objectives, as we continue to grow the business, doing business simpler for small and medium by enhancing our broadband, enterprise and enterprises through convenient and efficient 2019 was a challenging period on many fronts other digital services, to deliver improved ways of accessing, storing and communicating with intense competition and increasing costs. service levels and increased value to our information, enabling them to better serve It was also a period of transformation as we customers, colleagues and shareholders. their customers and the community. Our upgraded our network and systems. Despite unified communication solutions catered for these challenges, we continued to grow with the needs of small businesses, enterprises our results reflecting our strategic focus on data and the Government. Last year we delivered services and delivering a better experience to our Ismail Rasheed a nation-wide network enhancement for customers. Revenue increased by 3.5% to MVR Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director Dhiraagu Annual Report 2019 18 Board of Directors Our Business 19 Mr. Ismail Waheed Mrs. Khulood Rashid AlQattan Chairperson Deputy Chairperson Non-Executive & Independent Non-Executive & Independent Maldivian Bahraini Appointed as Chairperson of the Board by its formation in October 1988. Mr. Waheed Appointed to the Dhiraagu Board by the Government of Maldives in November also went on to serve as an Executive the Batelco Group in May 2017. Deputy 2018. Chairperson of the Remuneration Director of the Indian Ocean Region of Chairperson of the Board of Directors and Nomination and Governance Committee. Cable & Wireless Plc from 2006 to 2008. Chairperson of the Audit Committee. With over 41 years’ experience in the He holds a BEng (Hons) in Telecommunications Mrs. AlQatan is the General Manager telecommunications industry, Mr. Waheed was Management and System Design from of Prime Advisory WLL. at the helm of Dhiraagu, as the Chief Executive Anglia Polytech University, Chelmsford Officer & Managing Director, from 2004 till (UK) and completed an Executive Mrs. AlQatan has over 26 years’ of extensive his retirement in September 2015. During his Leadership Programme at Darden Business experience in banking, with a focus on career he held key positions including Head of School, University of Virginia, USA. investments. As a trader in US & European Networks, Head of Marketing and Customer equities, she has experience in capital and Services. Mr. Waheed steered the Company Other directorship and appointments: money market instruments in international through key milestones including the IPO None markets as well as portfolio management. and transformation of Dhiraagu from a joint venture to a publicly listed company in 2011. Her career began at the Bank of Bahrain & Kuwait where she worked her way to the Head He started his career in telecommunications of Investment Department before widening her with Cable & Wireless Maldives in 1977 and experience with ADDax Investment Bank, Abu later continued to serve in Dhiraagu with Dhabi Investment House and Evolvence Capital. Dhiraagu Annual Report 2019 20 Mr. Ismail Rasheed Chief Executive Officer & Managing Director Executive & Non Independent Maldivian Mrs. AlQatan holds a BA in Accounting Appointed to the Dhiraagu Board as Chief into a leading digital solutions provider. from Ayn Shams University, Cairo. Executive Office & Managing Director by the He holds an MBA from University of Reading (UK), Batelco Group in September 2015. As Chief BEng (Hons) in Telecommunications Systems Other directorship and appointments: Executive Officer and Managing Director, Mr. Management & Design Anglia Polytechnic • Board member and Chairperson Rasheed is responsible for ensuring that Dhiraagu University (UK). Mr. Rasheed is a member of the of Audit Committee in Umniah has a sound strategy for the future and applies Institute of Engineering & Technology (UK). Telecommunications Company (Jordan) his leadership to drive and deliver on its targets, • Board member of Batelco Group (Bahrain) while building a strong team and a business Other directorship and appointments: • Board member in Sico Fund that is able to adapt to the digital future. • None Services company (SFS) • Member of the Advisory Board for Mr. Rasheed previously served as Chief Executive the Master of Accounting and Finance of Dhiraagu from 2007 till September 2015 and at Applied Science University. held other key positions including Director of • Member of the Committee for the Young Networks from 2000 to 2007, Manager Networks Women Entrepreneur award (Bahrain). Planning and Projects from 1999 to 2000. With over 31 years’ of extensive experience in governance, leadership and the telecoms industry, Mr. Rasheed has played a pivotal role in driving business strategy to transform Dhiraagu Our Business 21 Mr. Ihab Hinnawi Mr. Imran Ali Director Director Non-Executive & Independent Non-Executive & Independent Jordanian Maldivian Appointed to the Dhiraagu Board by pioneering corporate enterprises, which Re-elected to the Dhiraagu Board by the public the Batelco Group in July 2016. underpins his contribution as a director. shareholders at the 29th AGM in May 2018. Mr. Ali has served on the Dhiraagu Board since May 2014. Mr. Hinnawi was appointed as the CEO of Mr. Hinnawi holds a BA in Business Administration. Member of the Remuneration, Nomination and Batelco’s International Investments in May Governance Committee, and Member of the Audit 2019 having held the role of Group CEO Since Other directorship and appointments: Committee. December 2015. Mr. Hinnawi held key positions • Vice Chairman SAMENA in various business units within the Batelco Telecommunications Council. Mr. Ali is the Chief Executive Officer of Dhonkeyo Group; including Chief Executive Officer of • Board Member SURE Telecommunications Group of companies with over 17 years’ of Umniah, Jordan from 2009 to 2015, General Company (Channel Islands) experience in tourism and real estate development. Manager Enterprise Division, Batelco Bahrain • Board member SURE South Atlantic in 2008 and the role of CEO of Batelco, Jordan Limited (South Atlantic & Diego Garcia). He holds an MBA from Manchester Metropolitan from 2007 to Jun 2008. Mr. Hinnawi helped • Board Member – Etihad Atheeb University, UK and Bachelor’s Degree in Economics establish Umniah in 2004, as a key member of Telecom Company Saudi Arabia. from the University College London, UK. its initial management team and continued to • Board Member – Umniah Mobile work there as its Operations Director until 2007. Telecommunication Company-Jordan. Other directorship and appointments: • Board MemberSabafon • Chairman of Dhonkeyo Group of Companies He has over 30 years of extensive managerial Telecommunication Company-Yemen. • Managing Director of Reethi Rah Resort Pvt Ltd. and operational experience to lead the operations and financial performance of large industry Dhiraagu Annual Report 2019 22 Mr. Oliver McFall Mr. Khalid Hussain Taqi Director Director Non-Executive & Independent Non-Executive & Independent Danish Bahraini Appointed to the Dhiraagu Board by He holds a Master of Business Administration Appointed to the Dhiraagu Board by the the Batelco Group in May 2017. (MBA) from IMD Business School, Batelco Group in March 2019. Member Switzerland and a Master of Science of the Remuneration, Nomination Mr. McFall is the Vice President of Roland Berger (M.Sc) in Chemical Engineering from the and Governance Committee. Strategy Consultants Middle East office. Technical University of Denmark. Mr. Taqi has served as a representative of the With over 32 years’ of experience in international Other directorship and appointments: Social Insurance Organization (SIO) on the management consulting, his career achievements • Board Member of Batelco Group (Bahrain); Batelco Board of Directors since January 2019. include 10 years as Vice President in Hamburg • Board member and Chairman of the and the Middle East with Roland Berger Strategy Audit committee of Sure Group Mr. Khalid graduated from Concordia Consultants, 10 years as Senior Partner and • Telecommunication Company (UK); University, Montreal, Canada with a B.Comm member of the Executive Team with AT Kearney Member of Advisory Board for in Finance. He also completed his Master’s and 5 years as Senior Project Manager with Deep Branch Biotechnology degree in Finance from DePaul University’s McKinsey & Company. Mr. McFall’s has worked Kellstadt Graduate School of Business. In in North America, Europe and the Middle addition, Mr. Taqi completed a number of East with major industrial corporations within executive training programs at the London telecom, energy and metals. Mr. McFall is Business School, NYU Stern and INSEAD. currently working as a special advisor for CEO’s in a selected number of SMEs in Europe. Mr. Taqi started his career with the Transaction Advisory Services Team at Ernst & Young, Our Business 23 Bahrain. During his tenure at Ernst & Young, he was exposed to a variety of different industries including real estate, banking, construction and telecom. He joined Osool Asset Management in 2013, his current mandate is to manage Osool’s strategic investments in both listed and non-listed companies. Other directorship and appointments: • Member of the board of Gulf Hotels Group and is a member of the Investment and Audit committees. Dhiraagu Annual Report 2019 24 Management Team Our Business 25 Dhiraagu Annual Report 2019 26 Ismail Rasheed Robin Wall Mahmoud’s previous roles before joining Dhiraagu Chief Executive Officer & Managing Director Chief Financial Officer includes Chief Marketing and Partnerships Officer of TM ONE, the B2B division of Telekom Appointed CEO & MD in September 2015. Ismail Appointed Chief Financial Officer (CFO) in Malaysia and Vice President, Partnership works to ensure our Company has a sound February 2015. Robin draws on his extensive and Alliances at Mobily in Saudi Arabia. strategy in place and applies his leadership experience in finance to drive clear insights and management capability to deliver on that around what delivers more value to the Company Mahmoud is a global business leader, innovator strategy and run an efficient business. He has and makes the business more competitive and influential senior executive with over led his team in the digital transformation of in this rapidly changing digital market. 25 years of experience in developing new Dhiraagu and continues to foster a culture of markets, creating winning marketing strategies customer-centric innovation within the Company. Robin joined Dhiraagu in 2011 and has for High-Tech and the Telecom Industry. held key positions in the Company Prior to that Ismail was the Chief Executive including Acting CFO, Financial Controller He holds an Engineering Degree in of the Company for 7 years. In this role, and Assistant Financial Controller. Telecommunications from Telecom Paris, an he led performance and strategy and was Engineering and Management School in France. directly responsible for the company’s Prior to joining Dhiraagu, Robin served technical and commercial operations. as Financial Controller of Monaco & Islands region, CWC Group. Ali Riyaz Ismail has been with Dhiraagu since 1988 and Director, Customer Services & Sales in that time, he has held senior roles including He is a Chartered Management Accountant Director of Networks and Manager Networks with over 15 years of financial and operational Appointed as Director, Customer Services and Planning and Projects. Within Networks expertise in the telecoms industry. Robin holds Sales in 2004, he places the customer right at the department, he has led and managed major a BSc Management Studies, University of Brunel center of Dhiraagu’s initiatives and actions. Ali transformation projects such as the Dhiraagu(UK) and is an Associate Member, Chartered fully understands the dynamic, competitive market SLT Submarine Cable deployment, installation of Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA). in which we operate in and focuses on developing the Domestic Submarine Cable Network across clear insights into what customers value. the country and mobile broadband national rollout plan to connect all the inhabited islands. Mahmoud Dasser Ali joined Dhiraagu in 1999 and has held key Chief Marketing Officer positions in the Company including Head of As an experienced Chartered Engineer with Administration and Human Resources. over 31 years of telecoms industry experience Appointed Chief Marketing Officer (CMO) in and over 16 years of strategic management August 2019. Mahmoud brings his outstanding He also served as Group Sales & Marketing experience, he holds an MBA, University of marketing skills and his focus on a customerManager at Universal Enterprises Pvt Reading (UK); BEng (Hons) Telecommunications centric approach to drive all aspects of Ltd and Manager Human Resources at Systems Management & Design, Anglia marketing, product development, innovation Maldives Inflight Catering Pvt Ltd. Polytechnic University (UK) & is a Member of and market development for the Company. Institute of Engineering & Technology (UK). Our Business 27 Ali has extensive knowledge and over 23 years She holds an MBA, University of Bradford Firag joined the Company in 2012 and of industry experience in cross-functional (UK) and is an Associate Member, Chartered has held key positions in Dhiraagu areas of business and management. Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA). including Manager Access Engineering and Manager Network Quality Assurance. He holds an Advanced Diploma in Hospitality Management from SHATEC College (Singapore). Prior to joining Dhiraagu he has worked as a Musthag Ahmed Didi Postdoctoral Research Fellow at the University of Director, Customer Solutions Canterbury (New Zealand), Project coordinator at Ministry of Communications, Science, and Athifa Ali Appointed Director, Customer Solutions in 2009. Technology (Maldives), and as an Engineer Director, Corporate Services With his strong technology background, Musthag at the Maldives Airports Company Limited. leads the Business to Customer (B2C) & Business Appointed Director, Corporate Services in to Business (B2B) Solutions Architects and Firag is a qualified engineer and researcher 2016 after being the Director of International, Professional Services Teams of the Company and with over 17 years of experience in Legal and Regulatory since 2003. Athifa collaborates with cross-functional teams and telecommunications, electrical and energy leads the Company’s legal and regulatory the customers to deliver innovative solutions. sectors. He holds a Ph.D. and Masters functions by providing strategic guidance in Electrical and Electronics Engineering and insight to ensure that the business acts Musthag has over 24 years of experience in the from the University of Canterbury (New lawfully and with the utmost integrity. She also field of Information Technology and has served Zealand) and Bachelor of Engineering in oversees the Company’s CSR activities. in leadership roles such as Manager Information Electrical and Electronics Engineering from Systems and Manager Data & IP Solutions the University of Adelaide (Australia). Firag Athifa joined Dhiraagu in 1988 and has been an IEEE member since 2006. has held key positions in the Company Musthag holds a BSc (Hons.) Microelectronics & including Financial Controller. Computing from Aberystwyth University (UK). She has served as the Chairperson of the Rajan Suresh Board of Maldives Pension Administration Director, Human Resources Office for 6 years. Athifa is the current Abdulla Firag Chairperson of the Board of Maldives Pension Director, Networks Appointed Director Human Resources in Administration Office having appointed to April 2019. Suresh brings global experience the Board for a third term in June 2019. Appointed Director Networks in 2016, in leading transformational HR initiatives Firaq is responsible for building the best to drive the way the Company operates Athifa is a Chartered Management Accountant network experience. With his team, he leads and strengthen employee engagement. with over 20 years of telecom managerial the design, building, and maintenance of experience in key areas of business including our core network and infrastructure. Prior to joining Dhiraagu he has held key positions finance, operations, legal and regulatory. in private and public sectors including Head of HR (India, ME & Africa) at ISYX Technologies Pvt Ltd, Dhiraagu Annual Report 2019 28 Kochi, India; Senior Human Resource Director at Hazmath has over 21 years of operational Mohamed Musad Seddiqi Holdings, Dubai; Asst. General Manager and managerial experience in both Director, Digital Transformation of HR at Al Futtaim Group, Dubai; HR Operations public and private sector. Manager at Al Tayer Group, Dubai; HR Manager at He holds Masters in Economics (Public Appointed Director, Digital Transformation Landmark Group, Dubai; and Senior HR Executive Policy & Taxation) from Yokohama National in November 2017. Musad is responsible for at Bharat Heavy Electricals Ltd, Bangalore, India. University (Japan) and a Bachelor in Business driving strategy and steers major technology Administration, Hawaii Pacific University. choices that the Company makes to ensure He holds a Post Graduate in HR with 25 that our products and services are truly years of experience in IT, Electronics digital and that our customers’ needs remain and Retail Industry verticals. Mohamed Abdul Gadir at the heart of driving such efficiencies. Director, Information Systems He also holds a Master’s Degree in Social Work Musad joined Dhiraagu in 1995 and has held (Human Resource Management) from Loyola Appointed Director, Information Systems in key positions in Dhiraagu including Director College of Sciences and a Bachelor’s Degree June 2017. Gadir is responsible for ensuring that Networks, Manager Mobile Networks and in Psychology from FMNC, Kerala University the Company’s Information Systems are built Manager Core Networks and Senior Engineer. and maintained to optimise business needs. He is a Chartered Engineer with over 21 years Gadir joined Dhiraagu in 1988 and has served of technical expertise in the telecom sector. Mohamed Hazmath Abdulla the Company as Manager IT Projects, Manager Director, Property, Procurement Information Systems and managed significant Musad holds a Master of Commerce, Information & Administration projects impacting a broad spectrum of services. Systems from the Victoria University of Wellington (New Zealand); MBA, Australian Appointed as Director, Property, Procurement He has extensive knowledge and experience Institute of Business (Australia) and a Bachelor and Administration in 2004. Hazmath’s role managing multiple departments across of Engineering in Mobile Telecommunications includes managing our properties across the the Company including, Transmission, Technology, The University of Hull (UK). country and leads the Company’s efforts to Switching, Internet & IP Solutions with over optimise costs. He is also responsible for 30 years of experience in the industry. ensuring that our procurement processes are run in accordance with our policies to Gadir holds an MBA in Information maintain accountability and fairness. Management, TASMAC, India. Hazmath joined Dhiraagu in 2004. * Mr. Ahmed Maumoon served as the Acting Chief Marketing Officer from February 2018 till his resignation from Dhiraagu in January 2019. He was also the Prior to joining Dhiraagu, he held key positions Director of Business Development and had worked in the Ministry of Finance and Treasury in various senior roles at Dhiraagu for 28 years. Strategy & Performance 29 Strategy & Performance 2019 Dhiraagu Annual Report 2019 30 The digital Digital Technologies have empowered us to learn in new ways, to interact and communicate differently. revolution is Rapidly changing technologies continue to reenvision entertainment, whilst also making healthcare, education and financial services more universally transforming accessible. Our strategic initiatives to meet the expectations of an increasingly digital future focus our everyday on bridging communities across our island nation and empowering locals and residents of Maldives. experiences We have made good progress on our transformation and growth journey, to foster strong, inclusive at homes, in digital communities who can embrace the latest technological advancements and prosper in the offices and agility, accessibility and opportunities they bring. Our values and our mission – to enrich lives on the go. through digital services – continue to guide us as we create long term value to our shareholders. Strategy & Performance 31 #DigitalRaajje High-speed 5G & Gigabit speeds, connectivity for everyone the next generation of We continued to invest in our network and systems, including MVR 209m Digital Technologies to enhance and grow our network and extend high-speed connectivity Next generation 5G and gigabit speeds became a reality for the across the Maldives, including very remote corners of the country. As a Maldives. We were the first to launch ultra-fast speeds of up to 1Gbps result of our continued investments, high-speed FTTH is now available which has now been extended to 13 islands and is geared to improve to 75% of national households to help make lives easier, healthier, people’s lives and experiences. Through it, communities have greater smarter and more rewarding. Our FTTH network provides unparalleled access to increasing variety of essential services in real-time. network experience to communities in 58 islands across the country, making it by far the largest and fastest fibre network in the country. In In 2019, we began the rollout of commercial 5G services the next collaboration with the Male’ City Council, we also enabled Wi-Fi hotspots technological evolution of mobile networks. We were the first in Maldives in parks, waiting areas and othe public spaces across Greater Male’. and the first in South Asia to have launched 5G commercial services. As pioneers in bringing the latest technology to the country, introducing the We have also extended our digital IPTV service to 74% of national latest technology embodies our core value ‘innovation’. We have started households. DhiraaguTV is now available on 52 islands and we rolling of 5G in selected areas of 3 population centres; areas of Greater Male’, have also piloted partnerships with private networks to rollout Addu City Hithadhoo as well as Haa Dhaalu Kulhudhuffushi. We are very services to islands which do not yet have broadband services. excited about the opportunity 5G offers to facilitate digital growth and open new avenues for the community in education, healthcare, financial services, transportation, community services, disaster management and more. Dhiraagu Annual Report 2019 32 Driving more flexibility, greater personalisation & making business simpler Digitisation is a key operational theme for us. By and transformed the way we interact with our digitising internal processes for contract approval customers. Sobi assists customers to check On average more than 765+ invoices and management, as well as the approvals balances, pay bills, activate add-ons and are processed through our ‘Shirtfront’ for invoice payments, we have embedded and boosters and also effortlessly switch packages. system each month and we save more implemented change towards a more agile way of than 48,000 sheets of paper annually. working. With the growing appeal in digital, 34% of all customer transaction are through digital In 2019, major work was completed in the channels. At their convenience, customers upgrade of our Business Support System to help can simply log in and make a change to their us enhance and diversify our service portfolio. service or complete simple transactions such Our internal e-Learning platform was launched as placing a service order, purchase boosters during the year, and we rolled various modules or make payment for their account through relating to company policies, induction content the Dhiraagu app and My Account portal. and enable employees’ access to curated courses We recognise some customers continue based on competencies and work requirements. to prefer to call when they have complex problems with their services. Our customer To realise our vision of ‘DigitalRaajje’ we have care team both on the phone and over live been working on digital platforms to drive chat takes care of those customers who prefer greater simplicity of our business and make these methods. We have also continued to our products and services more accessible. invest in our in-store experience and opened We welcomed Sobi our digital care assistant, a new outlet at the Marina on Crossroads. Strategy & Performance 33 Mobile Broadband Dhiraagu Fleet Manager We introduced better value for money offers We continued to offer greater value for our Our digital fleet management solution is a on our mobile services including brand-new customers through increased data allowances and combination of a sophisticated GPS tracking postpaid plans with data allowance up to 50GB, bigger boosters. We also launched our ultra-fast technology along with an advanced mapping ideal for customers with high data spend. 1Gbps package during the year, becoming the and reporting software managed by a single We also implemented a rightsizing initiative first operator in the Maldives to offer Gigabit dashboard. It provides owners and fleet where we migrated customers to better value speeds commercially. Gigabit speeds offer managers with real-time analytics through packages that best suit their needs and enable greater bandwidth capabilities ideal for streaming their mobile devices to create more efficient, them to be better equipped to contribute to high definition videos and online gaming. safer and smarter passage for their crew and a prosperous and inclusive digital society. vessels as well as anticipate potential issues. Devices In partnership with global flagship brands, we DhiraaguPay launched the latest smartphones including the As part of enhancing customer experience Samsung S Series; the Huawei P30 and Huawei and driving financial inclusivity, we continued P30 Pro; the Samsung Galaxy Note 10 and Note to strengthen our digital mobile payment 10+; and iPhone 11. We offered convenient platform by expanding merchant networks payment plans and special data allowances, to over 240 shops and introducing more providing greater value on the device purchases. innovative and relevant features. Mamen Mamen with its no expiry 365 days validity, build and take back options for data, voice and sms, grew by 287% in 2019. We also introduced add-ons on Mamen for customers who count on us for better data bundles and exclusive lifestyle and entertainment offers. Dhiraagu Annual Report 2019 34 DhiraaguPay Features Strategy & Performance 35 DhiraaguTV Tourism Enterprise We became the first to launch a VOD feature We place great importance in enhancing our As the leading telecoms and digital partner, by adding popular kids’ entertainment shows portfolio for the tourism sector. Last year, we we build technology solutions that are easy from Nickelodeon and local content to our IPTV made significant upgrades on our international to use and provide managed solutions to our VoD library. Customers can also subscribe to transit capacity in order to cater to high demand. enterprise customers. Each of our solutions premium VoD content on a pay per view basis. 4G network enhancements across all operational are tailor-made and designed specifically to Our new ad-on packages ‘Fun’ and ‘Excitement’ resorts were carried out as a priority. Additionally, meet the needs of our customer’s businesses. were also launched during the year. services of fixed telephony and internet along We continues to expand our portfolio to cater with 3G/4G services were set up at a number of to our enterprise customers. Our full suite of resorts under construction. Along with dedicated enterprise ICT solutions; dedicated internet, Fostering internet and hospitality TV services, all of our resort partners enjoy enhanced managed services lease line services, Cloudvoice and SIP services, M2M, digital marketing, dedicated VPS and partnerships for of collocation, connectivity and security. hosting and Datacenter services are designed economic growth to offer more agility and peace of mind. Every day, our teams work to help our customers, partners and other stakeholders understand SMEs how new technology can enhance their business and shape socio-economic progress. We are focused on ensuring that everyone benefits from being connected to digital technologies. We endeavour to continue serving small and medium enterprises as a trusted partner Government offering new age digital solutions for them to We supported the Government’s digitalisation grow and thrive efficiently and successfully. With agenda, by delivering a unified communications the fibre services to 58 islands, we were able to solution to the Department of Judicial provide specialised solutions for the guesthouse Administration. The solution links the courts industry. Our guesthouse package allows of Maldives across 155 islands through a guesthouse owners to provide better services dedicated high-speed internet network. of managed guest internet and TV to their customers as well as increase their efficiency. Dhiraagu Annual Report 2019 36 Financial Performance 2019 Overall Financial Performance The financial year 2019 was challenging on multiple fronts, including Reported EBITDA for 2019 grew by 5.5% (MVR 77m) to MVR intense competition, increased cost of providing services and changes 1.5bn. Like for like EBITDA grew by 1.1% (MVR 16m) excluding the to key systems. Despite the multifaceted challenges, we continued to impact of changes from the new IFRS 16 accounting standard. defend our market leadership position in all our key markets and product portfolio during the year. Total revenue reached MVR 2.9bn, a growth Net Profit for the year (MVR 942m) and Earnings Per of 3.5% Year-on-Year (“YoY”) on the back of strong performance across Share both increased by 4.1% (MVR 37m) vs 2018. our key business segments with growth coming from mobile and fixed broadband, enterprise and digital services. The growth was supported by MVR Millions 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 our commitment to invest in high-speed broadband services across the Revenue 2,859 2,762 2,620 2,501 2,276 country, where we maintain 100% 4G coverage and reached a milestone of EBITDA 1,495 1,418 1,371 1,389 1,230 75% coverage of national households on our fibre broadband network. Profit After Tax 942 905 898 840 725 In line with our vision of “Take on tomorrow”, our digital transformation Basic Earnings per Share 12.39 11.91 11.81 11.05 9.53 journey continued during 2019 with the introduction of state-of-theFree Cash Flow 965 617 644 863 853 art technologies, products and services to our customers. We achieved Net Assets 2,505 2,330 2,315 2,666 2,479 major milestones by launching the first 5G network in the Maldives and South Asia region, and became the first operator to roll-out Fibre Broadband services to 75% of the households in the country, enabling digital empowerment as part of our “Digital Raajje” initiatives. 1 EBITDA is calculated as Revenue less Operating Costs, less Impairment loss on trade Operating costs increased by MVR 7m mainly driven by IT and receivables and contract assets. power costs reflecting the increased cost of providing services and 2 Adjusting for adoption of new IFRS 16 accounting standard. Like for like EBITDA is transformation activities to provide better services across the country. calculated as reported EBITDA, less depreciation on right of use (ROU) assets, less interest on lease liabilities. Strategy & Performance 37 Revenue EBITDA Profit After Tax 2,762 2,859 1,495 2,620 942 2,501 1,418 898 905 1,389 1,371 840 2,276 725 1,230 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Revenue grew by MVR 96.5m in 2019 contributed Reported EBITDA for 2019 was MVR 1.5bn, a Profit after tax increased by MVR 37m during by an increase in revenue from Mobile and Fixed 5.5% (MVR 77m) YoY growth. Like for like EBITDA 2019 driven by the growth in revenue. Broadband, Datacom and Adjacent Services. growth was 1.2% or MVR 16m (excluding IFRS 16 Increases in customer numbers both on mobile impact). Operational costs increased by MVR 7m and fixed broadband services along with on a reported basis and by MVR 69m (including targeted customer value propositions helped IFRS 16 changes) due to cost pressures with drive the revenue growth. Our commitment to expansion of the network, upgrade of systems and invest in network and service enhancements, general cost of operations. However, despite the along with the introduction of new technologies increase in costs, operating profit increased by such as the 5G investments, have made MVR 19m due to the strong revenue performance. our services available to more people and resulted in improved quality of services. 3 Operating profit is calculated as Results from operating activities, less Interest on lease liabilities. Dhiraagu Annual Report 2019 38 Earnings Per Share Dividends Capital Investment For the financial year 2019, a total dividend of Total capital expenditure during the year was MVR 912m is proposed to the shareholders (MVR MVR 313m which is MVR 93m lower than 314.6m already paid as interim dividend and MVR previous year. We continued to invest in our 597.4m proposed as final dividend for 2019). network and systems, including MVR 209m, 12.39 to enhance and grow our network and extend 11.91 11.81 high-speed connectivity across the Maldives. 11.05 Assets & ROCE As a result of our continued investments, high-speed Fibre To The Home is now available 9.53 At 31 December 2019, Dhiraagu’s total asset base to 75% of national households, helping stood at MVR 3.6bn and net assets were MVR enrich lives and build digital inclusivity. Our 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 investment also included the introduction of 2.5bn which represents an increase of 14.9% and 7.5% respectively, mainly on due to the adoption new technologies with the rollout of 5G. Basic EPS was MVR 12.39, a growth of 4.1% of IFRS 16 in 2019. Return on capital employed YoY, due to the increase in Profit After Tax. (ROCE) for 2019 was 38.8% versus 42.5% in 2018. Like-for-like ROCE for 2019 would have been 42.1% (excluding impact from IFRS 16 changes). Free Cash Flow Free cash flow (cash flow from operating activities less purchase and construction of property and equipment / purchase of intangible assets) was MVR 965m for 2019. This is a 56.4% increase from 2018 mainly due to higher operating cash flow and lower capital expenditure. Strategy & Performance 39 Investor Relations & Sustainable Returns to Shareholders Our Shareholders Bahrain Telecommunications Company Shareholder Returns (BATELCO) has its headquarters in Our Company is owned by 14,324 shareholders Creating sustainable shareholder value is important the Kingdom of Bahrain and is listed (as at 31 December 2019). Most of our to us and this continues to be demonstrated by the on the Bahrain Bourse. Batelco has shareholders are individuals who themselves healthy dividends we pay to our shareholders. evolved from being a regional Middle or on behalf of their children, have invested Eastern operation to becoming a in the prosperity of our business. Since being listed on the Maldives Stock Exchange major international communications in January 2012, we have distributed a cumulative entity operating under local brands in BTC Islands Limited (Batelco) holding 52% and dividend of MVR 6 bn, which represents a return of each market with direct and indirect the Government of Maldives holding 41.8%, are 99% on the initial purchase price of MVR 80. investments across multiple countries, our two principal shareholders. The remaining namely Bahrain, Jordan, Saudi Arabia, shares are held by members of the public. Dividends are paid in accordance with our Dividend Yemen, Egypt, Guernsey, Jersey, Isle of There are no other individual or institutional Policy which ensures a minimum dividend of 50% Man, Maldives, Diego Garcia, St. Helena, shareholders holding more than 5% of our shares. of profit after tax, are proposed by the Board Ascension Island and the Falkland Islands. of Directors based on cash availability after meeting capital expenditure and other business requirements for future growth. Number of Shares Held Publice Shareholders 1 to 10 4,363 11 to 100 8,169 101 to 1,000 1,589 1,001 to 10,000 188 10,001 and over 13 Dhiraagu Annual Report 2019 40 Key Trading Highlights Trading Highlights 2019 2018 2017 Last Traded Price (MVR) 105.00 80.00 80.00 Highest Traded Price (MVR) 120.00 85.00 85.00 Lowest Traded Price (MVR) 80.00 78.00 80.00 Weighted average traded price (MVR) 98.10 82.91 83.84 No of shares traded 6102 8,751 3,900 No of trades 32 39 15 Market Capitalization (MVR bn) 7.98 6.08 6.08 Share Performance 2019 2018 2017 EPS (MVR) 12.39 11.91 11.81 P/E Ratio (times) 8.47 6.72 6.77 Dividend per Share (MVR) 12.00 11.91 11.81 Net Asset Per Share (MVR) 32.96 30.66 30.46 Dividend Pay-out Ratio 97% 100% 100% Strategy & Performance 41 Shareholder Dhiraagu Website Communications Our investor relations webpage provides regular Our shareholders form an integral part of the and timely updates on all key developments Company. We ensure to provide clear, accurate of the Company. Key financial reports, and timely information to our shareholders via public announcements and communications various mediums. In this regard, our shareholders related to the AGMs are updated and are communicated through financial reports, maintained on our website allowing investors which are published quarterly within 30 days of and other stakeholders to be kept abreast end of each quarter and Annual Reports which of our business and performance. are published within 4 months of the year end. All quarterly and annual reports published since the Company became publicly Investor Relations Team listed are available on our website. We have a committed team responding to daily enquiries from shareholders and stakeholders. Information on shareholding details and dividend Annual General payment history are promptly provided. Dhiraagu’s Meeting (AGM) customer service hotlines and offices support the Investor Relations team by forwarding AGMs are the principal platform where we queries and requests from shareholders. interact with our shareholders. For this reason, shareholder participation at AGMs is encouraged. Draft minutes of the preceding meetings are opened for public comments prior to the notice of AGM to ensure shareholder concerns raised at general meetings are captured accurately. The Board and management attend the AGM to address any queries and concerns from shareholders. The External Auditor is present to help address any queries relating to the External Auditors Report. Resolutions passed at the AGM are published and made available on our website. Dhiraagu Annual Report 2019 42 Sustainable Tomorrow Sustainable Tomorrow 43 We Support The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals And Have Been A Signatory To The United Nations Global Compact Since December 2012. “We remain steadfast in our commitment to the 10 principles to promote the key areas of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption” Ismail Rasheed CEO &MD Dhiraagu Annual Report 2019 44 Corporate Social Responsibility Our work is motivated by the principles of good In addition to our focus on strong corporate corporate citizenship. We seek to set an example governance, since becoming a signatory to for the rest of society by adhering to the highest the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) levels of integrity, sound ethics, transparency in 2012, we have made yearly assessments of and accountability. We actively reinforce our our environmental and social performance and ties to the Maldivian community by contributing published separate Corporate Social Responsibility to nation building and societal development. Reports to present the Communication on Which is why our CSR initiatives are strategically Progress (COP) to the UNGC. This year, we have programmed to have maximum impact and ensure included the Communication on Progress within sustainability. Our CSR actions are informed by the Sustainable Tomorrow section of this report. our CSR strategy and guided by Dhiraagu CSR Committee. The Committee is chaired by the Chief Executive Officer & Managing Director and is represented by senior management. The three pillars in our CSR Strategy Our People Our Community Our Environment Sustainable Tomorrow 45 Our Community Care for Children communities through events featuring successful local founders, innovators, educators We continued to support various NGOs working and investors who share lessons learned Dhiraagu Maldives Road Race 2019 was dedicated for children’s rights as well as programmes on the road to building great companies. to “Help Protect Children” and was held with the designed to empower young people. Our initiatives • Lean Startup Machine, the world’s participation of 4370 runners and raising over under the Community pillar support the United leading start-up workshop in Maldives. MVR 700,000 for the 11 partner NGOs working Nations Sustainable Development Goals on Good • Angelhack 2019, the world’s largest and the in the area of child protection and support. Health and Wellbeing (SDG 3), Gender Equality only international hackathon series in Maldives. (SDG 5), Decent Work and Economic Growth • Techstars Startup Weekend Maldives Over 400 children, 14 schools and 4 NGOs (SDG 8), Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure 2019, bringing together startup enthusiasts participated in Dhiraagu Special Sports Festival (SDG 9) and Reduced Inequalities (SDG 10). to network, learn how to pitch, fine 2019, an annual sports event organised and driven tune and demo new business ideas. by Dhiraagu for children with various disabilities. We supported the key programme by Mental To mark World Down Syndrome Day, we supported Health Awareness Foundation (MHAF), including the NGO Beautiful Eyes Down Syndrome workshops for educators and students along with Association to conduct a speech therapy and MHAF’s Tea and Talk event to encourage young assessment programme in Haa Dhaal Atoll. people to open up and challenge the stigma. We renewed our membership with GSMA Mobile Alliance Against Child Sexual Abuse Content to Empowering Women block child sexual abuse content on our network. Empowering In partnership with Women in Tech, we introduced We supported the 2019 Vocational Training young people Girls to Code in Fuvahmulah. The programme Programme at Care Society that teaches teaches women how to code with the aim of students various skills such as art and During the year, 26 apprentices completed encouraging more women into ICT fields. craft, design, sewing and computer skills Dhiraagu Apprenticeship Programme our to empower persons with disabilities. key initiative targeted to Maldivian youth to We supported Maldives Girls Guide Association gain work experience and develop skills. to conduct “Surf Smart” helping to create a safe digital environment promoting positive behaviour With a focused programme to support the when connecting online. 290 girl guides, 50 startup culture and foster innovation among leaders and 34 facilitators from 13 atolls across our youth and inspire future entrepreneurs, Maldives participated in the programme. we organised the following events together with our partner Sparkhub: • Startup Grind X event featuring an AdTech Startup. Startup Grind nurtures startup Dhiraagu Annual Report 2019 46 Community empowerment Disaster Relief and wellbeing We supported disaster relief efforts following the Male’ Fire Incident: We extended our support to the National • We waived off Dhiraagu fixed Broadband Centre for the Holy Quran by providing bills for households and businesses that were our Digital Connectivity solution for the directly affected by the Male’ Fire incident. centre to conduct Quran courses in • We supported the National Disaster Laamu Fonadhoo and Fuvahmulah. Management Centre and donated computer systems and set up internet We supported Fannu ExpoNational exhibition connections at the Centre as required by the Ministry of Economic Development to for their emergency response efforts. promote the creative arts and local craftsmanship. • We donated phones and provided connectivity for Maldivian Red Crescent to We supported Revelia key event held by enable their set up to provide psychosocial Ministry of Gender, Family and Social Services to support to help those most in need. celebrate the International Day for Persons with Disabilities by showcasing their creative work. We supported the Havali NGO Fair, a key initiative by the Government of Maldives to establish a platform of collaboration between NGOs, the corporate and the public sector. To mark Maldivian Red Crescent Day and World Humanitarian Day, we renewed our corporate membership with Maldivian Red Crescent and continue supporting their humanitarian work. Similar to last year, 10% of the proceeds from Ramadan Data Bundles was donated to a local charity. This year we donated MVR 366,000 to Maldives Association of Persons with Disabilities (MAPD). Sustainable Tomorrow 47 United Nations Global CompactHuman Rights Principles Principle 1: Principle 2: Businesses should support Make sure that they are not and respect the protection complicit in human rights abuses, of internationally proclaimed Assessment, Policy and Goals. human rights and; Dhiraagu Annual Report 2019 48 Our People Grievance Policy Code of Ethics Our committed and talented people have always & Procedure Our Code of Ethics recognises that our success been the driving force behind our success. We A Grievance Policy and Procedure was depends on the ability to establish and maintain closed the year with 597 permanent full-time implemented in 2015 setting out the mechanism positive relationships, both internally within our employees, 99% of whom are Maldivian. for our people to raise any concerns people and externally with our stakeholders. regarding any work-related matters. During the year the Code of Ethics was Our initiatives for our people support the United revised and adopted with a new social media Nations Sustainable Development Goals on guideline for our people and addressing key Good Health and Wellbeing (SDG 3), Decent Whistleblowing and Fraud changes to our business environment. Work and Economic Growth (SDG 8) and Reporting Policy Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure (SDG 9) The Whistleblowing Policy was revised and a Health and Safety The Maldives is a signatory to the Universal Fraud Risk Management Policy was introduced Declaration of Human Rights and we We are committed to ensuring the health in April 2019. It also provides internal controls remain committed to comply with all local and safety of our people. Apart from for the prevention and detection of fraud and laws and regulations pertaining to it. complying with local legislations, we misconduct within the Company as well as work towards achieving international best protocols for conducting internal investigations. practices in relevant areas relating to our industry and specific work environments. Medical Care Our Health and Safety targets: We have a comprehensive in-house medical • ensure that work activities are not benefits scheme that offers medical harmful to the health of our people or to Prevention of Harassment & assistance to our staff, their spouses and the general public and are as safe as is Bullying at Workplace dependent children. The medical benefits reasonably practicable scheme applies to all employees and to • to provide and to maintain adequate A Prevention of Harassment and Bullying their dependants under the age of 18. measures to control in order to prevent at Workplace Policy was introduced during accidents and cases or workrelated ill the year. Its objective is to promote a safe health working environment free from harassment and Retirement Care • to provide our people with relevant bullying. The policy applies to all employees, information, instruction, training and apprentices, consultants, contractors, volunteers, We continue to contribute 10% to the employee supervision interns, casual workers, agency workers and pension fund, which is beyond the 7% required by • to ensure that a conducive work any other third parties at our premises. law. We have had a Retirement and Redundancy environment is established for our people Policy, even before the establishment of the national pension scheme in 2009. Sustainable Tomorrow 49 Implementation Health and Safety Employee wellbeing implementation Activities carried out during the year to promote wellbeing off our people include: Employee Induction Our Health and Safety Policy is applicable • Mental wellbeing awareness session Programme to our people and contractors. During the year, the Health and Safety Environment carried out in collaboration with Mental Health Awareness Foundation (MHAF) Manual was updated and issued. The Code of Ethics together with other • Workplace stress management session relevant policies are communicated with conducted in collaboration with Society all new employees as part of the Employee for Health Education (SHE). Induction Programme and is shared on the Through the Health and • Work stress management programs online employee portal for further reference. Safety Policy we: conducted in collaboration with Fit4Life. • ensure that safe systems are • Nutrition & Weight Management implemented and reviewed; session conducted in collaboration with • ensure that all personnel are given Committee to Prevent Sexual information, instruction, training and Health Protection Agency (HPA). Harassment at Workplace supervision as appropriate in order • A company-wide H1N1 influenza vaccine drive for our people and their families. to carry out their work safely; Our Committee to Prevent Sexual Harassment • carry out assessments of risk to at the Workplace is primarily responsible the health and safety of persons for increasing awareness to prevent sexual involved in or affected by the Measurement of Outcomes harassment, conducting investigations operations of their departments; regarding any complaints and recommending • arrange induction safety training the necessary subsequent actions. for all new employees; and • The Induction Programme was conducted • ensure that all firefighting for all new staff and the Code of Ethics equipment is regularly and safety procedures were briefed to Whistleblowing and inspected and serviced. ensure that our people are familiar with Fraud Reporting the policies from the very beginning. • First Aid training was provided to 36 staff. Our whistleblowing fraud reporting mechanism • Basic fire awareness training was provided for provides multiple channels establishing all teams at the Regional Operation Centres. a confidential process for reporting and • Fire safety inspections and awareness appropriate protections for our people to sessions were carried out at all the report their concerns, raising confidence Regional Operation Centres. of our colleagues and other stakeholders • A company-wide campaign was carried out in our systems and processes. to provide vaccine against H1N1 influenza for our people and their families. Dhiraagu Annual Report 2019 50 United Nations Global CompactLabour Principles Principle 3: Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the The effective abolition freedom of association and the of child labor; and effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination Principle 4: in respect of employment The elimination of all forms of and occupation. forced and compulsory labor; We ensure to comply with local employment laws in the Maldives. We do not engage or employ child and forced labour in any of our operations. We also ensure to eliminate discrimination with respect to employment in all our operations. Sustainable Tomorrow 51 Implementation Staff Engagement HRD Board We believe in open, transparent We seek to foster the engagement and a healthy To periodically review human resource dialogue with regard to labour related work life balance for our people and their families. development plans, policies and procedures issues within the organisation. During the year, our HR department together and recommend strategic directions, a with the E-Club organised the following events: Human Resources Development Board We adhere to the Maldives Employment Act to • Dhiraagu Employees Soccer Cup (DESCUP 2019) (HRD Board) is established and the ensure the elimination of all forms of forced and • Grand Futsal tournament with the committee convenes on a regular basis. compulsory labour, the effective abolition of participation of over 300 staff. child labour, and the elimination of discrimination • Roadha Festival (Darts, Billiards, in respect of employment and occupation. Garlando, Carrom, Scrabble, FIFA) Legal Reviews • Quran and Madhaha Competition We have a separate Legal Department to fulfil our • Maskeyolhu 2019 legal and regulatory obligation with a dedicated • 3 on 3 Futsal Tournament Employee Development • Inter-office tournaments, Club Maldives Cup team of internal and external lawyers appointed to ensure that we continue to work within the bounds • Inter-office Billiards competition We equip our people with the tools and trainings of the Employment law and company procedures. and chess tournament required to foster a digital mindset and deliver increasingly responsive and customised services. We also give importance to ensure that our Volunteerism people have the right skills and competencies Measurement of Outcomes to further their own professional development. Our people are encouraged to be involved Our HR department actively creates learning in the community. They contributed their and development opportunities for our people. time and efforts to a range of community• During the year, 326 employees received training based activities across the country: in technical and non-technical programmes to • our people volunteered to distribute enable them further their knowledge and skills. Dhiraagu E-Learning Eid gifts to children across the Maldives • This includes 12 staff who Platform on the occasion of Eid Al Fitr completed professional certification • participated in International Coastal programs during the year. Dhiraagu e-learning platform was introduced to Cleanup activities in Kulhudhuffushi, • At the Annual Award function, long facilitate digital learning and knowledge sharing. Eydhafushi and A.Dh. Dhangethi and other service, outstanding work performance and The platform provides learning content regarding beach cleanup events in Sh. Feydhoo, leadership were recognisedA total of 79 policies and procedures, best practices and Fuvahmulah and Addu City during the year. staff received awards in these categories links to facilitate and enhance work skills. • engaged in activities to mark World Cancer Day, World Heart Day, World Children’s Day, Earth Hour and Environment Day. Dhiraagu Annual Report 2019 52 United Nations Global CompactEnvironment Principles Principle 7: Principle 9: Businesses should support Encourage the development and a precautionary approach to diffusion of Environmentally environmental challenges; friendly technologies Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Sustainable Tomorrow 53 We place great importance in raising awareness and members of the local community. We also Raising awareness for Earth against single use plastic. Advocating for distributed our reusable bags to households. the protection and preservation our natural Hour and Environment Day environment and ensuring environmental We supported the following activities to Our people volunteered to celebrate Earth sustainability in our corporate practices is an mark International Coastal Clean-up Day; Hour and Environment Day together with Bike important aspect of Dhiraagu’s CSR strategy. • We collaborated with Dhangethi School Maldives and Ministry of Environment and took and organised a beach cleanup together part in bicycle ride events to raise awareness on Our initiatives under our environment pillar with school children in A.Dh. Dhangethi. environmental vulnerability and sustainable ways support the United Nations Sustainable • We collaborated with Baa Atoll Manta of saving energy. We also switched off lights Development Goals on Affordable and Clean Festival and our people participated in a waste during Earth Hour from Dhiraagu Head Office Energy (SDG 7), Responsible Consumption segregation awareness session in Eydhafushi and all regional operational centres to take part and Production (SDG 12), Climate Action • We supported the NGO BeaLeaf to organise in the global campaign to raise awareness. (SDG 13) and Life Below Water (SDG 14) a beach cleanup event and our people joined together with schools and other institutions from the community of Kulhudhuffushi. Renewable Energy Our teams participated in beach cleanWe remain committed to low emission carbonups in Fuvahmulah, Kulhudhuffushi and in resilient business practices and seek to reduce four areas of Addu Atoll to help intercept our carbon footprint through increasingly ocean plastic as part of the Raalhu Gudi Kite relying on renewable energy to power our Surfing fest together with Parley Maldives, various systems. We take great pride in our NGOs, schools and the community. role as one the largest producers and users of renewable energy in the country. Implementation Community Preparedness As part of our continuous efforts in increasing for Environmental our solar footprint, our work was in progress Care for the Oceans during the year to utilise 709kWp of grid tied PV Challenges solar power systems in 15 islands nationwide. Our CEO pledged to stay committed and to We plan to complete the project by 2020. continue our efforts to reduce single use In partnership with UNDP Maldives, a drone plastic at the World Oceans Day event by mapping training was conducted in Addu City. Ministry of Fisheries, Marine Resources The event is part of the bigger project, “Drones and Agriculture and Parley Maldives for Resilience” to promote the use of drone technology for enhanced preparedness and We held a beach cleanup and awareness session disaster management under the Sustainable in Sh. Feydhoo together with the NGO Feydhoo Development Goal 13Climate Action. Environment Development Association, students Dhiraagu Annual Report 2019 54 Energy Efficiency Our Head Office was designed with sustainable green features and provides significant energy efficiencies. All the lights used in the building, including emergency lights are 99% LED lights. We have motion sensors to switch off the lights in common areas to ensure lights are switched off when not in use. High heat reflective glass is used in building facade to minimise heat entering into the building. The office adopts central AC control, where airconditioning is centrally turned off at pre-set times and is limited to official working hours. Measurement of Outcomes Through the additional solar panel installations, we produced > 400 MWh of renewable energy during the year, which resulted in an approximated reduction of >300 metric tons of CO2 emitted. The energy saving features incorporated in Dhiraagu Head Office resulted in an annual reduction of approximately 390,228 kwh of electricity, which is also equivalent to 276 metric tons of CO2 or 636 barrels of oil. Sustainable Tomorrow 55 United Nations Global CompactAnti-Corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Dhiraagu Annual Report 2019 56 POLICY AND GOALS • know a procedure that, if observed, will allow During the year, the following policies were issued; a Transaction to remain valid and binding, even though the relevant Persons may have a Conflict Acceptable Suppliers Conduct Policy The of Interest with respect to the Transaction. purpose of this Policy is to set out the Company’s expectations from the Suppliers with whom Gift, Hospitality and Entertainment it transacts, in order to help the Company, Policy The aim of this Policy is to ensure protect its integrity and successfully resist that the highest standards of integrity are bribery / corruption. In addition, this Policy is maintained and that no improper motive can to ensure that all the local and international be suggested behind the offer or acceptance Suppliers know the Company’s commitment of the Gift, Hospitality or Entertainment. to be a responsible corporate citizen. AntiCorruption and Anti-Bribery Policy The aim of this Policy is to ensure that the Implementation highest standards of integrity are maintained and that no improper motive can be suggested Supplier Code of Conduct behind the action of a Company Personnel while laying down the expectations from other From 2013 onwards, our suppliers and vendors persons to refrain from causing or exciting the sign on to our Supplier Code of Conduct when Company Personnel to breach this Policy. contracting with us and are expected to meet the standards detailed in it. Our Acceptable Suppliers Confidentiality of Business Information Conduct Policy was revised in April 2019 and Policy This policy advises all our people is modelled to set out our minimum standards on their responsibility of preserving the in the areas of labour and human rights, health confidentiality of company’s data and and safety, environment and ethical dealings. information during and after their service with the Company according to employment agreement, confidentiality agreement and the provisions of laws applicable to the company. Measurement of Outcomes Disclosure of Conflicts of Interest Policy – the policy is designed to help all those All supplier agreements contain the who are under scope of this Policy to: Acceptable Suppliers Conduct Policy. • identify situations, that present potential Conflicts of Interest and Corporate Governance 57 Corporate Governance Dhiraagu Annual Report 2019 58 Directors Governance Report We take our role as a responsible corporate CMDA’s CG Code. In the event of any variations, citizen very seriously. Our commitment to explanations are provided. Additionally, our conducting our business in an ethical, sustainable internal Corporate Governance Code lays the and accountable manner are at the heart of the foundation for our sound corporate governance long-term performance and sustainability of our principles and can be downloaded from Company. We promote a responsible culture in www.dhiraagu.com.mv/investor_relations. our business through structured governance policies and procedures which are used to set our In addition to our focus on strong corporate strategy and objectives, monitor our performance governance, since becoming a signatory to and manage risks our business faces. the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in 2012, we have made yearly assessments of Throughout the financial year that ended 31 our environmental and social performance and December 2019 we continued to adhere to the published separate Corporate Social Responsibility principles and guidelines set by the Maldives Reports to present the Communication on Code of Corporate Governance, issued by Capital Progress (COP) to the UNGC. This year, we have Market Development Authority (CMDA). Every included the Communication on Progress within effort was expended to ensure that we have the Sustainable Tomorrow section of this report. complied with the compulsory provisions of the Corporate Governance 59 The Role of the Board, Chairperson & Chief Executive Responsibilities of the Officer & Managing Director Board of Directors Board • As part of its overall responsibilities to serve the longterm interests of the shareholder, the Board: The Board is responsible for establishing our policies and strategy reviews and approves, our strategic plans, management and overseeing matters ranging from implementation of our strategy, structure and responsibilities, systems and controls framework; performance against our corporate plan, the status of our material adopts the strategic guidelines for as proposed by business risks and matters requiring Board approval, to matters relating Management or, where appropriate, on its own initiative; to our people, culture and governance framework. The Board’s role and reviews and discuss reports of our performance, responsibilities are detailed in the Board Charter which was amended in 2017. our plans, and products; and assess major risks facing the business by reviewing and approving strategies for addressing such risks. Chairperson The Chairperson’s overarching responsibility is to provide leadership • The Board also ensures that processes are in place for and effective guidance to the Board and Dhiraagu to ensure our maintaining our integrity and reputation including: Company fulfils its obligations. The Chairperson’s role is to take an the integrity of the financial statements; active lead in promoting mutual trusts, open discussion, constructive compliance with applicable legislation accounting and auditing dissent and support for decisions after they have been made by the principles, and internal policies governing our business Board. The position of Chairperson and the Chief Executive Officer the integrity of our relationship with our shareholders; and & Managing Director cannot be exercised by the same individual. overseeing the process of disclosure and ensuring that the communications are fair, transparent, comprehensive and timely. CEO & MD The Chief Executive Officer & Managing Director, together with the senior management team, is responsible to the Board for the development and implementation of our strategy and overall dayto-day management of the Company. There is a formal delegation of authority structure in place in our ‘Authority Matrix’ which is approved by the Board and sets out the powers delegated to the Chief Executive Officer & Managing Director (this is further complemented by formal delegations from the Chief Executive Officer & Managing Director to our employees) and those specifically retained by the Board. Dhiraagu Annual Report 2019 60 Board Composition Board Meetings Mr. Ismail Rasheed Position: Chief Executive Officer & Membership The Board meets at least once every quarter. & Managing Director On specific matters that require the Board’s Representation: Batelco Group The Board of Directors consists of 9 members, urgent attention special meetings are held Attendance: 5/5 to ensure that our Board has representation from all our shareholders; 5 Directors are appointed in between regular sessions. A total of 5 by our major shareholder Batelco, 3 Directors Board meetings were held in 2019. are appointed by the Government of Maldives At Board meetings, Directors engage in robust Mr. Ihab Hinnawi and one Director is appointed by the public Position: Non-Executive Director shareholders at the Annual General Meeting. discussions with Management on strategic Representation: Batelco Group direction of the business to ensure that Attendance: 5/5 At the date of the approval of this report, investment is directed towards the things that there are 7 sitting Directors and details of their will lead to the best outcomes for the Company qualifications and experience, together with and its shareholders. Agendas for the meetings are set in advance after consulting with the details of the year of initial appointment and reMr. Imran Ali election (where applicable), can be found in the Chairperson and Batelco Group. Board papers Position: Non-Executive Director Board of Directors section of this Annual Report. are shared prior to the meeting, providing Representation: Public Shareholders opportunity for Directors to review and prepare Attendance: 5/5 Appointments from Batelco Group and for the meetings. All Board meeting agendas have Government of Maldives are received in writing a permanent provision for any other business from the respective shareholder, and they hold where Directors can voice matters of pressing office until a written notice of their removal is concern to the shareholders they represent. Mr. Oliver McFall provided. The Public Director is elected by the Position: Non-Executive Director public shareholders at the AGM. He/she holds Representation: Batelco Group Mr. Ismail Waheed office for a term of two years from the meeting Attendance: 5/5 Position: Chairperson he/she is elected to the second AGM following Representation: Government of Maldives the election unless he/she resigns or is removed Attendance: 5/5 from office during the intervening period. Mr. Khalid Hussain Taqi All Directors, except the Chief Executive Officer Position: Non-Executive Director Representation: Batelco Group & Managing Director, are non-executive and Mrs. Khulood AlQattan independent directors as defined by CMDA’s Attendance: 4/4* Position: Deputy Chairperson Corporate Governance Code. Whether Representation: Batelco Group independent or not, all Directors are required Attendance: 5/5 to act in the best interests of Dhiraagu and to *Mr. Khalid Hussain Taqi was appointed to the exercise unfettered and independent judgment. Board on 4 March 2019 and there were only 4 Board Meetings in 2019 following his appointment. Corporate Governance 61 Key Decisions in 2019 Board • Approval of Audited Financial Statements • Review and revision of the Committees for the year ended 31 December 2018. Whistleblowing Policy. The Board has two standing committees; • Proposed full-year dividend of MVR 11.91 • Review and revision of the Antithe Audit Committee and the Remuneration per ordinary share (total MVR 905.16m) to Corruption and Anti-Bribery Policy. Nomination and Governance Committee, which be declared as Full Year Dividend for 2018, operate in accordance with approved terms of comprising of MVR 5.96 per ordinary share • Approval of the Fraud Risk Management Policy. references. The Board appoints members and for Interim Dividend and MVR 5.95 per ordinary share as Final Dividend for 2018. • Approval of the Confidentiality of the chairperson of each committee. Following Business Information Policy. each committee meeting, the Board receives • Appointment of Ms. Hazrath Rasheed a memorandum of the key deliberations, Hussain to the combined role of General • Review and revision of the Acceptable conclusions and recommendations. An overview Counsel and Company Secretary. Suppliers Conduct Policy. of the roles and responsibilities, composition, • Proposed the re-appointment of KPMG • Approval of the Disclosure of and membership as at 31 December 2019, are as the External Auditor for 2019. Conflicts of Interest Policy. provided in the respective committee reports. • Approval of 2018 Performance Bonus Payout. • Approval of the Gift and Hospitality Policy. • Approval of Bonus KPIs and Performance • Declared MVR 4.14 per ordinary Bonus Payout Plan for 2019. share (total MVR 314.6m) as an Interim Director’s Shareholding Dividend for the year 2019. • Approval of the Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2018. • Review and revision of the Credit Control Policy. Details of Directors shareholdings as at 31 • Appointment of Mrs. Khulood AlQattan • Review and revision of the Authority Matrix. December 2019 are disclosed below. as Deputy Chairperson to the Board and appointment of Mr. Khalid Hussain • Review and revision of the Code of Ethics. Taqi as Member to RNG Committee. Number of • Approval of the Prevention of Harassment Director Shares Held • Approval of the disposal and writeand Bullying at the Workplace Policy. Imran Ali 15,000 off of fixed assets with GBV MVR 289.1m (NBV MVR 0.01m). • Approval of the proposed writeIsmail Rasheed 13,994 off and disposal of MVR 17.6 m of Ismail Waheed 1,510 • Approval of Revised Budget for 2019. obsolete and damaged inventory. • Approval of recommending Standing • Approval to the disposal and write off of Resolution to declare Interim Dividend in 2019. Bad Debt amounting to MVR 25.8m. • Review and revision of internal • Approval of the Strategy and Banking and Treasury Policy. Business Plan for 2020. Dhiraagu Annual Report 2019 62 Going Concern All material related to transactions of the majority shareholders and Directors are We remain committed to continuous improvement in our approach to managing Considering our strong financial standing and reviewed during the quarterly Board meetings. risks and ensure that we maintain a strong, position in the market, Dhriaagu is well placed There were no substantial or material third integrated risk and compliance culture. to manage its business risks in the current party transactions made by the Directors economic conditions. Having reviewed our or the Management during the year. strategy and business plan for 2020, and the audited financial statements for 2019, the Board Governance Policy affirms that the Dhiraagu’s ability to continue Internal Control, Risk Framework as a going concern, and that we have adequate resources to continue in operation for the Oversight & Risk The Board regularly reviews our governance foreseeable future. We will continue to disclose, Management practice to reflect the developments in our as applicable, matters related to going concern business, market practice and expectations, and use the going concern basis of accounting. Our risk management approach centers on as well as regulatory changes. We place great continued assessment, monitoring and reporting emphasis to conduct our business in a fair and of risks which may impact the progress responsible manner by adopting the highest of delivering our strategic priorities. Risks standards of professionalism, honesty, integrity Conflicts of Interest together with their controls and treatment are and ethical behaviour. In order to meet all the regularly reported to the Audit Committee which legal and regulatory obligations and compliance Directors are required to take all necessary steps assists the Board in its oversight function. and to ensure that strong good governance is to avoid actual, potential or perceived conflicts implemented, we have adopted various internal of interest and to be sensitive to situations in polices, procedure and guidelines to promote which these may arise. In accordance with the • A risk and compliance function was ethical and responsible conduct and provide Company’s Act (Law no 10/96) and our Articles of established in 2016 and a full time Risk and guidance to our Directors, and our people. Association, Directors must declare any conflict of Compliance Officer oversees all matters interest they may have, and follow the procedures related to compliance and risk. Our Code of Ethics was revised in July set out in our Board Charter including, in certain • The ‘Authority Matrix’ approved by the 2019, it contains our code of conduct and circumstances, to abstain from participating in Board is in place and delegates approval recognises that our success depends on any discussion or voting on matters in which they limits for all business transactions and the ability to establish and maintain positive have a material personal interest. As a practice, expenditures. relationships, both internally within employees all Board and Committee meeting agendas have • A ‘Risks Register’ is maintained and and externally with all stakeholders. a permanent provision for declaring a conflict of reviewed by the Audit Committee every interest of any agenda item to be discussed at quarter. Our Disciplinary Policy and Procedure adopted that meeting. In all instances where a conflict of • The Internal Audit function carries out in October 2014 establishes a transparent, fair interest arose or had the potential to arise, the annual audits, based on an Internal Audit and consistent mechanism to deal with the respective Director excused himself/herself from Plan that is approved and reviewed closely consequence of failing to meet the required the meeting of the Board and/or its subcommittee. by the Audit Committee. standards of behaviour and job performance. Corporate Governance 63 We also have a separate Committee to Prevent in the areas of labour and human rights, health governance structures, raising confidence Sexual Harassment at the Workplace set up and safety, environment and ethical dealings. of our colleagues and other stakeholders in 2014 in accordance with the Anti-Sexual in our systems and processes. Harassment Act (Law No. 16/2014) and our Our Gifts and Hospitality Policy adopted in Prevention of Harassment and Bullying at the April 2019, ensures that highest standards We adopted a Policy on Insider Trading in 2018, Workplace Policy was introduced in October of integrity and conduct are maintained and to comply with CMDA’s Policy on Prohibition 2019 in order to safeguard our people and ensure that Gifts and Hospitality are provided of Insider Trading. The policy imposes and provide a safe working environment free from in an open and transparent manner. We refrain provides guidelines, instructions and the harassment and bullying, ensuring everyone from making any political contributions either codes of conduct in trading our shares. It is treated with dignity and respect. directly or indirectly to political parties, causes applies to our Directors, our people and certain or individuals. Furthermore, our Donations and third-party agents and advisers. The policy Our Grievance Policy and Procedure has been Sponsorships Framework has been in place is cohesive guide to ensure that we are in established since January 2015, with the objective since 2012 and establishes clear and transparent compliance with the Maldives Securities Act of documenting and formalising a mechanism guidelines for all our donations and sponsorships. (Law No: 2/2006) and its related regulations. for employees to raise grievances regarding any work-related matters, so that such matters can be We have zero tolerance for corruption and resolved timely and amicably. The policy further bribery. Our Anti-Corruption and Anti-Bribery Legal & Regulatory enhances the transparency and consistency in Policy adopted in September 2011 and recently dealing with grievances across our Company. revised in April 2019 is designed to educate Compliance our people on the many forms bribes can take Our ‘Authority Matrix’ was last reviewed and and how to avoid inappropriate circumstances, Dhiraagu has a separate Legal Department amended in July 2019, it sets approval limits including where acceptance may be perceived to fulfil our legal and regulatory obligation for all business transactions and expenditures to compromise independence or be construed with a dedicated team of internal and within our Company. Due to the nature of our as a bribe. Our Confidentiality of Business external lawyers appointed to ensure that we business and the environment within which Information Policy and Disclosure of Conflicts continue to comply with relevant laws and we operate, we may be exposed to risks. Thus of Interest Policy which were both adopted in regulations. Dhiraagu has not been given risks that we may face are monitored, reported April 2019 also contribute to addressing our notice of, or prosecuted for, or convicted of, and addressed regularly throughout the year. A commitment to comply with applicable laws and any significant breaches of any relevant laws ‘Risks Register’ is also maintained and reviewed regulations concerning bribery, corruption, fraud or regulation during the financial year. by the Audit Committee every quarter. and any other prohibited business practices. We have conducted our business in compliance From 2013 onwards, our suppliers and vendors In addition to this, the revisions to the with the legal and regulatory obligations under sign on to our Supplier Code of Conduct when Whistleblowing Policy coupled with a Fraud the Maldives Company’s Act (Law No. 10/96), contracting with us and are expected to meet the Risk Management Policy adopted in April the Maldives Telecommunications Law (Law No. standards detailed in it. Our Acceptable Suppliers 2019, provide a confidential process with 43/2015), the Securities Act (Law No. 2/2006), Conduct Policy was revised in April 2019 and appropriate protections for our people to report obligations under our operational licenses, is modelled to set out our minimum standards their concerns. It has also strengthened our the Maldives Stock Exchange Listing Rules Dhiraagu Annual Report 2019 64 and the CMDA’s CG Code. With appropriate controls and governance procedures in place, 31st Annual Declaration of Interest the company continues to comply with relevant General Meeting In compliance with the requirements of the laws, regulations and industry codes. Securities (Continuing Disclosure Obligations Dhiraagu will hold its 31st AGM during April of Issuers) Regulation 2019, the Board of 2020. The Notice and Agenda of the AGM Directors of Dhiraagu affirms that: Auditors will be communicated and published no • This Annual Report 2019 has been later than Sunday, 29th March 2020. prepared in compliance with all the A tendering process was conducted in 2016 reporting requirements, and in accordance to recommend an External Auditor. The Dividends with the relevant laws and regulations; tender covers three years, and is subject to • The Board of Directors of Dhiraagu and/or any shareholder approval at the Annual General The Board recommends a full-year dividend of their associates did not have any significant Meetings. The Board ensures that regulatory of MVR 12.00 per share, amounting to MVR interest in the equity or debt securities of the requirements on audit partner rotation are 912,000,000 (nine hundred and twelve million) for company, or had any right to subscribe for strictly adhered to and the Audit Partner the year 2019, to be declared as full-year dividend equity or debt security of the company; and was rotated in 2018 in order to comply with for 2019. The full year dividend comprises of: • There were no contract(s) of significant the CMDA Corporate Governance Code. substance during or at the end of the • MVR 4.14 per share (total MVR 314,640,000) accounting period in which a Board Director of Our KPMG Partner attends our AGM and was paid as interim dividend in 2019, and the company has a direct or indirect interest. will be available to answer any shareholder • MVR 7.86 per share (total MVR Details of material contracts for the provision questions about the conduct of our audit 597,360,000) as the final dividend of services entered into between Dhiraagu and the content of the auditor’s report for for 2019 which will be proposed for and Batelco Group and Government of the year ending 31 December 2019. shareholder approval at the 31 AGM. Maldives are provided in Note 26 “Related Parties Transactions” of the Audited Financial In accordance with the Audit Committee’s The final dividend for 2019 will be payable Statements as at 31 December 2019. recommendation, the Board is proposing to to all shareholders listed on the Company’s recommend the re-appointment of KPMG to Shareholder register as at 4pm on Thursday, carry out the statutory audit for the financial 13 February 2020 (book closure date). year 2020. The proposed remuneration is a maximum fee of US$ 45,000 excluding out of pocket expenses and 6% GST. Ismail Waheed Ismail Rasheed Chairperson Chief Executive Officer & Managing Director Corporate Governance 65 Audit Committee Report Composition & Terms of Reference Membership The Audit Committee is scheduled to meet once every quarter and provides a forum for As at 31 December 2019, the following members communication between the Board, Management served the Audit Committee. The Committee and both the internal and external auditors. members were all non-executive and independent The Committee is responsible for monitoring directors and possessed sufficient accounting and advising the Board on matters relating to and financial knowledge which allowed them financial reporting, risk management, compliance, to discharge their duties, ensuring compliance external audit, internal control, internal audit with CMDA Corporate Governance Code and and matters that may significantly impact the Dhiraagu Corporate Governance Code. financial condition or affairs of our business. Mrs. Khulood AlQattan Position: Chairperson of the Audit Committee Meetings Tenure: Jul 17 to date The Audit Committee met 4 times during Attendance: 4/4 the financial year ending 31 December 2019. Other members of the Board may attend Audit Committee meetings and the Committee may invite Management, the external auditor and Mr. Imran Ali others to attend meetings as it considers Position: Member necessary or appropriate. All meetings during Tenure: Jul 14 to date the financial year ending 31 December 2019, Attendance: 4/4 were attended by the Chief Executive Officer & Managing Director, the Chief Financial Officer and the Internal Auditor. The meetings were also attended by the Group Chief Internal Auditor, International Investment. The Secretary of the Board acted as the Secretary of all the meetings. Dhiraagu Annual Report 2019 66 Key Decisions External Audit Internal Audit • Review and recommendation of KPMG was appointed by the shareholders as During the year the Audit Committee reviewed the Audited Financial Statements for the our External Auditor for 2019 and our Partner effectiveness of internal audit controls undertaken year ended 31 December 2019. was rotated in 2018 to ensure that we comply by our Internal Audit Department. The Internal with the CMDA Corporate Governance Code. Auditor directly reports to the Audit Committee • Review and recommendation of quarterly financial reports for the financial year 2019. with a parallel administrative reporting line to The Audit Committee reviewed the non-audit the Chief Executive Officer & Managing Director • Review and recommendation of revisions services provided by KPMG and the explanation for day to day matters. This is to ensure that the to the Internal Banking and Treasury Policy. of how the provision of those non-audit services Board is provided with independent and objective • Review and recommendation of revisions was compatible with auditor independence. assurance on the effectiveness of our governance, to the Anti-Corruption Anti-Bribery Policy. The Committee is satisfied that appropriate risk management, and internal control processes. measures are put in place by both KPMG and • Review and recommendation of the Dhiraagu to ensure the independence and A total of 14 Internal Audits were carried out Fraud Risk Management Policy. objectivity of the External Auditor. The External and presented during the year and the Audit • Review and recommendation of Auditor has confirmed their compliance with Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the revisions to the Credit Control Policy. the practice note of CMDA’s CG Code. Company’s internal controls including financial, operational, technical, IT and compliance • Review and recommendation of All the Audited Committee meetings held controls and procedures for identifying and revisions to the Authority Matrix. during the year were attended by the External managing risks. The outcomes and follow up • Review and recommendation for Auditor to provide independent assurance actions of these audits were regularly reviewed approval of Bad Debt write off and and present their opinion on the financial at the Audit Committee meetings, and the disposal and write-off of fixed assets reports. The Audit Committee also met the Committee is satisfied with the progress and obsolete and damaged inventory. External Auditor in a private session without and implementation of the action points. • Review and monitoring of all Internal the Management to get an independent view Audit activities ever quarter. of their audit experience and opinion. Furthermore, the Audit Committee is satisfied with the progress of the Internal Audit function • Review and approval of the Terms of during the year 2019 and the adequacy of Reference of the Audit Committee the internal control measures in place. All action points from the Committee’s meetings were completed on a timely basis. Corporate Governance 67 Risk Management Our ‘Risk Register’ is prepared by a full-time Risk and Compliance Officer who maintains processes identifying new and emerging risks to our business. Identified risks together with their controls and treatment were closely monitored by the Audit Committee every quarter and reported to the Board during the year. The Risk Register was considered when finalising the Internal Audit Plan. The requirement for disclosures and provisions on any material claims and litigations against the Company was monitored closely with support from both external lawyers and external auditors when required. The Audit Committee is satisfied with the progress of the Internal Audit function during the year ending 31 December 2019 and the adequacy of the internal control measures in place for risk management. Khulood Rashid AlQattan Chairperson, Audit Committee Dhiraagu Annual Report 2019 68 Remuneration, Nomination and Governance Committee Report Composition & Roles & Responsibilities Remuneration Membership The RNG Committee was reconstituted in Package Of Directors The Board’s Remuneration, Nomination and August 2013 to combine the three functions & Executives Governance (RNG) Committee was represented of remuneration, nomination and governance. by the following non-executive and independent The objective of the consolidation was to Board Directors are rewarded as per the Directors during year ending 31 December 2019. facilitate effective and efficient discharge of Board Director’s Remuneration Policy, the duties as most members were in both the which ensures Director remuneration is Remuneration, Nominations Committee and the competitive and compensates for the Mr. Ismail Waheed Governance Committee. The RNG Committee responsibilities assigned to each Director. Position: Chairperson of RNG Committee assists the Board in formulating remuneration Tenure: Government of Maldives policies, framework for nominating the Public The RNG Committee reviews and makes Attendance: 5/5 Director, and monitoring the performance recommendations to the Board on Dhiraagu’s of our corporate governance framework and overall remuneration strategy, policies and compliance with relevant regulations. practices, and monitors the effectiveness of Mr. Imran Ali Dhiraagu’s overall remuneration framework. The Position: Member remuneration for key executives are determined Meetings Tenure: Jul 14 to date in consultation with Batelco, and are based on Attendance: 5/5 individual scope of work, performance against The RNG Committee met 5 times during the agreed measures, market rates for comparable financial year ending 31 December 2019. Other roles and other relevant factors. The Company’s members of the Board may attend the RNG remuneration packages include fixed components Mr. Khalid Hussain Taqi Committee meetings and the Committee may and performance linked incentives which are Position: Member invite management, and others to attend meetings designed to be competitive with the market, Tenure: March 2019 as it considers necessary or appropriate. The encourage sustainable performance and provide a Attendance: 2/2* Chief Executive Officer & Managing Director retention element to retain key and critical talent. attended all the meetings and other members No stock options are included in the remuneration from the management team were invited as package of Board Directors or key executives. *Mr. Khalid Hussain Taqi was appointed to the RNG and when required. The Secretary of the Board Committee on 25 April 2019 and there were only 2 acted as the Secretary of all the meetings. RNG Committee Meetings following his appointment. Corporate Governance 69 Disclosure of remuneration of Directors and key majority shareholders are reviewed by executives as required by CMDA, which includes the committee, and the committee confirms that details on level and mix of remuneration package, all Directors possess the required expertise to Key Decisions and individual remunerations paid to Board discharge their responsibilities effectively. Directors and key executive, are withheld due • Review and recommendation of 2019 Performance Bonus Plan and to the competitive environment that Dhiraagu Induction programmes are organised by 2018 Performance Bonus Payout. operates in. Total remuneration (including the Company for all the new Directors short term benefits) paid to Directors and key accompanied by a meeting with Senior • Review and approval of the Terms of executives in 2019 are MVR 1.08m and 19.57m Management and tour of the Company. Reference of the RNG Committee. respectively. Payments for service contracts, • Review and recommendation of candidates notice period, severance fees and stock options for the role of Company Secretary. did not form any part of the remuneration During 2019, the following changes were paid to Directors or key executives in 2019. • Review and recommendation of brought to Dhiraagu Board: revisions to the Whistleblowing Policy. • In January 2019, we bid farewell to Mr. Board Appointments Abdul Rahman Fahkro who had served as a • Review and recommendation of revisions non-executive director of the Board since to the Anti-Corruption Anti-Bribery Policy. According to our Articles of Association, the March 2014. • Review and recommendation of the Board of Directors shall be composed of: • In March 2019 we welcomed the Fraud Risk Management Policy. Five Directors appointed by Batelco; appointment of Mr. Khalid Hussain Taqi as a non-executive director by Batelco. • Review and recommendation of the Three Directors appointed by the Confidentiality of Business Information Policy. Government of Maldives; and One Director elected by the • Review and recommendation of revision to public shareholders. the Acceptable Suppliers Conduct Policy. • Review and recommendation of the Our Articles of Association provide that the Disclosure of Conflicts of Interest Policy. nomination process of the Director elected by the public shareholders be managed by • Review and recommendation of the Board, through the RNG Committee. the Gift and Hospitality Policy. Mr. Imran was re-elected at the 29th AGM • Review and recommendation held on 14 May 2018 for a term of two years revision to the Code of Ethics. (from the 29th AGM to the 31st AGM). • Review and recommendation of the Prevention of Harassment and Board Directors representing the major Bullying at the Workplace Policy. shareholders are appointed through a letter of appointment. The Curriculum Vitae of Directors appointed by the Dhiraagu Annual Report 2019 70 Board Diversity Our Board represents a highly qualified and diverse set of experts with members from different professional and academic backgrounds. Dhiraagu is committed to promoting gender diversity at the Boardroom and encourages female representation on the Board in accordance with the Corporate Governance Code issued by CMDA. At the time of issuing this report, there is one female representative on the Board of Dhiraagu. Effectiveness Our Board Directors Performance Evaluation Policy requires Directors to carry out a self-evaluation of Board and the Committees performance. A Board evaluation was carried out in January 2020. The results of the evaluation were reviewed by the RNG Committee in February 2020. The RNG Committee confirms that Dhiraagu Board and its committees discharged their responsibilities satisfactorily during 2019. Ismail Waheed Chairperson, Remuneration, Nomination and Governance Committee Audited Financial Statements 71 Audited Financial Statements Dhiraagu Annual Report 2019 72 DHIVEHI RAAJJEYGE GULHUN PLC. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31st December 2019 Contents Independent Auditors’ Report 73 77 Financial Statements Statement of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income 78 Statement of Financial Position 79 Statement of Changes in Equity 81 Statement of Cash Flows 82 Notes to the Financial Statements 84 131 Audited Financial Statements 73 Independent Auditor’s Report To the Shareholders of Dhivehi Raajjeyge Gulhun PLC Opinion Basis for Opinion Key Audit Matters We have audited the accompanying financial We conducted our audit in accordance with Key audit matters are those matters that, statements of Dhivehi Raajjeyge Gulhun PLC International Standards on Auditing (“ISAs”). Our in our professional judgment, were of most (the “Company”), which comprise the statement responsibilities under those standards are further significance in our audit of the financial of financial position as at 31st December 2019, described in the Auditors’ Responsibilities for statements of the current period. These matters the statements of profit or loss and other the Audit of the Financial Statements section of were addressed in the context of our audit of comprehensive income, changes in equity and our report. We are independent of the Company the financial statements as a whole, and in cash flows for the year then ended, and notes to in accordance with the International Ethics forming our opinion thereon, and we do not the financial statements, comprising a summary Standards Board for Accountants’ Code of Ethics provide a separate opinion on these matters. of significant accounting policies and other for Professional Accountants (“IESBA Code”) and explanatory information set out in pages 84 to 131. we have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in accordance with the IESBA Code. We believe that In our opinion, the accompanying financial the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient statements give a true and fair view of the and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. financial position of the Company as at 31st December 2019, and of its financial performance and its cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRSs”). Dhiraagu Annual Report 2019 74 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT (Continued) To the Shareholders of Dhivehi Raajjeyge Gulhun PLC Key Audit Matters (Continued) Revenue Recognition – Accuracy input of terms and pricing of different services; Assessing the appropriateness of the Company of revenue recorded accuracy of the data captured by different accounting policies set out in notes 4.12 and 5(c), (Refer to the accounting policies and critical systems and interface between the systems; and adequacy of the disclosures for compliance accounting estimates, assumptions and judgments with the revenue recognition requirements of the in notes 4.12 and 5(c) of the financial statements) Testing the design, implementation International Financial Reporting Standards. and operating effectiveness of the Risk Description controls over the billing system; Capitalization of Assets including useful Revenue recognition is one of the most lives, depreciation and impairment judgmental and complex area of accounting Testing the IT general controls and data (Refer to the accounting policies and especially with the added complexity of the vast migration processes together with the new critical accounting estimates, assumptions array of rapidly changing offers, complexity application controls of the system migration; and judgments in notes 4.3, 5 (b) and of billing systems, complexity of products and 5(g) of the financial statements) services and due to high volume of low value Performing detailed analysis of revenue transactions captured by the billing systems. testing the timing of revenue through Risk Description substantive audit procedures. These audit The Company continues to incur a significant The majority of the Company’s revenue is procedures were performed based on our level of capital expenditure in connection with generated from the output of billing systems. industry knowledge which include, among the expansion of its network coverage and Determining when and how much revenue others, testing on a sample basis of the; improvements to network quality. The carrying is recognized from customer contracts has • Adjustments which are outside value of Property and Equipment as at 31st a significant impact especially on multiple of the normal billing process, December 2019 was MVR 1,791 million. elements arrangements and customer offers. • Revenue recognition on the bundled services offered, There are number of areas where Further, during the year the Company • Deferred revenue and cost on management judgment impacts the has migrated its revenue billing system installation which is considered as a part carrying value of Property and Equipment, relating to mobile revenue to a Convergence of the overall performance obligation and the related depreciation profiles. Billing System. Our key focus is on the of the respective service and; risk arising from the system migration. • Revenue recognition related to the The complex nature of the assets may result customer loyalty program of the Company. in inappropriate capitalization of the costs Our Response and inappropriate determination of the date Our audit procedures in this area Evaluating the appropriateness of the allocation and the values transferred from construction included, among others: of the transaction price, including variable in progress to property and equipment. Testing of key controls assisted by our IT consideration to performance obligations and test specialists including, among others, those over the the operating effectiveness of related controls; Telecommunication industry is evolving continually Audited Financial Statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT (Continued) 75 To the Shareholders of Dhivehi Raajjeyge Gulhun PLC Key Audit Matters (Continued) due to changes in the technology. Further, the Evaluating management’s estimation IFRS 16 – Lease Arrangements (Transition) Company has significant number of physical of useful economic lives by considering (Refer to the accounting policies and assets related to telecommunication subject to our knowledge of the business; critical accounting estimates, assumptions the technological update. Therefore, technology and judgments in notes 3, 4.10 and changes would create obsolescence of Property Inquiring the networks and the other relevant 5(h) of the financial statements) and Equipment, which might require an impairment teams in order to assess on technological provision. Determination of recoverable amount updates and actual replacements of assets, if any, Risk Description of Property and Equipment involves significant with latest technology to identify any potential IFRS 16 introduced a single, on-balance sheet judgments and estimates. Therefore, an error impairment indicators for the existing assets; accounting model for lessees. As a result, the in such estimates could result in material Company, as a lessee, has recognized rightmisstatements in the financial statements. Assessing whether there were impairment of-use assets representing its rights to use the triggers giving rise to a need to perform underlying assets and lease liabilities representing Our Response a comprehensive impairment review of its obligation to make lease payments. Our audit procedures in this area Property & Equipment based on the internal included, among others: and external information assessed; The Company initially applied IFRS 16: Leases Assessing the design, implementation and with effect from 01st January 2019. A number operating effectiveness of key internal controls Challenging the management’s positions of of judgements have been applied and estimates over the capitalization of property and equipment, the impairment assessment as to whether or not made in determining the impact of the standard. including the key internal controls over the a reasonable possible change to key operating Further, adoption of IFRS 16 required new estimation of useful economic lives of assets; assumptions could result in impairment; accounting policies and disclosures in the financial statements whereas the new policies Evaluating the appropriateness of Assessing the adequacy of the and disclosures provided in the financial capitalization policy and testing on a sample financial statements disclosures included statements would not be adequate and accurate. basis whether the cost capitalized meets in notes 4.3, 5 (b) and 5(g). the relevant criteria for capitalization and In order to compute the transition impact of the depreciation is correctly calculated; IFRS 16, a significant data extraction exercise was undertaken by management to summarise Challenging the date of transferring all land and buildings and network assets lease construction-in-progress to Property data such that the respective inputs could and Equipment by examining the be uploaded into management’s model. The inspection reports and/or project incremental borrowing rate (“IBR”) method progress reports, on a sample basis; has been adopted where the implicit rate of interest in a lease is not readily determinable. Dhiraagu Annual Report 2019 76 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT (Continued) To the Shareholders of Dhivehi Raajjeyge Gulhun PLC Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements (Continued) Our Response our auditors’ report thereon. The annual In preparing the financial statements, the Board Our audit procedures in this area report is expected to be made available to is responsible for assessing the Company’s included, among others: us after the date of this auditors’ report. ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, Evaluating the appropriateness of the as applicable, matters related to going selection of accounting policies based on Our opinion on the financial statements does concern and using the going concern basis of the requirements of IFRS 16, our business not cover the other information and we will not accounting unless the Board either intends to understanding and industry practice. express any form of assurance conclusion thereon. liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. Assessing whether transition gave rise In connection with our audit of the financial to any indicators of management bias. statements, our responsibility is to read the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit other information identified above when it of the Financial Statements Evaluating management’s process and the becomes available and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance controls implemented to ensure the completeness inconsistent with the financial statements about whether the financial statements as a whole and accuracy of the transition adjustments. or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or are free from material misstatement, whether due otherwise appears to be materially misstated. to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors’ report Evaluating the reasonableness of management’s that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance key judgements and estimates made in When we read the annual report, if is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee preparing the transition adjustments. we conclude that there is a material that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs misstatement therein, we are required to will always detect a material misstatement when it Evaluating the completeness, accuracy communicate the matter to the Board. exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and relevance of data used in preparing and are considered material if, individually or in the transition adjustments. the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected Responsibilities of the Board of to influence the economic decisions of users Evaluating the completeness, accuracy and Directors for the Financial Statements taken on the basis of these financial statements. relevance of the transition disclosures. The Board is responsible for the preparation and the fair presentation of financial statements As part of an audit in accordance with Other Information in accordance with IFRSs, and for such ISAs, we exercise professional judgment The Board of Directors (the “Board”) is internal control as the Board determines and maintain professional skepticism responsible for the other information. The is necessary to enable the preparation of throughout the audit. We also: other information comprises the information financial statements that are free from material Identify and assess the risks of material included in the annual report, but does misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. misstatement of the financial statements, whether not include in the financial statements and due to fraud or error, design and perform audit Audited Financial Statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT (Continued) 77 To the Shareholders of Dhivehi Raajjeyge Gulhun PLC Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements (Continued) procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain on the audit evidence obtained up to the circumstances, we determine that a matter should audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate date of our auditors’ report. However, future not be communicated in our report because to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of events or conditions may cause the Company the adverse consequences of doing so would not detecting a material misstatement resulting to cease to continue as a going concern. reasonably be expected to outweigh the public from fraud is higher than for one resulting from interest benefits of such communication. error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and The engagement partner on the audit intentional omissions, misrepresentations, content of the financial statements, including the resulting in this independent auditor’s report or the override of internal control. disclosures, and whether the financial statements is R.W.M.O.W. Duminda B Rathnadiwakara. represent the underlying transactions and events Obtain an understanding of internal control in a manner that achieves fair presentation. relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the We communicate with the Board regarding, circumstances, but not for the purpose of among other matters, the planned scope and Chartered Accountants expressing an opinion on the effectiveness timing of the audit and significant audit findings, 4th February 2020 of the Company’s internal control. including any significant deficiencies in internal Male’ control that we identify during our audit. Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness We also provide the Board with a statement of accounting estimates and related that we have complied with relevant ethical disclosures made by the Board. requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships Conclude on the appropriateness of Board and other matters that may reasonably be of Directors’ use of the going concern basis of thought to bear on our independence, and accounting and, based on the audit evidence where applicable, related safeguards. obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast From the matters communicated with the significant doubt on the Company’s ability to Board, we determine those matters that were continue as a going concern. If we conclude that of most significance in the audit of the financial a material uncertainty exists, we are required statements of the current period and are to draw attention in our auditors’ report to the therefore the key audit matters. We describe related disclosures in the financial statements these matters in our auditors’ report unless or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to law or regulation precludes public disclosure modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based about the matter or when, in extremely rare Dhiraagu Annual Report 2019 78 DHIVEHI RAAJJEYGE GULHUN PLC Statement of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income 2019 2018 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST DECEMBER NOTE MVR “000” MVR “000” Revenue 7 2,859,006 2,762,487 Operating costs 8 (1,336,423) (1,329,431) Depreciation and amortization 13, 14 & 15 (351,405) (317,215) Impairment loss on trade receivables and contract assets 17.1 (27,160) (15,459) Other income 9 1,904 2,265 Results from operating activities 1,145,922 1,102,647 Finance income 10 20,528 7,405 Finance costs 10 (54,531) (47,821) Net finance costs (34,003) (40,416) Profit before tax 1,111,919 1,062,231 Tax expense 11 (170,160) (157,138) Profit/ Total Comprehensive Income for the year 941,759 905,093 Earnings per share Basic and diluted earnings per share (MVR) 12 12.39 11.91 Figures in brackets indicate deductions. These financial statements are to be read in conjunction with the related notes which form an integral part of these financial statements of the Company set out on pages 84 to 131. The Report of the Independent Auditors is given on pages 73 to 77. Audited Financial Statements DHIVEHI RAAJJEYGE GULHUN PLC 79 Statement of Financial Postition 2019 2018 AS AT 31ST DECEMBER NOTE MVR “000” MVR “000” ASSETS Non-current assets Property and equipment 13 1,791,139 1,870,108 Right-of-use assets 14 248,999 Intangible assets 15 335,806 286,098 Deferred tax assets 11.2 6,144 15,363 Total non-current assets 2,382,088 2,171,569 Current assets Inventories 16 58,236 55,516 Trade and other receivables 17 690,371 584,664 Cash and bank balances 18 485,685 335,672 Total current assets 1,234,292 975,852 Total assets 3,616,380 3,147,421 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity Share capital 19 190,000 190,000 Retained earnings 2,314,762 2,139,843 Total equity 2,504,762 2,329,843 Non-current liabilities Provisions 20 130,157 170,572 Lease liabilities 21.1 232,932 Total non-current liabilities 363,089 170,572 Dhiraagu Annual Report 2019 80 DHIVEHI RAAJJEYGE GULHUN PLC Statement of Financial Postition (Continued) 2019 2018 AS AT 31ST DECEMBER NOTE MVR “000” MVR “000” Current liabilities Trade and other payables 22 648,431 559,871 Lease liabilities 21.1 25,320 Amounts due to a related party 23 1,386 1,638 Income tax payable 73,392 85,497 Total current liabilities 748,529 647,006 Total liabilities 1,111,618 817,578 Total equity and liabilities 3,616,380 3,147,421 Figures in brackets indicate deductions. These financial statements are to be read in conjunction with the related notes which form an integral part of these financial statements of the Company set out on pages 84 to 131. The Report of the Independent Auditors is given on pages 73 to 77. Mrs.Khulood Rashid AlQattan Mr. Ismail Rasheed Mr. Robin Wall Chairperson of Audit Committee Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer & Deputy Chairperson of Board & Managing Director 4th February 2020 Audited Financial Statements DHIVEHI RAAJJEYGE GULHUN PLC 81 Statement of Changes in Equity SHARE RETAINED CAPITAL EARNINGS TOTAL FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 ST DECEMBER NOTE MVR “000” MVR “000” MVR “000” As at 01st December 2018 190,000 2,124,879 2,314,879 Adjustment on Initial Application of IFRS 09 369 369 Adjustment on Initial Application of IFRS 15 7,062 7,062 Adjusted Balance as at 01st January 2018 190,000 2,132,310 2,322,310 Profit and Total Comprehensive Income for the year 905,093 905,093 Transactions with Owners of the Company Distributions Dividends 19.2 (897,560) (897,560) As at 31st December 2018 190,000 2,139,843 2,329,843 As at 01st January 2019 190,000 2,139,843 2,329,843 Profit and Total Comprehensive Income for the year 941,759 941,759 Transactions with Owners of the Company Distributions Dividends 19.2 (766,840) (766,840) As at 31st December 2019 190,000 2,314,762 2,504,762 Figures in brackets indicate deductions. These financial statements are to be read in conjunction with the related notes which form an integral part of these financial statements of the Company set out on pages 84 to 131. The Report of the Independent Auditors is given on pages 73 to 77. Dhiraagu Annual Report 2019 82 DHIVEHI RAAJJEYGE GULHUN PLC Statement of Cash Flows 2019 2018 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST DECEMBER NOTE MVR “000” MVR “000” Cash flows from operating activities Profit before Tax 1,111,919 1,062,231 Adjustments for: Depreciation 13 264,474 284,624 Amortization of intangible assets 15 48,831 32,591 Depreciation of right-of-use assets 14 38,100 Provision for slow-moving/ obsolete inventories 16.1 8,753 2,281 Provision for impairment loss on trade and other receivables 17.1 27,160 15,459 Interest income 10 (4,981) (7,405) Unwinding of discount on network and asset retirement obligation 10 4,456 11,840 Reversal of unwinding of discount due to the changes in estimates 10 (15,547) Interest on lease liabilities 10 24,211 Net gain on disposal of property and equipment 9 (161) (202) Operating profit before working capital changes 1,507,215 1,401,419 Changes in: Inventories (11,473) 15,333 Trade and other receivables (133,490) (146,181) Trade and other payables 52,491 36,282 Amounts due to a related party (252) 279 Cash generated from operations 1,414,491 1,307,132 Income tax paid (173,046) (165,919) Net cash generated from operating activities 1,241,445 1,141,213 Audited Financial Statements DHIVEHI RAAJJEYGE GULHUN PLC 83 Statement of Cash Flows (Continued) 2019 2018 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST DECEMBER NOTE MVR “000” MVR “000” Cash flows from investing activities Purchase and construction of property and equipment (178,220) (449,681) Purchase of intangible assets 15 (98,539) (74,819) Proceeds from disposal of property and equipment 173 202 Interest received 4,972 8,242 Payment of lease liabilities 21 (53,058) Net proceeds from matured fixed deposits 5,311 162,927 Net cash used in investing activities (319,361) (353,129) Cash flows from financing activities Dividend paid during the year (766,760) (896,997) Net cash used in financing activities (766,760) (896,997) Net increase/ (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 155,324 (108,913) Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 315,976 424,889 Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year 18 471,300 315,976 Figures in brackets indicate deductions. These financial statements are to be read in conjunction with the related notes which form an integral part of these financial statements of the Company set out on pages 84 to 131. The Report of the Independent Auditors is given on pages 73 to 77. Dhiraagu Annual Report 2019 84 Notes to the Financial Statements For the year ended 31st December 2019 1. Reporting entity (b) Basis of Measurement in the financial statements are discussed The financial statements have been prepared in Note 5 to the financial statements. Dhivehi Raajjeyge Gulhun PLC (the “Company”) based on the historical costs basis. was originally incorporated under the Limited 3. Changes in Significant Liability Companies Decree No. 1988/123 and (c) Functional and Presentation Currency accounting policies presently governed under the Companies’ Act These financial statements are presented No. 10 of 1996 as a limited liability Company in in Maldivian Rufiyaa, which is also the 3.1 New standards applicable from 1st the Republic of Maldives. The Company provides Company’s functional currency. All financial January 2019 telecommunication services in the Maldives. information presented in Maldivian Rufiyaa The registered office of the Company is situated has been rounded to the nearest thousand The Company initially applied IFRS 16 Leases at Dhiraagu Head Office, Ameenee Magu, P.O. except where otherwise indicated. with effect from 1st January 2019. A number Box 2082, Male’ 20403, Republic of Maldives. of other new standards are effective from 1st (d) Use of Estimates and Judgements January 2019 but they do not have a material The Company is a listed Company in the Maldives The preparation of financial statements in effect on the Company’s financial statements. Stock Exchange, in the Republic of Maldives conformity with IFRSs requires management to with effect from 29th September 2011. make judgements, estimates and assumptions IFRS 16 introduced a single, on-balance sheet that affect the application of accounting accounting model for lessees. As a result, 2. Basis of preparation policies and the reported amounts of assets, the Company, as a lessee, has recognized liabilities, income and expenses. Actual right-of-use assets representing its rights (a) Statement of Compliance results may differ from these estimates. to use the underlying assets and lease The financial statements have been liabilities representing its obligation to make prepared in accordance with International Estimates and underlying assumptions are lease payments. Lessor accounting remains Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRSs”). reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to similar to previous accounting policies. accounting estimates are recognised in the This is the first set of the Company’s period in which the estimates are revised and The Company has applied IFRS 16 using the annual financial statements in which in any future periods affected. Information modified retrospective approach, under which IFRS 16, “Leases” has been applied. The about significant areas of estimation, there is no effect of the initial application related changes to significant accounting uncertainty and critical judgements in applying to retained earnings as at 1st January 2019. policies are described in Note 3. accounting policies that have the most Accordingly, the comparative information significant effect on the amounts recognised presented for 2018 is not been restated. Audited Financial Statements DHIVEHI RAAJJEYGE GULHUN PLC 85 Notes to the Financial Statements (Continued) 3. Changes in Significant accounting policies (Continued) 3.1 New standards applicable from 1st January 2019 (Continued) The details of the changes in accounting policies assessment of whether the lease transferred Their carrying amount as if IFRS 16 had are disclosed below. Additionally, the disclosure significantly all of the risks and rewards incidents been applied since the commencement date, requirements in IFRS 16 have not generally to the ownership of the underlying asset to the discounted using the Company’s incremental been applied to comparative information. Company. Under IFRS 16, the Company recognizes borrowing rate at the date of initial application; or right-of–use assets and lease liabilities for most An amount equivalent to the lease (a) Definition of a Lease leases – i.e. these leases are on-balance sheet. liability, adjusted by the amount of any Previously, the Company determined at contract prepaid or accrued lease payments. inception whether an arrangement was or At commencement or on modification of a contained a lease under IFRIC 4 Determining contract that contains a lease component, the The Company has tested its right-to-use Whether an Arrangement Contains a Lease. The Company allocates the consideration in the assets for impairment on the date of transition Company now assesses whether a contract is contract to each lease and non-lease component and has concluded that there is no indication or contains a lease based on the new definition on the basis of their relative stand-alone selling that the right-to-use assets are impaired. of a lease, as explained in Note 4.10. prices. However, for leases of properties in which it is a lessee, the Company has elected The Company used a number of practical On transition to IFRS 16, the Company elected not to separate non-lease components and will expedients when applying IFRS 16 to lease to apply the practical expedient to grandfather instead account for the lease and non-lease previously classified as operating leases the assessment of which transactions are components as a single lease component. under IAS 17. In particular, the Company: leases. The Company applied IFRS 16 only to contracts that were previously identified The Company presents right-of-use did not recognise right of use assets and as leases. Contracts that were not identified assets as a separate line item in the liabilities for leases for which the lease term ends as leases under IAS 17 and IFRIC 4 were not statement of financial position. within 12 months of the date of initial application; reassessed for whether there is a lease under did not recognise right of use assets IFRS 16. Therefore, the definition of a lease under (i) Leases classified as operating and liabilities for leases of low value IFRS 16 was applied only to contracts entered leases under IAS 17 assets (e.g. IT equipment); into or changed on or after 1st January 2019. Previously, the Company classified property leases excluded initial direct costs from the as operating leases under IAS 17. On transition, for measurement of the right of use asset (b) As a Lessee the leases, lease liabilities were measured at the at the date of initial application; and As a lessee, the Company leases many assets, present value of the remaining lease payments, used hindsight when determining the lease term. including land and buildings and network assets. discounted at the Company’s incremental borrowing rate as at 1st January 2019 (See Note 3 The Company previously classified leases (c)). Right-of-use assets are measured at either: as operating or finance leases based on its Dhiraagu Annual Report 2019 86 DHIVEHI RAAJJEYGE GULHUN PLC Notes to the Financial Statements (Continued) 3. Changes in Significant accounting policies (Continued) 3.1 New standards applicable from 1st January 2019 (Continued) (C) Impact on transition 3.2 Standards issued but not yet effective 4.1 Transactions in foreign currencies On transition to IFRS 16, the Company recognized an additional of right-of-use A number of new standards are effective for Transactions in foreign currencies are translated of assets and lease liabilities. The Impact annual period beginning after 1st January to Maldivian Rufiyaa (functional currency) at on transition is summerised below. 2019 and earlier application is permitted; the exchange rates prevailing at the date of the however, the Company has not early transaction. Foreign exchange gains and losses 1ST JANUARY 2019 adopted the new or amended standards in resulting from the settlement of such transactions MVR “000” preparing these financial statements. and from the translation of monetary assets and Right-of-use assets – land and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies as at building and network assets 225,849 The following amended standards the reporting date are recognized in profit or loss. Lease liabilities 225,849 and interpretation are not expected to have a significant impact on the Non-monetary assets and liabilities, which are Company’s financial statements. stated at historical cost, denominated in foreign When measuring lease liabilities for leases currencies are translated to Maldivian Rufiyaa that were classified as operating leases, Amendments to Reference to Conceptual at the exchange rates ruling at the date of the Company discounts lease payments Framework in IFRS Standards. transaction. Non-monetary assets and liabilities, using its incremental borrowing rate as at Definition of a Business (Amendments to IFRS 3). which are stated at fair value, denominated in 1st January 2019.The weighted average Definition of material (Amendments foreign currencies are translated to Maldivian incremental borrowing rate applied is 10%. to IAS 1 and IAS 8). Rufiyaa at the foreign exchange rates ruling at IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts. the dates that the fair value was determined. 1ST JANUARY 2019 MVR “000” 4. Significant accounting policies 4.2 Financial Instruments Operating lease commitments at 31st December 2018 as disclosed Except disclosed above on the changes of the (i) Financial Assets (Non-derivative) under IAS 17 in the Company’s accounting policies due to the adoption of Recognition and initial measurement financial statementsLease liabilities 327,845 The Company initially recognizes receivables IFRS 16 on 1st January 2019, the accounting policies set out below have been applied and deposits on the date that they are Discounted using the incremental originated. All other financial assets are consistently to all periods presented in borrowing rate at 1st January 2019 225,849 these financial statements, and have been recognized initially on the trade date at applied consistently by the Company. which the Company becomes a party to the Lease liabilities recognised as at 1st contractual provisions of the instrument. January 2019 225,849 Audited Financial Statements DHIVEHI RAAJJEYGE GULHUN PLC 87 Notes to the Financial Statements (Continued) 4. Significant accounting policies (Continued) 4.2 Financial Instruments (Continued) (i) Financial Assests (Non-derivative) (Continued) A financial asset (unless it is a trade receivable All financial assets not classified as measured Assessment whether contractual cash flows without a significant financing component) at amortised cost or FVOCI as described are solely payments of principal and interest or financial liability is initially measured at above are measured at FVTPL. This includes For the purposes of this assessment, ‘principal’ fair value plus, for an item not at FVTPL, all derivative financial assets. On initial is defined as the fair value of the financial transaction costs that are directly attributable recognition, the Company may irrevocably asset on initial recognition. ‘Interest’ is to its acquisition or issue. A trade receivable designate a financial asset that otherwise defined as consideration for the time value without a significant financing component is meets the requirements to be measured at of money and for the credit risk associated initially measured at the transaction price. amortised cost or at FVOCI as at FVTPL if with the principal amount outstanding during doing so eliminates or significantly reduces an a particular period of time and for other basic Classification and Subsequent Measurement accounting mismatch that would otherwise arise. lending risks and costs (e.g. liquidity risk and On initial recognition, a financial asset is classified administrative costs), as well as a profit margin. as measured at: amortised cost; FVOCI – debt Business model assessment In assessing whether the contractual cash flows investment; FVOCI – equity investment; or FVTPL. The Company makes an assessment of the are solely payments of principal and interest, objective of the business model in which a the Company considers the contractual terms Financial assets are not reclassified subsequent financial asset is held at a portfolio level because of the instrument. This includes assessing to their initial recognition unless the Company this best reflects the way the business is managed whether the financial asset contains a changes its business model for managing and information is provided to management. contractual term that could change the timing financial assets, in which case all affected The information considered includes: or amount of contractual cash flows such that financial assets are reclassified on the first it would not meet this condition. In making day of the first reporting period following The stated policies and objectives for the this assessment, the Company considers: the change in the business model. portfolio and the operation of those policies in practice. These include whether management’s Contingent events that would change A financial asset is measured at amortised strategy focuses on earning contractual interest the amount or timing of cash flows. cost if it meets both of the following conditions income, maintaining a particular interest rate Terms that may adjust the contractual coupon and is not designated as at FVTPL: profile, matching the duration of the financial rate, including variable-rate features; assets to the duration of any related liabilities Prepayment and extension features; and It is held within a business model or expected cash outflows or realising cash Terms that limit the Company’s claim whose objective is to hold assets to flows through the sale of the assets; to cash flows from specified assets collect contractual cash flows; and The risks that affect the performance (e.g. non-recourse features). Its contractual terms give rise on specified dates of the business model (and the financial to cash flows that are solely payments of principal assets held within that business model) and interest on the principal amount outstanding. and how those risks are managed; Dhiraagu Annual Report 2019 88 DHIVEHI RAAJJEYGE GULHUN PLC Notes to the Financial Statements (Continued) 4. Significant accounting policies (Continued) 4.2 Financial Instruments (Continued) (i) Financial Assests (Non-derivative) (Continued) Subsequent measurement and gains and losses are recognised in profit or loss. Any gain or loss on Offsetting Financial assets at amortised cost de-recognition is also recognised in profit or loss. Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the These assets are subsequently measured at net amount presented in the statement of financial amortised cost using the effective interest The Company has the non-derivative financial position when, and only when, the Company has method. The amortised cost is reduced by liabilities such as trade and other payables a legal right to offset the amounts and intends impairment losses. Interest income, foreign and Amounts due to related party. either to settle on a net basis or to realize the exchange gains and losses and impairment are asset and settle the liability simultaneously. recognised in profit or loss. Any gain or loss on Such financial liabilities are recognized de-recognition is recognised in profit or loss. initially at fair value plus any directly (iii) Share Capital Financial assets at amortized cost comprise attributable transaction costs. Ordinary Shares trade and other receivables, Bank deposits Ordinary shares are classified as equity. and Investment in fixed deposits. Subsequent to initial recognition, these Incremental costs directly attributable financial liabilities are measured at amortized to the issue of ordinary shares are (ii) Financial liabilities (Non-derivative) cost using the effective interest method. recognized as a deduction from equity. Classification, subsequent measurement and gain and losses De-recognition Dividends The Company initially recognizes debt securities Financial Assets Interim dividends to ordinary shareholders issued and subordinated liabilities on the date The Company derecognizes a financial asset when are recognised as a liability in the period in that they are originated. All other financial the contractual rights to the cash flows from the which they are declared and final dividends liabilities are recognized initially on the trade asset expire, or it transfers the rights to receive are recognised as a liability in the period which date at which the Company becomes a party to the contractual cash flows on the financial asset they are approved by the shareholders. the contractual provisions of the instrument. in a transaction in which substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the financial asset are 4.3 Property, Plant and Equipment Financial liabilities are classified as measured at transferred. Any interest in transferred financial amortised cost or FVTPL. A financial liability is assets that is created or retained by the Company (i) Recognition and Measurement classified as at FVTPL if it is classified as heldis recognized as a separate asset or liability. Items of property, plant and equipment are for-trading, it is a derivative or it is designated measured at cost less accumulated depreciation as such on initial recognition. Other financial Financial Liabilities and accumulated impairment losses. Cost liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised The Company derecognizes a financial includes expenditure that is directly attributable cost using the effective interest method. Interest liability when its contractual obligations to the acquisition of the asset. The cost of expense and foreign exchange gains and losses are discharged or cancelled or expire. self-constructed assets includes the cost of Audited Financial Statements DHIVEHI RAAJJEYGE GULHUN PLC 89 Notes to the Financial Statements (Continued) 4. Significant accounting policies (Continued) 4.3 Property, Plant and Equipment (Continued) (i) Recognition and Measurement (Continued) materials and direct labour, any other costs embodied within the part will flow to the Depreciation methods, useful lives and residual directly attributable to bringing the assets Company, and its cost can be measured reliably. values are reviewed at each financial year end to a working condition for their intended The carrying amount of the replaced part is and adjusted prospectively, if appropriate. use and capitalized borrowing costs. derecognized. The costs of the day-to-day servicing of property, plant and equipment Capital Work in Progress The estimated costs of dismantling and are recognized in profit or loss as incurred. Assets under construction as at the year-end removing an asset and restoring the site on represents the costs incurred or accrued for which it is located are also included in the (iii) Depreciation the projects which are not commissioned for cost of property, plant and equipment. The Depreciation is calculated over the depreciable commercial operation as at the year end. corresponding obligation is recognised as a amount, which is the cost of an asset, or other provision. Purchased software that is integral amount substituted for cost, less its residual value. 4.4 Intangible assets to the functionality of the related equipment is capitalized as part of that equipment. Depreciation is recognized in profit or loss on a (i) Recognition and Measurement straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives Intangible assets that are acquired by the When parts of an item of property, plant and of each part of an item of property, plant and Company, which have finite useful lives, are equipment have different useful lives, they equipment, since this most closely reflects the measured at cost less accumulated amortization are accounted for as separate items (major expected pattern of consumption of the future and accumulated impairment losses. components) of property, plant and equipment. economic benefits embodied in the asset. Costs that are directly associated with the Gains and losses on disposal of an item of The estimated useful lives are as follows: purchase and implementation of identifiable property, plant and equipment are determined and unique software products by the by comparing the proceeds from disposal Buildings 5 to 40 years Company are recognized as intangible assets. with the carrying amount of property, plant Plant and equipment Expenditures that enhance and extend the and equipment, and are recognized net benefits of computer software programmes Civil works, cables and ducting 5 to 40 years within other income in profit or loss. beyond their original specifications and lives Network and electronic equipment 5 to 40 years are recognized as a capital improvement and (ii) Subsequent Costs Vehicle and launches 4 to 7 years added to the original cost of the software. The cost of replacing a part of an item of Furniture and fittings 4 to 10 years property, plant and equipment is recognized in the carrying amount of the item if it is probable that the future economic benefits Dhiraagu Annual Report 2019 90 DHIVEHI RAAJJEYGE GULHUN PLC Notes to the Financial Statements (Continued) 4. Significant accounting policies (Continued) 4.4 Intangible assets (Continued) (ii) Subsequent expenditure 4.5 Inventories is presented as deferred income in the Subsequent expenditure is only capitalized if statement of financial position. costs can be measured reliably, the product Inventories are measured at the lower of is technically and commercially feasible, cost and net realizable value. The cost of 4.7 Impairment future economic benefits are probable and inventories is based on the weighted average the Company has sufficient resources to principle, and includes expenditure incurred (i) Non-derivative financial assets complete development and to use the asset. in acquiring the inventories, conversion costs Financial instruments and contract assets and other costs incurred in bringing them The Company recognises loss (iii) Amortization to their existing location and condition. allowances for ECLs on: Amortisation is recognised in profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful Net realizable value is the estimated Financial assets measured at amortised cost; and lives of intangible assets, other than goodwill, selling price in the ordinary course of Contract assets. from the date that they are available for use. business, less the estimated costs of The estimated useful lives for the current completion and selling expenses. The Company measures loss allowances and comparative periods are as follows: at an amount equal to lifetime ECLs 4.6 Contract assets related to the for trade and other receivables. Software 3 to 10 years Enterprise Sales Projects Loss allowances for trade receivables and Licences 10 Years or licence Contract assets related to the sales project contract assets are always measured at term whichever is lower represents the gross unbilled amount an amount equal to lifetime ECLs. expected to be collected from customers for Indefeasible right to use 15 Years or cable life performance obligations satisfied to date. It The Company considers a financial cable capacity whichever is lower is measured at the consideration allocated asset to be in default when: to the performance obligations completed Capital Work in Progress as at the reporting date recognised to date The borrower is unlikely to pay its credit Capital work in progress as at the year-end less progress billings and recognised losses. obligations to the Company in full, without represents the costs incurred or accrued Cost includes all expenditure related directly recourse by the Company to actions such for the projects which have not commenced to specific projects and an allocation of as realising security (if any is held); or commercial operations as at the year end. fixed and variable overheads incurred. The financial asset is more than 90 days past due for the residential segment. If progress billings exceed costs incurred The financial asset is more than 150 days plus recognised profits, then the difference past due for the Government segment. Audited Financial Statements DHIVEHI RAAJJEYGE GULHUN PLC 91 Notes to the Financial Statements (Continued) 4. Significant accounting policies (Continued) 4.7 Impairment (Continued) (i) Non-derivative financial assets (Continued) Financial Instruments and contract assests (Continued) The financial asset is more than 120 days Credit-impaired financial assets Write-off past due for the corporate segment. At each reporting date, the Company assesses The gross carrying amount of a financial The Company has rebutted the presumption whether financial assets carried at amortised cost asset is written off when the Company has of 90 days past due for the Government and are credit-impaired. A financial asset is ‘credit no reasonable expectations of recovering corporate segment as the Company has impaired’ when one or more events that have a a financial asset in its entirety or a portion assessed the previous years’ collections and detrimental impact on the estimated future cash thereof. For individual customers, the Company the historic collections at a considerable flows of the financial asset have occurred. has a policy of writing off based on historical levels after 3 months period. experience of recoveries of similar assets and Evidence that a financial asset is credit-impaired based on the assessment carried out by the Lifetime ECLs are the ECLs that result includes the following observable data: Company. For wholesale segment customers, from all possible default events over the the Company individually makes an assessment expected life of a financial instrument. A breach of contract such as a default with respect to the timing and amount of writeor being more than 180 days past due of off based on whether there is a reasonable 12-month ECLs are the portion of ECLs that the significant government customers expectation of recovery. The Company expects result from default events that are possible who exceed MVR 100,000/-; no significant recovery from the amount written within the 12 months after the reporting date A breach of contract such as a default or being off. However, financial assets that are written (or a shorter period if the expected life of more than 180 days past due of the significant off could still be subject to enforcement the instrument is less than 12 months). corporate customers who exceed MVR 100,000/-; activities in order to comply with the Company’s A breach of contract such as a default procedures for recovery of amounts due. The maximum period considered when estimating or being more than 365 days past due ECLs is the maximum contractual period over of the wholesale customers; 4.8 Employee Benefits which the Company is exposed to credit risk. It is probable that the contractual party will enter bankruptcy or other financial reorganisation; (a) Defined contribution plans Measurement of ECLs A defined contribution plan is a postECLs are a probability-weighted estimate of Presentation of allowance for ECL in employment benefit plan under which the credit losses. Credit losses are measured as the statement of financial position company pays fixed contributions into a the present value of all cash shortfalls (i.e. the Loss allowances for financial assets measured separate entity and will have no legal or difference between the cash flows due to the at amortised cost are deducted from the constructive obligation to pay further amounts. entity in accordance with the contract and the gross carrying amount of the assets. cash flows that the Company expects to receive). The Company contributes 10% of members’ salary into the scheme with an additional, minimum, 4% of salary being contributed by the members. Dhiraagu Annual Report 2019 92 DHIVEHI RAAJJEYGE GULHUN PLC Notes to the Financial Statements (Continued) 4. Significant accounting policies (Continued) 4.8 Employment Benifits (Continued) (b) Short-term benefits of the present value of the unavoidable future contract to each lease component on the basis Short-term employee benefit obligations cost of dismantling and removing the items of of its relative stand-alone prices. However, of the Company are measured on an property, plant and equipment and restoring for the leases of property the Company has undiscounted basis and are expensed the sites on which they are located. elected not to separate non-lease components as the related service is provided. and account for the lease and non-lease 4.10 Leases components as a single lease component. A liability is recognised for the amount expected to be paid under short-term cash bonus if the The Company has applied IFRS 16 using the The Company recognizes a right-of-use asset and Company has a present legal or constructive modified retrospective approach and therefore the a lease liability at the lease commencement date. obligation to pay this amount as a result of comparative information has not been restated The right-of-use asset is initially measured at cost, past service provided by the employee and and continues to be reported under IAS 17 and which comprises the initial amount of the lease the obligation can be estimate reliably. IFRIC 4. The details of accounting policies under liability adjusted for any lease payments made at IAS 17 and IFRIC 4 are disclosed separately. or before the commencement date, plus any initial 4.9 Provisions direct costs incurred and an estimate of costs to Policy applicable from 1st January 2019 dismantle and remove the underlying asset or to A provision is recognized if, as a result of At inception of a contract, the Company restore the underlying asset or the site on which a past event, the Company has a present assesses whether a contract is, or contains. it is located, less any lease incentives received. legal or constructive obligation that can a lease. A contract is, or contains, a lease be estimated reliably, and it is probable if the contract conveys the right to control The right-of-use asset is subsequently that an outflow of economic benefits will the use of an identified asset for a period of depreciated using the straight-line method from be required to settle the obligation. time in exchange for consideration. To assess the commencement date to the end of the lease whether a contract conveys the right to control term, unless the lease transfers ownership of If the time value of money is material, the use of an identified asset, the Company the underlying asset to the Company by the end provisions are determined by discounting the uses the definition of a lease in IFRS 16. of the lease term or the cost of the right-of-use expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate asset reflects that the Company will exercise a that reflects current market assessments This policy applied to contracts entered purchase option. In that case the right-of-use of the time value of money and the risks in to, on or after 1st January 2019 asset will be depreciated over the useful life of specific to the liability. The unwinding of the underlying asset, which is determined on the discount is recognised as finance cost. (i) As a lessee same basis as those of property and equipment. At commencement or on modification of a In addition, the right-of-use asset is periodically Network and asset retirement obligation contract that contains a lease component, the reduced by impairment losses, if any, and adjusted provision has been made for the best estimate Company allocates the consideration in the for certain re-measurements of the lease liability. Audited Financial Statements DHIVEHI RAAJJEYGE GULHUN PLC 93 Notes to the Financial Statements (Continued) 4. Significant accounting policies (Continued) 4.10 Leases (Continued) (i) As a lessee (Continued) The lease liability is initially measured at the reasonably certain not to terminate early. term leases, including IT equipment. The present value of the lease payments that are not Company recognizes the lease payments paid at the commencement date, discounted The lease liability is measured at amortized associated with these leases as an expense using the interest rate implicit in the lease cost using the effective interest method. It on a straight-line basis over the lease term. or. if that rate cannot be readily determined, is re measured when there is a change in the Company's incremental borrowing rate. future lease payments arising from a change Policy applicable before 1st January 2019 Generally, the Company uses its incremental in an index or rate. if there is a change in the For contracts entered into before 1st January borrowing rate as the discount rate. Company's estimate of the amount expected 2019, the Company determined whether to be payable under a residual value guarantee, the arrangement was or contained a lease The Company determines its incremental if the Group changes its assessment of based on the assessment of whether: borrowing rate by obtaining interest rates whether it will exercise a purchase, extension from various external financing sources and or termination option or if there is a revised Fulfilment of the arrangement was dependent makes certain adjustments to reflect the terms in-substance fixed lease payment. on the use of a specific asset or assets; and of the lease and type of the asset leased. The arrangement had conveyed a right to use When the lease liability is re-measured in this the asset. An arrangement conveyed the rightLease payments included in the measurement way, a corresponding adjustment is made to the of-use the asset if one of the following was met: of the lease liability comprise the following: carrying amount of the right-of-use asset, or is • The purchaser had the ability or right to recorded in profit or loss if the carrying amount of operate the asset while obtaining or controlling Fixed payments, including inthe right-of-use asset has been reduced to zero. more than an insignificant amount of the output; substance fixed payments; • The purchaser had the ability or right Variable lease payments that depend on an The Company presents right-of-use to control physical access to the asset index or a rate, initially measured using the assets that do not meet the definition of while obtaining or controlling more than an index or rate as at the commencement date; investment property in “Right-of-use assets” insignificant amount of the output; or Amounts expected to be payable under and lease liabilities in “Lease liabilities” • Facts and circumstances indicated that it a residual value guarantee; and in the statement of financial position. was remote that other parties would take The exercise price under a purchase option more than an insignificant amount of the that the Group is reasonably certain to exercise, Short-term leases and leases output, and the price per unit was neither lease payments in an optional renewal period of low-value assets fixed per unit of output nor equal to the if the Group is reasonably certain to exercise The Company has elected not to recognize current market price per unit of output. an extension option, and penalties for early right-of-use assets and lease liabilities termination of a lease unless the Group is for leases of low-value assets and shortDhiraagu Annual Report 2019 94 DHIVEHI RAAJJEYGE GULHUN PLC Notes to the Financial Statements (Continued) 4. Significant accounting policies (Continued) 4.10 Leases (Continued) (i) As a lessee 4.12 Revenue from contracts utilised by the customer. Upon termination of In the comparative period, as a lessee the with customers the customer contract, all deferred revenue for Company classified leases that transferred unused airtime is recognised in the profit or loss. substantially all of the risks and rewards of Revenue is measured based on the consideration ownership as finance leases. When this was the specified in the contract with a customer. The Revenue from interconnect fees is recognised at case, the leased assets were measured initially Company recognise revenue when it transfers the time the services are performed. Revenue from at an amount equal to the lower of their fair value control over a good or service to a customer. data services is recognised when the Company and the present value of the minimum lease has performed the related service and, depending payments. Minimum lease payments were the (a) Sale of equipment on the nature of the service, is recognised either payments over the lease term that the lessee Revenue from handset and other at the gross amount billed to the customer was required to make, excluding any contingent equipment sales is recognised when the or the amount receivable by the Company rent. Subsequent to initial recognition, the product is delivered to the customer. as commission for facilitating the service. assets were accounted for in accordance with the accounting policy applicable to that asset. In revenue arrangements from bundled contracts (c) Installation revenue include more than one Performance Obligation Installation services are specific services and Assets held under other leases were classified (PO), the arrangement consideration is allocated does not have a standalone value without as operating leases and were not recognized in to each performance obligation based on the data/ internet services, it has not been the Company's statement of financial position. their relative standalone selling price (SSP). considered as separate performance obligation. Payments made under operating leases were recognized in profit or loss on a straight-line (b) Provision of services The installation revenue is considered as basis over the term of the lease. Lease incentives Revenue for access charges, airtime usage part of the overall transaction price and received were recognized as an integral part of and messaging by contract customers is is amortized over the expected tenure of the total lease expense, over the term of the lease. recognised as services are performed, with the contracts with the customers. unbilled revenue resulting from services 4.11 Events occurring after already provided accrued at the end of each (d) Sales projects the reporting date period and unearned revenue from services Installation, device sale and service provision to be provided in future periods deferred. are considered to be separate Performance The materiality of the events occurring Obligation as those are distinct goods/ after the reporting date has been Revenue from the sale of prepaid credit is services. The customer can obtain each considered and appropriate adjustments deferred until such time as the customer uses the of the said good/ service on a standalone and provisions have been made in the airtime, or the credit expires. Deferred revenue basis from different vendors and each has financial statements wherever necessary. related to unused airtime is recognised when a standalone value to the customer. Audited Financial Statements DHIVEHI RAAJJEYGE GULHUN PLC 95 Notes to the Financial Statements (Continued) 4. Significant accounting policies (Continued) 4.12 Revenue from contracts with customers (Continued) (d) Sales projects (Continued) Standalone selling prices (“SSP”) is determined invested. Interest income is accrued on a time business and in maintaining the capital for installation service, sale of device and basis by reference to the principal outstanding assets in a state of efficiency has been provision of service. Accordingly, transaction and the effective interest rate applicable. charged to the profit or loss for the year. price collected from the customers are allocated to each Performance Obligation based on relative Finance costs comprise, unwinding of discounts Expenses incurred for the purpose of SSP allocation and recognize revenue accordingly. on provisions, unwinding of discount on lease acquiring, expanding or improving assets of liabilities and foreign exchange losses that are a permanent nature by means of which to (e) Contract costs recognised in profit or loss. Foreign exchange carry on the business or for the purpose of Contract costs that are incremental in gains and losses are reported on net basis. increasing the earning capacity of the business obtaining a contract with a customer are has been treated as capital expenses. capitalized and amortised over the period The ‘effective interest rate’ is the rate that of related revenues. Applying the practical exactly discounts estimated future cash 4.14 Tax Expenses expedient per IFRS 15, the Group recognises payments or receipts through the expected incremental cost of obtaining a contract as life of the financial instrument to: Tax expense comprises current and an expense when incurred if the amortisation The gross carrying amount of deferred tax. Current tax and deferred period of the assets that the Group otherwise the financial asset; or tax is recognized in profit or loss. would have recognised is one year or less. The amortised cost of the financial liability. (a) Current tax (f) Loyalty Programme In calculating interest income and expense, the Current tax is the expected tax payable or Revenue is allocated between the loyalty effective interest rate is applied to the gross receivable on the taxable income or loss programme and other components of the Income. carrying amount of the asset (when the asset for the year, using tax rates enacted or The amount allocated to the loyalty programme is not credit-impaired) or to the amortised cost substantially enacted at the reporting date. is deferred and is recognized as revenue when of the liability. However, for financial assets that the Company has fulfilled its obligations to supply have become credit-impaired subsequent to (b) Deferred tax the services under terms of the programme or initial recognition, interest income is calculated Deferred tax is recognized in respect when it is no longer probable that the points by applying the effective interest rate to the of temporary differences between the under the programme will be redeemed. amortised cost of the financial asset. If the asset carrying amounts of assets and liabilities is no longer credit-impaired, then the calculation for financial reporting purposes and the 4.13 Expenditure of interest income reverts to the gross basis. amounts used for taxation purposes. (a) Finance income and expense (b) Operating Expenses Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates Finance income comprise interest income on funds All expenses incurred in the running of the that are expected to be applied to temporary Dhiraagu Annual Report 2019 96 DHIVEHI RAAJJEYGE GULHUN PLC Notes to the Financial Statements (Continued) 4. Significant accounting policies (Continued) 4.14 Tax Expenses (Continued) (d) Deffered Tax (Continued) differences when they reverse, based on the • Level 1 : Quoted prices ( Unadjusted) in active may differ significantly from those estimates tax rate enacted at the reporting date. market for identical assets and liabilities under different assumptions and conditions. The • Level 2 : Inputs other than quoted prices Directors consider that the following discussion Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset if included in Level 1 that are observable for the addresses the Company’s most critical accounting there is a legally enforceable right to offset current assets or liability, either directly (i.e as prices) policies, which are those that are most important tax liabilities and assets, and they relate to income or indirectly (i.e. derived from process) to the presentation of its financial performance taxes levied by the same tax authority on the • Level 3 : Inputs for the assets or and position. These particular policies require same taxable entity, or on different tax entities, liability that are not used on observable subjective and complex judgements, often as but they intend to settle current tax liabilities market data (unobservable inputs) a result of the need to make estimates about and assets on a net basis or their tax assets the effect of matters that are uncertain. and liabilities will be realized simultaneously. (a) Trade and other receivables The fair value of trade and other receivables, (a) Depreciation of property, Deferred tax assets are recognized for unused excluding construction contracts, is estimated plant and equipment tax losses, tax credits and deductible temporary as the present value of future cash flows, The Company assigns useful lives and residual difference to the extent that it is probable that discounted at the market rate of interest at the values to property, plant and equipment based future taxable profits will be available against reporting date. However, the Company has got on periodic studies of actual asset lives and which they can be utilized. Deferred tax assets short term receivables as at the reporting date. the intended use for those assets. Changes in are reviewed at each reporting date and are circumstances such as technological advances, reduced to the extent that it no longer probable (b) Financial liabilities (Non-derivative) prospective economic utilisation and physical that the related tax benefits will be provided. Fair value, which is determined for disclosure condition of the assets concerned could purposes, is calculated based on the present result in the actual useful lives or residual 4.15 Determination of Fair Values value of future principal and interest cash flows, values differing from initial estimates. discounted at the risk adjusted discount rate. for both financial and non-financial assets and Where the Company determines that the useful liabilities. Fair values have been determined for 5. Critical accounting estimates, life of property, plant and equipment should be measurement and/ or disclosure purposes based assumptions and judgements shortened or residual value reduced, it depreciates on the following methods. When applicable, the net carrying amount in excess of the residual further information about the assumptions In the preparation of these financial statements, value over the revised remaining useful life, made in determining fair values is disclosed in a number of estimates and assumptions have thereby increasing depreciation expense. Any the notes specific to that asset or liability. been made relating to the performance and change in an asset’s life or residual value is the financial position of the Company. Results reflected in the Company’s financial statements when the change in estimate is determined. Audited Financial Statements DHIVEHI RAAJJEYGE GULHUN PLC 97 Notes to the Financial Statements (Continued) 5. Critical accounting estimates, assumptions and judgements (Continued) (b) Impairment of property, plant and of income received from transmission of instances it uses estimates to determine equipment and intangible assets content provided by third parties. As per the the amount of revenue receivable from or The Company assesses the impairment of requirements of IFRS 15 Identification of the expense payable to these other operators. The property, plant and equipment and intangible performance obligations, allocation of the prices at which these services are charged assets whenever events or changes in consideration over the performance obligations, are sometimes regulated and may be subject circumstances indicate that the carrying value determination of the key assumption such to retrospective adjustment. Estimates are may not be recoverable or otherwise as required as customer expected retention period. used in assessing the likely impact of these by accounting standards. Factors that are adjustments. Adjustments to interconnect considered important and which could trigger (d) Valuation of receivables estimates are taken to operating profit in the an impairment review include the following; Note 4.7 – measurement of ECL allowance period in which the adjustments are made. for trade receivables and contract • Obsolescence or physical damage; assets: key assumptions in determining (f) Provisions • Significant changes in technology the weighted average loss rate. A provision is recognised when there is a present and regulatory environments; (legal or constructive) obligation in respect of • Significant underperformance relative The provision for impairment losses for trade a past event as explained in the accounting to expected historical or projected and other receivables reflects the Company’s policy in Note 4.9 to the financial statements. future operating results; estimates of losses arising from the failure Judgement is required to quantify such amounts. • Significant changes in the use of its assets or inability of customers to make required or the strategy for its overall business; payments. The provision is based on the (g) Capitalization of Property, Plant and • Significant negative industry or economic trends; individual assessment of the customers, lifetime equipment and projects under construction expected credit loss of the trade and other Assets are transferred to Property, Plant and The identification of impairment indicators, receivables, customer credit-worthiness and the equipment from assets under construction the estimation of future cash flows and Company’s historical write-off experience etc. when they are ready for its intended use. the determination of the recoverable The complex nature of the assets is such amount for assets or cash generating Changes to the provision may be required if the that judgment is required as to when that units require significant judgement. financial condition of its customers improves point is reached. Also, judgment is required or deteriorates. An improvement in financial to determine whether the costs incurred on condition may result in lower actual write-offs. those assets can be capitalized or can be (c) Revenue recognition recognized as an expense in profit or loss. Judgement is required in assessing the application (e) Interconnection with other operators of the principles of revenue recognition in As part of the normal course of business, (h) Lease Term respect of revenues. This includes presentation the Company interconnects with other Some leases related to Land and buildings of revenue as principal or as agent in respect telecommunications operators. In certain and Network assets contain extension options Dhiraagu Annual Report 2019 98 DHIVEHI RAAJJEYGE GULHUN PLC Notes to the Financial Statements (Continued) 5. Critical accounting estimates, assumptions and judgements (Continued) (h) Lease Term (Continued) exercisable by the Company before the end primarily because of their non-operational nature. Information about Reportable Segments of the contract period. The extension options Segment information disclosed for the year ended held are exercisable only by the Company and The Following summery describes the 31st December 2019 and 2018 are as follows : not by the lessors. The Company assesses operations of each reportable segment. at lease commencement date whether it is reasonably certain to exercise the extension (1) Mobile options. The Company reassesses whether Mobile operation primarily includes prepaid is reasonably certain to exercise the option mobile, postpaid mobile, roaming, mobile if there is a significant event or significant equipment and mobile broadband which changes in circumstances within control. are provided to individuals, business and government customers. 6. Segment Information (2) Fixed, Broadband and Enterprise Fixed, Broadbandand Enterprise primarily Reportable Segments include fixed telephony, fixed and fiber The Company's operation is segregated into broadband, leasecircuits, datacoms, two reportable segments, which the Company IPTVservices, mobile money and enterprise operates and manages as strategic business infrastructure project. The Company provides units and organize by products and services. these products and services to the individuals, The Company measures and evaluates the businesses and government customers. reportable segments based on segment operating income, consistent with the Chief Operating Decision Maker’s ( CODM ) assessment of segment performance. The Company makes capital allocation decisions based on the strategic needs of the business, needs of the network (mobile or fixed and broadband) providing services and to provide emerging services to the customers. The Company excludes from segment results the effects of certain items that management does not consider in assessing segment performance, Audited Financial Statements DHIVEHI RAAJJEYGE GULHUN PLC 99 Notes to the Financial Statements (Continued) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST DECEMBER 2019 FIXED, BROADBAND MOBILE & ENTERPRISE OTHER TOTAL 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 MVR “000” MVR “000” MVR “000” MVR “000” MVR “000” MVR “000” MVR “000” MVR “000” External Revenue 1,745,312 1,776,654 1,047,884 922,482 65,810 63,351 2,859,006 2,762,487 Total Revenue 1,745,312 1,776,654 1,047,884 922,482 65,810 63,351 2,859,006 2,762,487 Operating Costs (752,552) (802,526) (555,617) (498,752) (28,254) (28,153) (1,336,423) (1,329,431) Depreciation and amortization (114,923) (187,698) (201,396) (101,421) (35,086) (28,096) (351,405) (317,215) Impairment losses on trade and other Receivables (13,821) (8,896) (12,551) (788) (422) (6,141) (27,160) (15,459) Net finance costs (21,007) (26,177) (12,155) (13,243) (841) (996) (34,003) (40,416) Non-operating income 1,176 1,467 681 742 47 56 1,904 2,265 Reportable segment profit before tax 844,185 752,824 266,846 303,667 888 5,740 1,111,919 1,062,231 Segment assets and liabilities Non-current assets 1,172,047 979,827 791,701 824,877 412,196 351,502 2,375,944 2,156,206 Current assets 473,444 399,204 264,263 229,838 10,900 11,138 748,607 640,180 Total assets 1,645,491 1,379,031 1,055,964 1,054,715 423,096 362,640 3,124,551 2,796,386 Non-current liabilities 344,454 170,572 18,635 363,089 170,572 Current liabilities 391,815 340,063 242,586 197,503 114,128 109,440 748,529 647,006 Total liabilities 736,269 510,635 242,586 197,503 132,763 109,440 1,111,618 817,578 Other operations include the customer equipment maintenance services, bulk SMS services, domain and web hosting and other adjacent services. None of these segments met the quantitative threshold for reportable segments in 2019 or 2018. Revenue is shown on gross basis and before out-payments to other telecommunication companies and license payments. Dhiraagu Annual Report 2019 100 DHIVEHI RAAJJEYGE GULHUN PLC Notes to the Financial Statements (Continued) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST DECEMBER 2019 6. Segment Information (Continued) Reconciliation of total assets information on reportable segments to the total assets reported in the Statement of Financial Position. 2019 2018 NON-CURRENT CURRENT NON-CURRENT CURRENT MVR “000” MVR “000” MVR “000” MVR “000” Total assets for reportable segments 1,963,748 737,707 1,804,704 629,042 Total assets for other segments 412,196 10,900 351,502 11,138 Total assets for segments 2,375,944 748,607 2,156,206 640,180 Other unallocated amounts 6,144 485,685 15,363 335,672 Total assets as per the statement of financial position 2,382,088 1,234,292 2,171,569 975,852 7. Revenue (A) Revenue Streams The Company generates revenue primarily from mobile and fixed, broadband and enterprise revenue. Other sources of revenue include customer equipment maintenance services and other adjacent services. 2019 2018 NON-CURRENT CURRENT MVR “000” MVR “000” Revenue from contracts with customers 2,859,006 2,762,487 Audited Financial Statements DHIVEHI RAAJJEYGE GULHUN PLC 101 Notes to the Financial Statements (Continued) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST DECEMBER 2019 7. Revenue (Continued) (B) Disaggregation of revenue from contracts with customers Disaggregation of revenue by major products and service lines has been disclosed in the segment information under mobile, fixed, broadband and enterprise and other revenue. In the following table, revenue is disaggregated by timing of recognition. The table also includes a reconciliation of the disaggregated revenue with the Company's reportable segments. Revenue by major products and service lines are disclosed under segment information (See Note 6) REPORTABLE SEGMENTS FIXED, BROADBAND MOBILE & ENTERPRISE OTHER TOTAL 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 MVR “000” MVR “000” MVR “000” MVR “000” MVR “000” MVR “000” MVR “000” MVR “000” Revenue by timing of recognition Products transferred at a point in time 104,418 118,473 113,864 105,268 3,764 3,636 222,046 227,377 Products and services transferred over time 1,640,894 1,658,181 934,020 817,214 62,046 59,715 2,636,960 2,535,110 Revenue with contracts with customers 1,745,312 1,776,654 1,047,884 922,482 65,810 63,351 2,859,006 2,762,487 External Revenue as reported in Note 6 1,745,312 1,776,654 1,047,884 922,482 65,810 63,351 2,859,006 2,762,487 Dhiraagu Annual Report 2019 102 DHIVEHI RAAJJEYGE GULHUN PLC Notes to the Financial Statements (Continued) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST DECEMBER 2019 7. Revenue (Continued) (C) Contract balances 8. Operating Costs The following table provides information about receivables, contract assets and contract liabilities from contracts with customers. 2019 2018 MVR “000” MVR “000” Direct cost of services 539,674 516,082 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 MVR “000” MVR “000” Personnel costs (Note 8.1) 231,016 225,791 Receivables License fees 120,010 115,207 (included in trade and other receivables) 249,132 232,470 Operating lease rentals 563 50,335 Contract assets Support services 48,050 48,050 (included in trade and other receivables) 357,144 256,453 External publicity 40,675 53,480 Contract liabilities Network costs 132,295 118,323 (included in trade and other payables) (124,836) (95,741) Property and utility costs 118,565 110,165 Professional fees 15,570 15,179 Other administrative expenses 90,005 76,819 The contract assets primarily relate to the Company's right to consideration 1,336,423 1,329,431 for services performed and work completed, but not billed at the reporting date on customer contracts and costs that were deferred on installations 8.1 Personnel Costs and infrastructure projects. The contract assets are transferred to receivables when the rights become unconditional. This usually occurs 2019 2018 MVR “000” MVR “000” when the Company issues an invoice to the customer and over the period of customer tenure expected in respect of the deferred cost. Wages, salaries and performance reward scheme 205,630 205,329 Defined contribution expense 13,249 12,450 The contract liabilities primarily relate to the advance consideration Other personnel costs 18,675 27,462 received from customers for contracts, for which revenue is recognized over time as the related performance obligations are 237,554 245,241 fulfilled and to the unredeemed customer loyalty points. Staff costs capitalized (6,538) (19,450) 231,016 225,791 Audited Financial Statements DHIVEHI RAAJJEYGE GULHUN PLC 103 Notes to the Financial Statements (Continued) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST DECEMBER 2019 9. Other Income 11. Tax Expense 2019 2018 2019 2018 MVR “000” MVR “000” MVR “000” MVR “000” Income tax expense (Note 11.1) 157,550 164,760 Net Gain on disposal of Property, Plant and Equipment 161 202 Under/ (over) provision for the previous year 3,391 (2,122) Miscellaneous income 1,743 2,063 Deferred tax asset recognized during the 1,904 2,265 year (Note 11.2) 9,219 (5,500) 170,160 157,138 10. Net Finance Costs 2019 2018 11.1 Reconciliation between accounting profit MVR “000” MVR “000” and taxable income: Finance Income 2019 2018 Interest income under EIR on Bank Deposits 4,981 7,405 MVR “000” MVR “000” Reversal of unwinding of discount Accounting profit before tax 1,111,919 1,062,231 due to the changes in estimates 15,547 Disallowable expenses 406,114 375,414 20,528 7,405 Allowable expenses (467,202) (338,746) Finance Costs Tax free allowance (500) (500) Unwinding of discount on provisions (4,456) (11,840) Total taxable income 1,050,331 1,098,399 Interest on lease liabilities (24,211) Foreign exchange loss (25,864) (35,981) Income tax @ 15% 157,550 164,760 (54,531) (47,821) In accordance with the provisions of the Business Profit Tax Act No. 5 Net Finance Costs (34,003) (40,416) of 2011, regulations and subsequent amendments thereto, the Company is liable for income tax on its taxable income at the rate of 15% Dhiraagu Annual Report 2019 104 DHIVEHI RAAJJEYGE GULHUN PLC Notes to the Financial Statements (Continued) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST DECEMBER 2019 11. Tax Expense (Continued) 11.2 Deferred Tax Asset 2019 2018 MVR “000” MVR “000” Opening balance 15,363 9,863 Deferred tax asset (reversed)/ recognized on temporary differences (9,219) 5,500 Closing balance 6,144 15,363 11.3 Deferred Tax Asset is attributable for following: 2019 2018 TEMPORARY TEMPORARY DIFFERENCE TAX EFFECT DIFFERENCE TAX EFFECT MVR “000” MVR “000” MVR “000” MVR “000” Property and equipment (103,524) (15,529) (96,027) (14,404) Intangible assets (42,548) (6,382) (13,338) (2,001) Leases 9,253 1,388 Provisions 177,780 26,667 211,786 31,768 40,961 6,144 102,421 15,363 Deferred tax Assets and (Liabilities) are calculated on all taxable and deductible temporary differences arising from the differences between accounting bases and tax bases of assets and liabilities. Deferred tax is provided at the rate of 15% (2018: 15%). Audited Financial Statements DHIVEHI RAAJJEYGE GULHUN PLC 105 Notes to the Financial Statements (Continued) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST DECEMBER 2019 11. Tax Expense (Continued) 11.4 Movement in Deferred Tax Balances DEFERRED TAX ASSET / (LIABILITY) BALANCE AS AT 1ST RECOGNIZED IN AS AT 31ST JANUARY 2019 PROFIT OR LOSS DECEMBER 2019 Property and equipment (14,404) (1,125) (15,529) Intangible assets (2,001) (4,381) (6,382) Provisions 31,768 (5,101) 26,667 15,363 (10,607) 4,756 12. Earnings Per Share Basic and diluted earnings per share Basic and diluted earnings per ordinary share is based on the profit for the year attributable to ordinary shareholders and the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year FOR THE YEAR ENDED 2019 2018 Profit for the year attributable to the ordinary shareholders (MVR 000 ) 941,759 905,093 Weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding ( 000 ) 76,000 76,000 Basic and diluted earnings per share (MVR) 12.39 11.91 Dhiraagu Annual Report 2019 106 DHIVEHI RAAJJEYGE GULHUN PLC Notes to the Financial Statements (Continued) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST DECEMBER 2019 13. Property and Equipment 31ST DECEMBER 2019 VEHICLES AND FURNITURE CAPITAL WORKBUILDINGS EQUIPMENT LAUNCHES AND FITTINGS IN PROGRESS TOTAL MVR “000” MVR “000” MVR “000” MVR “000” MVR “000” MVR “000” Cost As at 1st January 2019 421,849 3,754,237 14,836 17,842 253,461 4,462,225 CWIP Additions during the year 185,517 185,517 Transfer from CWIP during the year 6,106 252,623 11 1,719 (260,459) Disposals during the year (1,041) (281,395) (3,349) (695) (286,480) As at 31st December 2019 426,914 3,725,465 11,498 18,866 178,519 4,361,262 Accumulated Depreciation As at 1st January 2019 163,963 2,406,470 11,505 10,179 2,592,117 Charge for the year 23,528 237,528 896 2,522 264,474 Disposals during the year (1,041) (281,383) (3,349) (695) (286,468) As at 31st December 2019 186,450 2,362,615 9,052 12,006 2,570,123 Carrying amount as at 31st December 2019 240,464 1,362,850 2,446 6,860 178,519 1,791,139 Audited Financial Statements DHIVEHI RAAJJEYGE GULHUN PLC 107 Notes to the Financial Statements (Continued) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST DECEMBER 2019 13. Property and Equipment (Continued) 13.1 Capital work in progress represents the costs incurred mainly on the projects such as network expansion, convergent billing system etc. which were in progress as at 31st December 2019. 31ST DECEMBER 2018 VEHICLES AND FURNITURE CAPITAL WORKBUILDINGS EQUIPMENT LAUNCHES AND FITTINGS IN PROGRESS TOTAL MVR “000” MVR “000” MVR “000” MVR “000” MVR “000” MVR “000” Cost As at 1st January 2018 419,775 3,645,908 16,504 21,135 404,906 4,508,228 CWIP Additions during the year 331,396 331,396 Transfer from CWIP during the year 10,736 467,660 961 3,484 (482,841) Disposals during the year (8,662) (359,331) (2,629) (6,777) (377,399) As at 31st December 2018 421,849 3,754,237 14,836 17,842 253,461 4,462,225 Accumulated Depreciation As at 1st January 2018 153,980 2,502,759 13,420 14,733 2,684,892 Charge for the year 18,645 263,042 714 2,223 284,624 Disposals during the year (8,662) (359,331) (2,629) (6,777) (377,399) As at 31st December 2018 163,963 2,406,470 11,505 10,179 2,592,117 Carrying amount as at 31st December 2018 257,886 1,347,767 3,331 7,663 253,461 1,870,108 13.2 Capital work in progress represents the costs incurred mainly on the projects of the service extension and expansion of the network which were in progress as at 31st December 2018. Dhiraagu Annual Report 2019 108 DHIVEHI RAAJJEYGE GULHUN PLC Notes to the Financial Statements (Continued) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST DECEMBER 2019 14. Right-Of-Use Assets Right-of-Use assets related to leased properties that do not meet the definition of investment property are presented as Right-of-Use asset (See note 4.10). 31ST DECEMBER 2019 2019 2018 MVR “000” MVR “000” Recognition of Right-of-use assets on initial application of IFRS 16 225,849 Additions during the year 61,250 Closing balance 287,099 Accumulated depreciation 38,100 Charge for the year 38,100 Carrying amount as at 31st December 2019 248,999 14.1 Right-of-use assets will be depreciated over 1 year to 35 years based on their lease period. Audited Financial Statements DHIVEHI RAAJJEYGE GULHUN PLC 109 Notes to the Financial Statements (Continued) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST DECEMBER 2019 15. Intangible Assets 31ST DECEMBER 2019 INDEFEASIBLE WORK-INRIGHTS OF USE LICENSE SOFTWARES PROGRESS TOTAL MVR “000” MVR “000” MVR “000” MVR “000” MVR “000” Cost As at 1st January 2019 77,102 28,768 206,335 157,015 469,220 WIP Additions during the year 98,539 98,539 Transfer from WIP during the year 1,976 67,638 94,065 (163,679) Disposals during the year (2,645) (2,645) As at 31st December 2019 79,078 96,406 297,755 91,875 565,114 Accumulated Amortization and impairment loss As at 1st January 2019 11,628 20,221 151,273 183,122 Amortization for the year 5,253 11,956 31,622 48,831 Disposals during the year (2,645) (2,645) As at 31st December 2019 16,881 32,177 180,250 229,308 Carrying amount as at 31st December 2019 62,197 64,229 117,505 91,875 335,806 15.1 Capital work in progress represents mainly the costs incurred on network expansion, convergent billing system etc. which were in progress of development as at 31st December 2019. Dhiraagu Annual Report 2019 110 DHIVEHI RAAJJEYGE GULHUN PLC Notes to the Financial Statements (Continued) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST DECEMBER 2019 13. Intangible Assets (Continued) 31ST DECEMBER 2018 INDEFEASIBLE WORK-INRIGHTS OF USE LICENSE SOFTWARES PROGRESS TOTAL MVR “000” MVR “000” MVR “000” MVR “000” MVR “000” Cost As at 1st January 2018 47,693 23,678 179,803 152,752 403,926 WIP Additions during the year 74,819 74,819 Transfer from WIP during the year 29,409 5,196 35,951 (70,556) Disposals during the year (106) (9,419) (9,525) As at 31st December 2018 77,102 28,768 206,335 157,015 469,220 Accumulated Amortization and impairment loss As at 1st January 2018 7,931 16,384 135,741 160,056 Amortization for the year 3,697 3,943 24,951 32,591 Disposals during the year (106) (9,419) (9,525) As at 31st December 2018 11,628 20,221 151,273 183,122 Carrying amount as at 31st December 2018 65,474 8,547 55,062 157,015 286,098 15.2 Capital work in progress represents 15.3 During the year ended 31st December 15.4 During the year ended 31st December 2016, mainly the costs incurred on the development 2016, the Company has made a provision the Company has fully impaired some of the of new softwares which were in progress of for impairment loss for softwares under development costs in respect of the software development as at 31st December 2018. development amounting to MVR 4,236,341/-. under construction due to certain modifications made to initial development of the software. Audited Financial Statements DHIVEHI RAAJJEYGE GULHUN PLC 111 Notes to the Financial Statements (Continued) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST DECEMBER 2019 16. Inventories 17. Trade and Other Recievables 2019 2018 2019 2018 MVR “000” MVR “000” MVR “000” MVR “000” Cost of inventories 71,475 77,630 Trade receivables 249,132 232,470 Provision for slow moving/ obsolete Contract Assets 357,144 256,453 inventories (Note 16.1) (13,239) (22,114) 606,276 488,923 58,236 55,516 Provision for impairment loss on trade receivables (Note 17.1) (57,645) (56,588) 548,631 432,335 16.1 Provision for Slow-Moving/ Obsolete Inventories Prepayments 55,239 78,252 Other receivables 87,380 74,632 Opening Balance 22,114 19,833 142,619 152,884 Inventory written-off during the year (17,628) Allowance for impairment loss on Provision made during the year 8,753 2,281 other receivables (Note 17.1) (879) (555) Closing Balance 13,239 22,114 141,740 152,329 690,371 584,664 The Receivables are considered to be held within held to collect business model consistent with the Company's continuing recognition of receivables. Dhiraagu Annual Report 2019 112 DHIVEHI RAAJJEYGE GULHUN PLC Notes to the Financial Statements (Continued) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST DECEMBER 2019 17. Trade and Other Recievables (Continued) 17.1 Allowance for Impairment Loss on Trade and Other Receivables Movements in the allowance for impairment in respect of trade receivables and contract assets The movement in the allowance for impairment in respect of trade receivables and contract assets during the year and movement of the impairment of other receivables are as follows. TRADE RECEIVABLES AND CONTRACT ASSETS OTHER RECEIVABLES 2019 2018 2019 2018 MVR “000” MVR “000” MVR “000” MVR “000” Balance as at 1st January under IAS 39 41,498 555 Adjustment on initial application of IFRS 9 (369) Balance as at 1st January under IFRS 9 56,588 41,129 555 555 Measurement of loss allowance for the year 26,828 15,459 332 Bad debt written-off during the year (25,771) (8) Closing Balance 57,645 56,588 879 555 Audited Financial Statements DHIVEHI RAAJJEYGE GULHUN PLC 113 Notes to the Financial Statements (Continued) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST DECEMBER 2019 18. Cash and Bank Balances 19. Share Capital 2019 2018 MVR “000” MVR “000” 19.1 Share Capital 2019 2018 Cash in hand 10,868 6,368 MVR “000” MVR “000” Balances with banks 290,820 200,232 Authorized share capital Short term deposits 183,997 129,072 80,000,000 ordinary shares of MVR 2.5 each 200,000 200,000 Cash and bank balance in the statement Issued and fully paid share capital of financial position 485,685 335,672 76,000,000 ordinary shares of MVR 2.5 each 190,000 190,000 Short-term deposits with maturities exceeding three months (Note 18.1) (14,385) (19,696) Cash and cash equivalents in the statement of cash flows 471,300 315,976 18.1 Short-term deposits with maturities exceeding three months Current Investments Short term deposits amortized cost 14,385 19,696 Short term deposits are classified as amortized cost at the interest rates of 1.5% to 2.5% and mature within 6 months to 7 months. Dhiraagu Annual Report 2019 114 DHIVEHI RAAJJEYGE GULHUN PLC Notes to the Financial Statements (Continued) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST DECEMBER 2019 19. Share Capital (Continued) 19.2 Dividends The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to dividend, as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at the shareholders' meetings of the Company. The board of directors has declared dividends for the year as follows. 2019 2018 PER SHARE DIVIDEND PER SHARE DIVIDEND MVR “000” MVR “000” MVR “000” MVR “000” Dividend payment 1st tranche 5.95 452,200 5.85 444,600 After the reporting date, the board Dividend payment 2nd tranche 4.14 314,640 5.96 452,960 of directors has proposed dividends 766,840 897,560 which is disclosed in Note 28 20. Provisions 2019 2018 MVR “000” MVR “000” Network and asset retirement obligation (Note 20.1) 130,157 170,572 Movement during the year Opening Balance 170,572 158,732 Provision made during the year 2,233 Unwinding of discounts on provisions 4,456 11,840 Disposals made during the year (32,973) Impact due to the changes in assumptions (14,131) Closing Balance 130,157 170,572 Audited Financial Statements DHIVEHI RAAJJEYGE GULHUN PLC 115 Notes to the Financial Statements (Continued) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST DECEMBER 2019 20. Provisions (Continued) 20.1 Network and assets retirement obligation 21. Lease Liabilities The provisions of network and asset retirement obligations represent Leases as lessee (IFRS 16) the provisions made for the best estimate of the present value of the unavoidable future cost of dismantling and removing the items The Company leases land and buildings and network assets. The of property and equipment and restoring the sites on which they leases typically run for a period of 1 to 35 years, with an option are located. The following assumptions have been used to calculate to renew the lease after the non-cancellable period. Previously, the network and asset retirement obligation as at reporting date. these leases were classifid as operating lease under IAS 17 and lease expense amounted to MVR. 50,334,855/recognised in the profit or loss for the year ended 31st December 2018. 2019 2018 MVR “000” MVR “000” Information about leases for which the Company Expected rate of increase of the dismantling cost 3.50% 7.00% a lessee is presented below. Discount rate 10.00% 7.70% 2019 2018 MVR “000” MVR “000” Sensitivity Analysis Recognition of lease liabilities on initial An increase/decrease of 1% of the below variables would have application of IFRS 16 225,849 increased or (decreased) the profit or loss by following amounts. This analysis assumes that the other variables remain constant. Additions during the year 61,250 Interest on lease liabilities 24,211 EFFECT TO PROFT OR LOSS Payments of lease liabilities (53,058) INCREASE DECREASE Closing balance 258,252 Expected rate of increase of the dismantle cost (Change 1%) (1,606,473) 1,634,667 Discount rate (Change by 1%) 1,523,668 (1,526,370) Dhiraagu Annual Report 2019 116 DHIVEHI RAAJJEYGE GULHUN PLC Notes to the Financial Statements (Continued) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST DECEMBER 2019 21. Lease Liabilities (Continued) 21.1 Lease liabilities included in the statement 22. Trade and Other Payables of financial position as at 31st December 2019 2019 2018 MVR “000” MVR “000” 2019 2018 MVR “000” MVR “000” Trade payables 47,717 18,616 Current 25,320 Contract Liabilities 124,836 95,741 Non-current 232,932 Accruals and payables 422,993 390,299 258,252 Dividend payable 1,636 1,556 Refundable deposits from customers 24,023 22,460 Extension Options Customer loyalty points 1,601 1,607 Some land and buildings and network assets related to Land and Other Payables 25,625 29,592 buildings and Network assets contain extension options exercisable 648,431 559,871 by the Company before the end of the contract period. The extension options held are exercisable only by the Company and not by the lessors. The Company assesses at lease commencement date whether it is 23. Amounts Due to a Related Party reasonably certain to exercise the extension options. The Company 2019 2018 reassesses whether is reasonably certain to exercise the option if there is MVR “000” MVR “000” a significant event or significant changes in circumstances within control. Bahrain Telecommunications Company BSC (Batelco) 1,386 1,638 24. Commitments Capital Commitments The Company had capital commitments at the end of the financial period relating to the purchase of property and equipment and acquisition and development of intangible assets of MVR 35,229,483/(31st December 2018: MVR 80,191,099/-). Audited Financial Statements DHIVEHI RAAJJEYGE GULHUN PLC 117 Notes to the Financial Statements (Continued) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST DECEMBER 2019 its training and management standards and The key responsibilities of Treasury include 25. Financial Instruments procedures, aims to develop a disciplined and funding, investment of surplus cash and the and Risk Management constructive control environment in which all management of interest rate and foreign employees understand their roles and obligations. currency risk. The majority of the Company’s Financial Risk Management cash resources (including facilities) and The Company’s Audit Committee oversees borrowings are managed centrally by Treasury. Overview how management monitors compliance with The Company has exposure to the following the Company’s risk management policies and (i) Credit Risk risks from its use of financial instruments: procedures, and reviews the adequacy of the Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to risk management framework in relation to the the Company if a customer or counter (i) Credit risk risks faced by the Company. The Company’s party to a financial instrument fails to meet (ii) Liquidity risk Audit Committee is assisted in its oversight role its contractual obligations, and arises (iii) Market risk by Internal Audit. Internal Audit undertakes both principally from the Company’s receivables regular and ad hoc reviews of risk management from customers and investments. This note presents information about the controls and procedures, the results of which Company’s exposure to each of the above are reported to the Audit Committee. The carrying amount of financial assets of risks, the Company’s objectives, policies and the Company represents the maximum credit processes for measuring and managing risk, Treasury Policy exposure. In relation to deposits held, the and the Company’s management of capital. The Company’s activities expose it to a variety management seeks to reduce the credit risk Further, quantitative disclosures are included of financial risks: market risk (including currency by ensuring the counterparties to all but a throughout these financial statements. risk and interest rate risk), credit risk and liquidity small proportion of the Company’s financial risk. The Company’s overall risk management instruments are the core relationship banks. Risk management framework programme seeks to minimize potential adverse The counterparties are selected in compliance The Board of Directors has overall effects on the Company’s financial performance. with Company Treasury Policy. The types responsibility for the establishment and Day to day management of treasury activities is of instrument used for investment of funds oversight of the Company’s risk management delegated to the Company’s treasury function are prescribed by the Board. These policies framework. The Board is also responsible ( Treasury ), within specified financial limits for contain limits on exposure for the Company for developing and monitoring the each type of transaction and counterparty. as a whole to any one counterparty. Company’s risk management policies. To the extent that the Company undertakes Risk management systems are reviewed regularly treasury transactions, these are governed by to reflect changes in market conditions and the Company policies and delegated authorities. Company’s activities. The Company, through Dhiraagu Annual Report 2019 118 DHIVEHI RAAJJEYGE GULHUN PLC Notes to the Financial Statements (Continued) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST DECEMBER 2019 25. Financial Intruments and Risk Management (Continued) (i) Credit Risk (Continued) Impairment Losses on financial assets and contract assets CARRYING AMOUNT recognized in profit or loss were as follows; 2019 2018 MVR “000” MVR “000” 2019 2018 138,134 132,809 Consumer Segment MVR “000” MVR “000” Corporate Segment 121,086 124,155 Impairment loss on trade receivables and contract Government Segment 73,752 33,570 assets arising from contracts with customers 27,160 15,459 Wholesale Segment 273,365 198,389 606,337 488,923 Trade and other receivables and contract assets The Company’s exposure to credit risk is influenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each customer. However, management The maximum exposure to credit risk of the financial also considers the demographics of the Company’s customer base, assets at the reporting date was: including the default risk of the industry and country in which customers CARRYING AMOUNT operate, as these factors may have an influence on credit risk, particularly in the currently deteriorating economic circumstances. 2019 2018 MVR “000” MVR “000” However, geographically there is no concentration of credit risk. Trade receivables and contract assets 606,276 488,923 The management has established a credit policy under which each Other receivables 27,584 26,084 new customer is analyzed individually for creditworthiness before the Cash equivalents 460,432 309,608 Company’s standard payment and delivery terms and conditions are Short term deposits 14,385 19,696 offered. The Company establishes a provision for impairment that represents its estimate of expected credit losses in respect of trade and 1,108,677 844,311 other receivables. The allowance for impairment represents the specific loss component that relates to individually significant exposures. The maximum exposure to credit risk of trade receivable at the reporting date for each segment was: Audited Financial Statements DHIVEHI RAAJJEYGE GULHUN PLC 119 Notes to the Financial Statements (Continued) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST DECEMBER 2019 25. Financial Intruments and Risk Management (Continued) Expected credit loss assessment for the customers as 31ST DECEMBER 2018 GROSS at 31st December 2018 and 31st December 2019 WEIGHTED CARRYING LOSS Exposures within each credit risk grades are AVERAGE AMOUNT ALLOWANCE segmented by the type of the customers. LOSS RATE MVR “000” MVR “000” 0 30 days past due 1.38% 94,669 1,304 The Company uses an allowance Matrix to measure the ECLs of trade 31 60 days past due 41.59% 3,655 1,520 receivables from individual customers, which comprise a very large 61 90 days past due 55.94% 4,201 2,350 number of small customers except for its wholesale segment. More than 90 days past due 90.00% 30,284 27,256 Loss rates are calculated using a ‘roll rate’ method based on the 132,809 32,430 probability of a receivable progressing through successive stages of delinquency to write-off. Roll rates are calculated separately for Loss rates are based on actual credit loss experience over past three exposures in different segments based on the type of the customer. years. These rates are multiplied by scalar factors to reflect differences between economic conditions during the period over which the historical Consumer Segment data has been collected, current conditions and the Company's view The following table provides information about the exposure to credit of economic conditions over the expected lives of the receivables. risk and ECLs for trade receivables and contract assets for consumer customers segment as at 31st Decemer 2019 and 31st December 2018. 31ST DECEMBER 2019 GROSS WEIGHTED CARRYING LOSS AVERAGE AMOUNT ALLOWANCE LOSS RATE MVR “000” MVR “000” 0 30 days past due 1.50% 99,842 1,501 31 60 days past due 38.70% 3,706 1,434 61 90 days past due 54.43% 1,997 1,087 More than 90 days past due 90.00% 32,589 29,330 138,134 33,352 Dhiraagu Annual Report 2019 120 DHIVEHI RAAJJEYGE GULHUN PLC Notes to the Financial Statements (Continued) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST DECEMBER 2019 25. Financial Intruments and Risk Management (Continued) Expected Credit loss assessment for the customers as at 31st December 2018 and 31st December 2019 (Continued) Corporate Segment Loss rates are based on actual credit loss experience over past three The following table provides information about the exposure to credit years. These rates are multiplied by scalar factors to reflect differences risk and ECLs for trade receivables and contract assets for corporate between economic conditions during the period over which the historical customers segment as at 31st December 2019 and 31st December 2018. data has been collected, current conditions and the Company's view of economic conditions over the expected lives of the receivables. 31ST DECEMBER 2019 GROSS WEIGHTED CARRYING LOSS Expected credit loss assessment for individual specific AVERAGE AMOUNT ALLOWANCE corporate customers as at 31st December 2019 LOSS RATE MVR “000” MVR “000” All customers’ receivables more than MVR 100,000/which are aged for a 1 30 days past due 1.48% 64,701 957 period of more than 6 months are assessed for specific impairment based 8.42% 21,123 1,778 on the assessment, specific impairment is made for those customers. 31 60 days past due 61 90 days past due 15.51% 6,453 1,001 The Company has recognized an specific impairment reduction 91 120 days past due 28.89% 6,009 1,736 of MVR 1,166,038/as at 31st December 2019 (31st December More than 120 days past due 60.00% 22,800 13,680 2018: incremental impairment of MVR 1,194,780/-). 121,086 19,152 31ST DECEMBER 2018 GROSS WEIGHTED CARRYING LOSS AVERAGE AMOUNT ALLOWANCE LOSS RATE MVR “000” MVR “000” 1 30 days past due 1.15% 88,121 1,011 31 60 days past due 8.13% 11,752 956 61 90 days past due 15.27% 6,347 969 91 120 days past due 29.63% 5,812 1,722 More than 120 days past due 60.00% 12,123 7,274 124,155 11,932 Audited Financial Statements DHIVEHI RAAJJEYGE GULHUN PLC 121 Notes to the Financial Statements (Continued) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST DECEMBER 2019 25. Financial Intruments and Risk Management (Continued) Expected credit loss assessment for individual specific corporate customers as at 31st December 2019 (Continued) Government Segment Loss rates are based on actual credit loss experience over past three The following table provides information about the exposure to credit years. These rates are multiplied by scalar factors to reflect differences risk and ECLs for trade receivables and contract assets for government between economic conditions during the period over which the historical customers segment as at 31st December 2019 and 31st December 2018. data has been collected, current conditions and the Company's view of economic conditions over the expected lives of the receivables. 31ST DECEMBER 2019 GROSS WEIGHTED CARRYING LOSS Expected credit loss assessment for individual specific AVERAGE AMOUNT ALLOWANCE LOSS RATE MVR “000” MVR “000” government customers as at 31st December 2019 All customers’ receivable more than MVR 100,000/which are aged for a 1 30 days past due 4.22% 55,775 2,356 period of more than 6 months are assessed for specific impairment based 31 60 days past due 7.08% 4,188 297 on the assessment, specific impairment is made for those customers. 61 90 days past due 13.60% 5,223 710 91 120 days past due 22.43% 869 195 The Company has recognized an specific impairment reduction of MVR 1,281,890/as at 31st December 2019 (31st December 121 150 days past due 34.54% 1,321 456 2018: incremental impairment of MVR 1,283,209/-). More than 150 days past due 45.00% 6,376 2,870 73,752 6,884 Wholesale segment The following table provides information about the exposure to credit risk and ECLs for trade receivables and contract assets for wholesale 31ST DECEMBER 2018 GROSS customers segment as at 31st December 2019 and 31st December 2018. WEIGHTED CARRYING LOSS AVERAGE AMOUNT ALLOWANCE LOSS RATE MVR “000” MVR “000” 1 30 days past due 4.65% 14,397 670 31 60 days past due 7.05% 9,718 685 61 90 days past due 13.46% 2,667 359 91 120 days past due 22.24% 1,043 232 121 150 days past due 34.62% 234 81 More than 150 days past due 45.00% 5,511 2,480 33,570 4,507 Dhiraagu Annual Report 2019 122 DHIVEHI RAAJJEYGE GULHUN PLC Notes to the Financial Statements (Continued) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST DECEMBER 2019 25. Financial Intruments and Risk Management (Continued) Expected credit loss assessment for individual specific corporate customers as at 31st December 2019 (Continued) Wholesale segment The following table provides information about the exposure to credit risk and ECLs for trade receivables and contract assets for wholesale customers segment as at 31st December 2019 and 31st December 2018. 31ST DECEMBER 2019 EXTERNAL GROSS IMPAIRMENT CREDIT WEIGHTED CARRYING LOSS RATING AVERAGE AMOUNT ALLOWANCE MVR “000” LOSS RATE MVR “000” MVR “000” Grades 1 6: Low risk BBBto AAA 0.01% 183,847 16 Grades 7 9: Fair risk BBto BB+ 0.00% 51,995 1 Unrated customers 37,523 273,365 17 31ST DECEMBER 2018 EXTERNAL GROSS IMPAIRMENT CREDIT WEIGHTED CARRYING LOSS RATING AVERAGE AMOUNT ALLOWANCE MVR “000” LOSS RATE MVR “000” MVR “000” Grades 1 6: Low risk BBBto AAA 0.02% 153,298 26 Grades 7 9: Fair risk BBto BB+ 0.04% 7,277 3 Unrated customers 37,814 198,389 29 Audited Financial Statements DHIVEHI RAAJJEYGE GULHUN PLC 123 Notes to the Financial Statements (Continued) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST DECEMBER 2019 25. Financial Intruments and Risk Management (Continued) Expected credit loss assessment for individual specific corporate customers as at 31st December 2019 (Continued) Wholesale Segment (Continued) Specific provision would be made for Investments in Short term Deposits (ii) Liquidity Risk any of the following indicators; The Company limits its exposure to credit risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Company will by investing in short term deposits with selected encounter difficulty in meeting the obligations If the customer (roaming or carrier partners) Banks. In respect of the short term bank deposits, associated with its financial liabilities that declare bankruptcy, the full amount receivable the Company has not recognized any allowance are settled by delivering cash or another should be provided, unless there is a high for impairment based on the materiality ground. financial assets. The Company’s approach probability of recovering the debt. to managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as Cash and Cash Equivalents possible, that it will always have sufficient If the customer is having known The Company held cash and cash equivalents of liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, without financial problems, it would considered MVR. 471,299,820,/as at 31st December 2019 incurring unacceptable losses or risking for specific provision. (as at 31st December 2018: MVR. 315,975,549/-). damage to the Company’s reputation. The Company limits its exposure to credit risk by If there are on-going disputes for the maintaining its cash balances in selected banks. receivable amounts from a customer, the amount receivable shall be assessed for the possible The Company has not recognized any risk and management would decide on the allowance for impairment for the bank provision required on case-by case basis. balance based on the materiality ground. If the debt from any roaming partner is aged more than 12 months, the amount which is aged more than 12 months, after netting off any payables from respective operator will be assessed for impairment. The Company has recognized an specific incremental impairment of MVR 688,422/as at 31st December 2019 (31st December 2018: incremental impairment of MVR 5,213,037/-). Dhiraagu Annual Report 2019 124 DHIVEHI RAAJJEYGE GULHUN PLC Notes to the Financial Statements (Continued) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST DECEMBER 2019 25. Financial Intruments and Risk Management (Continued) Cash and Cash Equivalents (Continued) (ii) Liquidity Risk (Continued) The Company's exposure to liquidity risk as at the reporting date is against the following liabilities. 31ST DECEMBER 2019 CARRYING WITHIN AMOUNT ONE YEAR 1 TO 2 YEARS 2 TO 3 YEARS 3 TO 4 YEARS 4 TO 5 YEARS OVER 5 YEARS MVR “000” MVR “000” MVR “000” MVR “000” MVR “000” MVR “000” MVR “000” Financial Liabilities Trade and other payables 521,994 521,994 Amounts due to a related party 1,386 1,386 Lease liabilities 258,252 25,320 20,780 21,602 21,014 20,320 149,216 Total 781,632 548,700 20,780 21,602 21,014 20,320 149,216 31ST DECEMBER 2018 CARRYING WITHIN The Company manages its own liquidity to meet its financial obligations AMOUNT ONE YEAR of servicing and repaying external debt, dividends, Company costs and MVR “000” MVR “000” strategic initiatives. The principal source of liquidity for the Company is Financial Liabilities its operating cash inflows from the business, supported by bank finance. Trade and other payables 462,523 462,523 The Management produces liquidity forecasts on a regular basis to Amounts due to a related party 1,638 1,638 ensure the utilization of current facilities is optimized that mediumTotal 464,161 464,161 term liquidity is maintained and for the purpose of identifying longterm strategic funding requirements. The Directors also regularly assess the balance of capital and debt funding of the Company. Audited Financial Statements DHIVEHI RAAJJEYGE GULHUN PLC 125 Notes to the Financial Statements (Continued) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST DECEMBER 2019 25. Financial Intruments and Risk Management (Continued) Cash and Cash Equivalents (Continued) (iii) Market risk A change of 100 basis point in interest rates would have increased Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign or decreased profit for the year ended 31st December 2019 exchange rates, equity prices and interest rates will affect the Company’s by MVR 1,525,427/(2018: MVR 2,616,565/-). This analysis income or the value of its holdings of financial instruments. The objective assumes that all the other variables remain constant. of market risk management is to manage and control market risk exposures within acceptable parameters, while optimizing the return. (b) Currency risk Exposure to currency risk (a) Interest rate risk The Company is exposed to the risk of available foreign currency for Treasury may seek to reduce volatility by fixing a proportion of this capital and operational purposes and also to the risk of movements in interest rate exposure whilst taking account of prevailing market exchange rates in relation to foreign currency transactions (US Dollars, conditions as appropriate. There were no interest bearing loans as Euro, Sterling Pounds and Singapore Dollars). The Company receives at 31st December 2019 (as at 31st December 2018: Nil ) certain collections such as roaming and interconnect in terms of foreign currency and on the other hand, the Company makes certain payments Exposure to interest rate risk such as capex payments, dividends, out payments, roaming settlements, At the reporting date, the interest rate profile of the payments relating to group management in terms of foreign currencies. Company’s interest-bearing financial instruments was: Currency risk is managed by the Company’s treasury function that CARRYING AMOUNT monitors foreign currency cash inflows and outflows and its closing position on a daily basis. The Company also monitors its exposure 2019 2018 MVR “000” MVR “000” to movements in exchange rates on a net basis. The Company currently does not use forward foreign exchange contracts and Fixed Rate Instruments other derivative and financial instruments to reduce the exposures Short term deposits 183,997 129,072 created where currencies do not naturally offset in the short term. Fair value sensitivity analysis for fixed-rate instruments The Company does not account for any fixed-rate financial assets at FVTPL. Therefore, a change in interest rates at the reporting date would not affect profit or loss. Dhiraagu Annual Report 2019 126 DHIVEHI RAAJJEYGE GULHUN PLC Notes to the Financial Statements (Continued) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST DECEMBER 2019 25. Financial Intruments and Risk Management (Continued) (iii) Market risk (Continued) (b) Currency risk (Continued) Exposure to currency risk (Continued) The Company’s exposure to foreign currency risk was as follows (based on notional amounts) : 31/12/2019 US$ EURO SGD GBP 000 000 000 000 Cash and bank balances 13,919 98 25 60 Trade and other receivables 17,913 65 17 Amount due to related party (90) Trade and other payables (10,655) (27) (60) (54) Net statement of financial position exposure 21,087 136 (18) 6 31/12/2018 US$ EURO SGD GBP 000 000 000 000 Cash and bank balances 8,380 212 25 8 Trade and other receivables 16,657 301 24 Amount due to related party (106) Trade and other payables (14,200) (227) (63) (382) Net statement of financial position exposure 10,731 286 (38) (351) Audited Financial Statements DHIVEHI RAAJJEYGE GULHUN PLC 127 Notes to the Financial Statements (Continued) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST DECEMBER 2019 25. Financial Intruments and Risk Management (Continued) (iii) Market risk (Continued) (b) Currency risk (Continued) Exposure to currency risk (Continued) The following significant exchange rates were applied during the year: AVERAGE RATE SPOT RATE 2019 2018 2019 2018 US$ 1 : MVR 15.42 15.42 15.42 15.42 Euro 1: MVR 17.77 18.76 17.60 18.07 SGD 1: MVR 11.64 11.77 11.71 11.57 GBP 1: MVR 20.26 21.21 20.55 20.10 Sensitivity Analysis Astrengthening / (weakening)of the MVR, as indicated below, against the foreign currencies as at the end of each period would have increased / (decreased) profit or loss by the amounts shown below. YEAR ENDED 2019 YEAR ENDED 2018 STRENGTHENING WEAKENING STRENGTHENING WEAKENING 000 000 000 000 US$ (10% Movement) (32,516) 32,516 (16,547) 16,547 Euro (10% Movement) (240) 240 (518) 518 SGD (10% Movement) 21 (21) 44 (44) GBP (10% Movement) (12) 12 705 (705) Dhiraagu Annual Report 2019 128 DHIVEHI RAAJJEYGE GULHUN PLC Notes to the Financial Statements (Continued) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST DECEMBER 2019 25. Financial Intruments and Risk Management (Continued) (iv) Capital Management The Board’s policy is to maintain a strong 31ST DECEMBER 2019 CARRYING AMOUNT capital base so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain future FINANCIAL ASSETS OTHER FINANCIAL AT AMORTIZED COST LIABILITIES TOTAL development of the business. Capital consists MVR 000 MVR 000 MVR 000 of stated capital and reserves. The Board of Directors monitors the return on capital as well as Financial assets not measured at the level of dividends to ordinary shareholders. fair value The Company’s objectives when managing Balance with banks 290,820 290,820 capital are to safeguard the Company’s ability to Short term deposits 183,997 183,997 continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other Trade and other receivables and stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital contract assets 575,336 575,336 structure to reduce the cost of capital. There 1,050,153 1,050,153 were no borrowings of the Company as at 31st December 2019 (as at 31st December 2018: Nil). Financial liabilities not measured at fair value (v) Accounting classifications and fair values Trade and other payables 521,994 521,994 The following table shows the carrying amounts Amounts due to related party 1,386 1,386 of financial assets and financial liabilities. It does 523,380 523,380 not include fair value information for financial assets and financial liabilities not measured at fair value since the carrying amount is a reasonable approximation of fair value. Audited Financial Statements DHIVEHI RAAJJEYGE GULHUN PLC 129 Notes to the Financial Statements (Continued) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST DECEMBER 2019 25. Financial Intruments and Risk Management (Continued) (v) Accounting classifications and fair value 31ST DECEMBER 2018 CARRYING AMOUNT FINANCIAL ASSETS OTHER FINANCIAL AT AMORTIZED COST LIABILITIES TOTAL MVR 000 MVR 000 MVR 000 Financial assets not measured at fair value Balance with banks 200,232 200,232 Short term deposits 129,072 129,072 Trade and other receivables and contract assets 457,864 457,864 787,168 787,168 Financial liabilities not measured at fair value Trade and other payables 462,523 462,523 Amounts due to related party 1,638 1,638 464,161 464,161 Dhiraagu Annual Report 2019 130 DHIVEHI RAAJJEYGE GULHUN PLC Notes to the Financial Statements (Continued) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST DECEMBER 2019 26. Related Party Transactions Subsequent to the period ended 31st March 2013, on 3rd April 2013, Batelco Islands Limited, a subsidiary of Bahrain Telecommunications Company BSC (Batelco), acquired the full 26.1 Parent and Ultimate Holding Company shareholding of the Company held by CWC Islands Limited (52%). Effectively from 3rd April 2013, the Parent of the Company is Parent of the Company is Batelco Islands Limited, a Batelco Islands Limited, a Company incorporated in the United Company incorporated in the United Kingdom and the Kingdom and the ultimate parent is Bahrain Telecommunications ultimate parent is Bahrain Telecommunications Company Company BSC (Batelco), a Company incorporated in Bahrain. BSC (Batelco), a Company incorporated in Bahrain. 26.3 Transactions with key management personnel 26.2 Transactions with BTC Islands Limited Batelco Islands Limited had a 52% shareholding in the Company as Key management’s remuneration at 31st December 2019 (31st December 2018: 52%). Transactions Key management includes Directors and Executive committee members with BTC Islands Limited included support fees for technical that have regular access to inside information and have the power to services, and payments for outsourcing services for certain supplier make managerial decisions affecting the future development and business invoices. Transactions with BTC Islands Limited during the years, prospects of the Company. Employee costs include key management and outstanding balances as at the year ends, are as follows: remuneration as follows: YEAR ENDED YEAR ENDED 2019 2018 Transactions YEAR ENDED YEAR ENDED MVR “000” MVR “000” 2019 2018 MVR “000” MVR “000” Directors Fees 1,087 1,306 Dividends 398,757 466,731 Salaries to Executives 15,053 14,909 Management fee 43,245 43,245 Short term Benefits to Executives 4,516 4,473 442,002 509,976 20,656 20,926 Balances outstanding 2019 2018 MVR “000” MVR “000” Amount payable (1,386) (1,638) Audited Financial Statements DHIVEHI RAAJJEYGE GULHUN PLC 131 Notes to the Financial Statements (Continued) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST DECEMBER 2019 26. Related Party Transactions (Continued) 26.4 Transactions with the Government of Maldives Collectively, but not individually, significant transactions Dhivehi Raajjeyge Gulhun PLC has transactions with entities directly or The Government of Maldives has a 41.8% shareholding in the Company indirectly controlled by the Government of Maldives through its authorities, as at 31st December 2019 (31st December 2018: 41.8%). Transactions agencies, affiliations and other organizations, collectively referred with the Government of Maldives included license fees (on gross to as government entities. The Company has transactions with other revenue less out-payment charges to other telecommunications government related entities including but not limited to sales, purchases, operators) and the rentals of assets owned by the Government of rendering of services, lease of assets and use of public utilities. Maldives. Transactions with the Government of Maldives during the year, and outstanding balance as at the year end are as follows: 27. Board of Director's Responsibility Individually Significant Transactions The Board of Directors of the Company is responsible for the Transactions YEAR ENDED YEAR ENDED preparation and presentation of these financial statements. 2019 2018 MVR “000” MVR “000” License fees 120,009 115,207 Rentals on land space 9,508 9,949 28. Events Occurring After The Reporting Date Dividends 320,560 375,205 The Board of Directors of the Company has proposed a final 450,077 500,361 dividend of MVR 7.86 per share (total: MVR 597,360,000/-) which is to be approved at the meeting of the shareholders. Balances outstanding 2019 2018 Except for the above, no circumstances have arisen MVR “000” MVR “000” since the reporting date which require adjustments Amounts payable in respect of rentals on to/ or disclosure in the financial statements. land space (5,454) (5,336) Amounts payable in respect of license payments (10,849) (10,528) (16,303) (15,864) Dhiraagu Annual Report 2019 132 Corporate Information External Auditors Company Registration Number KPMG C-0024/1988 External Counsel Place of incorporation Mohamed Shahdy Anwar Male’, Republic of Maldives Partner, S&A Lawyers LLP Head Office Laila Manik Dhivehi Raajjeyge Gulhun Plc Attorney at Law Dhiraagu Head Office, Ameenee Magu P.O Box 2082, Shareholder Queries Male’ 20403, Republic of Maldives. Our Shareholders can contact us on Email: investor-relations@dhiraagu.com.mv Tel: +960 3322802 Tel: 3311121 / 3311435 Fax: +960 3322800 Website: www.dhiraagu.com.mv Investor Relations 7th Floor, Email: 123@dhiraagu.com.mv Dhiraagu Head Office investor-relations@dhiraagu.com.mv Chief Executive Officer & Managing Director Ismail Rasheed Chief Financial Officer Robin Wall General Counsel & Company Secretary Hazrath Rasheed Hussain Audited Financial Statements 133 Our Annual Report has been prepared in ‘estimate’, ‘intend’, ‘objective’, ‘plan’, ‘shall’, accordance Companies Act of the Republic of ‘will’, ‘will continue’, ‘may’ or any other words or Maldives (10/96), listing rules of Maldives Stock phrases of similar import. Similarly, statements Exchange, the Securities Act of the Republic of that describe objectives, plans or goals are also Maldives (2/2006), the Continuing Disclosure to be considered as forward-looking statements. Obligations of Issuers regulation (2019/R-1050) Important factors that could cause actual and the Corporate Governance Code of Capital results to differ materially from our expectations Market Development Authority requirements. include, among others the economic and business conditions in the Maldives and the Unless otherwise stated, the terms ‘we’, ‘us’, World, technological changes, factors affecting ‘our’ and ‘Dhiraagu’ refers to Dhivehi Raajjeyge competitive market and regulatory forces, the Gulhun Plc. Our financial statements are prepared effect of the availability of foreign exchange in accordance with International Financial and its fluctuations, future interest rates and Reporting Standards (IFRS) and reference to a changes in the tax regime. All forward-looking year, unless otherwise indicated, refers to the statements are subject to known and unknown financial year ending 31st December 2019. risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause actual results to differ materially from Any forward-looking statements are based those contemplated by the relevant forwardon current expectations or beliefs, as well as looking statement. By their nature, forwardassumptions about future events. These can looking statements are only estimates and generally be identified by words or phrases as such we cannot guarantee future results, such as ‘aim’, ‘anticipate’, ‘believe’, ‘expect’, levels of performance or achievement.
