Global Compact 2020 Communication on Progress December, 2020 Contents About Us 04 Statement of Support 05 The Global Compact Principles 07 We Support 08 Human Rights Principles 09 Labour Standard Principles 12 Environment Principles 19 Anti-Corruption Principles 27 Selected Architecture 31 Katuaq Cultural Centre, Nuuk, Greenland Imprint 57 We aspire to the highest standard in everything we do. Driven by the vocation that great architecture generates lasting and positive change, we combine intelligent solutions with exceptional experiences that appeal to senses and mind. About Us Working out of studios located in Copenhagen, Aarhus, and Shanghai, we provide skilled architectural services all over the world, with a distinguished track record as designers of international, high-profile architecture. We are deeply committed to the Nordic architectural traditions based on democracy, welfare, aesthetics, light, sustainability, and social responsibility. In 2018, Schmidt Hammer Lassen became part of global architecture and design firm Perkins and Will. Schmidt Hammer Lassen is known as a company that is both designdriven and client-focused; a firm that produces extraordinary designs and delivers them with extraordinary efficiency. Our innovative, sustainable, and democratic approach to architecture has attracted global attention, winning more than 100 national and international awards. Schmidt Hammer Lassen have supported the UN Global Compact initiative since 2008 and are member of the newly established Global Compact Network Denmark. We submit COP #10 in December 2020. The COP will be available on the UN Global Compact website and on our website www.shl.dk. 4 Statement of Support SHL SUMMER SOCIAL SUMMIT 2018, Copenhagen, Denmark For more than 30 years, Schmidt Hammer Lassen have education institutions, and we provide targeted internal Since 2008, we have supported the Global Compact provided excellent architectural services all over the world. continuing professional development to all staff members. initiative and the principles continuously constitute an Today we work on four continents with the overall goal essential policy frame of our CSR approach. We are In our COP 2020, we take the opportunity to report on to optimize and improve existing standards for building members of the new Global Compact Network Denmark initiatives taken and achievements attained and we present design and construction. and part of the important agenda of working together on selected architectural projects that add documented value “making global goals local business”. We believe that architecture solutions increasingly can and positive change to people, places, and communities. and will drive positive change in our world. To accomplish The Partner Group In acknowledgement of the substantial influence and Schmidt Hammer Lassen Architects this, we continuously seek to get smarter through new responsibility of the building industry, Schmidt Hammer December 2020 knowledge and methodology. Lassen have signed the Nordic Built Charter as well as We engage in innovative research projects, establish The Charter of the Danish Association for Responsible collaborative partnerships with both industry and higher Construction. 5 The UN Global Compact Schmidt Hammer Lassen Architects joined the UN and environmental challenges that follow Global Compact initiative in 2008. Global Compact globalization. Global Compact has today is the world‘s largest voluntary CSR initiative and grown to be an extensive international network initiates and supports corporate operational of more than 12,000 signatories from over and strategic focus on social responsibility. This 170 countries. important initiative was started in 2000 under the Global Compact‘s ten fundamental principles leadership of then Secretary General Kofi Annan. constitute the core of the stated objectives and The overall goal is to actively commit companies cover four key focus areas: human rights, labour to work to improve the major social, economic rights, environment, and anti-corruption. The Royal Libray, Copenhagen, Denmark 6 10 Guiding Principles Human Rights Labour Standards Environment Anti-Corruption Principle 1 Principle 3 Principle 7 Principle 10 Businesses should support and respect Businesses should uphold the freedom of Businesses should support a Businesses should work against the protection of internationally association and the effective recognition precautionary approach to corruption in all its forms, including proclaimed human rights; and of the right to collective bargaining; environmental challenges; extortion and bribery. Principle 2 Principle 4 Principle 8 make sure that they are not complicit the elimination of all forms of forced undertake initiatives to promote in human rights abuses. and compulsory labour; greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 5 Principle 9 the effective abolition of child labour; and encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 7 We support The UN Sustainable Development Goals In 2015, leaders from 193 countries came together to commit welfare have created a heated debate involving citizens, politicians, to ending poverty, combating climate change, and fighting planners, and architects. There is a broad consensus that a diverse injustice by adopting a new global set of measurable Sustainable city is best for the cohesion of society, but how do we achieve the Development Goals (SDGs). creation of diverse cities when prices have skyrocketed in the recent decades? Who is responsible for the urban development and what The UN Global Compact is committed to be a leading catalyst role do architects play in creating inclusive cities for everyone? of this agenda – based on the sound values and principles that the UN Global Compact is built upon. Schmidt Hammer Schmidt Hammer Lassen added to the conversation around the Lassen are member of the recently established Global Compact responsibility of every player in the industry to create a brighter Network Denmark devoted to “making global goals local housing policy for future generations, as well as the government’s business”. agenda to promote good and affordable housing for everyone. Debate about the future of housing and urban development In the end of 2019 our Copenhagen studio hosted “Fremtidens boligpolitik og byudvikling,” a debate about the future of housing policies and urban development in Denmark with Denmark’s Building and Housing Minister, Kaare Dybvad; Marius Møller, Director of Pension Danmark; Camilla Van Deurs, the new City Architect for the City of Copenhagen and previous Masterplan and Landscape Architecture Leader at Gehl; Anders Bo Bach, Director of Bach Gruppen København and Kristian Ahlmark, Partner and Design Director at Schmidt Hammer Lassen. Some of the larger Danish cities have evolved from being welfare cities to prosperous urban areas, where fewer people have the opportunity to live. It is a global phenomenon that has hit Denmark and calls into questioning our understanding of the city as a common space. Prosperous cities and the increasing spatial disparities between living standards and 8 Principles on Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. The Spinning Mills, Vejle, Denmark 9 Schmidt Hammer Lassen Architects support the United Nations’ Universal Declaration on Human Rights and the UN Global Development Goals. We work in compliance with Danish legislation which meets international conventions on human rights. The International Criminal Court,The Hauge,The Netherlands 10 Danish Charter supports CSR in the construction sector Schmidt Hammer Lassen joined the Danish Association for Responsible Construction in 2014. The objective of the association is to develop and promote social responsibility in the Danish property and construction sector based on a charter of six principles. 1. We systematically assess whether we are observing the principles of the Charter in the projects in which we are involved 2. We assess how collaboration partners and suppliers manage social responsibility 3. We establish dialogue with collaboration partners and stakeholders 4. We work for sustainable solutions 5. We have sound employment and working conditions 6. We demonstrate independence and anti-corruption practices By signing the charter, Schmidt Hammer Lassen declare our support to the six principles. We believe that cross-disciplinary collaboration will only contribute to strengthen social responsibility within the building sector and will support and inspire good practice. Malmö Live, Malmö, Denmark 11 Principles on Labour Standards Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 12 People & Organization SHL DAYS 2016, Shanghai, China Labour standards At Schmidt Hammer Lassen Architects, we are exclusively dependent on staff members’ regulations concerning employee safeguarding. Additionally, Schmidt Hammer Lassen performance to continue the success of creating and delivering modern, holistic, and engage in several specifically selected and designed activities to uphold and extend sustainable architectural solutions for a diverse and international group of private and these rights and continuously improve conditions for all staff members. public clients. Attracting, retaining, developing, and ensuring the health and safety of In Denmark, a collective agreement is in place and applicable to the majority of the the staff members is therefore important to the organizational development and a top organi-sation’s staff members. Minor project offices are not covered by the Danish priority in the strategic management teams’ ongoing efforts to realize the visions of collective agreement, but the organization has made significant efforts to create our practice. comparable conditions. National rules and regulations in force on the non-Danish office The Scandinavian countries are by definition attending to secure labour rights and sites are followed with rigor. conditions of any staff members through collective agreements and state imposed 13 A democratic work place The well-being of staff members is highly valued by the organisation. Three dedicated committees are in place to support, that we act in compliance with the defined goals and that procedures are followed. The strategic management participates actively and cooperatively in this work alongside staff elected representatives. The Health & Safety Committee takes precautionary measures against any form of counterproductive physical and non-physical working conditions, including the prevention of any labour related accident. The Collaboration Committee ensures a positive working environment and engage in dialogue with union representatives about organisational development and adjustment to foster employee commitment and retention. The Continuing Education Committee organises and administers the organisation’s strategic engagements in relation to staff member training and professional development. We communicate on general work conditions, benefits, rules, and regulations in the SHL Staff Handbook, which we hand out when welcoming a new colleague – alongside a well-planned onboarding program. 14 Work Environment Individual Development A mandatory and well planned Employee Development Dialogue/ EDD is held annually for all staff members together with their manager. This valuable session is focusing on motivation, job satisfaction, continuing professional development, and career development. The outcome of the EDD and goals for future development is implemented in our system for professional development in collaboration with the manager. Additionally, an annual salary negation is held with every employee together with a status EDD and check-ins when needed. At all locations, Schmidt Hammer Lassen encourage the employees to participate in a wide range of social and professional development activities. We love to celebrate won competitions, birthdays and anniversaries by inviting to informal gatherings. The SHL Intranet monthly presents a variety of activities to ensure a spirited culture, including knowledge-sharing sessions, lectures, courses, site visits, and inspiring study trips. CPD Plan To ensure assisted learning activities and ongoing professional and personal development for all employees, the Continuing Professional Development Committee annually compile a CPD Plan covering the majority of the assisted learning activities open for everyone. Our knowledge groups GREEN/ BIM/ BUILD arrange a variety of educational activities and additionally, we support educational activities within leadership and management. In addition to the CPD plan, many different individual learning activities take place, also funded by company means. 15 Work Place Assessment The organisation administers a detailed employee survey, the Workplace Assessment/ WPA. The WPA is conducted once every third year and supports us in monitoring organisational development on physical working conditions as well as psychological working environment. Some important questions in the WPA related to jobsatisfaction has recurred in the last three surveys, showing a positive steady increase in the categories covering reputation and general well-being. The Management Board in collaboration with Health & Safety/ Collaboration Committee / Managers / HR identify the key focus areas to be handled and prioritized in continuation of the employee feedback. Hereafter, action is taken on different organizational levels. Non-discrimination Members of staff are the most valuable resource at Schmidt Hammer Lassen. We believe that diversity supports an innovative work environment with excellent architecture as a result. The staff of employees today counts around 30 different nationalities with an almost equal gender distribution. We focus on competencies and skills at any recruitment and internal promotion within the Schmidt Hammer Lassen Office, Copenhagen, Denmark organisation. 16 Collective Agreement In the section below, we outline the basic rules and regulations of the collective agreement pertinent to safeguarding labour rights. We include additional activities designed by the organisation to stimulate a positive working environment, where work life and family life is well balanced. The Danish Labour Law and Collective Agreement for architects in Denmark provides the following benefits to safeguard employee interests. • Fixed salary tiers regulated according to seniority + individually salary negotiations • Pension scheme • Working hours regulation and overtime compensation • Favourable maternity and paternity leave • Holiday regulations (31 days per annum) • Continuing Professional Development (CPD) funding and shared learning activities • Employee representation on several organisational boards (Health & Safety Committee, Collaboration Committee and Continuing Professional Development Committee) • Free union representative elections without management intervention Additionally, the organisation offers extra healthcare insurances for a majority of staff members. Responsible Behaviour At Schmidt Hammer Lassen, responsible behaviour is integrated both in our professional work and in our everyday work life. Standards covering responsible behaviour are thoroughly described in the SHL Staff Handbook. A lunch scheme is in place at the Danish offices, allowing staff members to enjoy healthy, fresh and well-prepared lunch meals. We avoid waste of food by offering a take-away solution. The supplier is certified with the Organic Trademark verified by the Danish Veterinary and Food Administration. 17 In line with guidelines from the government to keep our colleagues and the greater public What the COVID-19 crisis means for the future of Workplace and safe, we are working Well-Being differently but with just For decades, the architectural solutions around workplace have evolved and adapted, defining many manifestations: Cellular Offices, as much commitment Open-plan, Activity Based Working (ABW), Free Seating, New Ways of Working (NWoW), among others. to the success of our They are part of a larger discourse among business leaders, developers, landlords, as well as users and tenants, who are looking for solutions to common questions and challenges such as flexibility of layout, projects as ever. increase of well-being, enhancement of productivity, new ways to collaborate, burnout avoidance, and a decrease in absenteeism. The novel coronavirus has turned the conversation on its head, accelerating our understanding of new opportunities to collaborate and co-create, and how it would appeal and respond to millions of citizens forced to work remotely. Though the future of the workplace is unclear, it will certainly be different. Read more about our predictions here. Principles on Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Ningbo Home of Staff, Ningbo, China 19 Living Design We recognize the existing ecological crisis and have committed to working in the interests of our collective future. We understand the impact that architecture has on natural ecosystems, the carbon cycle and our environment. We believe that sustainability is a creative challenge, explored with curiosity and focus. It is a measure of our skill and abilities to improve the social and environmental ecosystems that are touched by our work. Rather than simply satisfying benchmarks, we seek to form an early vision for positive outcomes with stakeholders and specialists, and preserve these goals through design and delivery. From pre-design to the post occupancy phases, we have realigned our work practice to focus on well-being, ecology and resilience. We call this Living Design. 1. We have invested in specific fields of expertise, but seek to communicate this in a less technocratic and more common-sense way in order to preserve sustainability goals across disciplines. 2. We integrate sustainability goals prior to the commencement of each project and have instated reviews into our design workflow: go-in, go-wide, go-green, go-deep, go-high. 3. We are forming strategic alliances with Perkins & Will and external collaborators to peer review our project work and collaborate on sustainable solutions. 4. We are creating a new public profile for SHL, foregrounding sustainability and investing in thought-leadership in order to attract clients with higher ambitions, and more easily establish teams for pursuits with similar goals. 5. Integrate the digital into qualitative and quantitative models that influence the design process from the earliest stages, such as the LCA assessment of preexisting structures or feedback in design massing according to site conditions. 20 “In our work, we don't just seek to sustain our current way of life but to instigate a more positive future.” ― Enlai Hooi, Head of Innovation, 2020 A GREEN Agenda The new Sports and Administrations Centre and Town Hall in Skanderborg is the first Certified Knowledge Danish public building to reach the DGNB Platinum Standard. At Schmidt Hammer Lassen Architects, we commit to develop projects and realise buildings based on a holistic concept of sustainability. We work in multidisciplinary teams with innovative solutions in integrated design processes. We do this in frameworks of various certification systems as well as project specific goal setting, working closely together with our clients’ organisation. Our architectural staff counts in-house experts in the most important building certification systems, BREEAM International Assessors, LEED Accredited Professionals, DGNB International and DGNB Denmark Consultants and Cradle to Cradle trained professionals, offering certification processes and benchmarking for our clients projects. This enables us to evaluate the “green performance” of a building and give a profound understanding of the interaction of different sustainable parameters. The evaluations are used to seek for optimized green solutions during the design process and better building performances without compromising the ambition for high quality architecture. Knowledge sharing is fundamental in our practice and in the CPD strategy. The CPD strategy aids to raise the common level and understanding of holistic sustainability throughout the organisation. An important knowledge sharing platform is our GREENgroup, where passionate employees exchange cutting edge knowledge of highly sustainable projects and green ideas. In close collaboration with the architecture schools and university colleges we engage with students in different ways as mentors and external examiners in mutual inspiration. We participate in network initiatives with the focus on implementation of green value management, sustainable reuse of existing building mass and sustainable city development. The specialized staff members of our studio provide public lectures and communicate on our experienced work. We engage in strategic partnerships in pursuit of working with the UN Sustainable Development Goals – like the Active House Alliance, where we are a supporting member and represented in the Advisory Board. 22 Selected certified projects Urban Mountain, Oslo (NO), Refurbishment project employing Cradle to Cradle principles and targeting a BREEAM Outstanding certification Dokk1, Aarhus (DK) Meets Danish class 2015 low energy requirements Halifax Central Library, Halifax (CA), LEED Gold University of Aberdeen Library (SCT), BREEAM excellent The Crystal, Copenhagen (DK), Energy-consumption reduction and best practice PV integrated facade design Office Building Buddinge, Copenhagen (DK), Amazon Court Building, Prague Green Valley, Shanghai (CN), Office facilities with a DGNB Gold Certified (CZ), DGNB Gold Certified high level of flexibility and low operating costs University of Applied Skanderborg Administrations and Sports Malmö Live (SE), LEED Platinum Christchurch Central Library (NZ), NZGBC Sciences, Utrecht (NL), Centre (DK), DGNB Platinum Five-star Green Custom Design BREEAM Outstanding 23 Building Information Modelling (BIM) Sustainability and Building Information Modelling/ BIM go hand in hand. At Schmidt Hammer Lassen, we have been working with BIM for many years, and today we execute all major projects with the use of BIM. Internally, BIM is used to develop and validate the designs of our buildings with the use of sustainable analysis and simulations, which allows us to optimize documentation of the project for construction. Externally, BIM is used on all project organization levels to communicate the design – enabling a smoother decision making process. The result is an optimally coordinated process and collaboration and minimisation of errors. We facilitate the dialogue with clients and related stakeholders to clarify and define the scope of information and data, which need to be successfully handed over on delivery of the project, for better and lower cost facility management. When environmental analysis and simulation tools are used from the earliest stages of a design process, projects can be designed to benefit from local environmental conditions such as site orientation, solar access and seasonal winds as well as support selection of the used materials. For the client, future user and the community, this means a more sustainable, enduring and energy efficient building. Dokk1, Aarhus, Denmark 24 Building new knowledge Successful integration of new methods and technologies requires an extensive level of knowledge sharing. Therefore, the BIM management group engages in BIM Networks, BIM standard organisations and conferences, and also lectures at conferences and educational institutions. These activities are essential in order to build and share new knowledge – internally as well as externally. Schmidt Hammer Lassen is co-founder and member of the BIM7AA, a voluntary collaboration between seven Danish architectural practices in collaboration with Aarhus School of Architecture. The purpose of BIM7AA is to develop and continuously optimise commonly developed BIM tools, methods and processes focusing on interdisciplinary cooperation. Knowledge Centre Molio Schmidt Hammer Lassen is also member of Molio, a construction knowledge centre focusing on digital solutions and new technology. Molio is taking over the role as the buildingSMART network in Denmark and will also be the new buildingSMART Nordic Chapter partner and coordinator of activities in Denmark. BIM is also one of the key cornerstones in the internal strategic continuing education plan. Additionally, the internal BIM taskforce research and develop professional network and education. Running evaluations of the BIM projects is part of the knowledge sharing initiatives. More info: University of Aberdeen Library, Aberdeen, UK www.molio.dk 25 HU University of Applied Sciences, Utrecht, The Netherlands Quality Assurance Schmidt Hammer Lassen have wide-ranging experience in high-level quality management to meet both client demands and regulatory requirements throughout the entire project life cycle; from the very beginning of a project until final handover. Working internationally, the applied Quality Assurance standards are applicable to the multitude of projects, that we work on all over the world, as well as support the development of architectural quality. The quality assurance policy of the practice is described in detail in the SHL Quality Assurance Manual, and it has been prepared in accordance with the following guidelines and standards: • Quality Control in Architectural Practices published by The Danish Association of Architectural Firms • The DS ISO 9001 standard The SHL Quality Assurance Manual is a process tool that includes guidelines and standards for planning, implementation and quality control. The Handbook is verified and updated on an ongoing basis. 26 Principles on Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. ARoS, Aarhus, Denmark 27 Business Ethics We hold a reputation as a responsible and conscientious business partner and dissociate from corruption, extortion, and bribery in any form. The studio has never been involved in corruption or bribery and formulated policy guidelines are in place and carefully described in the SHL Staff Handbook that is handed out to all employees on their first day at work. In this we state: „Our business ethics are grounded on trustworthiness, honesty and transparency. Accordingly, employees at all levels must avoid letting financial and/or personal interests influence – or arouse suspicion of influencing – their work-related decisions or conflicting with the interests and ethics of the organisation. Moreover, we expect all employees to act in accordance with applicable legislation.“ The independent NGO, Transparency International was founded in 1993 and is now present in more than 100 countries. The organization annually publishes reports on corruption – and for many years Denmark has been placed as one of the world’s least corrupt countries. The result underlines the very high standards of Danish companies. National Archive, Viborg, Denmark 28 In 2015 Nordic Innovation published the book 30 Sustainable Nordic Buildings featuring best practice examples based on the Nordic Built Charter principles. Schmidt Hammer Lassen's highrise winning project in central Oslo, the Urban Mountain, will become another icon of the Norwegian capital and sets new standards for sustainability. 29 The Nordic Built Charter Schmidt Hammer Lassen Architects have signed the Nordic Built Charter; committed to accelerate the development of sustainable building concepts initiated by the Nordic ministers for trade and industry. The Nordic Built Charter is a public declaration of the values, intentions and ambitions of a united Nordic building sector. It describes a holistic approach to the built environment – taking energy, climate, economy and people into account. The intention is that relevant actors from across Nordic borders and across the entire value chain of the building sector will commit to its ten principles. In short, The Nordic Built Charter gives the building sector a platform for cooperation and provides a common set of fundamentally Nordic and sustainable values, promoting a balanced and integrated societal development based on environmental, economic and social sustainability. The Nordic Built programme combines key Nordic strengths, provides attractive and effective arenas for collaboration and realizes concrete projects that demonstrate world-class scalable solutions. In 2012 the Nordic Built Challenge – a high profiled international architectural competition – was organized by Nordic Innovation. The ambition were to create five lighthouse projects for the Nordic region, one in each country, demonstrating the solutions for sustainable refurbishment of the existing building stock, which the Nordic building industry is able to deliver. With the Urban Mountain refurbishment project Schmidt Hammer Lassen and team won 1st prize for the innovative and sustainable new landmark for the city of Oslo. More information: www.nordicinnovation.org/nordicbuilt/the-challenge/ Urban Mountain, Oslo, Norway 30 Selected Architecture with social and sustainable impact 31 Christchurch Central Library, Christchurch (NZ) Hope, unity and rebirth – redevelopment of an earthquake-damaged city Architect: Schmidt Hammer Lassen Architects Size: 9,500 m² m² Competition: international competition, 2013 Status: Completed, 2018 Client: Christchurch City Council Lead Design Architect: Schmidt Hammer Lassen Architects Principal Collaborating Architect: Architectus 32 “Turanga is the kind of multi-faceted project that layers architectural interest with significant cultural relevance. It has been a privilege to design a project that not only fulfils the need for a new central library, but also one whose mission of restoring the soul of the city includes the deep cultural heritage of Ngai Tuahuriri, the local Maori people.” Morten Schmidt, Founding Partner Over the course of 15 months in 2010 and 2011, Christchurch, so many of Christchurch’s buildings in 2011. Turanga was the largest city of New Zealand’s South Island, was constructed to very stringent performance criteria, and is devastated by four major earthquakes that toppled a city designed to sustain minimal structural damage during a known for its arts, culture, and surrounding natural beauty. large earthquake thanks to an integrated, self-centering Schmidt Hammer Lassen Architects, designed Turanga, mechanism that allows the building to sway and then return a new central library project that is one of nine anchor to its original position. projects identified as vital to the redevelopment of the city. Part of the innovative set up is a seismic force-resisting The new central library is a visually stunning symbol of system made up of a series of large-scale concrete walls hope, unity, and rebirth that will fundamentally change that can rock and shift to isolate the building from peak the way residents and visitors experience Christchurch’s earthquake accelerations during a significant seismic city centre. The design of Christchurch New Central Library event. Each wall has high tensile, pre-tensioned steel cables is a graceful amalgamation of resilience, functionality that clamp the wall to the foundations with approximately and cultural awareness at the center of the earthquake1,000 tonnes of force per wall. damaged city’s redevelopment. The stretch of these cables return the building to its Lewis Bradford Consulting Engineers, the structural original position after an earthquake, ensuring the library engineering firm on the project, was instrumental in will stand as a unifying landmark in Christchurch for developing a structure that could withstand future generations to come. Picture of the site after the 2010 and 2011 earthquakes struck a community potential earthquakes of the magnitude that destroyed with deep ties to the land, the environment and each other. 33 The design of the five-storey, 9,500 m2 library in Christchurch’s historic Cathedral Square supports the city’s desire for a public space that strengthens the community, advances literacy and lifetime learning, celebrates diversity of culture and heritage, draws people back to the city centre, and fosters innovation. A tapestry of ancestry, tradition and culture Early in the design process, the architects collaborated with Matapopore Charitable Trust, an organization whose objective is to ensure the values, aspirations and narratives of the local Ngui Tuahuriri people are realised throughout the recovery of Christchurch. Their influence on the design of the building is substantial—from building materials to physical orientation, there is a rich tapestry of ancestry, traditional knowledge, and culture woven throughout Turanga. As library-goers approach the building, they are drawn into the informal, welcoming entrance that connects the library with Cathedral Square and surrounding buildings. The ground floor is a continuation of the public realm of the square, which is one of Christchurch’s key urban spaces for public gatherings, events, markets and performances. In an effort to enhance the civic activities of Cathedral Square, the second level houses a Community Arena—a space for the people of Christchurch to discuss, debate, share, and celebrate. The Community Arena is expressed as a distinct volume within the form of the library, and is positioned to maximise its visual connection to the square. The second level of the library is also home to Ngu Purapura, a children’s area named for Ngui Tahu ancestral traditions. Ngu Purapura includes a children’s reading cave and an activity room. The building’s five levels are connected by a grand, staggered atrium featuring a social staircase for gathering, reading, and resting. Several points in the Canterbury landscape, including the Southern Alps and the Banks Peninsula, are visible from the upper levels of the library and drove the placement and orientation of the roof terraces. 34 How can the design of a library support the UN 17 Sustainable Development Goals? The Royal Danish Academy – Architecture, Design and Conservation and the UIA World Congress of Architects in Copenhagen 2023 have launched ‘An Architecture Guide to the United Nations 17 Sustainable Development Goals Volume 2’, a book including Schmidt Hammer Lassen Architects’ symbol of hope, unity, and rebirth, the Christchurch Central Library, a project representing UN’s Goal #16: Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions. Civic institutions such as public libraries are cornerstones in a just and peaceful society and represent a commitment to an inclusive and compassionate community. To read more about how architecture can contribute to the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals, visit Royal Danish Academy. The book can be also downloaded for free at uia2023cph.org. 35 Studio Malmö, Malmö (SE) A unifying element in the harbour area Architect: Schmidt Hammer Lassen Architects Size: 22,000 m² Competition: 2007, 1st prize in international competition Status: Completed in 2016 Client: Skanska Öresund Contractor: Skanska Öresund Partner Architect: Temagruppen Landscape Architect: Tema Landskab Engineers: Tyréns, Skanska Stormsystem, Skanska Teknik Sustainability: Pre-certified LEED Platinum Awards: 2018, Nomination for Building of the Year Award (Årets Bygge), LEED Building of the Year Award 2018 36 Studio Malmö is a 22,000 m² mixed-use harbour Studio Malmö wins LEED Building of the Year Award The Swedish Green Building Awards recognize, develop-ment located in central Malmö, a vibrant celebrate and promote positive contribution to In October, Studio Malmö was named the 2018 LEED Building city in southern Sweden. The 14-storey building is sustainable building and property development, of the Year by the Swedish Green Building Council (SGBC) at designed to be an energy-efficient building with a and it has become one of the leading the Building Sustainability Conference. Pre-certified LEED Platinum, and accommodates an sustainability design awards in Scandinavia, eclectic mix of offices, conference and event spaces, The SGBC selected Studio Malmö, a 22,000m² mixed-use awarding and promoting entrepreneurs, restaurants, cafés and retail outlets, in addition to a harbourside development located in southern Sweden, for developers and architectural projects each year. hotel and sky bar. its high design standards, elaborate design, and pleasant indoor environment that contributes positively to the urban More information: Studio Malmö represents the completion of the island environment. SGBC also cited Studio Malmö as an excellent www.kungsleden.se of Universitetsholmen. Located at the entrance to example of collaborative sustainability work. Malmö’s inner harbour, it acts as a unifying element for the area. As a catalyst for the ongoing regeneration of the Malmö harbour area, the building will become a dynamic focal point and new landmark buzzing with activity day and night, enriching the life of Sweden’s third largest city. The architectural expression is a clear geometric building designed to fit in alongside its contemporary and historic neighbours, and includes a new public square facing the harbour and city centre. The café, retail shops and event and exhibition spaces on the ground floor are accessible from both the shore side and street side of the building, and open up to the public square atrium in the building’s heart. 37 Skanderborg Town Hall, Skanderborg (DK) First DGNB Platinum certification for a Danish public building Architect: Schmidt Hammer Lassen Architects Size: 18,424 m² Competition: 2013, 1st prize in PPP competition Client: Skanderborg Municipality Contractor: KPC A/S Sustainability: DGNB Platinum 38 The new Sports and Administrations Centre and Town Hall in Skanderborg is the first Danish public building to reach the DGNB Platinum Standard, the highest certification under the Danish DGNB sustainability standard. In 2017, the Green Building Council Denmark completed a thorough certification process of the completed project, which included 182 different parameter in terms of environmental, financial and technical quality. The project scored high on all parameters, and especially the building’s overall economy performance as an energy-efficient building of high quality for a low overall economy was emphasised. The new 18,000 m2 Sports and Administration Centre offers multiple administrative facilities for the municipality of Skanderborg in combination with new sports facilities for the use of the entire community. The aim is a complex, which sets new standards, supporting an innovative and multi-disciplinary work culture as well as being a vibrant gathering point for citizens of Skanderborg. The project appears informal, open, and accessible and in close contact with the unique surroundings of the recently established natural resort, Anebjergskov. Several sustainable measures are integrated in the design of the building, such as optimized use of daylight, natural ventilation and an efficient building envelope. Green plants grow on selected facades as solar screening whilst increasing local biodiversity, as well as indoor green walls contribute to a good indoor climate. More infomation: www.skanderborgfælled.dk 39 Shenzhen East Waste-to-Energy Plant, Shenzhen (CN) The world's largest waste-to-energy plant Architect: Schmidt Hammer Lassen Architects Size: 112,645 m² Competition: 2016, 1st prize, international competition Client: Shenzhen Energy Environmental Engineering Ltd. Partner architect: Gottlieb Paludan Architects Structural Engineer: Schlaich Bergermann Partners 40 In 2016, Schmidt Hammer Lassen Architects in collaboration with Gottlieb Paludan Architects won the international competition to design the world’s largest waste to energy power plant in Shenzhen, China. Located on the outskirts of Shenzhen, the Shenzhen East Waste-to-Energy Plant will incinerate 5,000 tonnes of waste per day, generating 550 million kWh every year. With a population of 20 million, Shenzhen produces 15,000 tonnes of waste a day, a number that is increasing approximately 7% per year. To counteract this, Shenzhen Energy wishes to build a new plant that not only uses the most advanced technological processes in waste incineration but also act as a source of education for the citizens of the city. The proposal organizes the entire plant, including auxiliary buildings, into one circular building breaking the traditional rectangular layout of an industrial power plant. By proposing a clean circular form, the footprint of the plant reduces the amount of excavation required to build on the site. Public visitors are invited into the plant through a landscaped park, via an entrance bridge that rises between the stacks to an entrance lobby and visitor centre overlooking the plant machinery. An internal circular path and walkway circle the plant explaining each process, before leading up to a 1.5 km panoramic public walkway on the roof overlooking the surrounding landscape and back towards the city. The roof is designed to be covered by up to 44,000 m2 of photovoltaic panels, providing the opportunity for the plant to not only provide a cleaner way to deal with the city’s waste but also contribute to the renewable energy provision for the city. The plant is intended to showcase the Waste to Energy production as an important technical process that is geared to deal with both the issues of growing waste, but also the issue of finding new more environmentally friendly ways of generating electricity. At the same time, visitors can become informed on the challenge of the growing waste we produce every day and be educated on initiatives on how we can reduce our own amount of daily waste. Schmidt Hammer Lassen has built a reputation for bringing a strong Scandinavian design approach to large complex public projects in China. Detailed design work began in 2016, and the plant is scheduled to go live in 2020. 41 VIA, Oslo (NO) A lively urban environment Architect: Schmidt Hammer Lassen Architects Size: 58,500 m² Competition: 2014, 1st prize, international competition Client: Storebrand Eiendom AS, Aspelin Ramm Sustainability: Targeting BREEAM Excellent Awards: Commendation MIPIM; AR Future Project Awards 2017 42 VIA is a central cross-section and a symbolic focal point for the new modern Oslo. The architecture interprets the surrounding volumes’ characteristics and heights and adds a new and unique architectural expression. The complex is a combination of exclusive shops, high-end offices and parking facilities available to the city center, ensuring a lively urban environment. The architecture interprets the surrounding voluminers characteristics and heights and adds a new and unique architectural expression. The modern, open glass façade is framed by bright natural stone and submergences in volume, which ensures the relation to the adjacent buildings. The rounded corners in the courtyard, place the building in a tradition of classic urban architecture and gives the volume a more elegant appearance. The complex is a combination of exclusive shops, top offices and parking facilities available to the city center, ensuring a lively urban environment. Commercial areas, which connects the lower levels of the city, offers a unique opportunity to brand exclusive stores by establishing a closed visual connection to the city. New passages and squares creates shortcuts through the block. In addition, enhanced integration between the building and the city is acheived by introducing two new areas entrance square and the inner courtyard. 43 The International Criminal Court, The Hague (NL) A landmark for peace and justice Architect: Schmidt Hammer Lassen Architects Client: The International Criminal Court (ICC) Area: 54,000 m² (1,200 workplaces) Competition: 20082010, first prize in restricted international competition Engineer: Royal Haskoning Nederland B.V. and Esbensen Consulting Engineers AS Landscaping: SLA Project management: Brink Group Interior & Art: Bosch & Fjord Contractor: Courtys 44 ”In our design, we are aware of how important it is for this building to express the values of the ICC. To the victims, to their families and to the world, the ICC premises must communicate respect, trust and hope.” In 2010, Schmidt Hammer Lassen Architects won the prestigious architectural Bjarne Hammer, Founding Partner design competition for the new permanent premises of the ICC with an experienced interdisciplinary team of consultants. The design was selected for its understanding of the concept of transparency. The design also shows how democratic values upon which the Danish tradition for architecture rests, reflected in an international institution that is subject to some of the strictest security requirements in the world. Safety and openness In the design approach it has been paramount that the security measures, as much as possible, are an integrated part of the design. The public has easy and open access to the main entrance and the design of the landscape surrounding the building achieves a highly secure environment without the appearance of barbwire and high fences. The landscape The new ICC headquarters is located between the edge of the Hague city and the Meijendel Dune Landscape, which is a protected Natura 2000 area. One of the primary and most important aims of landscape architects SLA’s concept is to ‘reunite’ the site with this dune landscape. The primary idea has been to locate the complex as a cut in the landscape, establishing an interior that relates to the international collectivity of the ICC, and an exterior that entrenches the ICC to the local Dutch landscape and opens it to the public. Sustainability The new headquarters for the ICC is targeting a BREEAM Excellent certification. The complex is part of the local water-win area. Therefore strict local regulations applied for materials, their possible leaching and work during the construction period. Several environmental sustainability measurements have been implemented into the design such as: a heatand cold storage, which is the largest of its kind in the Netherlands, green roofs, water-saving taps and toilets, automatic daylight control of luminaires for all lighting in offices and biological cleaning of the mirror pond. 45 Dokk1, Aarhus (DK) Space for change DOKK1/ Aarhus/ Denmark/ Space for change/ New public library/ Architect: Schmidt Hammer Lassen Architects Client: Aarhus Municipality Client Partner: Realdania Area: 35,600 m² Competition: 2009, first prize in an international competition Engineer: Alectia Rådgivende Ingeniører Landscaping: Arkitekt Kristine Jensens Tegnestue Client Consultant: Rambøll Danmark Other consultants: Bahn arkitekter (accessibility) 46 “Dokk1 is not simply a building. It is a place The two open levels of the library are connected by the media ramp, which for exchanging knowledge and opportunities consists of five platforms dedicated to numerous activities: exhibitions, gaming, and a multicultural meeting point that will interactive workshops, reading and events. Combined with the literature and change people’s perception of the entire city.“ media sections, the media ramp offers a meandering path of activity through the building leading up to the children’s area on the top floor. Kim Holst Jensen, Senior Partner A covered urban space The principal idea behind Dokk1 is a transparent covered urban space, designed as a polygonal slice that hovers above a glazed building resting on a podium with large sculptural stairs. The stairs fan out to street level and the new harbour promenade surrounding the building. The glass building is designed as an open urban space with 360-degree views of the water, harbour, forest and city. The building has no clear front or back, which is emphasised by the multi-edged top slice that creates the impression of rotation and movement. The facade is made of expanded metal, the scale of the city and harbour is reflected in the design, which twists, breaks and turns. The concept of the façade design is an ed its doors to the public in 2015. Situated by the historic harbour front of Aarhus the largest interaction with the height of the surrounding buildings and the scale of the public library in Scandinavia today represents a new generation of modern, hybrid libraries. port with reference to large elements, such as cranes and ships. Democratic, open and diverse Sustainability The 30,000 square metre building is part of the Urban Mediaspace project, and houses the new From the earliest stage, sustainability has been an important integrated part library, a citizen service centre, automatic parking for 1,000 cars and new harbour-side public of developing the project, and the building meets the requirements of the squares. New cycle paths run through the scheme that includes over 450 bicycle parking spaces, Danish 2015 energy classification. Elements such as seawater cooling, effective and the new light railway will run with a station at Dokk1. shielding effects and the 3,000 m² integrated roof solar cells reduces energy consumption considerably. Also, light fittings, LED lamps, motion and daylight The new library has already become a new vibrant hub and a connecting “hinge” that opens up to sensors as well as solar panel arrays reduces dependency on conventional new experiences in the city of Aarhus. energy sources. 47 The library A new generation of public buildings Public Library of the Year Award/ 2016 In 2016, the visionary hybrid library project, Dokk1 in Aarhus, Denmark, was announced winner of the Public Library of the Year Award at a prestigious ceremony during the International Federation of Library Associations and Institutions (IFLA) congress in Columbus, Ohio. The international panel of judges recognised Dokk1 as a true library of the future, that embraces new digital developments, user demands, local culture, and a desire to accommodate diverse population groups within an open and functional architectural expression. The Dokk1 project also scooped an A+ Popular Choice Award in 2016 in the Library category. The event organized by Architizer brought together an eclectic mix of architects and designers from around the globe. 48 Schmidt Hammer Lassen Architects have extensive experience with library design. The most renowned of these being the extension to the Royal Library in Copenhagen, Denmark, the RIBA award-winning University of Aberdeen New Library in Scotland and Dokk1 in Aarhus, Denmark. In 2018, the new central library in Christchurch, New Zealand, opened. In 2020 the new Central Library in Shanghai, China will open. The Libary Driver of social cohesion In social sciences, public spaces such as libraries, city halls and culture centres are defined to be cornerstones of the democratic society. These places enable encounters and active citizenship of society. This makes the public building an important facilitator for social cohesion of society, and architecture is a driving part of this. User involvement Schmidt Hammer Lassen and the City of Aarhus received a Best Collaboration Award in 2012 for the extensive cooperation in creating the largest public library in Scandinavia, Dokk1. The Best Collaboration Award awards the best examples of collaboration between partners from the creative industries sector and local governments in the North Sea Region of the European Union. The jury selected the Dokk1 project team due to the broad and intensive collaboration process between the municipality, the architects, the citizens and future users. The philosophy behind the user involvement is that an active library will only come to life by actively involving the people who are going to use it. Therefore, citizens of Aarhus and the future staff of the library has been engaged in the design process Dokk1, Aarhus, Denmark throughout the whole process. 49 Halifax Library (CA) Diversity bound by heritage Size: 14,500 m² Competition: 2010, 1st prize in international competition Client: Halifax Regional Municipality, Halifax Public Libraries Local architect: Fowler Bauld & Mitchell (prime consultant architect) Landscape Architect: Gordon Ratcliffe Landscape Architect Engineer: Structural: SNC Lavalin Inc., Ove Arup (Concept Design), Mechanical: CBCL Limited, Ove Arup (Concept Design), Electrical: CBCL Limited, Ove Arup (Concept Design), Civil: SNC Lavalin Inc. Sustainability: LEED Gold certification Awards: 2018, Maritime Architectural Design Excellence Award; 2018, Award of Excellence at the Halifax Urban Design Awards; 2016, Governor General Medal in Architecture of Canada 50 The new library is a multifunctional cultural hub with direct accessibility to the vibrant surrounding urban context of historic and new buildings. The library building stands as a flagship for all 14 branch libraries servicing the whole municipality. The construction of the library is essentially cubic in form with four significant 'volumes' vertically placed on top of one another with a horizontally twisted and shifted facade alignment. A number of distinctive cantilevers and one signature larger cantilevered element create a voluminous expression whereas the remaining façades align elegantly with the neighbouring façade of the classic architecture of Dalhousie University’s Architecture School. From the top of the building access to an open green roof terrace provides a unique view towards Halifax Harbour and Citadel Hill. The façade of the building is intended to reflect the local history of the site which was once a central local 'garden' and significant green space within the heart of the city. An abstracted 'leaf' motif of varying densities creates a façade that appears more solid in some areas, yet fully open in others reflecting the strong seasonal nature of the much loved trees that surround the site. Halifax Central Library awarded The 14,500 m² Halifax Central Library is the most significant public building to be built in Halifax in a generation, and represents the diverse communities, talents, and creativity of the residents of Halifax throughout the municipality and present this to the world. The library is sited in a prominent position in downtown Halifax. In 2016, The Halifax Central Library was awarded a Governor General’s Medal for its outstanding new civic building design, created by Schmidt Hammer Lassen Architects and local studio Fowler Bauld & Mitchell. The Governor General’s Medal in Architecture awarded by the Royal Architectural Institute of Canada (RAIC) and the Canada Council for the Arts celebrates outstanding Halifax New Public Library, Halifax, Canada architectural design in Canada. 51 Malmö Live, Malmö (SE) A city in the city Architect: Schmidt Hammer Lassen Architects Client: Skanska Sverige AB Area: 54,000 m² concert, congress and hotel Competition: 2010, international property development competition construction 2010 2015 Landscape architect: SLA Contractor: Skanska Sverige AB Other collaborators: Akustikon 52 The Malmö Live complex in Southern Sweden, was awarded a prestigious 1st prize in the Mixeduse Completed Buildings category at a ceremony during the World Architectural Festival 2016 in Berlin. The Jury praised the project as a public building in the best sense of the word: open to everyone, inclusive and very democratic: “It’s a real piece of the city and an important catalyst of urban regeneration.” A city in the city In 2015 the new 54,000 square metres large concert, congress and hotel complex situated in the building are organised like separate elements – like a small town. Here, on Universitetsholmen in Malmö was completed. The building consists of a composition of the lobby becomes the street that runs through the whole ground floor plan cubic volumes that are mutually twisted and given different sizes to meet the directions and and ties everything together. Like the medieval cities, with curved and narrow building heights of the surrounding city. The facades are designed with a homogeneous streets organised around plazas and ares, the lobby is designed to form small expression to make the composition appear as one architectonic sculpture. gathering places and recesses where it is possible to stop, sit and enjoy the view to the canal and the park. The ground floor is open to the public. The main entrance is found at the northern part of the building, with a classic loggia-motif facing the plaza in front. The different functions 53 “The main idea of Malmö Live has been to create ‘a city in the city’. An example is the part of the building that faces the park and the canal that is shaped more openly and organic, and gives the people from the city the possibility to stroll through the building if they are going to a concert, a conference, to the café or just want to make a shortcut. We wanted the place to be vibrant, accessible, and inviting – no doubt this approach will have great impact on the future life to be unfolded around and inside the buildings.” Open and accessible Kristian Ahlmark, Senior Partner The new cultural centre becomes an open, expressive and dynamic building that is manifold in both its activities and its architecture. The point of departure for the building design is the modern Scandinavian architectural tradition with the clear functional organisation and the accessible and open ground floor lay-out. The building becomes the focal point and a landmark for Malmö – a place where the spirit of the city, the diversity and the intimacy is given an architectonic expression. Sustainability profile Malmö Live is a sustainable, green project. The intention is to develop the area with as little environmental impact as possible, for example by reducing energy consumption and using local energy sources such as geothermal heating, solar energy and wind power. Close proximity to City Tunnel and Central Station makes taking public transport easy. Green roofs absorb water, slow up runoff and promote biodiversity. Solar cells meet some of the building’s energy requirements. Food waste is collected and turned into biogas, and there are nesting boxes for kestrels on the roofs to help this bird of prey to live in a city environment. Malmö Live will be certified according to the international Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) standard – aiming for the highest level, platinum, in the assessment, which looks at factors like materials, indoor environment, design, and water use. The building also meets the category A standard of the Miljöbyggprogram Syd Green Construction Programme. 54 Framehouse, Dragør (DK) A sustainable workplace Size: 1,810 m² office space, 355 m² technical basement spaceCompetition: Direct commission, 2016 Status: Completed, May 2019 Client: KOM-KBH A/S Contractor: Lyngby Entreprise A/S Engineer: Arne Elkjær A/S Awards: 2019 Office of the Year Award finalist (DK) 55 A sustainable workplace Framehouse, a 1,810-square-metre flexible office building in Dragør, Denmark, is a highly sustainable workspace wrapped in warm, natural materials. The industrial business area 12 kilometres south of central Copenhagen is dotted with repurposed aircraft hangars, and new construction influenced by their form. While the simple building volumes of Framehouse are a nod to the local context, the building is a rare gem in Denmark -a sustainable and innovative exposed timber structure. Openness, co-creation and interaction Utilizing wood as a primary building material, Framehouse achieves its lowembodied energy and low-carbon impact goals while becoming the first exposed timber structure in greater Copenhagen, Denmark. Framehouse is a modern interpretation of traditional wooden barns and their exposed frames. This idea of openness led the design into a collaborative office space encouraging co-creation and interaction where sustainable innovation meets the needs of the office tenants while supporting Denmark's ambitious green goals. 56 All rights in this COP is reserved by Schmidt Hammer Lassen Architects Contact Njalsgade 17A Pakhus 2 2300 Copenhagen S. Denmark T +45 86 20 19 00 info@shl.dk www.shl.dk Graphic design Schmidt Hammer Lassen Architects Photos Hufton + Crow Thomas Damgaard Jensen Adam Mørk Jeppe Carlsen Ricky Molloy Rozbeh Zavari Danish School of Media and Journalism (DMJX) Global Compact, CSR, contact point Teodora Kolchagova ttk@shl.dk We support Schmidt Hammer Lassen Architects hereby states that we operate in accordance with The UN Global Compact’s ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. We state that our actions comply with Danish national legislation and related international conventions. ARoS, Aarhus, Denmark This COP reports on the continued commitment and describes actions taken within all four areas. 57 Njalsgade 17A, 2300 Copenhagen S Denmark
