Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 Epson conducts its business activities with the aim of becoming a company that is indispensable to customers and society. These activities are rooted in our Management Philosophy and in the employee mission underpinning the ＂Exceed Your Vision＂ tagline. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 1 Contents 003 Editorial Policy Commitment to People 004 Group Outline 146 Human Resources Development 006 Top Message To Our Stakeholders 152 Promotion of Diversity 007 Value Creation Story 164 Respecting Human Rights 009 Feature Article: Contributing to Sustainability 168 Fostering a Better Workplace 013 Response to the Coronavirus Pandemic 174 Health and Productivity Management 015 Business Vision 179 Occupational Safety and Health 018 Epson＇s CSR 019 Key CSR Themes 035 Relation to SDGs Commitment to Governance 038 CSR Communication 184 Corporate Governance 044 Participation in External Initiatives 195 Internal Control System 198 Initiatives of Internal Control 203 Security Commitment to Customer Satisfaction 206 Supply Chain CSR Vision 047 Approach to Customer Commitment 209 Procurement Guidelines 049 Pursuing Customer Satisfaction 210 Supply Chain Initiatives 055 Universal Design 218 Communication and Training 058 Sales/Service & Support 221 Responsible Sourcing of Minerals 060 Activities to Improve Quality 223 Green Purchasing 063 Product Safety Initiatives 224 Paper Products Procurement Commitment to the Environment Commitment to Society 065 Environmental Vision 2050 225 Approach to Corporate Citizenship 068 Green Bonds 226 Education for Young People 070 2025 Goals 229 Culture and the Arts 074 Responding to TCFD 230 Community Events 079 Feature Article: Solving Social Issues 236 Environmental Conservation Through Inkjet Innovation 238 Social Welfare 084 Global Environmental Positioning Statement 239 Stakeholder Engagement 085 Life Cycle Thinking 088 Products and Services that Reduce Environmental Impacts 240 Evaluation by External Parties 089 Minimizing Customer Environmental Impacts 244 ESG Data 108 Environmentally Conscious Products 120 Climate Change/Realizing a Decarbonized Society 261 Appendices 126 Resources/Forming a Circular Economy 134 Pollution Prevention & Chemical Management 139 Biodiversity Conservation 142 Eco Community 145 Environmental Management Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 2 Reporting Period Inquiries about Sustainability Report April 2019 to March 2020 Seiko Epson Corporation Note: Contains some information on activities conducted after April 2020. PR&IR Department 3-3-5 Owa, Suwa-shi, Nagano-ken, Japan 392-8502 Scope Tel: +81-266-52-3131 (main) This report describes the sustainability eﬀorts of Seiko Epson Corporation and 85 Group companies. The scope of environmenCSR activity website tal reporting, however, covers Seiko Epson Corporation, and 54 https://global.epson.com/SR/ Group companies (representing 95% of revenue). Note: ＂ Epson＂ refers to the Epson Group, unless indicated otherwise. Guidelines This report has been prepared in accordance with the Core option of the GRI *1 Standards 2020. ISO 26000: 2010/ JIS Z 26000: 2012 (Guidance on social responsibility) was used as a reference. GRI Standards and ISO 26000 comparison (GRI content index) https://global.epson.com/SR/gri/ *1 The Global Reporting Initiative, an NGO established in 1997 that drafts and pro motes international guidelines for sustainability reporting. Previous Reports Epson has been publishing a report every year since 1999. In 2003, the name of the report was changed from Environmental Report to Sustainability Report. Disclaimer This report includes forward-looking statements, estimates, and plans Date of Report Publication based on the information available at the time of publication. Actual September 30, 2020 (previous report: October 3, 2019) results may be diﬀerent from those discussed. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 About the Cover Design The rings and the grid are used as design elements that represent innovation and order and discipline, respectively. The illustration represents the four areas of innovation under the Epson 25 Corporate Vision where Epson has been exercising discipline for many years to compete and make rapid advances so that it can delight customers by exceeding their expectations. Editorial Policy This report has been compiled from comprehensive information about Epson＇s CSR activities that is booklet Web available on our websites. An annual report, it is Annual Report (PDF) IR CSR ● organized into chapters, each of which is aligned with ● Investor Relations https://global.epson.com/IR/ an element of Epson＇s Management Philosophy. informetion informetion ● Integrated Report (PDF) Information has been reported in accordance with Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 ● Sustainability Report (PDF) ● Social Responsibility the Core option of the GRI Standards 2020. In https://global.epson.com/SR/ addition to this report, Epson has been working to 3-3-5 Owa, Suwa, Nagano 392-8502, Japan TEL: +81-266-52-3131 https://global.epson.com improve communication with its stakeholders through the publication of an Integrated Report, its websites, and other media. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 3 Group Outline Corporate Outline Company Name Seiko Epson Corporation Founded May 18, 1942 Head Oﬃce 3-3-5 Owa, Suwa-shi, Nagano, Japan Paid-in Capital ￥53,204 million Revenue (consolidated) Number of employees Group companies Epson Group 75,608 85 1,043.6 billion (consolidated): (includes parent company) Parent company: 12,813 Japan: 18, Overseas: 67 (FY2019) (as of March 31, 2020) (as of March 31, 2020) ■ Sales revenue by region ■ Employees by region (consolidated) Asia/ Oceania Japan Japan 27% 24% Asia/ 26% Oceania Employees Revenue by region The Americas 67% ￥1,043.6 billion (consolidated) 4% Europe (FY2019) The Americas 75,608 21% 28% (as of March 31, 2020) Europe 3% Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 4 FY2019 Business Overview by Segment Consolidated Revenue ￥ 1,043.6 billion Business proﬁt ￥ 40.8 billion Printing Solutions Business segment Epson will further reﬁne its original Micro Piezo inkjet technology to provide higher productivity, better environmental performance, and a sustainable printing ecosystem. Percentage of revenue Revenue ￥ 708.6 billion 67.8 ％ Segment proﬁt ￥75.6 billion Printers, scanners, oﬃce papermaking system, others Visual Communications Business segment Epson will hone the competitive edge of its microdisplay and projection technologies to provide exciting visual experiences and a natural visual communications environment in business and home settings. Percentage of revenue Revenue ￥ 183.3 billion 17.5 ％ Segment proﬁt ￥13.5 billion Projectors, smart glasses, others Wearable & Industrial Products Business segment Epson will create new value by capitalizing on the strengths of its technology in areas such as precision machining, high-density board assembly, low power designs, high-precision sensing, and advanced precision mechatronics. Percentage of revenue Revenue ￥ 152.9 billion 14.6 ％ Segment proﬁt ￥1.8 billion Microdevices, Watches Industrial robots others * Consolidated total sales exclude intersegment sales * Segment sales include intersegment sales * Business proﬁt and segment proﬁt are very similar to operating income under Japanese accounting standards (J-GAAP), both conceptually and numerically. Epson began using business proﬁt as an indicator after adopting International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) in FY2014 to facilitate comparisons with past results. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 5 Top Message To Our Stakeholders Contributing to Sustainability One of the global issues we face is climate change. Epson is responding to this challenge as proactively as it has always addressed environmental issues. Since its founding in 1942, Epson has been committed to protecting Lake Suwa, a large body of water a stone＇s throw from the global headquarters, from pollution. In 1988, Epson became the ﬁrst company in the world to announce that it would eliminate the use of ozone-depleting CFCs. The fact that we successfully phased out CFCs from Epson＇s cleaning processes in Japan by 1992 and around the world the following year is one example of the spirit of creativity and challenge that is a hallmark of Epson＇s corporate culture. In 2019, Epson declared its support for TCFD recommendations because we see our response to climate change as being as critical to the management of our business as our response to the business and economic imperatives. Epson＇s roots are in watch manufacturing, and we still draw our strength from the eﬃcient, compact, and precision technologies cultivated in this ﬁeld. These technologies enable us to save energy and reduce the size of goods we produce while increasing their accuracy and precision. The inkjet printers, projectors, sensing devices, robots and other products that these technologies have yielded demonstrate Epson＇s outstanding development and technological capabilities and have been very well-received by the market. Epson has identiﬁed ＂advancing the frontiers of industry＂ and ＂achieving sustainability in a circular economy＂ as materiality items of our value creation story and is currently working to deliver products and services that contribute to sustainability. We help our customers increase their work and production eﬃciency while they shrink their environmental footprint by delivering value in the form of innovative products. Our linehead inkjet printers, for example, employ heat-free piezo inkjet technology that makes them far more energy eﬃcient than the laser printers that currently dominate the oﬃce market. Our oﬃce papermaking systems, moreover, use dry ﬁber technology to recycle and produce paper in a process that is virtually water-free. We are collaborating with business partners and embracing open innovation as means to create new markets. We are looking to respond more rapidly to the needs of more customers by cooperating with those who share our aspirations of using Epson＇s technologies to create new products and services that are environmentally conscious and support higher productivity and a better working environment. In 2004, Epson became a signatory to the U.N. Global Compact, which sets forth 10 basic principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. In 2018, we declared our commitment to achieving the SDGs. In 2019, Epson joined the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA), a global coalition dedicated to corporate social responsibility (CSR) in global supply chains, and we have been promoting sustainability in our own supply chain. Our goal of making Epson an indispensable company is enshrined in the Epson Group Management Philosophy. We seek to achieve this, as our ＂Exceed Your Vision＂ tagline suggests, by creating and providing value that exceeds the expectations of our customers and society. We at Epson will work as one to further advance the technologies that will make our products and services more eﬃcient, compact, and precise so that we may contribute to solving problems throughout our value chain and help to realize a sustainable world. Yasunori Ogawa President and CEO Seiko Epson Corporation Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 6 Value Creation Story Epson seeks to create new value by leveraging the efﬁcient, compact, and precision technologies that are in its DNA. Societal Input Materiality Value creation strategy issues Technology assets Climate change Open innovation Eﬃcient, Compact, and and Precision Technologies resource depletion Advance the frontiers of industry Heightened Inkjet expectations for sustainable innovation practices ● Micro Piezo ● Dry ﬁber technology Visual ● Microdisplay Increased ● Sensing innovation ● Robotics productivity & Achieve ● Semiconductors and crystal preservation devices of artisanal sustainability ● Ultra-precision processing skills technology Wearables Types of capital in a circular innovation economy (current as of March 31, 2020) Total assets Response ￥ 1,040.9 billion Financial to lifestyle diversiﬁcation Financial capital A rating (R&I) Robotics Balance of property, innovation plant and equipment, and intangible assets Improve the quality Manufacturing 389.5billion yen of products and services Microdevices Number of inkjet printer patents ﬁled and laid open to the public Supporting the four areas in Japan and the U.S. Strengthen supply Widening of regional Intellectual Intellectual No. 1* 1 of innovation disparities capital chain management Total employees 75,608 Respect human Human rights and promote diversity Value creation Companies in the Epson Group 85 (including Seiko Epson Corp.) infrastructure Dangerous and Social and (18 companies in Japan and harsh working relationship 67 overseas) Strengthen environments governance Limited natural resources (e.g., energy & materials) Natural *1 The 2019 calendar year ranking in number of patents laid open to the public per Epson research Please see this page as a content which is coupled with the next page. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 7 nt, 2050 Environmental Vision 2050 2030 SDGs 2025 Epson 25 Corporate Vision Value proposition Outputs Outcome Inkjet-based solutions for Expansion of Achieving the oﬃce improving productivity and market a sustainable saving energy and resources ● Inkjetprinters society ● Ofﬁce papermaking systems Dry ﬁber technology-based ● Projectors ● Scanners Indispensable company solutions for in-oﬃce Expansion of the commercial resource recycling and industrial markets ● Commercial and Projection technology for industrial printers amazing visual experiences ● High brightness projectors ● Robots and easy visual Reinforcement of the consumer communications market ● Wearable products Unique wearables that are ● Smart glasses ● Inkjet printers a pleasure to wear FY2025 ﬁnancial objectives Collaborative and smart Revenue robotic solutions that serve people ￥ 1,700 billion Business Proﬁt*2 *2 Business proﬁt is very similar to operating income under ￥ 200 billion Japanese accounting standards (J-GAAP), both conceptually and numerically. Epson began using business proﬁt as an Device technologies that ROS*3 indicator after adopting International Financial Reporting ROE*4 Standards (IFRS). enable smart communities 12% 15% *3 Business proﬁt/revenue *4 Proﬁt for the period attributable to owners of the parent *Assumed exchange rates: company/Beginning and ending balance average equity ￥115/USD & ￥125/EUR attributable to owners of the parent company Output example Transforming the oﬃce environment Transforming the production ﬂoor Higher productivity Higher productivity Lower environmental impact Lower environmental impact Advanced communication Improved work environment Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 8 Feature Article Contributing to Sustainability Transforming the Oﬃce Environment Advance the Frontiers of Industry/ Materiality Achieve Sustainability in a Circular Economy Epson’ s products and services will transform oﬃces in a variety of ways, including by enhancing productivity and communication, reducing long working hours, supporting ﬂexible work arrangements, and saving energy and paper resources. Example 1 Extending the Oﬃce for Smoother Communication Projector solutions Use a laser light source to project bright, POINT 1 Societal Issues & Needs sharp images even in well-lit oﬃces To address societal issues, we must bring together a more diverse Project large images with POINT 2 range of ideas and rapidly create new value. Meanwhile, as ultra-short-throw lens projectors to use globalization progresses, people want tools that allow them to better limited space with maximum eﬃciency communicate without time and distance constraints. POINT 3 Use interactive features to share and notate projected documents and images Value Proposition Foster a sense of unity with Projector face-to-face communication Speed up information sharing and increase productivity Minimize wasteful travel, *1 Compariso *2 Testing was reduce CO2, and save time color laser standard en Camera 48 hours in four-hour p Remote locations are kept connected by projectors that create an *3 Print speed extended oﬃce, as in this example from Epson. print times * Requires a linkup with a third-party communication system. *4 Some wate Please see this page as a content which is coupled with the next page. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 9 Lack of communication Higher Energy Advanceeﬃciency ment productivity of ICT d Resource Ofﬁce Business across conservation Value borders aper environmental Solution changes & issues Proposition Low Information Long working environmental leaks hours impact Diverse Advanced Eﬀective work use of work arrangecommunication spaces ments Example 2 Facilitating Enriched Paper-Based Communication Paperless processes are being adopted primarily due to cost and environmental concerns, but there is also concern that Societal Issues paperless processes can hamper productivity. Paper-based information can boost productivity by providing a fuller view & Needs of information that is easier to read and understand. These advantages underpin the still-ﬁrm demand for an oﬃce environment that allows people to print eﬃciently and without hesitation. Print costs Reduced Print speed Epson’ s Make new approx. by about water-free paper from 1/10th *1 80% *2 100 *3 pages/minute Dry Fiber used copy paper on the Technology*4 spot. A solution that combines inkjet printers and an oﬃce papermaking system High-capacity ink tank printer High-speed linehead inkjet multifunction printer PaperLab A-8000 Provide a far cheaper inkjet dry process oﬃce papermaking system POINT 1 printing environment that Build a paper Enrich paper-based POINT 2 oﬀers incomparably better recycling loop in the oﬃce environmental performance communication at sharply lower cost and environmental impact Value Contribute to the conservation Proposition of forest and water resources through in-oﬃce paper recycling Maintain information security by dissolving paper into ﬁbers *1 Comparison of A4 sheet printing costs between an EW-M670FT high-capacity ink tank printer and an Epson laser printer *2 Testing was commissioned by Epson and conducted by Keypoint Intelligence. Epson selected four competitor’ s models from worldwide top four best-selling vendor** in the 45-69 ppm color laser multi-function printer class. Epson WorkForce Enterprise WF-C20600 D4TW with 60 ppm. Devices were tested in default mode as per Keypoint Intelligence’ s proprietary standard energy consumption test methods. Calculations were based on a weekday workload of 2 x 4 hours printing + 16 hours in sleep/standby mode, and weekend energy use of 48 hours in sleep/standby mode. A total of 69 pages of workload test pattern using DOC, XLS, PPT, HTML, PDF ﬁles and Outlook email messages were printed six times in each four-hour printing period. ** Source: IDC’ s Worldwide Quarterly Hardcopy Peripherals Tracker 2020Q2, Units Share by Company *3 Print speed of a WF-C20590 high-speed linehead inkjet multifunction printer. A4, landscape, single-side printing. Print speeds are measured in accordance with ISO/IEC 24734. Actual print times will vary based on system conﬁguration, software, and page complexity. *4 Some water is used to maintain humidity inside the system. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 10 Transforming the Production Floor Advance the Frontiers of Industry/ Materiality Achieve Sustainability in a Circular Economy Production is changing. There are labor and skilled worker shortages, a diversiﬁcation of needs, and heightened environmental awareness. We are transforming the production ﬂoor by raising productivity and lowering environmental impacts. Example 1 Lower the Barriers to Robot Use and Accelerate the Automation of Human-Dependent Processes Robotic solutions Provide compact robots that can POINT 1 Societal Issues & Needs work in the same space as humans without changing production lines There is a serious manufacturing labor shortage largely due to rising Provide force sensors that give robots POINT income levels in emerging economies and aging populations in 2 advanced economies. Production is increasingly being automated human-like touch with robots, but space can be an issue, as can the diﬃculty of automating some processes, so most manufacturers still must rely on POINT 3 Use image processing to enable numeric human intervention. Automation is also impeded by a scarcity of skilled installers. sensory testing POINT 4 Enable easy teaching Value Proposition Oﬀer easy installation in A six-axis robot existing production lines Force sensor in the N series Automate processes that relied on human touch and sight Ensure stable and continuous factory Force sensor operation by automating production lines Provide a safe and reassuring working environment. See a movie demonstration. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4QUefX9EzWY Combine robots and force sensors to automate cable insertion tasks that used to rely on humans. Please see this page as a content which is coupled with the next page. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 11 Quality Diversiﬁcation variations Labor Higher of customers’ shortages needs htened productivity Skilled nvironSoaring worker labor costs shortage Changes & issues Product and manufacturing Long Value in the production Solution process sophistication environment working hours Proposition Low Occupational environmental Chemical accidents health impact in production hazards Improved Heightened Resource work environmental depletion awareness environment Example 2 Digital printing solutions Achieving Low-Resource, High-Eﬃciency Processes Respond to small-lot production POINT 1 without printing plates Involve fewer processes and POINT 2 no ink mixing Societal Issues & Needs POINT The world is transitioning from mass production and mass 3 Reduce waste ink, and eliminate washing water as there are no plates consumption to short-run production to respond to the Need less frequent contact with POINT diversiﬁcation of customers’needs and environmental issues. 4 chemicals Value Proposition Inkjet digital textile printers Printing that ﬂexibly adapts Comparison of Analog and Digital Textile Printing Processes to demand ﬂuctuations and Analog textile printing Digital textile printing rapid turnarounds, reducing Image layout Pre-processing dead stock and disposal losses 3 days to 2 weeks Printing plate making Image layout Reduce waste ink and water Ink mixing Sample printing 1.5 to 2 months used for washing printing plates Sample printing Mass printing Plate washing & storage Post-processing Reduce space for storing Mass production ink making plates and work in process Mass printing Plate washing & storage Oﬀer a clean and safe Disposal of unneeded ink printing environment Post-processing Complex work process Fewer steps omate cable Substantial waste Low environmental impact Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 12 Response to the Coronavirus Pandemic Basic Response Policy & Safeguards Immediately after infections from a new coronavirus became news, the Epson Group invoked the Crisis Management Committee and formulated the basic response policy shown on the right. Since then, we have been gathering all available information and implementing measures to combat the spread of COVID-19. In June 2020, the actions we had taken up to that point were reviewed at a committee meeting attended by members of executive management and areas where improvements were needed were identiﬁed. The committee resolved to continue to monitor the state of infections around the globe while implementing improvements and to put preparations in place to respond immediately in the event of a worsening of the crisis. We will continue to collect information from various sources and take action as needed in accordance with the basic response policy. The Epson Group’ s top priority is to ensure the health and safety of our Basic response employees, customers, and other stakeholders and to try to slow the spread policy of infection in accordance with local and national government policies. Notices with the latest information about customer support line operations are posted on the website below. Customer support line Link to information about customer support line operations during the new coronavirus pandemic. (Japanese) https://www.epson.jp/support/misc_t/200227_oshirase.htm Epson advises employees to take steps to protect themselves and others, Group employee such as washing their hands, covering their cough, and performing health conduct checks before coming to work. Employees are instructed to stay home if they have a fever or cold symptoms. Measures are in place in oﬃce buildings, meeting rooms, and employee cafeterias to enable people to maintain social distance. Seating has been rearranged, restrictions have been placed on meeting room capacity, and employees are encouraged to telecommute. In addition, business travel is restricted or prohibited, depending on the region and infections, so employees are using alternative means such as virtual meetings via video conferencing and teleconferencing. To help ensure that the company can operate stably long-term in the face of Introducing the new coronavirus, Epson has installed and improved its network environnew work ment and conferencing software to allow more employees to work from arrangements home. In the future, more work-from-home and remote work options will be made available by putting in place additional IT infrastructure. On the other hand, these actions were taken as part of our emergency response and we recognize that there are wrinkles that need to be ironed out. There are both advantages and disadvantages to working from home, and new and existing systems and rules need to be created and coordinated. Epson will explore potential new work arrangements, taking into account feedback from an employee survey. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 13 Production Site Operations and Community Engagement Epson’ s production and sales sites were largely hamstrung by COVID-19. Most of Epson’ s largest production sites are located in China, the Philippines, Indonesia, and Malaysia. In China, production gradually recovered from late February as restrictions on movement were relaxed. Production in the other regions normalized at the end of June, but we need to continue to pay close attention to the situation. Business continuity management (BCM) issues became apparent as we struggled to restore normal production, but we have already rectiﬁed the situation for some products by utilizing external resources, for example. In addition, Epson is committed to supporting the social lives and businesses of its customers and has therefore prioritized the production of printer ink, which it is producing in or near the markets where it is consumed. Epson manufacturing and sales sites around the world supported medical institutions and took other actions to help contain the eﬀects of COVID-19 in their communities. Link: Response to the Coronavirus Pandemic Around the World https://global.epson.com/SR/citizenship/community.html ● China Operations gradually Actions under the BCM plan restored from late Feb. Production site ● Philippines Expand multi-site & decentralized production for strategic products and accelerate advances in operations Indonesia Returned to normal manufacturing eﬃciency and automation. by the end of June ● Malaysia Production is already assured for some products ● through the use of external resources Seiko Epson donated 5,600 face shields and 100,000 surgical masks to Corporate Nagano Prefecture for use at medical institutions treating COVID-19 patients. We also donated 5,000 face shields to the Nagano Prefecture Board of Citizenship Education for use at schools to help prevent infection by the new coronavirus. Seiko Epson also manufactured employee masks from functional ﬁbers by applying the Dry Fiber Technology that is used in the PaperLab A-8000 dry process oﬃce papermaking system. With the manufacture of these masks, the company was able to donate extra surgical masks that we were in stock as part of Epson's business continuity plan (BCP). Face shields Employee masks PaperLab A-8000 Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 14 Business Vision Epson 25 Corporate Vision In March 2016, Epson established the Epson 25 Corporate Vision, a strategic plan that will guide company growth out to the year 2025. Vision statement Advances in information and communications technology mean increasing amounts of information will become available on the internet, and so-called cyber space will continue to expand. Epson believes that products acting as the interface between cyber space and the actual or real world where customers operate will be of critical importance. As a company that specializes in generating value in the real world, Epson＇s vision is to create a new connected age of people, things and information by leveraging its eﬃcient, compact and precision technologies to drive innovation in four areas. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 15 Epson＇s four areas of innovation Epson will generate value with its eﬃcient, compact and precision technologies in printing, visual communications, wearables, robotics and microdevices to drive innovations in four areas. We will also strengthen our business infrastructure to support these eﬀorts. Printing domain Visual communications domain Reﬁne Micro Piezo technology, and Reﬁne original microdisplay and expand into high-productivity segments. projection technologies, and create Printingenvironmental Improve domain performance Visual communications outstanding visual experiences domain and a and create Reﬁne Microa sustainable printing Piezo technology, and natural original visual communications Reﬁne microdisplay and ecosystem. expand into high-productivity segments. environment projection for every aspect technologies, of and create Improve environmental performance business andvisual outstanding lifestyles. experiences and a and create a sustainable printing natural visual communications ecosystem. environment for every aspect of Wearables domain business Robotics anddomain lifestyles. Leverage our watchmaking heritage, Combine our core technologies with reﬁne leading technology, and oﬀer a sensing and smart technologies in Wearables sense of statusdomain and fashion. Robotics domain manufacturing, expand applications, Leverage our watchmaking heritage, and create a future in which robots Combine our core technologies with reﬁne leading technology, and oﬀer a support people in a wide variety in of sensing and smart technologies sense of status and fashion. situations. manufacturing, expand applications, and create a future in which robots support people in a wide variety of Microdevices domain: Supporting the Four situations. Innovations Contribute to Epson's ﬁnished products and to the development of smart communications, power, Microdevices transportation and manufacturing systems with advanced Epson quartz timing and sensing solutions Microdevices and domain: Supporting low-power semiconductor solutions. the Four Innovations Contribute to Epson's ﬁnished products and to the development of smart communications, power, Microdevices transportation and manufacturing systems with advanced Epson quartz timing and sensing solutions and low-power semiconductor solutions. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 16 Mid-Range Business Plan Objectives (FY2019-2021) The Epson 25 Corporate Vision is divided into three phases, and a mid-range business plan is established for each. Under the Phase 2 Mid-Range Business Plan, Epson will take steps to respond as needed to environmental changes and to speed up execution in order to capitalize on the robust infrastructure put in place during Phase 1. Phase 2 is designated as a period for transforming business operations to achieve high proﬁtability, putting Epson in a position to establish a high proﬁt structure in Phase 3. Stable revenue growth FY2016-2018 FY2019-2021 FY2022-2025 First phase Second phase Third phase ● Prepare foundation & ● Transform business operations ● Establish a high proﬁt products to achieve high proﬁtability structure FY2025 targets Revenue ￥1,700.0 billion ROS 12% Business proﬁt ￥ 200.0 billion ROE 15% Assumed rates: ￥115/USD, ￥125/EUR Basic Policies (FY2019-2021) Continue to commit to the goals of Epson 25, and transform business operations to achieve high profitability by managing priorities in responding to social issues and environmental changes Accelerate growth by taking maximum advantage of assets and through collaboration and open innovation ● Strengthen solution selling business ● Rapidly strengthen product lineups, including through collaboration ● Strengthen external sales of core devices and open innovation ● Invest management resources in robotics to accelerate its growth into a core business Strengthen global sales company functions under Head Office control ● Select and focus on priority business areas and regions ● Improve the organization and allocate personnel to strengthen B2B solution selling ● Strengthen company-wide integrated IT infrastructure Invest management resources in a disciplined manner according to the economic environment and strategy effectiveness ● Rebuild product portfolios based on priorities ● Strengthen ﬁnancial discipline Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 17 Epson＇s CSR Epson has been helping to solve various social issues by delivering unique value through innovative and creative products and solutions. Our mission is to build stakeholder trust as we grow and prosper with communities and to help create a better world. We consider any action designed to realize Epson＇s Management Philosophy to be a CSR activity. In addition to ensuring compliance, observing corporate ethics, and fulﬁlling our responsibilities at a level that exceeds what society requires, we will fully demonstrate our unique creativity in CSR by creating value through the products we develop and manufacture. In 2017, Epson developed a materiality matrix that identiﬁes key CSR themes, such as environmental issues, respect for human rights, human resources development, and governance. We will use this matrix to guide and strengthen our CSR activities and to help make the world a better place as we seek to become an indispensable company. Management Philosophy (Please refer to page 261 of ＂Appendices＂) Management Philosophy, Principles of Corporate Behavior, and CSR Activity Established in 2005 and applying to the entire Epson Group, Principles of Corporate Behavior spells out principles of conduct for realizing the goals of Epson＇s Management Philosophy. In 2017, we updated Principles of Corporate Behavior in response to the latest societal requirements. Epson will fulﬁll its social responsibility by aspiring to live up to the principles below based on ＂trust-based management,＂ a concept that underlies Epson＇s Management Philosophy. Principles of Corporate Behavior (Please refer to page 262 of ＂Appendices＂) CSR Guided by International Standards At Epson, we have closely aligned our Principles of Corporate Behavior with internationally recognized standards to help ensure that we serve the role that society expects of us. Epson also understands and respects the laws and regulations in the countries and regions in which it operates. • The United Nations Global Compact • The OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises • The Keidanren Charter of Corporate Behavior • ISO 26000 • The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) • The RBA Code of Conduct • ILO Core Labour Standards Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 18 Key CSR Themes To reach the goals stated in our Management Philosophy and to become an indispensable company, we believe it is important to identify issues that should be addressed and to solve them through our business activities. In 2017, Epson selected CSR themes, taking into account social issues deﬁned by ISO 26000 and other sources. We evaluated them from both our perspective and a social perspective, and prioritized the key themes in the ＂Key CSR Themes＂ matrix. Key CSR Theme Matrix Importance from Epson’s Perspective Principles of Corporate Behavior ● Eﬀective use of energy and resources ● Creating new products and services with Climate change and global warming advanced technology Importance from a Societal Perspective ● ● Respect for human rights ● Contributing to the environment through Management Philosophy ● Consumer health and safety products and services ● Information security ● Awareness-raising and ● Corporate governance ● Business operations aligned with global consumer education ● Communication with stakeholders social trends ● Control of water and ● Community contributions and ● Productivity improvement utilizing ICT drainage engagement ● Product competitiveness ● Universal design ● Labor conditions and work ● Strategic marketing environment ● Compliance ● Occupational health and safety ● Diversity ● Transparent disclosure ● Human resources development, hiring, and retention ● Product quality and communications ● Supply chain management ● Resource recycling ● Risk management (including BCP) ● Biodiversity conservation ● Air pollution Social trends aﬀecting Epson Corporate Human rights Labor practices Environment Fair business Consumer aﬀairs Community governance practices engagement Social trends, social norms GRI SASB ISO 26000 SDGs RBA code of conduct Identifying Key CSR Themes Recognize social Evaluate materiality Evaluate materiality Determine validity trends and from a company from a societal of themes company direction perspective perspective Understand midand long-term Epson’s CSR Executive Council Outside board members and Epson’s CSR Management trends and identiﬁed 466 potential and CSR Management Committee experts evaluate their materiality Committee determines the validity key themes in select areas*1 evaluate their materiality of the CSR themes and selects key themes *1 Select areas Direction of company General social trends Electrical & Electronics Industry General societal demands management trends and societal demands ● Management Philosophy ● Global Japan ● RBA Code of Conduct ● GRI ● Principles of Corporate Behavior ● White Paper Information and ● SASB ● Corporate Vision Epson 25 Communications in Japan 2016 ● ISO 26000 ● Mid-term Business Plan ● SDGs ● Environment Vision 2050 ● SRI survey item Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 19 To help ensure that our activities are eﬀective, we speciﬁed action items and targets (KPI) for each key CSR theme. We will periodically revise the key CSR themes and action items based on feedback from stakeholders and will systematically drive continuous improvements. CSR Organization Epson＇s Sustainability Promotion Oﬃce has a direct reportCSR Organization ing line to the company president. The director of the oﬃce Board Meeting is a member of Seiko Epson＇s board of directors. He has overall responsibility and authority for the Epson Group＇s CSR activities. President CSR Executive Council The CSR Management Oﬃce was renamed the SustainabilCSV/CSR Director CSR Management ity Promotion Oﬃce in April 2020, and CSR and CSV activi(board director) Committee ties are consolidated under it to accelerate the achievement Functional Sustainability supervisory department of social sustainability while also achieving business growth Promotion Oﬃce by solving social issues. Functional supervisory department Executive organizations Epson＇s CSR Executive Council, which is made up of board members, serves as an advisory body to the president and steers the CSR activities of the global Epson Group. The council also reviews our CSR activities and deliberates action plans for the most important challenges. The CSR Executive Council has set up a CSR Management Committee to discuss and study CSR-speciﬁc issues. The CSR Management Committee, which is made up of general managers from functional supervisory departments, reports and appeals its ﬁndings to the CSR Executive Council. Sustainability Promotion Oﬃce serves as the secretariat for the CSR Executive Council and the CSR management committee. Under the control of the CSV/CSR Director, the Sustainability Promotion Oﬃce and the CSR Management Committee are responsible for the execution of business related to CSR activities. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 20 Key CSR Themes FY2019 Action Items, Achievements and Results Epson has identiﬁed 29 key CSR themes. Below we have listed the 16 themes that we consider to be the most important for society and for Epson. We have indicated our FY2019 action items for each of these, as well as our achievements and results. 1. Materiality: Advance the Frontiers of Industry Key CSR FY2019 action item Relevant Achievements & results in FY2019 themes categories SDGs Business • Strengthen global • Strengthened global operations under Head operations operations under Head Oﬃce control aligned with Oﬃce control • Continued promoting the Global Business global social • Enhance public discloInfrastructure Innovation Project trends sures, including about • Completed the operation conceptualization SDGs and other nonand planning phase for creating Group-uniﬁnancial information, ﬁed IT systems and strengthen dia• Invested management resources in a disciplined logue manner according to the economic environment and strategy eﬀectiveness • Re-examined the product portfolio and invested management resources in strategic areas • Publicly announced approval of the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) • Received a score of 4.0 in a FTSE general evaluation, an MSCI ESG rating of A, and a Gold rating by EcoVadis for non-ﬁnancial information disclosures; achieved compliance with the core GRI standard Response to the COVID-19 • Started manufacturing surgical masks by applying Epson＇s unique Dry Fiber Technology • Crisis response operations • Secured stable ﬁnancing (with a committed credit line, etc.) • Estimated production delay and recovery schedule at production sites, and quickly found alternative suppliers and production sites Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 21 Key CSR FY2019 action item Relevant Achievements & results in FY2019 themes categories SDGs Creating new • Accelerate growth by • Accelerated collaboration and open innovation products and engaging in collabora• Invested in and started collaborating with services with tion and open innovaElephantech (IJ innovation), Cross Compass (AI tion leading tech• Strengthen the solutechnology), 4D Sensor (sensing technology) nology tion selling business and other venture companies • Rapidly strengthen • Opened Epson Square in Tokyo and the Textile product lineups, including through colSolution Center Asia and Inkjet Innovation Lab at laboration the Fujimi Plant to increase customer touch points • Strengthen external • Strengthened the core device sales business and sales businesses using open innovation using core devices core devices, and actively encourage • Strengthened external sales of inkjet printheads open innovation • Studied the possibility of creating ﬂexible • Invest management PCBs and other structures by ejecting metals resources in robotics to • Opened the Epson Connect cloud service to accelerate its growth into a core business third-party developers and began exploring the creation of new printing services • Strengthened the solution selling business • Launched new subscription-based printing services in Europe • Built circular manufacturing infrastructure • Created material products for 3D molding using metal powders reﬁned from waste steel at Epson Atmix • Started a paper recycling project with PaperLab oﬃce papermaking systems that use Dry Fiber Technology. [Nineteen machines were installed in the Epson Group to demonstrate internal paper recycling. Up to 40% of purchased copier paper was replaced with paper made using PaperLabs (avg. 18%). Ink pads were also created through upcycling (the use of pads was extended to linehead printers, business inkjets, and other new models).] Productivity • Continuously improve • Continued to increase manufacturing eﬃciency improvement productivity to achieve by using machine learning to automate sensory utilizing ICT high quality and high testing of parts, and expanded the area of applieﬃciency using senscation ing and automation • Automated the collection and totaling of manutechnologies that are facturing and quality data by standardizing manugrounded on Epson＇s facturing systems and using direct communicaunique manufacturing tions with production equipment, and and IT infrastructures continuously developed an eﬃcient manufacturand brought about by ing management scheme the eﬃcient, compact, • Increased the use of RFID (Radio Frequency and precision techIdentiﬁcation) and introduced an electronic kannologies ban system to save logistics manpower, reduce dwell time, and improve data accuracy • Accelerated an improvement cycle through collaboration between operations divisions and manufacturing sites using centrally managed manufacturing data, strengthened traceability, and advanced quality defect cause analysis Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 22 Key CSR FY2019 action item Relevant Achievements & results in FY2019 themes categories SDGs Products • Further improve sites • Built a system that allows us to continuously competitiveto increase production provide in a timely manner cost-competitive, ness competitiveness, high-quality products that cannot be easily imiincluding by complettated ing construction of a • Completed construction of a new building (the new building at the B Wing of the Innovation Center) in Hirooka Hirooka Oﬃce and began manufacturing textile printers in it • Built a new wing at Akita Epson and integrated Ugo Plant into it Response to the COVID-19 • Crisis response operations • Achieved a quick recovery at sites where operations had stopped and met commitments with production at alternative sites Strategic • Strengthen the global • Strengthened global sales strategies and manmarketing sales strategy and agement functions to establish a B2B sales ormanagement functions ganization to build BtoB sales • Developed the oﬃce market by improving organizations customer convenience and productivity • Use high-capacity through introduction of subscription programs ink tank printers to • Strengthened relationships with business prodaccelerate oﬃce uct sales channels and established sales inframarket penetration structure in North America to put in place a • Share knowledge foundation for providing customers with Epson about business product value printer sales ac• Established regional management headquarquired in Japan and ters for the Middle East (in Dubai) and Africa. Western Europe to Strengthened service infrastructure for dealers/ North America and distributors and customers by expanding local other areas oﬃces in the region • Improve sales sites in the Middle East, Africa, etc. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 23 2. Materiality: Achieve Sustainability in a Circular Economy Key CSR FY2019 action item Relevant Achievements & results in FY2019 themes categories SDGs Contributing to • Establish a reduction • Established a GHG reduction scenario for achievthe environscenario for achieving a ing a science-based target and implemented ment through science-based target concrete reduction measures products and and implement concrete • Results services reduction measures • Scope 1, 2 emissions: 485,753t-CO2e (18% • SBTi approved reduction vs. FY17) target (FY2017 is the • Scope 3 emissions: 5,780t-CO2e/100 million baseline year) yen (Due to a signiﬁcant decrease in busi• Reduce scope 3 ness proﬁt) (categories 1 and • Use of renewable energies: 12% (62,000t11) GHG emissions CO2e reduction) as a percentage of • Explore using locally procured electricity business proﬁt by (allocate electricity generated at hydroelectric 44% by FY2025 power plants in Nagano prefecture to the • Disclose GHG data annual electricity consumed at the Head • Disclose data in the Oﬃce, Hirooka Oﬃce, and Shiojiri Plant) Integrated Report • Disclose GHG data and Sustainability • Disclosed data in the Integrated Report and Report (all scopes) Sustainability Report (all scopes) • Receive third-party • Received third-party veriﬁcation of results data veriﬁcation of results and disclosed the veriﬁcation results data and disclose the • Established a mechanism for deciding environveriﬁcation results mental investment (internal carbon pricing) • Calculate and disclose • Publicly announced approval of Task Force on the contribution to the Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) reduction by product • Established a framework for issuing green bonds • First introduce to • Calculated and disclosed the contribution of inkjet printers products to avoided emissions • Implement a ﬁeld sur• Established a method for calculating the contrivey and improvement bution of projectors to avoided emissions initiatives to reduce the • Surveyed all suppliers with questionnaires and GHG emissions of the returned the results as feedback supply chain • Examined resource recycling targets for achieving the Environmental Vision 2050 Eﬀective use of • Establish a reduction • Won the Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry energy and scenario for achieving Award at the 29th Global Environment Awards in resources a science-based tarrecognition of Epson＇s eﬀorts to minimize enviget and implement ronmental impact through inkjet innovation concrete reduction measures • SBTi approved target (FY2017 is the baseline year) • Reduce scopes 1 and 2 GHG emisClimate sions by 19% by change and FY2025 global warm• Disclose GHG data ing • Disclose data in the Integrated Report and Sustainability Report (all scopes) • Receive third-party veriﬁcation of results data and disclose the veriﬁcation results Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 24 3. Materiality: Improve the Quality of Products and Services Key CSR FY2019 action item Relevant Achievements & results in FY2019 themes categories SDGs Product quality • Visiting customers • Product planners and design engineers visited and communidirectly to gather and customers to learn their wants, analyzed these cations analyze information wants, and used their ﬁndings to shape products about their wants and and maintain and improve product quality needs, closely examining customer wants by Printing Solutions Business, Example 1 analyzing customer A mechanism was introduced in commercial and inquiries, using the industrial large-format inkjet printers to support ﬁndings to shape customers who produce products around the clock. future products and A pair of high-capacity ink packs (main and backup) services, and improvare provided for each color to prevent printers from ing quality and customer satisfaction being interrupted by running out of ink. • Continue to combat Printing Solutions Business, Example 2 counterfeiting globally Customers complained that small liquid crystal and on Internet shopdisplays on home and SOHO printers made it difping sites to help ﬁcult to set up Wi-Fi connections and do other reassure customers operations, so we developed a free Epson Smart that they can buy genuine Epson brand Panel application that enables users to easily enter products settings and perform operations from their smartphones, which can be used like a remote controller. Visual Products Business, Example 1 We started selling stylish, portable projectors worldwide to meet the needs of customers who want to casually watch video on a large-screen at home. This market is mainly expanding in China. These projectors are able to receive video streaming services without connecting to other devices. Visual Products Business, Example 2 After hearing the needs of businesses that rent projectors for large events, we launched the ﬁrst native 4K Epson projector. This projector meets their needs by providing dust protection, easy installation, and superb image quality in the highbrightness segment. Robotics Solutions Business, Example 1 A customer wanted to measure subtle color diﬀerences that occur among products, but their visual inspection process suﬀered from variability and defects. To solve this problem, we worked with the customer to understand the inspection principle and developed a spectroscopic camera, which is scheduled for launch in FY2020. The camera quantiﬁes inspection results, enabling the customer to automate and improve the eﬃciency of their inspection process and prevent variations among the results. It contributed to improving the customer＇s color inspection quality. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 25 Key CSR FY2019 action item Relevant Achievements & results in FY2019 themes categories SDGs Robotics Solutions Business, Example 2 We discovered that a customer had abandoned its eﬀorts to automate the connection of cables and ﬂexible printed circuits (FPC) in their product assembly process because cables were not being properly inserted and wires were getting bent. We automated the process with a combination of Epson＇s unique force sensors and high-accuracy six-axis robots, contributing to improved productivity and quality. • Continued to combat counterfeiting by exercising our intellectual property rights • Blocked import and export of counterfeit goods at customs • Uncovered and halted the sale of counterfeit goods • Deleted web sites that sell counterfeit goods • Implemented awareness building campaigns about counterfeit goods Consumer • Further enhance the • Further enhanced the product safety training health and product safety training curriculum safety curriculum • Created product safety training content that • Conduct industrial includes items related to industrial machinery machinery risk risk assessments and provided training assessment training • Provided functional safety training seminars for industrial machinery on 14 occasions • There was one serious product-related incident in FY2019 (abnormal odor and smoke from a desktop PC) 4. Materiality: Strengthen Supply Chain Management Key CSR FY2019 action item Relevant Achievements & results in FY2019 themes categories SDGs Supply chain • Ask key suppliers to • Asked key suppliers to observe Epson＇s Procuremanagement observe the procurement Guidelines ment guidelines • Revised the Epson Group Procurement Guide• Survey suppliers using lines in January in line with the revision of RBA questionnaires Code of Conduct. Major manufacturing aﬃli• Implement supplier ates obtained agreements from their suppliers. on-site veriﬁcation and • Held sustainable procurement brieﬁngs, in take corrective action which 470 suppliers in Japan participated, and • A ﬁeld survey to asked them to observe the Procurement reduce supply chain Guidelines GHG emissions and • Our main sales companies worldwide began improvement activiasking their suppliers to observe the Procureties, etc. ment Guidelines through web sites notices and • Conduct conﬂict minother means erals surveys • Requested all suppliers to answer questionnaires (SAQ) • Establish supplier • Held supplier conferences in Japan to explain reporting channels and ask them to complete the questionnaire (overseas) (SAQ brieﬁngs). The brieﬁngs were attended by representatives from 145 suppliers in Japan. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 26 Key CSR FY2019 action item Relevant Achievements & results in FY2019 themes categories SDGs • Conducted SAQs with 124 indirect material suppliers (e.g., temporary staﬃng companies, on-site contractors) in Southeast Asia and China • Provided about 250 key direct suppliers who were surveyed in FY2018 with feedback on the survey results and drove improvements at seven suppliers found to be high risk • Conducted SAQs of direct suppliers in 2020 • Asked 250 suppliers in Japan and abroad • Supplier on-site veriﬁcation and corrective action • A third-party audit was conducted at one of the seven suppliers (a Japanese supplier) that was found to be high risk based on the survey results • Outside consulting companies conducted follow-up audits on four overseas suppliers found to be high or medium risk • Revised the conﬂict minerals survey process and asked all 1,200 suppliers (100%) to conduct the survey • In-house training • Provided RBA training to procurement personnel (in Japan, Southeast Asia, and China) • Established supplier reporting channels (overseas) • Established supplier reporting channels at all overseas manufacturing sites 5. Materiality: Respect Human Rights and Promote Diversity Key CSR FY2019 action item Relevant Achievements & results in FY2019 themes categories SDGs Respecting • Check and address • Checked and addressed issues concerning freely human rights any issues concerning chosen employment of foreign workers freely chosen employ• Examined the situation involving the employment of foreign workment of foreign workers at our manufacturing ers aﬃliate in Malaysia • Plan and start human • Investigated whether there were any major rights due diligence problems, including human rights issues, at our related to labor supplioverseas aﬃliates based on the RBA Code of ers Conduct and on audit standards (no major problems were found) • Planned and started due diligence related to labor suppliers • Studied a system for collaborating with the Production Planning Department (The Production Planning Department plans to perform due diligence related to labor suppliers) Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 27 Key CSR FY2019 action item Relevant Achievements & results in FY2019 themes categories SDGs Diversity • Promote the advance• Advancement of women in the workplace ment of women • Took action to increase the number of female • Implement prosenior staﬀ (assistant manager class) and grams in line with managers the Act on Promo• Interviewed candidates and their boss to tion of Women＇s increase the number of female senior staﬀ Participation and and implemented other individual measures Advancement in the (The number of persons who passed the Workplace and the promotion exam increased from the previous Act on Advanceyear after we accelerated job rotations, rement of Measures to vised work responsibilities based on qualiﬁSupport Raising cations, increased motivation through interNext-Generation views) Children • Provided training in unconscious biases to • Promote the advance100 participants and held discussions ment of non-Japanese • Took action to retain young employees and employees employees who need to care for ill or elderly • Further visualize family members overseas aﬃliate • Conducted a fact-ﬁnding study regarding the talent and promote retention ratio between male and female their development employees and identiﬁed issues • Promote the participa• Created an exit interview questionnaire and tion of the elderly used it on a trial basis • Review and shape a • Conducted a caregiver seminar (5 days and hiring policy by 285 participants in total) focusing on the • Advancement of foreigners in the workplace extension of the • Employed 16 foreign workers in Japan and retirement age abroad and held seminars at universities • Promote hiring of • Acted to develop new sources of foreign talent persons with disabili• Employed four workers using labor agents in ties by further introthe Philippines (facility work) ducing PaperLab • Joined events for locally hiring workers in A-8000 dry process Singapore and other areas, and hired two oﬃce papermaking foreigners who resided abroad systems • Developed a better picture of talent at overseas aﬃliates and promoted their development • Completed Group-wide grading, identiﬁed key personnel based on the grading, and collected information about succession plans and evaluations of potential successors • Promote the participation of seniors • Reviewed and shaped a hiring policy by focusing on the extension of the retirement age • Began reviewing hiring policies based on new legal trends, such as requiring companies to make reasonable eﬀorts to secure employment for people until the age of 70 • Expansion of employment opportunities for persons with disabilities • Created jobs for nine persons with disabilities. Jobs include creating recycled paper and business cards and performing internal printing operations using high-speed linehead inkjet multifunction printers and dry process oﬃce papermaking system PaperLabs in upcycle centers Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 28 Key CSR FY2019 action item Relevant Achievements & results in FY2019 themes categories SDGs Human re• Continue building the • Built a talent management system sources develtalent management • Facilitate job rotation through arrangements opment, hiring, system with outside organizations and the matching of and retention • Monitor the operatalent tion of the rotation • Modiﬁed the HR system to understand the system rotation results • Provide career support • Rotation results (vs. target of rotating 5% of to young workers candidates) • Study lifetime career • Leaders: 8.6% support training for • Young employees: 11.3% workers at the age • Designed the talent management system of 30 • Completed planning of lifetime career support • Continue implementtraining (LTCS30) to provide career support to ing employee motivayoung workers tion surveys and • Continue implementing employee motivation 360-degree surveys surveys and 360-degree surveys • Study a system for • Examined the survey content for strengthening using the survey results the interplay among work culture reform, work for HR measures reform, and health and productivity management 6. Materiality: Strengthen Governance Key CSR FY2019 action item Relevant Achievements & results in FY2019 themes categories SDGs Information • Implement information • Implemented information security measures security security measures • Established a grand design that sets forth • Establish a system policies related to cyber security measures and for globally respondstarted implementing measures ing to security inci• Quickly responded to an alert concerning dents Emotet malware issued by the Security Opera• Establish a response tion Center and prevented damage from plan for cyber secuspreading (Asia, Europe) rity measures and • Extended training for targeted attacks to overimplement the seas subsidiaries in addition to business sites measures in Japan (Seiko Epson, Epson Group compa• Expand the scope nies in Japan, and subsidiaries in Asia & Oceof checking busiania except China) ness partners＇ infor• Completed preparations for including 111 new mation security suppliers into the supplier evaluation program • Strengthen product from FY2020 security • Received 12 inquiries about personal data at the personal data help desk in Japan (including 6 inquiries from abroad), received no complaints about personal data • Strengthened product security • Established and began implementing vulnerability response determination guidelines, drafted a revised EQS, and established threat analysis guidelines Response to the COVID-19 • Remote work environment • After ensuring stronger information security, we improved the VPN connection environment and installed Microsoft Teams to provide workers with a remote work environment that allows them to work from home Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 29 Key CSR FY2019 action item Relevant Achievements & results in FY2019 themes categories SDGs Compliance • Introduce a compli• Implemented a global compliance program ance program to op• Introduced it to divisions. Group companies erations divisions and continued using it. divisions • Asked outside lawyers to verify the suitability of • Start operating a the compliance program and were told that the global whistleblower program was advanced, as it is aligned with system national and regional authorities＇ guidelines for • Implement education company compliance systems and training to instill • Installed a global whistleblowing system compliance awareness • Installed a whistleblowing system that can be • Improve the code system used to report potential issues involving execu• Start using the tives at overseas Group companies Epson Group Global • Conducted initiatives to instill compliance awareCode of Conduct ness • Continued organizing code systems • Started using the Epson Group Global Code of Conduct • Conﬁrmed the eﬀectiveness • There were no compliance-related issues that were subject to timely disclosure FY2020 Action Items Epson established action items for the FY2020 based on performance with respect to the 2019 action items for key CSR themes and the reception by the general public. 1. Materiality: Advance the Frontiers of Industry Relevant Key CSR themes FY2020 action item categories SDGs Business opera• Strengthen global operations under Head Oﬃce control tions aligned with • Continue promoting the Global Business Infrastructure Innovation global social trends Project • Start designing and developing systems to create Group-uniﬁed IT systems • Invest management resources in a further disciplined manner according to the economic environment and strategy eﬀectiveness • Invest resources in strategic areas (continue) • Start disclosing climate change related risks and opportunities in line with Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) recommendations • Enhance public disclosures, including about SDGs and other nonﬁnancial information, and strengthen dialog Response to the COVID-19 • Implemented crisis response operations • Strengthen business partner credit control • Take additional action to secure earnings (e.g., expenditure control) • Prepare for rebound and demand recovery • Formulate new post-pandemic business strategies that take into account external environmental changes Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 30 Relevant Key CSR themes FY2020 action item categories SDGs Creating new prod• Further accelerate collaboration and open innovation ucts and services • Establish corporate venture capital (CVC) with leading tech• Shift to a new business model nology • Continue strengthening the lineup of high-capacity ink printers, and capture the LP market by advertising value (e.g., low TCO, heat-free) and by conducting global sales promotions • Lead a rapid shift to digitization • Stimulate global sales campaigns and sell total solutions of commercial and industrial printers • Strengthen external sales of printheads by increasing their business applications • Invest management resources in robotics to accelerate the growth of robotic solutions into a core business Productivity im• Establish infrastructure for using integrated manufacturing data to provement utilizing optimize factory operations, speed up decision-making, and improve ICT the eﬃciency of indirect operations • Finish deploying a standard manufacturing system to major manufacturing sites, and strengthen collaboration between factories by deploying the system to collaborating suppliers • Accelerate the establishment of remote assistance infrastructure for mass production start-up, service, and support • Innovate the engineering chain by smoothing information exchange and cooperation among design, engineering, manufacturing, and service departments Products competi• Review production site strategies and allocation of functions in line with tiveness risk events such as natural disasters and infectious diseases • Optimize inventory by setting appropriate theoretical DOS (days of supply) values, and establish CAPDo management • Introduce an ERP (Enterprise Resources Planning) system based on the standard business processes used in production control, procurement, and logistics through the Group-wide global IT renewal project • Reduce total costs in all directions • Reform sales logistics ﬂow lines, and improve logistics competitiveness by reducing air transport Response to the COVID-19 • Re-examine business continuity management (BCM) that emphasizes risk dispersion • Strengthen the promotion of cost reduction programs Strategic marketing • Strengthen customer touch points to improve the B2B sales organization and optimize the organization for each customer and category • Revamp business models by strengthening infrastructure for solution sales • Establish global marketing techniques that take advantage of digital platforms • Execute strategic external communications to increase corporate value and support sales Response to the COVID-19 • Respond to the changes of customer behavior • Examine selling methods that accommodate a shift from face-toface, real-world communications to on-line, digital communications • Examine a remote maintenance support system and a repair organization • Use on-line advertisements, on-line promotions, and Webinars Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 31 2. Materiality: Achieve Sustainability in a Circular Economy Relevant Key CSR themes FY2020 action item categories SDGs Contributing to the • Establish a reduction scenario for achieving a science-based target and environment implement concrete reduction measures through products • SBT initiative approved targets (FY2017 is the baseline year) and services • Reduce scope 3 (categories 1 and 11) GHG emissions as a percentage of business proﬁt by 44% by FY2025 • Disclosed GHG data • Disclose data in the Integrated Report and Sustainability Report (all scopes) • Receive third-party veriﬁcation of results data and disclose the veriﬁcation results • Calculate and disclose the contribution of products to avoided emissions • Start studying the contribution of textile printers • Practice manufacturing that achieves resource recycling targets • The printer business ﬁrst implements the measures • Implement a ﬁeld survey and improvements to reduce the GHG emissions from the supply chain Eﬀective use of • Implement reduction measures to achieve the SBT targets energy and re• SBT initiative approved targets (FY2017 is the baseline year) sources • Reduce scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by 19% by FY2025 • Achieve CO2-free sites and start using locally procured electricity (completely switch to CO2-free electricity at the Head Oﬃce, Hirooka Oﬃce, and Shiojiri Plant) • Disclosed GHG data • Disclose data in the Integrated Report and Sustainability Report (all scopes) • Receive third-party veriﬁcation of results data and disclose the veriﬁClimate change and cation results (GHG emissions, energy usage, water usage) global warming • Start using a mechanism for deciding environmental investments (internal carbon pricing) • Start disclosing climate change related risks and opportunities in line with Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) recommendations • Issue green bonds and disclose the results based on the framework • Disclose the resource recycling targets for achieving the Environmental Vision 2050 and start implementing actions 3. Materiality: Improve the Quality of Products and Services Relevant Key CSR themes FY2020 action item categories SDGs Product quality and • Visiting customers directly to gather and analyze information about their communications wants and needs, closely examining customer wants by analyzing customer inquiries, using the ﬁndings to shape future products and services, and improving quality and customer satisfaction • Create an environment in which customers can conﬁdently buy genuine Epson brand products, not counterfeit goods Consumer health • Conducted product safety training worldwide and safety • Revise the content of a basic product safety online course that is meant for all employees and ensure that they complete the course • Develop human capital by providing various safety training (on functional safety, machine safety, risk assessment, etc.) and implement preemptive measures through product safety risk assessment • Ensure that product safety incidents do not reoccur in the future Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 32 4. Materiality: Strengthen Supply Chain Management Relevant Key CSR themes FY2020 action item categories SDGs Supply chain man• Establish supply chain management infrastructure to meet all obligaagement tions as a regular RBA member • Modify Procurement Guidelines in line with the revision of the RBA Code of Conduct • Obtain supplier agreements • Communicate with and educate suppliers • Check whether suppliers are observing the Procurement Guidelines (SAQ) • Help suppliers make improvements and undergo RBA audits • Achieve 100% conﬂict-free mineral procurement by exercising due diligence in accordance with the OECD due diligence guidelines • Modify forms for the conﬂict minerals survey • Hold conﬂict mineral survey brieﬁngs • Collect survey forms and follow up • Extend the scope of the survey (add items about cobalt) • In-house education (RBA & conﬂict minerals) 5. Materiality: Respect Human Rights and Promote Diversity Relevant Key CSR themes FY2020 action item categories SDGs Respecting human • Find any human rights issues based on the RBA Code of Conduct and rights audit standards, and draft improvement plans • Identify and conﬁrm issues and problems and draft improvement plans based on the ﬁndings • Identify issues using SAQs, draft improvement plans, and improve (establish an annual routine) • Improve due diligence related to labor suppliers in collaboration with the Production Planning Department • Establish Group CSR regulations (human rights and labor categories) • Involve overseas aﬃliates in an examination of the content and ﬁnalize it by the end of FY2020 Diversity • Advancement of women in the workplace • Interview candidates and their boss before promoting them to senior staﬀ and implement other individual measures (ongoing) • Provide training in unconscious biases to a wider audience • Provide career design training for women • Make a list of female management candidates, set a population target, and take action to achieve the target • Build an employee network and obtain feedback from employees (four times/year) • Advancement of foreigners in the workplace • Continue to hire foreign employees • Secure multiple sources for foreign employee hiring • Decide hiring targets in collaboration with overseas aﬃliates and take action to meet targets • Join events in universities outside Japan • Study and implement a scheme for transferring workers of overseas aﬃliates to Japan • Advance and deepen foreign talent management • Conduct personnel reviews of people in key positions at overseas aﬃliates (at least three companies) • Promote the participation of seniors • Design various elements in detail and determine the forms and areas of employment of people after sixty Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 33 Relevant Key CSR themes FY2020 action item categories SDGs • Employment of persons with disabilities • Build and deploy throughout the Group a model for employing persons with mental or developmental disabilities (in cooperation with special subsidiaries, Epson Mizube and Epson Swan) Human resources • Continue building a talent management system development, hir• Implement and entrench rotation programs (ongoing) ing, and retention • Make a list of rotation candidates and continue to try to reach the target of rotating 5% of candidates in the leader and young employee categories, respectively • Understand the details of rotation results and incorporate the information into company-wide actions • Talent management system • Design the system and draft a plan for using the system in FY2020 • Implement lifetime career support training (LTCS30) • Continued implementing employee motivation surveys and 360-degree surveys • Plan, design, and implement a new employee motivation survey (provisional name) • Develop leaders • Improve and implement leader training programs (future leader seminar, the Global Incubation Seminar, the Global Executive Seminar) 6. Materiality: Strengthen Governance Relevant Key CSR themes FY2020 action item categories SDGs Information security • Strengthen information security • Revise in-house quality standards (Epson Quality Standards) • Establish a secure development and operation regulation • Ensure customer security • Implement cyber security measures that meet industry standards (e.g., conﬁguration management, privileged account management, malware penetration prevention, system log monitoring) • Raise employee awareness about correct information handling practices • Provide all employees with training for appropriately handling information depending on the type and life cycle • Implement targeted email attack training Compliance • Continue implementing the global compliance program • Assess the situation at Group companies and divisions, and entrench a PDCA cycle through activities of Head Oﬃce supervisory departments • Revise the compliance program • Revise the program to improve system eﬀectiveness based on the results of an evaluation by outside specialists • Introduce a whistleblowing system that suppliers can use to report potential issues at overseas manufacturing aﬃliates • Introduce a system that overseas suppliers can use to report potential problems at our manufacturing aﬃliates in addition to the supplier reporting system already operating in Japan Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 34 Relation to SDGs Epson＇s Initiatives and Their Relationship to Our SDGs As stated in its Management Philosophy, Epson seeks to become an indispensable company, an ambition that Epson considers to be consistent with the realization of the sustainable development goals (SDGs) of the United Nations. In 2017, as part of this eﬀort, Epson created ＂Key CSR Themes,＂ a materiality matrix that identiﬁes important initiatives for addressing social issues. Epson examined the relationship between its initiatives and the 169 targets of the 17 SDGs to identify the SDGs that intersect with Epson＇s initiatives. Key CSR Themes and Sustainable Development Goals There are 169 targets (1.1 to 17.19) under the SDGs. The ﬁgures in the table below indicate the targets that Epson is addressing with its initiatives (as of June 2020). Key CSR Themes ESG Creating new products and services 3.6 4.1 4.2 6.3 7.3 8.2 9.4 12.2 15.1 with advanced technology 3.9 4.3 4.4 4.5 6.4 7.a 8.4 9.c 11.6 12.4 13.2 15.4 17.16 6.6 12.5 Business operations aligned 3.6 4.1 4.2 6.3 7.3 8.2 9.4 12.2 15.1 with global social trends 3.9 4.3 4.4 4.5 6.4 7.a 8.4 9.c 11.6 11.6 12.4 13.2 13.2 15.4 17.16 6.6 12.5 Productivity improvement 17.16 8.4 9.4 utilizing ICT 17.17 Product competitiveness 6.3 7.3 8.2 9.4 12.4 17.16 7.a 8.4 12.5 Strategic marketing 7.3 9.4 17.16 Eﬀective use of energy and 7.2 resources 13.2 17.17 7.3 Environment Climate change and global 7.2 warming 12.4 13.2 17.17 7.3 Contributing to the environment 6.3 12.2 15.1 15.2 through products and services 3.9 6.4 7.3 9.4 11.6 12.4 13.2 15.4 17.7 6.6 12.5 15.5 5.1 8.5 Respect for human rights 4.7 8.7 10.3 5.5 8.8 Diversity 4.7 5.5 8.5 10.2 Human resources development, 4.4 8.8 10.2 12.a hiring, and retention 4.7 Social 8.5 12.4 Supply chain management 3.9 5.1 6.3 10.2 13.1 16.4 17.17 8.7 12.5 8.8 10.3 12.6 16.5 Product quality and 16.6 12.8 communications 16.8 Consumer health and safety 12.4 16.4 Compliance Governance 16.5 Information security 16.4 Epson's initiatives Epson conﬁrmed that its initiatives support the achieveEpson aims to achieve 14 SDGs ment of the 14 SDGs below. (Please note that this matrix was mapped out in June 2019 and is subject to change depending on future business developments.) Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 35 Commitment to the SDGs Epson is using its original eﬃcient, compact, and precision technologies along with open innovation initiatives as vehicles to drive innovations that will enrich the world and make it a better place. Our goals are the same as those of the sustainable development goals (SDGs) adopted by the United Nations. To realize a better world for future generations, Epson will contribute to the achievement of the SDGs by looking hard at solutions to social issues, trying new ideas and methods to create new value, and providing surprise and delight that exceeds customer expectations. Yasunori Ogawa President and CEO Seiko Epson Corporation Registration as an SDG Partner in Nagano Prefecture Nagano Prefecture, home to Seiko Epson＇s Head Oﬃce, has launched some of the most progressive SDG initiatives in Japan. One such initiative is an SDG partner registration system. The prefecture works with business groups, ﬁnancial institutions, universities, and other supporting organizations in environmental, social, and economic areas to increase the value and competitiveness of local companies and to promote action against the SDGs among them. Seiko Epson has been working to contribute to the achievement of the SDGs since FY2017. And, together with the Nagano Prefecture government, which was selected as an ＂SDGs Future City,＂ Seiko Epson has been actively promoting the SDGs in the region. For example, we have helped to raise awareness of the SDGs among smalland medium-sized businesses in Nagano Prefecture by presenting examples of actions we have been taking and demonstrating how these actions are tied to the SDGs. We presented examples as an observer at a Regional SDGs Consortium held jointly by Nagano Prefecture and the Kanto Bureau of Economy, Trade, and Industry. We also presented examples at the Nagano Prefecture SDGs Symposium in 2019. Moreover, at Seiko Epson＇s supplier SAQ training conference in Nagano in January 2020, we invited a guest speaker from the Nagano Prefecture Department of Industry and Labor to explain to our suppliers the prefecture＇s SDG partner registration system. To synchronize our actions with those of the Nagano Prefecture government, we applied for registration as an SDG partner based on the actions we have taken to date to achieve the SDGs. A company must meet two requirements for registration: 1. It must submit a written declaration of commitment to achieving the SDGs. 2. It must take speciﬁc actions to achieve the SDGs. We met the ﬁrst requirement by declaring management policies and actions to achieve the SDGs. We met the second requirement by submitting information about speciﬁc actions being taken in each of 42 items mapped to the 17 SDGs and 169 targets. Seiko Epson was registered as a Nagano Prefecture SDG partner in July 2020. We will report our progress on the SDGs annually to the prefecture government and will contribute to the achievement of the SDGs throughout our supply chain. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 36 Building Awareness In-house Epson＇s Value Creation Story as Told Through the SDGs In October 2019, Masayuki Kawana, Seiko Epson director and then-head of the CSR Management Oﬃce, explained Epson＇s value creation story at the Value Creation Fair, an annual event for sharing technical information within the Epson Group. He explained the value creation story from the perspective of contributions to the SDGs to give employees a clearer picture of both the story and the SDGs and to enable them to use that knowledge in the development of technology. Kawana gave examples of value that Epson is providing and how that value is tied to SDG targets. He then talked to employees about the importance of contributing to the SDGs both on the job and in their daily lives. The examples highlighted how important it is for product developers to consider how customers will actually use our products. Employees were also reminded that everyone enterprise-wide has a part to play in the eﬀort to achieve the SDGs and we were shown a clear course for Epson to contribute to society through our business activities. Learning Epson＇s Value Creation Story As part of the second year of a program to instill awareness of the SDGs internally, Epson created an online course for personnel in the Epson Group in Japan. The course was designed to deepen understanding about how the SDGs are connected to every task they do. They learned in line with the value creation story how Epson is currently contributing and will continue to contribute in the future to the SDGs through the value (products and services) we provide. More than 92% of the approximately 20,000 people in our domestic operations have completed the course. Learners reported that the course gave them new insights because viewing their actions through the lens of the SDGs provides a new perspective. They are able to envision how their actions are tied to the goals and how the things they do aﬀect society. The story showed them that Epson can lead by making products that beneﬁt the world and continuing to work toward sustainability. What are Sustainable Development Goals? ＂Transforming our world: the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development＂ was adopted in 2015 at the UN Sustainable Development Summit, which was attended by more than 150 world leaders. This agenda is a plan of action for people, planet, and prosperity that includes a declaration and a set of 17 goals and 169 targets for sustainable development. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 37 CSR Communication CSR Communication Epson provides information to its stakeholders about its CSR activities. But Epson also listens to stakeholders’ views and suggestions to help formulate strategies and actions. Epson thus uses various means to maintain twoway communication with stakeholders as a way to improve the quality of its CSR activities. Conversation between Hidemitsu Sasaya and Toshiya Takahata Using the SDGs to communicate a message that resonates In August 2020, Professor Hidemitsu Sasaya of Chibashoka University and Seiko Epson Director Toshiya Takahata had an online conversation about environmental, social, and corporate governance (ESG) issues and about corporate social responsibility (CSR). Mr. Sasaya started out at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries, after which he joined Ito En, Ltd., where he engaged for many years in the promotion of social responsibility and was largely responsible for Ito En winning the SDGs Partnership Award. He is currently a professor at Chibashoka University＇s Basic Education Organization and serves as a CSR/SDG consultant. Takahata I read your book SDGs Management. I worked for many years in printer development and later in the Intellectual Property Division. The acquisition of patent, trademark, and other rights is clearly tied to business administration. How this relates to the SDGs is that patent rights are eﬀectively utilized to foster innovation. For example, we have the most patent rights in the world for piezo inkjet technology. These rights were accumulated over many years of continuous development under former president (and now chairman) Minoru Usui, who saw that this technology could beneﬁt the environment and the world. We have provided piezo technology as products and, as a result, have acquired intellectual property rights and built resilient company infrastructure. So I believe our intellectual property is contributing to SDG number 9 (Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization and foster innovation). Would you agree? Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 38 Sasaya Yes, I think so. A lot of intangible assets like patent rights, trust, technology, and networking capabilities are a product of a company＇s core values. Epson＇s uniqueness will blossom if you ensure that the core values are spoken about with one voice, embraced by all, and used as the foundation for the brand image. Once the Epson brand has blossomed, you think about how to utilize it for economic opportunities and how to capitalize on your technology. The end results is concrete products like inkjet printers and the PaperLab. I think you should use the SDGs to communicate a message about these products that resonates with people, redesign the corporate brand, increase corporate value, and communicate anew through your products the company＇s aspirations. About three years ago, Epson published a matrix that shows the relationship between key CSR themes and the SDGs. Attention to this is very likely to increase. ESG investors have begun to set benchmarks for contributions to SDGs and are now looking at targets down to the decimal point. (Epson was a trailblazer in that it even announced targets, and now other companies are following suit.) Epson＇s matrix is organized by ESG and comprehensively shows the results of analysis against all 17 goals. It is time to communicate this to the world and to see the reaction. It would be a good idea to use the ESG/SDG matrix as a tool to enhance your messaging for a redesign of the brand. Takahata In your book you write about the merchants of Omi and the concept of hasshin-gata sanpo yoshi, the idea that the beneﬁts of business activities for the customer, society, and the vendor need to be communicated. Epson has a culture that values quiet diligence and earnestness, but I want to call attention to the fact that we are doing good things. I think that we can strengthen our business by getting people to understand how products like the PaperLab and our commercial and industrial large-format printers contribute to the SDGs. By the way, we declared our support for the TCFD recommendations last October and are expanding our information disclosures. We recently provided some guidance on the direction we are headed in terms of qualitative information disclosures. I would also like to disclose more quantitative information in the future. The TCFD is still casting about for ideas on how to disclose this information, and we haven＇t found any examples of quantitative disclosures in the industry, so we＇re not sure how to move forward. Sasaya Participating in the initiative is an excellent start. But I want to see you more actively publicize the fact that you are engaging in initiatives like this. Japanese companies are still weak when it comes to publicizing. They need to clearly and boldly explain what they are doing. Companies can be a little hesitant to do so, but it is important to get as much carefully veriﬁed information out there as soon as possible. You need to watch comparable companies around the world and may sure that you keep up. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 39 Those who participate in initiatives start from where they can. Conversely, it is not necessary to even participate in initiatives. Japanese companies would rather avoid participation, but they will lose ground to European companies that do. You may already be left behind by European or Californian companies, so you have to catch up with the world as soon as possible. It is good that you started reporting qualitative information in line with TCFD recommendations. I think it＇s a good idea to go as far as possible in your disclosures while keeping an eye on the reaction of capital markets. Takahata Your words are encouraging to me. I want to take another look at publicizing what it is we want to do and what we will do once the reliability of our data has been assured. Epson is a manufacturing-based company, so we tend to be rigid about guaranteeing reliability based on facts, but I do want to get the word out. Sasaya I think it is especially important in this time of COVID-19 to communicate a message of sustainability. The Japanese government＇s SDG policies focus on (1) Society 5.0, (2) involvement in regional revitalization and digital transformation, and (3) promotion of the next generation and women's advancement. I think it would be a good idea to put the main focus on these three things from a long-term strategic perspective. Takahata I am also in charge of digital transformation (DX), so I think there are possibilities in terms of regional revitalization. Until now, Tokyo and other major metropolitan centers have been the locus of activity, but as more information becomes available with advances in areas such as web conferencing, there will be far fewer locational restrictions. When I think of it this way, I think there are still many societal issues that we can solve. When you think in terms of printer usage in education and more in terms of solving problems rather than in selling printers, you begin to see that the power of software and digital technology can be harnessed to do all kinds of things. This July, the city of Aizuwakamatsu launched a project to create a city operating system, and data is being handled from various angles. The DX Division has begun proof-of-concept testing for this. Looking at things from this angle, I would like to give traction to data-driven management, and I got a strong sense from you that this will lead to sustainability. Sasaya I＇m currently writing a book about the SDGs of local government. There are super-cities. Super cities are developing along the lines of the SDGs. ICT will be used to connect super cities as regulations are relaxed. For example, there will be deregulation in areas such as remote medical care and remote learning, data will be seamlessly connected, it will be rapidly deployed in city operating systems and will be utilized for future urban development. There is a lot of room for Epson to play an active role in this scheme. I am the executive committee chairman of the Future Town Development Forum, and I want to make super cities a theme, so if you would like to attend the forum in February next year, I hope you will use it as a chance to publicize what Epson is doing. Takahata I would love a chance to get that kind of exposure while taking action to familiarize people with Epson and what we are doing. Sasaya We hope that you will continue to make use of today＇s discussions for the further development of your company. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 40 Mr. Hidemitsu Sasaya Professor, Chibashoka University Basic Education Organization; CSR/SDGs consultant; Director of the Japan Society for Business Ethics; Director of the Global Business Society. Director of the Sustainability Japan Forum, ＂Kobayashi PR Ambassador＂, Kobayashi City, Miyazaki Prefecture; Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology Youth Experience Activity Promotion Company Award Examination Committee member; Chairman of the Future Town Development Forum Executive Committee Career Proﬁle Graduate of Tokyo University, where he studied Law 1977: Joined what is now Japan＇s Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries Studied abroad in France. Assigned to the Ministry of Foreign Aﬀairs (where he served as First Secretary of the Japanese Embassy in the US). Deputy DirectorGeneral, Japanese Ministry of Environment. Deputy Director-General, Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries. Bureau Chief, Kanto Regional Forest Oﬃce. Left civil service in 2008. 2008: Joined Ito En. 2010-2014: Director at Ito En. 2014–4/2018: Managing Executive Oﬃcer and Manager of the CSR Promotion Department. 5/2018–4/2019: Advisor to Ito En. 4/2019: Visiting professor at the Gradual School of Information & Communications 4/2020: Professor at Chibashoka University's Basic Education Organization. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 41 Event Sponsorship and Exhibition Co-Sponsor and Exhibitor at the 2020 Sustainable Brands International Forum in Yokohama*1 Epson, which co-sponsored the 2019 Sustainable Brands International Forum in Tokyo, this year served as a cosponsor of the 2020 Sustainable Brands International Forum in Yokohama, which ran from February 19-20. At a plenary session at the event, President Yasunori Ogawa (then Managing Executive Oﬃcer, CTO), took the stage for a panel discussion on innovating to solve social issues. Ogawa said, ＂ We are a technology company, and there was a time when we made technology development a priority and pursued a product-out approach. Those days are gone. Today, we ﬁrst develop a clear vision of the world as we wish it to be and then work backwards to develop technology to achieve that vision. With this approach, it is extremely important to identify how to solve social issues.＂ In wrapping up the panel discussion, he stated that there is a limit to what one company can do and that open innovation with outside partners will become even more important in the future. At the Epson booth, we showcased Epson＇s value proposition for solving social issues by demonstrating the operation of a PaperLab, which can reproduce new paper on the spot from used copy paper, and the use of projectors to create a remote oﬃce and remote classroom. *1 Sustainable Brands conferences are among the world＇s largest conferences on the subject of sustainability. Sustainable Brands was launched in 2006 in the United States under the shared recognition that embedding the idea of sustainability in business strategies is essential for enhancing corporate competitiveness and brand value. In the FY2019, SB conferences were held in 14 cities in 13 nations. Yasunori Ogawa on the stage for the CTO panel discussion An Epson employee explaining to people in the education ﬁeld at the plenary session the value proposition for a remote classroom Co-sponsor and Exhibitor at the 2019 Sustainable Brands International Forum in Seoul Epson is conducting global CSR communications through the Sustainable Brands International Forum network to help achieve social sustainability. As part of this eﬀort, Epson Korea Co., Ltd. (EKL) served as a sponsor and exhibitor at the 2019 Sustainable Brands International Conference in Seoul that was held on October 18, 2019. EKL CEO Yasuo Shibusawa, who took the platform as a speaker and panel member at the Good Supply session of the Forum, spoke passionately about the value that Epson＇s environmental programs, products, and services contribute to the solution of societal problems and to the achievement of the SDGs. EKL received valuable feedback and raised expectations during a spirited debate about achieving that value proposition among the panel members and audience. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 42 Taiwan-Japan Trade and Economic Sustainability Forum The 2019 Taiwan-Japan Trade and Economic Sustainability Forum was held in Taipei in September 2019. Attended by 390 students and representatives of Taiwanese and Japanese economic groups and enterprise, the forum oﬀered an opportunity for individuals from both sides to share their experiences and ideas for achieving the SDGs along with sustainable trade and economic growth. Following keynote addresses by representatives from Taiwanese and Japanese economic groups, Seiko Epson Director Masayuki Kawana, director of the CSR Management Oﬃce, took the stage to present a case study about new opportunities that the green trend is bringing. Kawana, in a presentation titled ＂Green Innovation: Achieving a Sustainability Society with Epson＇s Eﬃcient, Compact and Precision Technologies,＂ provided examples of how inkjet innovation and a dry process oﬃce papermaking system can help achieve SDGs by transforming any oﬃce into an eco-conscious oﬃce. In addition, Epson handed out notebooks made from paper produced by a PaperLab dry-process oﬃce papermaking system and announced that a PaperLab would be exhibited at the Circular Economy Taiwan held at the Taipei World Trade Center from September 26-28. Forum participants expressed keen interest in Epson products that contribute to the SDGs. Local Communities Discussions with Local Citizens Seiko Epson and Epson Group companies engage members of the communities in which they operate. We are working to build trust with these communities by explaining our business, environmental activities, and risk management system as well as by actively listening to their needs and issues. In June 2019, we created an opportunity to meet and talk with local oﬃcials, including the mayor of Fujimi, Nagano Prefecture, home to the Suwa Minami Plant and the Fujimi Plant. They came to our plant to see how we make 3LCD panels and to discuss actions that could beneﬁt both the community and the company. Topics ranged from the traﬃc and streetlights around the business sites to events to promote the town, invite charitable contributions via a hometown tax system, and attract new residents. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 43 Participation in External Initiatives Epson seeks to contribute to the achievement of a sustainable society through its business activities and thereby become an indispensable company. For this reason, we endorse and take part in numerous sustainability initiatives. United Nations Global Compact Epson oﬃcially joined the United Nations Global Compact on July 16, 2004, when a Letter of Commitment signed by the president of Seiko Epson was sent to and accepted by the Secretary-General of the UN. The letter expressed Seiko Epson＇s commitment to the Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labor, the environment, and anti-corruption. As a member of society, Epson takes an uncompromising approach to socially responsible corporate conduct in areas such as compliance, human rights, environmental action, workforce diversity, and supply chain management. We take these and other social issues seriously and are working toward solutions. We aspire to make Epson an indispensable company through the practice of ethical corporate conduct and by playing a central role in realizing a better world through the products and services we provide. Epson’s corporate activities Management Philosophy Principles of Corporate Behavior Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. United Nations Global Compact Principle 2: Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the eﬀective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the eﬀective abolition of child labour. Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diﬀusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Epson Confirms Commitment to United Nations Global Compact by Signing the Statement from Business Leaders for Renewed Global Cooperation Seiko Epson has reiterated its commitment to the United Nations Global Compact by signing the Statement from Business Leaders for Renewed Global Cooperation. The Statement from Business Leaders for Renewed Global Cooperation was announced as a new policy of the UN in September, and was issued to mark the 75th anniversary of the founding of the United Nations and the 20th anniversary of the United Nations Global Compact. Signatories commit to operating in a spirit of global cooperation, accountability, corporate ethics and transparency, and to upholding the following points: Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 44 • Demonstrate ethical leadership and good governance through values-based strategies, policies, operations and relationships when engaging with all stakeholders • Invest in addressing systemic inequalities and injustices through inclusive, participatory and representative decision making at all levels of our business • Partner with the UN, Government and civil society to strengthen access to justice, ensure accountability and transparency, provide legal certainty, promote equality and respect human rights In making that commitment, we also call on Governments to: • Protect human rights, ensure peace and security, and uphold the rule of law so that businesses, individuals and societies can ﬂourish • Create an enabling environment to serve the interests of people and planet, prosperity and purpose, through strengthened international cooperation and national legal frameworks • Enhance multilateralism and global governance to combat corruption, build resilience and achieve the SDGs Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) April 2019, Seiko Epson Corporation has joined Responsible Business Alliance (RBA), a global coalition dedicated to CSR in global supply chains, and strengthen CSR supply chain initiatives. RBA is a nonproﬁt comprised of companies committed to supporting the rights and wellbeing of workers and communities worldwide aﬀected by the global supply chain. As a Regular Member, Epson commits to fully supporting the vision and goals of the RBA. Responsible Minerals Initiative (RMI) Epson joined the Responsible Minerals Initiative (RMI) on April 2019. Epson is promoting responsible sourcing minerals, and fostering cooperation to promote the use of conﬂict mineral surveys in the supply chain. Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures The Financial Stability Board created the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) to promote disclosures on climate-related risks and opportunities. In June 2017, the TCFD published its recommendations (ﬁnal report), and in October 2019 Epson declared its support for those recommendations. Responding to TCFD (Please refer to page 74) Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 45 Epson Reaffirms its Commitment to COP25 Epson has reaﬃrmed its commitment to decarbonization (reducing greenhouse gas emissions) in advance of the 25th Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP25) to be held in Madrid, Spain from December 2 to 13, 2019. Society expects companies to be a driving force in mitigating the eﬀects of climate change and achieving sustainability. Epson believes that its innovations can play a major role in achieving the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) of the United Nations. Speaking in support of COP25, where the focus is on solutions to climate change, Epson global Chairman Minoru Usui (then president) commented, ＂Political and economic uncertainties are increasing, and the world is facing challenging times. I strongly believe that Epson＇s role is to help achieve global sustainability and to make the world a better place. In addition to our eco-conscious products and heat-free inkjet technology, we are combating climate change by reducing greenhouse gas emissions in production and across our value chain to help drive a transformation toward a decarbonized future. Climate change is a serious issue facing our planet and Epson is doing its utmost to address this issue. We have set targets for reducing GHG emissions in our own business activities and across the value chain to achieve the Paris agreement. These targets have been approved by the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) as being consistent with climate change science. I am happy to report that Epson is well on its way to achieving these targets.＂ Epson set targets for reducing, by 2025, its scope 1 and scope 2 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by 19% compared to FY2017. In the FY2018 ended March 2019, Epson made large strides toward achieving the target with a 15% reduction in its GHG emissions. Going forward, the company plans to achieve its target through energy-saving initiatives focused primarily on production innovations and the use of renewable electricity. CSR Europe CSR Europe is an organization that makes recommendations on guidelines and principles for the European Commission. As a leading European business network, it supports the corporate social responsibility eﬀorts of businesses, industries, governments, and NGOs. Epson Europe B.V. (EEB) joined CSR Europe in September 2017. With EEB＇s Sustainability Director holding a permanent seat on the CSR Europe Board of Directors since February 2019, Epson Europe has been a leader in the building of a global network and in the creation of guidelines and policies for sustainability and is helping to promote a sustainable future and sustainable business growth. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 46 Commitment to Customer Satisfaction Customer Commitment Approach to Customer Commitment Epson＇s CS and quality policies and organizations are designed to achieve customer satisfaction, one of the core commitments included in Epson＇s Management Philosophy. Quality Policy Epson seeks to provide products and services that earn customer satisfaction with an all-hands commitment to the quality policy below. Quality Policy 1. We will solve problems by directly observing all of our operations and processes. 2. We will quickly complete the Plan, Do, Check & Act (PDCA) cycle in all situations. 3. We will thoroughly analyze any failures, and establish procedures based on that analysis, so that mistakes are never repeated. 4. We will proactively consider our customers＇ satisfaction so they will genuinely prefer purchasing Epson products and feel conﬁdent using them. 5. We will seize the opportunity presented by customer comments and complaints to inform our decisions when designing new products. 6. We will readily report even negative information. 7. We will foster a climate in which attention is paid to even the most commonplace events. Vision for Mid-Range CS & Quality Initiatives Epson implements CS & quality programs in line with its Mid-Range CS & Quality Action Policy, which is based on its Quality Policy and that stipulates its vision for creating products and services that please customers and earn their trust. Goal Earn strong trust from customers by taking innovative approaches to improving the quality of the overall product commercialization process and quickly achieving a level of quality that exceeds customer expectations. CS & Quality Vision (Creating Customer Value) Collect feedback Customer information/ Create value resources Deliver Customers Create Products/ services Customer Produce value Deliver value Share value Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 47 Quality Assurance Program Organization Epson carries out actions to assure quality across the Epson Group. A Quality Assurance Council and project teams solve shared issues and serious problems. In addition, we manage our quality assurance programs by periodically assessing and reviewing the state of quality and the progress of actions, reporting the results to the president, and formulating and implementing policies for further improvement. Quality Assurance Program Organization Seiko Epson President Instructions & reports General administrative manager in charge of quality assurance Instructions & reports Collaboration, instructions & reports Head of quality assurance supervisory department Assessments & reports Operations division Epson Group manufacturing Epson Group sales companies companies SEC quality assurance supervisory department Chief operating oﬃcer President President Quality Assurance Council/ committees/project teams Head of quality assurance Head of quality assurance Head of quality assurance Solve important common issues Manufacturing companies managed by the operations division Collaboration Collaboration Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 48 Commitment to Customer Satisfaction Customer Commitment Pursuing Customer Satisfaction Epson undertakes various activities to provide our customers with satisfaction that exceeds their expectations through our products, services, production and sales. This is a representative example of Epson＇s activities. Epson seeks to meet the expectations of customers from the product design stage. As part of this eﬀort, our design engineers personally visit customers to listen ﬁrst-hand to their thoughts and needs. They also visit information centers to gather and analyze information on the types of problems customers may be having. Greater Work Performance and Efficiency in the Workplace SC-F2100 Series In 2013, we launched a product of a new type for Epson: a garment printer that prints on cotton fabric, such as T-shirts and tote bags. Its successor models came out in March 2018. Known as the SC-F2100 series, they oﬀer greater work performance and eﬃciency in the workplace because they incorporate customer needs that came to light in the four and a half years since the ﬁrst garment printer went on sale. ＂Garment loading is troublesome＂ Use a hoop to set Use a quick-load grip pad to set We devised a way to set garments in place with a quick-load grip pad instead of a metal hoop. This cut the loading time by about half (to about 15 seconds) and keeps garments and other fabrics from expanding. ＂ I need faster print speed ＂ The original product prioritized color expression. Print jobs began by printing two white layers to cover the color of the fabric and then printed color as the White undercoat printing process (sectional view) third layer. Color 3rd layer White 2nd layer White Color White However, market survey results showed some customers wanted the proWhite 1st layer White ductivity of faster printing while others prioritized color expression. To meet Original High-speed printing mode printing mode both needs, we developed a high-speed mode in which the ﬁrst layer is printed in white and the second in color and white simultaneously. The high-speed mode increased print speed by 33% with little loss of color expression. ＂ There should be less waiting time＂ The SC-F2000 series was designed to automatically circulate white ink every day for up to 10 minutes to prevent particles contained in white ink from settling. Sometimes the circulation process began just when the customer wanted to print, so they had to wait. We analyzed the workﬂow and found there was a 20-second interval between printing jobs (to unload the printed garment and set the next one in). We created a program to break the circulation process down into steps that run only in the intervals so customers no longer need to wait to print. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 49 ＂ Print jobs should be more attractive＂ A fabric preparation product is applied to the surface of dark fabric so that white ink will not penetrate the fabric. The product reacted with fabric dyes and made stains. People who bought garments sometimes returned them due to the stains. Other garment printer manufacturers all had the same problem. We addressed the problem by identifying a material that eﬀectively minimizes the reaction with fabric dyes and mixing it with the fabric preparation product. We tested the new fabric preparation product on more than 150 types of fabric manufactured around the world under expected usage conditions and conﬁrmed that stains became less conspicuous. Resolving Tank Refill Issues Epson＇s high-capacity ink tank printers, ﬁrst introduced in Indonesia in 2010, were being sold, by 2017, in some 150 markets, both emerging and developed. These printers have earned loyal support from customers who want to print in high volume at low cost. However, we learned by interviewing customers and talking with sales companies that users wanted better protection against ink stains and spills when reﬁlling the tanks. Issue 1 Ink could spill, splash, and stain users＇ hands when users removed a protective seal under the bottle cap and tipped the bottle. Action We eliminated the protective seal and replacing it with an airtight bottle cap and a slotted valve near the tip of the nozzle to prevent ink from splashing and dripping. Issue 2 The bottle had to be squeezed about 50 times in the roughly two minutes it took to reﬁll a tank. Action Ink bottles and printer ink tanks were redesigned to enable easy ﬁlling of each color. Users simply have to insert a bottle nozzle into an ink tank and wait about 40 seconds for the tank to ﬁll. Filling automatically stops when a tank is full. Issue 3 Ink tank Filling a tank with the wrong color of ink Action The ink bottles have a tip that is uniquely keyed for each color and can only be inserted in a tank of the same color. Ink bottles act like a key that ﬁts only into the keyhole of the correct ink tank Ink bottle Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 50 Innovating Manufacturing with New Force Sensors In creating labels for displaying products to their best advantage, there is a need to be able to design color labels with photographs and text for each product, and print them attractively at high speed, on demand. On learning of this customer requirement, Epson developed the TM-C7500 color label printer. Manufacturers, faced with labor shortages and a need to increase productivity, are rapidly automating their assembly processes with robots. However, there are still many diﬃcult, precision tasks that rely on human sensory perception and skilled workers due to task complexity, the fragility of components, and the need for ﬁne adjustments. Epson is making it possible to automate even these challenging tasks with a new series of S250 robotic force sensors. Force sensors sense the direction and magnitude of force applied to a robot end-eﬀector to precisely control robot movements. Robots that have the ability to sense force can be used to perform tasks that once relied on humans. Epson visited dozens of companies that use its robots to identify customer needs. What we found was that users wanted to automate even some of the most complex and delicate tasks. The majority of force sensors on the The S250 series of force sensors market have a ﬂexible component that elastically deforms when a force is applied to an object. Force is measured based on the degree of deformation of this component, so the sensor has to readily deform for the sensor to have a practicable level of sensitivity. The problem with sensors that readily deform under light pressure, however, is that the position of the robot end-eﬀector, which is attached forward of the force sensor, becomes unstable. Conversely, sensors that do not readily deform typically have low sensitivity and are unable to accurately measure small forces. For this reason, manufacturers have been unable to automate precision tasks that require high end-eﬀector positional accuracy and the ability to measure very small forces, such as tasks that require fragile components to be inserted in conﬁned spaces. Solving this problem required the development of a new force sensor with conﬂicting properties: minimal deformation and high sensitivity. Epson used its expertise in crystal devices, which deform very little but can still detect extremely small changes in pressure, to develop the S250 series of force sensors. These force sensors are far more sensitive than other force sensors despite extremely low deformation. The S250 series of force sensors enable robots to perform diﬃcult-to-automate tasks that in the past have always relied on humans. Examples include: High-precision assembly of fragile parts, such as tiny electronic components with bendable pins. Advanced insertion tasks in extremely narrow spaces, such as the insertion of precision components and automotive parts. Deburring, sanding, polishing and other ﬁnishing tasks that require delicate force control. Epson was uniquely positioned to develop S250 series of force sensors because it designs and manufactures crystal elements, has material analysis capabilities, and uses robots on its own manufacturing lines. Epson will continue to drive innovation in manufacturing by providing customers with smaller, lighter solutions with enhanced usability that allow users to more easily automate tasks of all kinds. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 51 The TM-C7500 Revolutionizes the Printing Environment In creating labels for displaying products to their best advantage, there is a need to be able to design color labels with photographs and text for each product, and print them attractively at high speed, on demand. On learning of this customer requirement, Epson developed the TM-C7500 color label printer. First, we sought to learn how businesses make and use labels, and ascertained what difﬁculties they encountered. For example, when making GHS (Globally Harmonized System of Classiﬁcation and Labeling of Chemicals) for chemical containers, we discovered that customers followed a two-step procedure. First they would ask an external printing contractor to make several varieties of preprinted labels showing the company logo and the red diamond for the picture symbol, in the places designated in the GHS standard. Then, using their own barcode label software, they would print barcodes, product information, and picture symbols for each chemical on the preprinted labels using a monochrome thermal label printer. As a result, we discovered that customers faced the following issues. 1. It was necessary to prepare several varieties of preprinted labels for the diﬀerent types of chemical. Also, the printing contractors imposed minimum print runs, resulting in inventory management headaches. 2. The cost of disposing of labels that became obsolete through design changes. 3. Printing the barcodes took time. Comparison of GHS Label Printing Before and After TM-C7500 Installation Before installation Two-step printing by printing company and customer Print masters Print variables in color in black Monochrome thermal Color label printer Preprinted label label printer External printing Customer company Disadvantages of two-step printing ● Storage of a large quantity of preprinted labels ● Disposal of preprinted labels due to design changes ● Preprinted labels need to be set according to type After installation On-demand color printing by customers TM-C7500 Print masters and variables in color Label paper (no preprinted label necessary) Color label printer Customer Advantages of introducing on-demand color printing ● Optimum level of label liner inventory ● No losses resulting from disposal of label paper due to design changes ● No need to change label liners Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 52 In order to solve these problems faced Example of Color Label Printing by customers, the product plan for the ZPL Print all contents at once TM-C7500 was developed with a focus Customer system on achieving color, high speed and high (no change are required) resolution, and the ability to move to an TM-C7500/C7500G environment enabling smooth, on-deWhite mand color label printing leveraging label customers＇ existing label printing environments. Write images to the TM-C7500/C7500G memory 1. To achieve color, high speed and high (such as templates and background images) resolution, the printer is equipped with PrecisionCore lineheads with print speeds of up to 300 mm per second. 2. The internal memory of the printer comes with a stock of images. Equipping the printer with a function for combining this image data with the text and other print information sent from the barcode label software signiﬁcantly reduces the volume of data sent from the barcode label software. This substantially cuts down the waiting time while data is being sent and read. 3. In order to leverage customers＇ existing label printing environments, the printer is equipped with ZPLII commands which are standard in the monochrome thermal label printing environments, and ESC/Label commands including Epson＇s proprietary commands for achieving color printing with an inkjet. 4. By working with companies that produce three types of barcode label printing software popular with customers, we incorporated the three types of software in the TM-C7500 native driver to achieve an environment that enables on-demand color label printing without customers having to change their systems. The printer is highly regarded by customers in the healthcare packaging business who have been able to simplify product identiﬁcation with highly expressive labels through high-resolution color printing with highly water and alcohol resistant pigment inks. They value the ability to cut costs through on-demand printing, reducing use of preprinted labels, as well as reducing the impact on the environment over the product life cycle. Epson will continue to revolutionize the world of label printing by delivering label printing environments that meet wider customer needs. Product Service and Support that Keeps Businesses Running Users of business printer can ﬁnd their work interrupted if their printer breaks down or if it runs out of consumables. To avoid such work interruptions, sales company Epson Taiwan Technology & Trading Ltd. (ETT) began in 2016 oﬀering business inkjet printer users a package that includes regular on-site service. This is the ﬁrst service of its kind in Taiwan＇s oﬃce printing industry. Support staﬀ members with thorough product knowledge visit customer sites to inspect and maintain their printers. They also let customers know when they can expect to run out of ink based on print use patterns. This service has sharply reduced printer breakdowns and ensures stable print quality. And since ETT is able to deliver ink before it runs out, work interruptions are far less frequent. These regular site visits are also an important opportunity to get feedback directly from users. Epson, whose products are used by customers around the world, is increasing customer satisfaction by having local sales companies provide service and support that meets local needs. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 53 Incorporating the Voice of the Customer: Quality Control Improvement in Manufacturing Processes The role of manufacturing processes is to create products that accurately reﬂect the voice of the customer captured in product plans and designs. In manufacturing processes, we build products that meet speciﬁed quality requirements. We specify a lot of quality controls for product components and processes. Quality control engineers are sent to manufacturing sites worldwide to introduce quality improvement activities so that we can strictly manage required controls at the sites and assure quality. Improvement in collaboration with an overseas We collaborate with local engineers to solve problems logically, develop the aﬃliate talents of manufacturing professionals, and improve quality at plants around the world. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 54 Commitment to Customer Satisfaction Customer Commitment Universal Design Approach to Universal Design Seiko Epson recognizes the importance of providing products and services that reﬂect universal design principles so that consumers of all ages, genders, nationalities, and abilities and so forth can use them. We try to make our products accessible to the widest possible audience by exercising the utmost care from the development stage to design products that anyone can easily use. Universal Design within Epson Internal Guidelines Epson＇s Printing Solutions Operations Division has prepared two sets of written guidelines that describe universal design and color universal design features that must be incorporated into our products and services to help ensure the widest possible product accessibility. We make sure that our products reﬂect universal design principles by using a process to verify that universal design elements are incorporated in each step of the product commercialization process, from planning and design to manufacturing. Internal Monitor Program Seiko Epson invites employees and members of their families to participate in a monitor program. Registered monitors evaluate product usability and design from an ordinary user＇s perspective. In FY2019, we had 287 registered monitors and asked them to evaluate the products prior to release, including printers, projectors, and wearables, to identify things such as product operability, visibility, and receptiveness. Some of Epson＇s Universal Design Features To enable anyone anywhere to operate our products, we decide the conﬁguration of operating panels as well as dimensions, colors, textures, and markings based on data about usage environments and usage applications. We try to maximize the ease with which each product can be handled. High-Speed Linehead Inkjet MFPs • The tilt of the control • Fin-shaped projections panel can be adjusted for on the paper output clear viewing by people in tray make it easier to wheelchairs and people pick up sheets. of any height. • Diﬀerent colors are used for internal items such as levers, instruction labels, and edge guides to increase visibility. • Components move lightly and can easily be operated with one hand. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 55 High-Capacity Ink Tank MFPs • A movable control • A unique tank inlet panel was used to and bottle spout accommodate design for each diﬀerent vantage color of ink prevents p o i n t s a n d misﬁlling. operating methods. • Easy-to-see, simple • The amount of remaining • Simply insert the spout icons make setting ink is easy to check with of an ink tank and wait paper intuitive. front-loading ink tanks for the car tridge to and ink windows that automatically ﬁnishing repel moisture. reﬁlling. No ink-stained hands, no hassles. Automatic Keystone Correction for Quick Set-Up (Business Projectors) Projectors produce vertically or horizontally distorted (＂keystone＂) images when they are set up at an oblique angle to the screen for some reason. These keystone eﬀects need to be corrected by pressing a button. Epson＇s EB-1795F business projector has one-touch image position and adjustment features that enable even novice users to eﬀortlessly align images so that they sharp and clear. By eliminating troublesome and time-consuming set-up, we have enabled anyone to smoothly prepare a projector for business meetings. Easy-to-Follow Video Manuals In 2013, Epson began uploading PCand smartphone-accessible video manuals to YouTube™ to provide Epson printer users with easyto-understand guides for using their products. First-time users of a product, even if they are used to operating earlier Epson printers or printers from other companies, can get lost even after reading the manual because of diﬃculty in intuiting or imaging new operating procedures. Providing them with a video-based simulated experience can enable them to smoothly operate their actual product and facilitate understanding of instructions in the manual. * The video above was provided using the service of YouTube™. YouTube™ is a trademark of Google Inc. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 56 Color Universal Design We are also employing color universal design*1 principles to create products, manuals, and software that are easy to use for people with various forms of color vision deﬁciency or color blindness. *1 Designs that use color in a way that enables information to be clearly conveyed to the widest possible audience, including people who see color differently (such as people with congenital color blindness, cataracts, or glaucoma). Improving Visibility with Color Universal Design Epson business printers are equipped with a color universal design function*2 hat adds underlines or textures to text that requires emphasis and that converts the colors in graphs to corresponding patterns to make them easier to distinguish for people who see color diﬀerently. *2 This technology was developed based on Epson＇s own criteria and does not guarantee visual accessibility to all. Colors on Control Panel LCDs, LED Lamps, and Buttons Large Format Printers Blue LEDs are used for power buttons, and high-brightness orange LEDs are used for warning lamps. Universal design principles are also followed for colors used for on-screen instructions. Business Inkjet Printers Epson revised the colors used for control panel buttons and lamps to ensure visual accessibility for the greatest number of people, regardless of type of color blindness. Interactive Projectors A color palette for people with partial color blindness is available for the Drawing toolbar in Whiteboard mode. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 57 Commitment to Customer Satisfaction Customer Commitment Sales/Service & Support Epson wants customers to be able to identify products that meet their needs. We always look to provide accurate, readily understandable product information and quality after-sales service so that customers can use our products with peace-of-mind. After-Sales Service for Epson PCs Epson Direct Corporation＇s support policy reads as follows: ＂Every second counts. Never make customers wait. Earn customer satisfaction and ongoing loyalty.＂ Our customers＇ work does not wait when their PC fails. Obviously a strong quality program is essential for preventing PC failures in the ﬁrst place, but when failures do occur, minimizing customer downtime becomes the top priority. We provide a one-day guarantee on repairs, during both the standard warranty period and for the extended pick-up warranty. If an Epson PC should fail during the coverage period, Epson Direct will repair it and return it the next day, weekends included. Service Personnel Skills Competition Every year since 2004, Epson Sales Japan has held a skills competition for customer engineers (CE), who provide after-sales service for Epson products in the ﬁeld. The 2019 skills competition was held on the 4th of December at the Epson Sales Japan Corp. headquarters in Tokyo, where 19 CEs from around Japan who were selected based on a screening test competed to be the top inkjet customer engineer. The CEs competed in one of two categories, the Independent Maintenance and Repair Dealer category and the Service Partner category. They were given the task of repairing an LX-10000F high-speed linehead inkjet multifunction printer and were scored on the accuracy of the repairs performed, their ability to explain operations and make recommendations according to customer needs, and their ability to report the nature of repairs in a way that is easy for customers to understand. With a crowd of observers looking on, the CEs competed at a high level, using all of the knowledge and experience they accumulated in the ﬁeld in the course of after-sales service. The competition is also attended by design engineering and quality assurance personnel, who discuss ideas with competition oﬃcials and the competing CEs to identify potential improvements and enable Epson to provide even better products and services in the future. Through the skills competition, Epson Sales Japan Corporation continues to work to improve the repair skills and the quality of CE interactions with customers, so that they can appreciate the beneﬁts of inkjet technology and good service. The winner in the Independent Maintenance Service Partner category winner and Repair Dealer category Ichiro Masumoto of Rokko Service Center Manabu Kamata of ECHNA Corporation Corporation Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 58 Epson Square Marunouchi, a Solutions Showroom Epson Square Marunouchi, a solutions showroom that opened in May 2019, consists of four zones: a business zone, a production zone, a personal zone, and a zone called epSITE. The showroom is a place where visitors can see and experience Epson＇s vision inkjet, visual, wearables, and robotics innovations. Epson Square Marunouchi showcases the latest Epson products and solutions along with actual use cases in oﬃces, stores, schools, and other usage environments. Epson Square Marunouchi Smart & Ecological Solutions For Education Active learning seeks to deepen learning by encouraging students to think broadly, interact, and actively engage in the learning process. Epson supports the education ﬁeld, which is heading toward signiﬁcant changes, by providing classroom projectors and high-speed linehead inkjet printers. Used in an interactive learning environment, our electronic blackboard projectors throw big-screen images that capture student interest and stimulate discussion. Meanwhile, our linehead inkjet printers deliver great-looking output at blazing speeds and low cost, so faculty members can create teaching materials that will draw in children. Smart & Ecological Solutions For Business Achieve a circular oﬃce by using high-speed business inkjet printers that save energy and resources and a PaperLab to make new paper from used paper. Epson will pioneer oﬃces of the future, ones that will boast high operational eﬃciency and ecological excellence. epSITE – Promoting Photography epSITE delivers information about photographic expression. Not only can visitors actually use the latest printer models to create digital prints of their own artwork, they can also exhibit them in the adjoining gallery. Visitors can attend seminars to learn all about creating great-looking prints. As technology migrates from analog to digital, epSITE will oﬀer programs that remind visitors of the unique allure of prints by giving them a chance to experience the thrill and joy that only prints can provide. Smart & ecological solutions For Education Smart & ecological solutions For Business epSITE Promoting photography Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 59 Commitment to Customer Satisfaction Customer Commitment Activities to Improve Quality Activities to Improve Quality Epson conducts activities to improve the quality of its products, services, manufacturing and sales in order to provide quality that exceeds customer expectations and earns their trust. Supplier Quality Assurance Epson internally manufactures key components such as printheads for inkjet printers. At the same time, our suppliers also provide us with many of the parts needed for manufacturing. Therefore, our quality assurance programs go beyond the Epson Group. We share our approach to quality with our suppliers and work with them to improve quality. For example, we stipulate our basic quality assurance policies and requirements in quality assurance standards, verify the quality of parts by visiting suppliers, and give them advice about ways to improve. Global Sharing of Service & Support Information Epson has built service and support organizations around the world so that our customers can use our products and services with conﬁdence. We hold an annual Epson Group Services and Support Conference that is attended by people in charge of these functions at our overseas regional sales headquarters and some sales companies. The purpose of the meeting is to improve the quality of our service and support. At the meeting, we share technical information about service and support, as well as about the use of our products and services by customers. We also review Epson Group Services and Support Meeting actions and discuss issues to formulate long-term strategies. The results of the meeting are used in our Group companies around the world. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 60 Improvement of Employee Quality Control Skills Training Epson provides quality control training to all employees so that they can help improve quality. Manufacturing personnel, engineers, and oﬃce workers separately receive training for the basics of QC ﬁrst. After that, they receive systematic training to learn the skills required to fulﬁll their duties and participate in E-kaizen programs (see below). In addition, we train and certify QC trainers at overseas production sites and certify trainers so that our overseas employees can receive the same level of training as our employees in Japan. Epson aims to develop people who are able to identify and address the root causes of problems so that we can produce and sell products and services that exceed customer expectations. Quality Control Training Program Standard QC Courses for All Employees (FY2019, Japan) Primary Intermediate Advanced Course People trained % trained QC-A course (Manufacturing) QC Introduction 413 88% Common QC QC-ABC 168 75% introduction QC-B course (Engineering) course QC-C course (Administration) Problem-solving type Licensed Quality Control Training Trainers Small QC story course Target-achievement type Number of Production group/Team QC story course Region Sites with Licensed Licensed Trainers*1 Trainers Why-Why analysis course Southeast Asia 7 companies 80 Reliability specialty course China 6 companies 61 Professional Accelerated test, Sampling test Weibull analysis of ﬁeld data *1 Number of licensed trainers as of March 31, 2020. course Quality Engineering practice course (Robustness evaluation, Parameter design, etc.) * QC-ABC courses shall be selected one or more. Kaizen Activities The entire Epson Group participates in continuous improvement activities. Called ＂E-Kaizen＂ at Epson, these activities are used by both teams and individuals to solve problems. Epson holds an annual Worldwide Team Presentations conference at which the best teams from each of four blocs (Japan, China, Southeast Asia, and Europe/America) present the results of their kaizen activities. Their accomplishments are judged, and the teams that report the most Worldwide Team Presentations conference held outstanding accomplishments are recognized with awards. In addition to in Japan sharing kaizen presentations within each bloc, Epson reports best activities in the company newsletter and on the company intranet to motivate others to learn and make their own improvements. The 2019 Worldwide Team Presentations conference was held in October, at which four teams from two companies in Japan bloc, four teams from three companies in Southeast Asia bloc, ﬁve teams from three companies in China bloc and one team in Europe and American bloc, totally 14 teams The members of the President＇s Award-winning presented their Kaizen results. Nonpolar light and shadow A team named ＂Nonpolar light and shadow＂ from Epson Engineering (Shenzhen) Ltd. came away with the top prize, the President＇s Award, for best produce condition for pixel gap of the new model. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 61 Activities to Raise Awareness November is CS & Quality Month across the global Epson Group. During the month, we review and improve our business processes from a customer satisfaction and quality standpoint. In FY2019, we used the month as an opportunity to plan the improvement of our business quality by learning about the essentials of problem-solving, raising quality awareness, and improving our problem-solving skills. One of the events for CS & Quality Month was a speech given by an SEC oﬃcer. He spoke about user requirements, the market, and the operating environment. The speech, which included numerous speciﬁc examples, helped raise awareness of the importance of both customer satisfaction and quality. A large number of employees listened to the speech, both in the main hall and at each of the 18 sites to which it was broadcast. An online training course for Epson Group employees was also oﬀered in Japan and completed by 93.6% of employees. In addition to the speech event and the online training, each of our sites and global manufacturing aﬃliates carried out their own events. We use events like these to help shape our products and services to the needs of our customers. CS & Quality Month posters (Japanese) CS & Quality Month posters (English) CS & Quality Month posters (Chinese) Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 62 Commitment to Customer Satisfaction Customer Commitment Product Safety Initiatives Approach to Product Safety Epson has established uniﬁed Epson Group regulations governing quality assurance and product safety management to help ensure that it oﬀers the same product quality to customers around the world. Our product safety and environmental compliance requirements are set forth in the Epson Quality Standard (EQS), a set of uniﬁed standards implemented across the entire Epson Group. EQS speciﬁes independent controls that we widely implement to meet or exceed legal and regulatory requirements in each country. Epson painstakingly evaluates product safety in every area and from all angles to prevent product incidents and provide our customers with safe, secure products. Process for Rapidly Responding to Product Incidents If there is an incident involving a product, an Epson sales Epson Product Incident Response Process company or market support organization immediately issues Product incident occurs The QCM system directly delivers news a preliminary report using the Epson Group＇s Quality Crisis Inquiry and reports on product incidents via IT system Management (QCM) system. Sales companies and that occur anywhere in the world to corporate market support departments headquarters, operations divisions, Entry into QCM system and the chief executive Departments are notiﬁed of the incident via the QCM sysQCM system based on signiﬁcance. tem, and the quality assurance department of the operaDelivery Delivery Delivery tions division or aﬃliated company rapidly responds by Division/Afﬁliate Chief executive quality assurance Corporate HQ Sales company analyzing the cause and planning countermeasures. The department Report Cause analysis Quality Assurance Service & Support chief executive and aﬀected departments, including those at assessment and approval Countermeasure Legal Aﬀairs Legal Aﬀairs corporate Head Oﬃce, exchange information whenever an planning Public Relations Public Relations incident occurs and, putting the needs of the customers Reporting decision Other related depts. Other related depts. ﬁrst, announce the incident to the public, provide market Issue reports, share information, respond support, and furnish outside organizations with the reports Reports Appropriate release of information & notiﬁcations & market support and notices required by all applicable laws and regulations. Outside agencies Customers Analyses to Prevent Product Incidents Electronic components procured for use in Epson products, and especially those that are crucial in terms of safety, are evaluated and analyzed to judge their quality, safety and reliability. Epson uses analytic techniques learned and honed over the years to analyze in-market safety incidents and determine root cause. The lessons learned are shared throughout the Epson Group to prevent recurrence of similar incidents. Epson has set up a combustion laboratory that enables it to conduct tests that cannot be performed in ordinary laboratories, such as tests Burning test at combustion laboratory that use ﬂames or could cause parts or products to ignite, emit smoke, or rupture. In this lab Epson analyzes the causes of incidents and researches combustion-resistant structures and materials. We use the ﬁndings from these and other tests and studies to develop standards for creating safe, secure products, therefore seeking to prevent product-related incidents. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 63 Safety Evaluations on Substances Released by Products Products can sometimes release trace amounts of chemical substances during use. Epson goes beyond simply evaluating releases of controlled substances speciﬁed under the requirements for environmental labels such as Japan＇s Eco Mark and Germany＇s Blue Angel*1, and also evaluates the level and safety of substances for which the Japanese Health, Labor and Welfare Ministry has issued indoor concentration guideline values*2. An in-house laboratory enables us to swiftly feed the ﬁndings from these evaluations back into our products. Epson seeks to deliver safe, secure printers, projectors, and other products by verifying that releases from these products meet Epson＇s strict, independent standards that exceed the rigorousness of the Health, Labor and Welfare Ministry＇s indoor concentration guideline values. Measurement of substances released by products *1 Blue Angel, introduced in Germany in 1978, is the world＇s first environmental label. *2 Indoor concentration guideline values are the levels of airborne chemical substances that are considered to be unlikely to have harmful personal health effects even if persons take in throughout life the substances at the indicated concentrations. Product Information Security Initiatives Once reserved for laser, business inkjet, and other oﬃce printers, network connectivity is now routinely provided with home inkjet printers and other consumer devices, which can be accessed via wireless LANs, smartphones, tablets, and other Wi-Fi-capable equipment. Network connectivity is a great convenience, but it also exposes users to security risks, such as cyber-attacks that could lead to the destruction of data or the theft of conﬁdential information by persons or organizations who exploit network device software vulnerabilities*3. To ensure the security of Epson products, Epson evaluates the vulnerability of embedded software, printer drivers, and other software based on information security requirements included in the Epson Quality Standard (EQS). Requirements for web services such as Epson Email Print were also included in the EQS, in 2012. *3 Software vulnerabilities are system flaws or design problems that hackers or other cyber-criminals can use to hijack a computer, network, or other information system or to steal or alter confidential information. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 64 Commitment to the Environment Epson and the Environment Environmental Vision 2050 Environmental Vision 2050 In 2008, Epson established Environmental Vision 2050, a statement of our environmental goals out to the year 2050. We began working on initiatives to achieve these goals, but the landscape has changed signiﬁcantly over the ensuing ten years. Externally, global eﬀorts to achieve sustainability are accelerating, with the United Nations adopting Sustainable Development Goals (SDG*1) and the Paris Agreement*2 charting a course toward a low-carbon society. In line with this, enterprises are being encouraged to change the way they behave to satisfy the new norms and goals. Internally, Epson has been repositioning itself to take better advantage of its strengths. We have divested ourselves of the small-to-mid size liquid crystal display and optical businesses and have been accelerating a shift away from consumer segments and toward the oﬃce, commercial, and industrial segments in search of growth. The environmental impacts and needs in these segments are much diﬀerent from those of the consumer segment. These internal and external changes have forced us to reconsider our long-term policies and revise our environmental vision. *1 International goals for a sustainable society adopted at the U.N. Sustainable Development Summit in September 2015, aimed at global issues such as climate change, poverty, and human rights. There are 17 sustainable development goals with 169 targets. *2 International framework to combat the problem of climate change. The central aim of the agreement is to keep a rise in global average temperature to below 2 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels. Environmental Vision 2050 Epson's vision is to become an indispensable company that uses its efﬁcient, compact and precision technologies to achieve sustainability in a circular economy. Actions ● Reduce the environmental impacts of our manufacturing processes, products and services. ● Advance the frontiers of industry and establish recycling systems through open and unique innovation. ● Contribute to international environmental initiatives. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 65 Environmental Vision 2050 and Mid-Term Targets Approach for Achieving Our Vision by 2050 Global action is needed to achieve sustainability, as the contribution that any one company can make by reducing the environmental impacts of its business activities is limited. Environmental Vision 2050 articulates actions for creating synergies with business partners based on our technologies, products, and services and for allowing us to play a part in creating a better world. To achieve Environmental Vision 2050, we have been setting mid-term milestone targets, while steadily working to bridge the gap needed to reach them. The Epson 25 Corporate Vision, a statement of how we want the company to be in 2025, speciﬁes goals that we arrived at by backcasting*1 from our 2050 goals. We will use our eﬃcient, compact and precision technologies in tandem with various initiatives to improve the environment performance of our products and business activities and to reduce environmental impacts across the value chain. By oﬀering products and services that enable new business processes, we aim to provide outstanding customer value in both economic and environmental terms. *1 A planning technique in which a desired outcome or goal is envisioned and planned before the scenario for achieving the outcome or goal is devised. Contribution to global environmental sustainability Environmental ing Vision 2050 c ast B ack Epson 25 Reduce environmental impacts with products & services SE15 ・Reduce the environmental impacts of our manufacturing processes, products and services. Action 2010 ・Advance the frontiers of industry and establish Action07 recycling systems through open and unique innovation. ・Contribute to international environmental initiatives. 1998 2006 2010 2015 2025 Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 66 Striving to Sustainability Epson is declaring its intent to contribute to the achievement of the SDGs through its environmental and other CSR initiatives. The SDGs are the world＇s agenda for sustainable development. There are 17 goals, such as ending poverty and hunger, ensuring peace, justice, and gender equality, and environmental and resource sustainability for future generations. All UN member states have committed to achieving these goals by 2030. Epson＇s Environmental Vision 2050 is aligned with the SDGs. We will continue to honestly address customer and societal challenges and will create unique environmental value through our business activities to help achieve the SDGs and a sustainable future. Environmental Vision 2050 Epson 25 Corporate Vision Environmental Statement Contribute to the development of a sustainable society by leveraging eﬃcient, compact and precision technologies to reduce the environmental impact of products and services across their life cycles. Epson’s SDGs from an Established environmental perspective Environmental Vision 2050 Revised Environmental Vision 2050 Global warming Societal demands Climate Resources Corporate change /waste value Depletion of Water and resources soil pollution Paris Agreement Water resources ESG investing Renewable energy Circular Economy TCFD Decarbonization Marine plastics Value chain Global Environmental Concern Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 67 Commitment to the Environment Epson and the Environment Green Bonds Green Bonds One of the actions for achievement the Environmental Vision 2050, Seiko Epson issued green bonds*1 through a public oﬀering in Japan to raise funds for projects that will contribute to the solution of environmental problems. Seventy-ﬁve investors declared their intent to invest in these green bonds. A second-party opinion was obtained from an external ESG rating company. They found that Epson＇s green bonds satisfy the requirements of Green Bond Principles 2018 published by the International Capital Market Association (ICMA) and Green Bond Guidelines, 2017, issued by the Ministry of the Environment. *1 Green bonds: Bonds issued to raise funds needed for projects that will contribute to the solution of environmental problems such as global warming. 1. Summary of Issue Seiko Epson Corporation unsecured straight bonds Instrument name (with inter-bond pari passu clause) (Green Bonds) Series 20th 21st 22nd Term to maturity 3 years 5 years 10 years Total amount of issue 10 billion yen 40 billion yen 20 billion yen Denomination 100 million yen Issue price 100 yen per face value of 100 yen Interest rate 0.020% per annum 0.230% per annum 0.450% per annum Pricing date 2020/7/10 Payment date (issue date) 2020/7/16 Redemption date 2023/7/14 2025/7/16 2030/7/16 Seiko Epson plans to allocate the bond proceeds to cash reserves, which decreased due to payments for the green bond eligible assets listed in (1) through (3) below. Proceeds will also be allocated by the end of March 2021 to the green bond eligible projects listed below in (4) through (8). Proceeds will be held as cash and cash equivalents until they are actually allocated. (1) Construction costs for a new building (Building 9) at the Hirooka Oﬃce (2) Construction costs for a new building (Building B of the Innovation Center) at the Hirooka Oﬃce Use of proceeds (3) Construction costs for factory expansion at a manufacturing subsidiary in the Philippines (4) Costs of R&D and production facilities for high-speed linehead inkjet multifunction printers for oﬃces (5) Costs of R&D and production facilities for commercial and industrial printers (6) Costs of R&D and production facilities for inkjet printers and the application of inkjet heads (7) Costs of R&D and production facilities for PaperLab and the application of Dry Fiber Technology (8) Costs of purchasing renewable energy Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 68 Seiko Epson Corporation unsecured straight bonds Instrument name (with inter-bond pari passu clause) (Green Bonds) Bond rating A (R&I) Seiko Epson established a green bond framework that is aligned with the Green Bond Principles of the International Capital Market Association and obtained a second-party opinion from rating company Sustainalytics to verify that requirements are met. In addition, Rating and Investment Information, Inc. (R&I) gave Seiko Epson＇s green bonds a GA1 rating, its highest rating, in an R&I Conformity assessment Green Bond Assessment. The external review of these green bonds is eligible for a subsidy from the Ministry of the Environment＇s FY2019 Financial Support Programme for Green Bond Issuance. 2. Third-party Conformity Assessments Seiko Epson Corporate Green Bond Framework Second Party Opinion by Sustainalytics https://global.epson.com/SR/greenbond/pdf/greenbond_framework.pdf Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 69 Commitment to the Environment Epson and the Environment 2025 Goals Epson 25 Corporate Vision Environmental Statement Contribute to the development of a sustainable society by leveraging eﬃcient, compact and precision technologies to reduce the environmental impact of products and services across their life cycles. Energy-saving, Process innovation, Optimization Epson will continue to drive improvements in the basic environmental performance of its products in addition to reducing the environmental impact of their manufacture, transportation and sales. Epson also contributes to broader environmental conservation by reducing the environmental impact of customer work processes through its unique products and to the sustainable development of its customers＇ business and society in general. Reducing Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions The 2015 Paris Agreement set a goal of keeping the increase in average global temperature to well below 2℃ above pre-industrial levels. Epson has set targets for reducing GHG emissions in the value chain to achieve this 2℃ goal as well as the goals of Epson 25. Epson＇s targets have been approved by the Science Based Targets initiative as being consistent with climate change science. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 70 GHG Reduction Targets Scope 1 Reduce scopes 1 and 2 GHG emissions by 19% by the FY2025. Scope 2 Reduce scope 3 (categories 1 and 11)*1 GHG emissions as a percentage of value added (business proﬁt) by 44% by the FY2025. Scope 3 *1 Category 1: Purchased goods and services Category 11: Use of sold products Scope 1: Direct GHG emissions from the use of fuels, etc. Scope 2: Indirect GHG emissions from purchased energy, etc. Scope 3: Indirect GHG emissions of the entire value chain Epson＇s Science-Based Targets (SBTs) Epson has set FY2025 targets for reducing direct emissions associated with its business activities (scopes 1 and 2 emissions) and for reducing indirect emissions (scope 3 emissions). To achieve these SBTs, we are working in concert with our customers and partners to provide eco-conscious products and services that will both drive business growth and increase corporate value. Initiatives to Reduce Scopes 1 and 2 Emissions Epson has launched an Epson Group-wide SBT project under which each business has selected full-time energy conservationists. Actions to reduce emissions are being explored at model sites and then shared with others to increase the likelihood that targets will be achieved. Main actions for reducing emissions • Production innovations • Investment in updated facilities and equipment such as plant infrastructure, scrubbers, and solar power systems • Purchasing low-carbon electricity and using other forms of renewable energy • Other reductions to be achieved by power utilities reducing their GHG emissions factors Renewable Energy Use Epson expects its energy use to increase as production increases in line with its long-term growth strategy. Therefore, all Epson sites and businesses are implementing energy-saving measures and increasing the use of renewable energy to achieve our SBT. In 2018, Epson decided to expand its use of renewable energy by purchasing low-carbon electricity for a new factory in Japan that is involved in the production of PrecisionCore printheads, the core device at the heart of inkjet printers. We were able to increase the rate of renewable energy use to approximately 12% and make progress in reducing the Epson Group＇s total scope 2 emissions. We achieve this primarily by entering into long-term contracts for the purchase of low-carbon electricity and by generating power on-site at our plants overseas. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 71 Carbon Pricing Carbon pricing, an instrument that captures the costs of GHG emissions across society, is seen as a way to spur action and innovation in support of lower carbon emissions. Epson prepared payback period criteria and guidelines that incorporate carbon pricing principles to evaluate (study the feasibility of) potential investments for reducing GHG emissions. They were introduced on a trial basis in FY2018 and were formally adopted in 2020. Reducing Scope 3 Emissions Intensity Contributing to the environment through products and services is cited as one of the most important of Epson＇s key CSR themes. Category 11 emissions (emissions from the use of sold products) represent the largest source of Epson＇s scope 3 emissions, followed by category 1 emissions (emissions from the production of products purchased or acquired). Under the Epson 25 Corporate Vision, we are seeking to provide environmental value and mitigate environmental impacts along with our customers. In each product category, we set targets (metrics) that are linked to product value. Ultimately, we have an ambitious goal of reducing scope 3 emissions per unit of value added that is linked to a management performance indicator. Environmental Contributions Epson＇s inkjet technology saves resources. Our printers, which do not use heat to print, draw comparatively little electricity while consumables and limited lifetime parts require only infrequent replacement. Using Epson inkjets instead of laser printers can cut users＇ electricity consumption and reduce the environmental impacts of society as a whole. Epson calculated the contribution of laser projectors compared to ﬂat panel displays in addition to business inkjet printers to avoided emissions in FY2019 to be 124,000 t-CO2e.*1 In FY2018, the Ministry of the Environment issued a call for case study presentations from manufacturers of products that avoid downstream carbon emissions. Epson answered the call and presented estimates of avoided emissions for projectors, which are Epson＇s main source of category 11 emissions. We also introduced internal programs that encourage reduction initiatives and promoted the concept of avoided emissions by using business inkjet printers as an example. The expert who critiqued the presentation lauded these initiatives as progressive and agreed that popularizing products that reduce or avoid emissions is a valid and eﬀective way to reduce emissions in society as a whole. In FY2019, Epson was one of ﬁve companies selected by the Ministry of the Environment (MoE) as a model enterprise in support of CO2 reduction planning for achieving the SBTs. The MoE provided support by observing sites and suggesting actions to reduce scope 1 and 2 emissions. Epson also received support in formulating concrete long-term reduction plans to achieve the scope 3 target. The results were presented at a joint report meeting. Moving forward, we will broaden the scope of avoided emissions calculations, upgrade the energy eﬃciency, resource eﬃciency, and overall environmental performance of our products, and contribute to reducing the environmental impacts of society as a whole. *1 Estimate of GHG emissions avoided by third parties: The emissions avoided by (1) replacing laser printers with Epson inkjet printers, (2) replacing flat panel displays with Epson laser projectors are calculated based on electricity use (flow base approach). This is different from the actual reduction amount. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 72 Climate-Related Issues: Risks & Opportunities The Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) released its ﬁnal report in June 2017. This report encourages businesses to publicly disclose their mediumto long-term risks and opportunities related to climate change as ﬁnancial information. Epson takes this as a call to develop resilient management and corporate health, able to adapt to all sorts of transitions in the face of climate change with impacts of a scope and scale we cannot predict. Epson considers the impact of climate change on business to be an important topic. We are responding to the associated risks and business opportunities. We will address risks arising from the eﬀects of things such as the power consumption of our products during their production and use. As presented in the Epson 25 Phase MidRange Business Plan, we will also expand sales opportunities by upgrading the resource and energy eﬃciency of the products and services that we provide. In addition, we see opportunity in contributing to a restructuring of industry through collaboration and open innovation and in the building of a low-carbon society. Environmental Performance Epson consumes resources and, in the process of conducting business activities across the life cycles of its products and services, emits GHGs and other emissions to the air, land, and water. We are working to assess the environmental impacts of our business activities across the value chain in an eﬀort to reduce our impacts. Material Balance (FY2019) Epson’ s Business Activities Achievements Input Output Scopes 1 & 2 GHG emissions Products shipped 201,000 t -18% Target: -19% by FY2025 Target value: Fuel Scope 1 29% 25% 479 thousand t-CO2e GHG Energy emissions 1,189,036 486 Water usage MWh thousand Target: previous year or less -2.6% t-CO2e Electric Renewable energy Scope 2 Target value: 137,997 power 75% Ground 71% 8,351 thousand ㎥ water 9% MWh Rivers Water Water 40% discharge 8,131 6,977 Waste emissions thousand m3 -2.0% thousand m3 Target: previous year or less Municipal Sewerage water Target value: 33.3 thousand t 91% 60% Waste Other Recycled water 1,527 Resin 11% 15% Raw 41% Waste materials emissions PRTR substance emissions 234 32.6 Paper thousand m3 16% -29% thousand t thousand t Target: previous year or less Recycled Target value: 3.3 t Electronic Metal 89% component 2.3 t 19% 9% Activities through PRTR substance emissions Packaging materials 33 t value chain VOC emissions 142 t VOC emissions 23,000 t 5.78 -15% Products collected Other 9% Per unit of business proﬁt*1 Target: previous year or less Transportation 6% Target value: 168 t Environmental contribution*2 Scope 3 124,000 t-CO e Capital expenditures 7% GHG emissions 2 3,024 Scope 3 GHG emissions thousand t-CO2e (Per unit of business proﬁt) Procurement of Use of Target: -44% by FY2025 raw materials products 35% 43% Increased*3 Target value: 1.90 thousand t-CO2e/100 million yen *1 Calculated as the ratio of scope 3 (Categories 1 and 11) GHG emissions to business proﬁt (Unit: thousand t-CO2e/100 million yen) *2 Estimate of GHG emissions avoided by third parties: The emissions avoided by (1) replacing laser printers with Epson inkjet printers, (2) replacing ﬂat panel display with Epson laser light source projectors are calculated based on electricity use (ﬂow base approach). This is diﬀerent from the actual reduction amount. *3 Due to a signiﬁcant decrease in business proﬁt. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 73 Commitment to the Environment Epson and the Environment Responding to TCFD Responding to TCFD Recommendations Climate change is greatly impacting society and Epson sees it as a serious social problem. The goal of the Paris Agreement is to achieve decarbonization and keep the increase in the global average temperature to below 2℃. Epson has set science-based targets (SBT) for reducing greenhouse gas emissions to help achieve this. We are taking action against climate change to reach these targets in line with the policies articulated in the value creation story, Environmental Vision 2050, and the Epson 25 Corporate Vision. Epson indicated approval of the recommendations of the Task Force on Climaterelated Financial Disclosures (TCFD) in October 2019. Epson has enhanced its disclosures (on governance, strategy, risk management, and indicators and targets) based on the TCFD framework so as to enable good communication with shareholders, investors, and a broad spectrum of other stakeholders. Scenario Analysis Findings We conducted a scenario analysis based on the TCFD framework to assess the ﬁnancial impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on Epson＇s strategy. We found that in a 2℃ scenario in which rapid progress on decarbonization is achieved, there is transition risk of higher operating costs than in a 4℃ scenario due to the imposition of policies and legal regulations. However, Epson＇s strength lies in products and services that have a lower environmental impact (e.g., consume less power and produce less waste). We conﬁrmed that these products and services match the materialities that Epson has identiﬁed-to ＂advance the frontiers of industry＂ and ＂achieve sustainability in a circular economy＂-, providing opportunities for business expansion. This expansion will help customers reduce their environmental impacts and contribute to the containment of climate change. Based on the results of these assessments, Epson will continue to try to maximize its opportunities while addressing recognized risks so as to achieve the decarbonization of the Paris Agreement, which we believe is a rational goal both for society and for Epson. On the other hand, even in a 4℃ scenario in which global warming has advanced because the world failed to take measures beyond what are currently being taken, we found that the impact of physical risks on our domestic and overseas sites due to weather extremes would be small. Governance Important matters related to climate change are supervised by Executive Organization for Climate-Related Issues the board of directors, which receives reports at least once a year from Epson＇s Corporate Strategy Council, a deliberation Board of Directors and advisory body for important management issues, including climate change, that aﬀect the Epson Group. Supervise Report [Deliberative/Advisory Bodies] Propose SEC President Corporate Strategy Council In addition, Seiko Epson＇s president and representative director, the individual who has the highest responsibility and General Administrative Manager authority for climate-related issues, delegates responsibility of Sustainability Promotion Office Submit (Director, Exective Officer) for climate-related issues to the director of the Sustainability Execution of important business Executive Organizations Promotion Oﬃce (an executive oﬃcer and board member), (Divisions, operations divisions, affiliated companies, and the director of the Sustainability Promotion Oﬃce manSustainability Promotion Office) ages climate change initiatives, including TCFD. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 74 Main Climate Change Initiatives FY2018 FY2019 FY2020 FY2021 ・ Revised Environmental ・ Declared support for TCFD ・ Qualitatively disclosed the ・ Plan to quantitatively disVision 2050 in conjunction recommendations details of initiatives based on close the details of initiatives with changes in social issues ・ Studied risks of natural dithe disclosure recommendabased on the disclosure ・ Accelerated the use of resasters caused by climate tions of the TCFD framework recommendations of the newable energy worldwide change TCFD framework Strategy Epson has determined that ＂advancing the frontiers of industry＂ and ＂achieving sustainability in a circular economy＂ are material matters in its value creation story. To achieve these, we will further reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by leveraging our eﬃcient, compact, and precision technologies to drive innovation. Scenario Analysis of Climate-Related Risks and Opportunities Epson identiﬁed and evaluated scenarios in the categories of transition risk, physical risk, and opportunity to evaluate the importance of climate-related risks and opportunities. Nine risks and opportunities were singled out for evaluation. We evaluated the business impact and ﬁnancial impact of each on the basis of the scenarios corresponding to temperature rises of 4℃ and 2℃ presented by the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) and the International Energy Agency (IEA), respectively, as well as on the basis of internal and external information. Scenario Internal information External information Causes Financial information Climate change scenario ・ Revenue ・ IPCC Evaluation ・ Expenses, etc. ・ IEA of the importance Event SBTs Hazard information of climate-related risks ・ Scopes 1 & 2 ・ National & local government ・ Scope 3 hazard maps ・ Environmental ・ International regional hazard Effects contributions information Scenario identification & Business impact by impact category evaluation (2℃ or 4℃) External information ・ Market trends Evaluation ・ Consumer trends of business impact & examination Financial impact of countermeasures (2℃ or 4℃) Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 75 Climate-Related Risks and Opportunities in a 2℃ Scenario The results of evaluating climate-related risks and opportunities based on scenario analysis are as follows. Evaluated risks & Financial Category Actualization Business impact opportunities impact Business impact • Although demand for printed information will decrease, risks will be limited because overall Middemand for paper will increase due to an inPaper demand term crease in packaging applications. (The rate of increase will lower than in the 4℃ scenario.) Concrete business impacts will be evaluated in FY2020. Market Business impact changes • Higher transportation costs due to rising crude Crude oil prices oil prices • Higher costs for procuring plastic raw materials MidModerate Transition term Dealing with risks Risk • Miniaturize products, increase their service life, Plastic raw materials and expand resource recycling • Expand the printing subscription business • Transition to solution businesses Business impact • Higher operating costs due to application of a carbon tax and rising crude oil prices Governmental Dealing with risks Mid• Reduce GHG emissions based on SBT measpolicies, laws, Zero carbon Moderate term ures regulations • Consider introducing CCUS (carbon capture, utilization, and storage) technology and BECCUS (bio-energy carbon capture utilization and storage) technology Damage to business Business impact Acute sites due to ﬂoods, • We evaluated 36 sites (17 domestic and 19 overrisk etc. seas) and concluded that future changes in Physical LongEpson＇s operational risk due to ﬂoods (overﬂowSmall Risks Damage to business term ing rivers) and tidal waves will be limited. Chronic • Short-term climate change risks to the supply sites due to rising risk chain will be addressed in line with our business sea levels continuity plans. Assumed scenarios • Paper recycling costs will increase due to rising waste paper prices and higher costs for collecting and processing conﬁdential documents. • The paper recycling practices will further advance due to higher environmental awareness, Achieve higher conﬁdentiality management awareness, a Development OpporProducts sustainability Midshift to distributed processing systems, and the of a paper Moderate tunities & services in a circular term evolution of recycling technology. cycle economy Business opportunities • Paper recycling costs will increase and the spread of paper recycling habits will increase sales opportunities for the PaperLab oﬃce papermaking systems. • Expand the paper cycle to industrial ﬁelds and create a new business model. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 76 Evaluated risks & Financial Category Actualization Business impact opportunities impact Assumed scenarios • Demand for low power consumption will increase due to the introduction of a carbon tax and Advances soaring electricity prices. of inkjet Short• Higher waste disposal costs will increase the need for products that produce less waste from Large in existing term ﬁelds consumables. Business opportunities • Sales opportunities will increase due to the cost Advance advantages of inkjet systems, which consume OpporProducts less power and produce less waste. the frontiers tunities & services of industry Assumed scenarios • The need for environmentally friendly products Advances and services will increase due to the introduction of inkjet of a carbon tax, soaring electricity prices, rising Midwaste disposal costs, sustainable production in new term amounts, and reduced resource use. application Business opportunities ﬁelds • There will be more opportunities to expand inkjet application ﬁelds due to cost advantages in all industrial ﬁelds. Actualization Short term: ≤ 10 years Medium term: 10-50 years Long term: > 50 years Business Impact Small: ≤ 1 billion yen Medium: 1-10 billion yen Large: >10 billion yen -: To be evaluated in future Risk Management As the environment in which we operate grows more complex and uncertain, eﬀectively dealing with risks that could have a signiﬁcant impact on corporate activities will be essential in order to carry out business strategies and business objectives. Epson sees climate-related issues as risks that could signiﬁcantly impact management and manages them appropriately. Climate-Related RiskIdentiﬁcation, Assessment and Management Process 1. Study 2. Identify & assess 3. Manage ・ Study risks of natural disasters caused by ・ Identify risks and opportunities from the ・ In FY2020, effectively manage risks through climate change at major sites worldwide. policies and action of Environmental Vision director and executive officers discussions, ・ Research social trends. 2050 and value creation story (Epson 25). the Corporate Strategy Council, and the ・ Evaluate scenario analysis through the Corboard of directors. porate Strategy Council and board of directors. Indicators and Targets We are actively working to reduce environmental impacts throughout the value chain by leveraging our eﬃcient, compact, and precision technologies to improve the environmental performance of our products, utilizing renewable energy, and enhancing our business activities in order to achieve ＂Environmental Vision 2050＂ and the mediumand long-term greenhouse gas (GHG) emission reduction targets validated by a joint international SBT initiative. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 77 GHG Reduction Targets Validated by the SBT Initiative Scopes 1 & 2 Reduce GHG emissions by 19% compared to FY2017 by FY2025. Reduce GHG emissions as a percentage of business proﬁt by 44% in categories 1 &11 compared to FY2017 by FY2025. Scope 3 Category 1: Purchased goods & services Category 11: Use of sold products Scope 1: Direct emissions from the use of fuel, etc., by the reporting company Scope 2: Indirect emissions from purchased energy Scope 3: Emissions from the reporting company＇s value chain Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scopes 1 & 2) Greenhouse Gas Emission (Scope 3: Categories 1 & 11) (thousand t-CO2e) (thousand t-CO2e/100 mil. yen) (thousand t-CO2e) (thousand t-CO2e/100 mil. yen) 600 592 Per unit of business profit 3.00 4,000 Per unit of business 6.00 profit 502 486 5.78 5.00 3,000 400 Scope 2 2.00 2,544 2,554 4.00 2,361 (overseas) 2,000 3.40 3.62 3.00 Category 1 200 0.79 Scope 2 (Japan) 1.00 2.00 0.71 1.19 Scope 1 1,000 (overseas) Category 11 1.00 Scope 1 (Japan) 0 0 0 0 2017 2018 2019 （FY） 2017 2018 2019 （FY） (Base year) (Base year) * CO2 conversion factor of greenhouse gas emissions Electric power: In Japan, we use the adjusted emissions factors for the load serving entities (i.e., utilities) from which our sites purchase electricity, pursuant to Load Serving Entity Emission Factors announced by the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry. Overseas, we use the country emission factors listed in IEA (International Energy Agency) or from the load serving entities from which our sites purchase electricity. Fuel: The factors announced by the IPCC in 2006 were used for both domestic and overseas data. GHGs other than CO 2: Equivalents were calculated based on 100-year GWP values in the Fifth Assessment Report of the IPCC. Renewable Energy Usage Rate (％) 15 11.6 11.6 10 Ratio of renewable energy 5 0.8 0 2017 2018 2019 (FY) * Percentage of energy from renewable source Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 78 Feature Article Solving Social Issues Through Inkjet Innovation The SDGs, Adopted Around the Globe, Demand That We Transform the World to Achieve a Better and More Sustainable Future. “We want to change the world with inkjet technology.” Propelled by this aspiration, we seek to transform methods and mentalities and to provide products, services, and production processes that have a far lower environmental impact on society, decoupling economic growth from environmental degradation. This is Epson’ s mission. Decoupling: To separate economic growth from environmental impacts and the use of natural resources; and to increase resource and environmental efficiency at every stage, from production to consumption to disposal, through technological innovation and social transformation Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 79 Feature Article Advantages of Inkjet Technology Epson s Inkjet Systems Mechanically Eject Droplets of Ink without Heating It. Since a non-contact method is used to deposit ink, Epson’ s inkjets can print on a wide range of media. And, because heat is not used, a variety of inks (substances) can be used. Characteristics of Epson Inkjet Systems PrecisionCore Micro TFP print chip Epson is deploying its state-of-the-art piezo-electric PrecisionCore printheads in printers across a wide range of categories. We want to use this technology, which can deliver value by boosting productivity while mitigating environmental impacts, to replace analog printing in every possible application. We are selling more printheads to external customers in response to the expansion of the digital printing market in the commercial and industrial sectors. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 80 Feature Article Future Outlook (Expansion in Production & Creative Areas) Inkjet-Based Manufacturing Innovations Advancing the Frontiers of Industry Through Open Innovation We believe that a sustainable world is one where all people are happy and content and where the environmental impacts that society inﬂicts are dramatically lowered. The time has come to promote the decoupling of economic growth from environmental impacts by innovating countless production processes with countless technological innovations. In other words, we must advance the frontiers of industry. Epson’ s inkjet technology has the potential to satisfy the conditions for a sustainable world. The number of potential applications for inkjet technology is growing. To expand the use of this technology in new areas and to maximize its full capabilities, Epson needs to collaborate with outside partners who share our aspirations and who have new ideas and new technologies. By combining our strengths with those of partners who have strengths in other fields, we can produce synergies and advance the frontiers of industry at a high level. Further Expanding Inkjet Applications Through Open Innovation Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 81 Feature Article State-of-the-Art Printheads The Evolution of Epson Inkjet Printheads. Epson s inkjet heads have evolved over three broad generations. PrecisionCore Head Nozzles are 0.02 mm (20 µm) in Diameter That is about 1/5th the diameter of a typical human hair. Piezo-electric inkjet heads consume little electricity and, since they are heat-free, are compatible with all manner of inks. Since 1984 Epson’ s inkjet heads have evolved across three generations to become faster, more precise, and more compact. PrecisionCore heads are the 3rd and Vibration Piezoelectric newest generation. They were achieved plate actuator by using the latest high-precision MEMS technology for everything from the ultrathin ﬁlm piezo-actuators to the nozzles. Epson's Epson was able to obtain a larger piezoelectric printheads displacement by fabricating thin-film piezo-actuators a mere 1 micrometer (1/1,000 mm) in thickness. Key Intellectual Property Epson owns a formidable number of piezo head patents around the world, and those technologies are incorporated into our heads. * Epson research as of March 10, 2020 * The number of registered piezo-type printhead patents in Japan, the U.S., China and Europe that application after April 1, 2000 Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 82 Feature Article Business Growth and Low Environmental Impact Operations launched in Building 9 at the Hirooka Office in 2018 Epson has laid a foundation for advancing the frontiers of industry by putting itself on a path toward tripling print chip production capacity and by acclerating external head sales. Building 9 Environmental Considerations • LED lighting throughout the building The latest LEDs are also used for yellow lights for semiconductor fabrication. • High-eﬃciency air-conditioning system Reduced the amount of construction materials and A variety of atrategic partners increased the eﬃciency of space use by using task and ambient air conditioning. • Low-carbon electricity used for production All of the electricity of Building 9 meets with renewable energy. Basic module for a printhead Epson Wins Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry Award at the 29th Grand Prize for Global Environment Awards Company praised for inkjet innovation to minimize environmental impact https://global.epson.com/newsroom/2020/news_20200228.html Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 83 Commitment to the Environment Epson and the Environment Global Environmental Positioning Statement ＂Better Products for a Better Future＂ encapsulates Epson＇s strong commitment to making products that are better for the environment, to help ensure a better future for us all. We will communicate this commitment as opportunities present themselves in the course of our business activities. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 84 Commitment to the Environment Epson and the Environment Life Cycle Thinking Epson deﬁnes an ＂eco-considerate＂ product as one for which environmental impacts are considered from product conception to mission completion; that is, at every phase of the life cycle, from design and manufacturing to transport, usage and recycling. Through the creation of eco-considerate products, we are cooperating with customers and business partners to expand our environmental impact mitigation eﬀorts beyond Epson＇s doors. Deliver Use Recycle Create & Reuse Choose Think Think Choose Create Design products thinking of the Use environmentally conscious Produce with a minimum of entire life cycle materials materials and energy, prevent unnecessary emissions Design for Environment Management of Chemical SubClimate Change/Realizing a De(Please refer to page 86.) stances in Products carbonized Society (Please refer to page 134.) (Please refer to page 120.) Paper Products Procurement Resources/Forming a Circular Economy (Please refer to page 224.) (Please refer to page 126.) Pollution Prevention & Chemical Management (Please refer to page 134.) Deliver Use Recycle & Reuse Transport products eﬃciently Eco-performance as customer Reuse resorces value Transport/Value Chain Products and Services that ReProduct Recycling (Please refer to page 122.) duce Environmental Impacts (Please refer to page 129.) (Please refer to page 88.) Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 85 Design for Environment The environmental impacts of a product across its life cycle, from cradle to grave, are largely determined at the planning and design-engineering stages. Epson takes a life-cycle thinking approach in eﬀorts to minimize customers＇ environmental impacts by (1) providing products that change the way they work and live, and (2) providing Think Think products that oﬀer environmental performance as a basic feature. We set concrete targets for environmental speciﬁcations that should be achieved at the product planning stage. And, we have introduced a design-for-environment (DfE) process in which we evaluate how well we did in and after the design stage. Primary Environmental Performance Features Below are some of the representative environmental performance features that we evaluate as part of our DfE process. We explore various hardware and software approaches to save energy. These can include anyEnergy thing from developing energy-eﬃcient technologies to implementing low-power product control Energy Energy Conservation Conservation Conservation systems. We strive to realize low-power products by setting and attaining concrete numeric targets several years out for each model. Epson sets concrete size and weight targets for products, since reducing these helps to signiﬁResource cantly mitigate environmental impacts, not only because fewer materials are consumed but also Resource Resource Conservation because products can be transported and warehoused more eﬃciently. We also make every Conservation Conservation eﬀort to design products so as to minimize wastes on the customer＇s end. We do this by, for example, minimizing the amount of packaging used for products and consumables or by providing new printing functions that eliminate unnecessary prints. We design our products to be easy to recycle after use. Speciﬁcally, we try to achieve a recyclaRecyclability ble rate*1 of 75% or better as estimated from product engineering drawings. Recyclability Recyclability *1 Recyclable rate: Recyclable materials as a percentage of total product weight, excluding materials used as reducing agents in blast furnaces or as fuel sources. Epson standards specify substances that are prohibited from inclusion in products and subSubstance Substance Substance stances whose inclusion must be controlled. Information on these substances is gathered in a Safety Safety Safety database to help ensure safety in all processes, from design and procurement to volume production. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 86 Design-for-Environment Framework Epson prepares internal speciﬁcations, provides evaluation tools, and develops and commercializes products in line with work standards that set forth rules and procedures. The materialization of the environmental speciﬁcations is reviewed at each step of the product＇s commercialization before it is ﬁnally sold. Eco-conscious Product Commercialization Flow (Example for the Printing Solutions Business) Business direction Customer needs Market trends Epson Our customers Life cycle thinking Mid-range roadmap Prototype, Eco-conscious products assessment, Volume Product planning Design procurement production Sales Product environmental performance information Mid-range environmental strategy Standards: -EQS Setting of environmental -Green purchasing standard for production materials speciﬁcation targets Assessment:-Product safety (environmental) evaluation -Product assessment Design for achieving environmental speciﬁcations -Life cycle assessment Final feasibility evaluation of Evaluation of environmental speciﬁcations (drawings) environmental speciﬁcations Evaluation of chemical content in procured parts Evaluation of environmental speciﬁcations (prototypes) and materials Standards • EQS (Epson Quality Standard) Includes internal standards for safety and environmental requirements that all Epson Group products and parts must meet in their design, production and procurement • Green purchasing standard for production materials Basic opinion on ＂Product Chemical Content Guarantees,＂ and written standards covering speciﬁc criteria and application, for use when purchasing production materials Evaluation • Product safety (environmental) evaluation Compliance check • Product assessment Checklists and evaluation sheets for evaluating the feasibility of individual environmental speciﬁcations during the drawing stage and experimental manufacturing stage • Life cycle assessment (LCA) Tools for quantifying environmental impacts (global warming impacts) in a product＇s life cycle and for eﬃciently and accurately identifying areas whose design should be improved Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 87 Commitment to the Environment Epson and the Environment Products and Services that Reduce Environmental Impacts The impact that one company can have on the achievement of a sustainable society is limited, but Epson is looking to make an impact and make the world a better Achievement place through products and services that support cusof a sustainable tomers＇ sustainability eﬀorts and through collaborative society action with local communities and partners. Engaging partners and communities As a manufacturer, Epson has always asked itself what it can do to achieve a sustainable society and has worked Epson actions for many years to increase the energy eﬃciency of its production processes and products, improve resource Epson Customers eﬃciency, and eliminate harmful and hazardous subcontributions stances. To make a greater contribution, we seek to drive work process innovations by minimizing the environmental impacts incurred by our customers when using Epson products and by raising operational eﬃciency and productivity. Achieving this will mean taking on new challenges to oﬀer value existing technologies cannot provide. Epson＇s answer is to use our original technologies to provide products and services oﬀer this value to our customers worldwide. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 88 Commitment to the Environment Epson and the Environment Minimizing Customer Environmental Impacts We sell products and services that transform the way our customers work. In so doing, we are minimizing their environmental impacts while also raising their operational eﬃciency and productivity. • Our innovative products and services make our customers＇ jobs and lives easier and more enjoyable while also shrinking their environmental footprints. • Our products and services enable new business processes and oﬀer outstanding economic and environmental value. Office Shrinking the Environmental Footprint of Offices with a Combination of Performance and Efficiency With built-in PrecisionCore lineheads, the WF-C21000 is a high-speed multi-function inkjet capable of print speeds up to 100 ppm (pages per minute)*1. That＇s double the output of the typical oﬃce laser printer. Enabled by Epson＇s inkjet technologies, high-speed linehead inkjet multi-function printers (MFPs) take the combination of print performance and energy eﬃciency to the next level. *1 For single-sided A4 sheets. WF-C20750: 75 ppm, WF-C20600: 60ppm WorkForce Enterprise Series (A fully conﬁgured model with staple ﬁnisher unit and high capacity paper tray) Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 89 Ideas for the Office Businesses are more sensitive than ever to environmental issues. Many try to save energy by adjusting their thermostat settings or adopting LED lighting. What they may overlook is that printers and MFPs account for about 10% of total power consumed in a typical oﬃce. We see an opportunity to help them further cut their energy use and costs. Epson inkjet printers draw very little power when printing because ink droplets are ejected by the action of piezoelectric elements that contract under only a tiny applied voltage. In contrast, laser printers require heat–and a lot of electricity–to fuse toner to paper. *2 Epson research based on data from commissioned survey conducted in March 2018 by SOMPO Risk Management & Health Care Inc. Power Consumed per Page The graph below shows the estimated energy consumed per page. The ﬁgures, which are based on typical electricity consumption (TEC) values provided by the ENERGY STAR®, may be used as a guide to compare products running at diﬀerent speeds. The graph indicates the superior energy eﬃciency of Epson WorkForce Enterprise series compared to typical A3 color laser oﬃce MFPs. Power Consumed per Page * Comparative simulation of power consumption per page. All A3 color MFPs with outputs of 45-100 ppm which is posted on energystar.gov as of July 14, 2020. Our per page calculations are based on TEC measurement. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 90 Reduces Annual Electricity Consumption WorkForce Enterprise printers are equipped with PrecisionCore Heat-Free Technology and use no heat in the printing process. That means they consume far less power than laser printers, which in turn reduces their running costs. According to the results of an independent study, WF-C20600 may consume, on average, 80% less electricity per year than comparable competing color laser multifunction printers. * Testing was commissioned by Epson and conducted by Keypoint Intelligence. Epson selected four competitor ＇s models from worldwide top four best-selling vendor** in the 45-69 ppm color laser multi-function printer class. Epson WorkForce Enterprise WF-C20600 D4TW with 60 ppm. Devices were tested in default mode as per Keypoint Intelligence＇s proprietary standard energy consumption test methods. Calculations were based on a weekday workload of 2 x 4 hours printing + 16 hours in sleep/standby mode, and weekend energy use of 48 hours in sleep/standby mode. A total of 69 pages of workload test pattern using DOC, XLS, PPT, HTML, PDF files and Outlook email messages were printed six times in each four-hour printing period. ** Source: IDC＇s Worldwide Quarterly Hardcopy Peripherals Tracker 2020Q2, Units Share by Company Recognized for Excellence in Energy Efficiency and Conservation Seiko Epson received Director-General＇s Prize, The Agency for Natural Resources and Energy for these MFPs at the FY2018 Grand Prize for Excellence in Energy Eﬃciency and Conservation (Product Category & Business Model Category) awards ceremony sponsored by the Energy Conservation Center, Japan. Among other things, these blazingly fast linehead MFPs were recognized for their high energy eﬃciency and for the infrequency with which consumables and limited lifetime parts need to be replaced. Eco Features • High-speed linehead inkjet multi-function printers enabled by Epson PrecisionCore and Heat-Free Technology take the combination of print performance and energy eﬃciency to the next level. • Epson WorkForce Enterprise series demonstrates superior energy eﬃciency than a typical A3 color laser oﬃce MFPs. WorkForce Enterprise Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 91 Changing Office Printing with Inkjet Technology Printers with the innovative high-capacity replaceable ink pack system require minimal replacement of consumables and minimal energy, saving work while reducing environmental impacts. High-capacity Ink Pack Model WorkForce Pro WF-C879R Reducing Environmental Impacts with the High-Capacity Replaceable Ink Pack System High-capacity ink packs not only reduce costs but contribute to reducing environmental impact by reducing resource consumption and minimizing waste. They also ease the burden of managing consumables replacement and help reduce downtime. * Comparison of global warming impacts of consumables and their packaging. The 200,000 page *1*2 of the WF-C879R was used as the basis for comparing consumables*3 for the Epson LP-M8170, a color laser MFP (only available in Japan). Epson calculates the total global warming impacts of consumables (material, material processing) as CO2 emissions based on Epson＇s test conditions. Figures don＇t include ink and toner, but include the effects*4 of the material recycling. CO2 emissions will vary depending on customer printer use. *1 Average life printing of this product. *2 Ink pack yields are based on ISO/IEC 24711 and ISO/IEC 24712, Epson testes in default mode printing continuously, color yields are determined by taking an average yield. *3 Numbers are calculated proportionally based on the number of pages printed. *4 Reduction of CO2 emissions due to recycling. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 92 Supporting Energy-Efficient Offices with Inkjet Printing Because inkjet printers use no heat in the printing process, they consume far less power than laser printers, which in turn reduces the running cost. Epson inkjet printers use Heat-Free Technology to deliver advanced customer benefits. Epson Heat-Free Technology does not require heat in the ink ejection process. Instead pressure is applied to the Piezo element, which ﬂexes backwards and forwards ﬁring the ink from the printhead. In contrast, other technologies work with heat. Laser printers need to heat the fuser to enable printing, for example. The fact that they do not use heat means that they use less power and produce less CO2 emissions． Offering Low User Intervention, Thanks to High-Capacity Ink Packs with a Compact Body Eco Features • High-capacity ink packs allow you to print up to 86,000 pages in mono and 50,000 pages in color*2 without replacing ink and reduce CO2 emissions by up to 94% compared to their equivalent laser printers, which consume a large number of toner cartridges and photoconductor units. • Epson Heat-Free Technology requires no heat to print consume far less energy WorkForce Pro WF-C879R than laser printers. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 93 Adding New Value to Paper Contributes to a Circulating Society The PaperLab A-8000, a dry-process oﬃce papermaking system, makes new paper from old right on-site using Dry Fiber Technology, which is characterized by waterless*1 deﬁbration. The PaperLab A-8000 was awarded the Minister＇s Prize, The Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, at the ﬁrst EcoPro Awards ceremony (formerly called the Eco-Products Awards) sponsored by the Japan Environmental Management Association for Industry (JEMAI). In addition to outstanding and innovative paper recycling technology, the PaperLab was recognized for its use in producing environmental education materials, for its use as a symbol of environmental measures, and for helping to raise awareness about resource circulation. *1 Moderate humidity is required. 1st EcoPro Awards Minister＇s Prize, the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry PaperLab A-8000 Dry-process oﬃce papermaking system Preservation of Water Resources The PaperLab A-8000 uses only about 1/100th*2 of the water it takes to make an equivalent mass of ordinary paper, thus helping to conserve the Earth＇s precious water resources. *2 Water consumption of ordinary paper includes water used in the growth of the trees that supply the virgin pulp. Ordinary paper means paper distributed in Japan. Effective Use of Forest Resources Paper is produced from wood taken from the forests, but the A-8000 spares our forests by producing new copy paper from used documents right in the oﬃce. Therefore, any paper produced by the A-8000 may be marked with the eco-label established by the 3R Promotion Forum Japan. Reduction of Life Cycle CO2 Emissions The A-8000 enables small paper recycling cycle by turning used paper into new paper right on site. Paper can be locally recycled for local consumption, producing fewer CO2 emissions across the life cycle compared to a traditional paper recycling process, when producing an equivalent mass of paper. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 94 Awareness-Raising The A-8000 reproduces paper on the spot–a fresh surprise that can raise the environmental awareness of your staﬀ and spawn further environmental action. Children who have had the opportunity to see paper recycled come away with insights and greater concern for the environment, as well as a desire to solve environmental issues with science. Internal Case Study Epson uses the A-8000 extensively to recycle and reproduce paper used on its own sites. Since 2018, this recycled paper has been used to produce orientation training materials and business documents. It is being used for calendars and employee business cards. This paper is also used for notebooks and memo pads, and we plan to further expand uses in the near future. The production of paper and paper-based goods has expanded the range of job opportunities for the staﬀ of Epson Mizube Corp., a special subsidiary that supports the employment of persons with disabilities and is involved in these activiCalendars made using ties. recycled paper Epson also uses a machine that employs dry ﬁber technology to upcycle recovered paper into waste-ink pads for inkjet printers and sound absorbing materials for the A-8000. Waste ink pads for inkjet printers (maintenance box) User Comment Beyond Direct Benefits: Raise Children＇s Awareness of the Environment The city government of Shiojiri decided to install a PaperLab after examining the potential environmental, security, and job creation benefits. We saw that we could promote environmental conservation through local recycling of used paper without stressing water resources. We saw that we could strengthen security by destroying sensitive information on-site. And we saw that we could develop employment opportunities for persons with disabilities. I personally feel that the biggest benefit is that the PaperLab can inspire children. For a resource-poor country like Japan, the development of high-productivity industries Toshiyuki Oguchi Mayor is important for the national identity. So, I think it is critical to instill in children a Shiojiri, Nagano sense of awe and excitement about technology and learning. A tangible benefit of installing PaperLab is its productivity: We are producing, on average, 18,000 new sheets of paper per month from locally recovered paper and use them to make application forms etc. This has enabled us to reduce the amount of waste paper transported off-site for disposal by 20% (FY2017 results). Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 95 Eco Features PaperLab A-8000 is an oﬃce papermaking system that recycles paper right on site using a dry process. • Contributing to the conservation of water resources with Epsonʼs unique paper recycling technology that does not use water*1. • “Paper to paper” recycling, where fresh sheets of copy paper are produced from PaperLab A-8000 used paper generated on-site, is an eﬀective way to conserve forests. • The ability to recycle at the oﬃce reduces the volume of paper that must be transported to oﬀ-site recyclers. *1 A small amount of water is used to maintain a certain level of humidity inside the system. An Eco-Conscious Office Created by Combining Inkjet Printers with an Office Papermaking System Epson is proposing eco-conscious oﬃce solutions that beneﬁt the environment. Epson wrings the maximum beneﬁt for customer from solutions that combine inkjet printers, which employ Epsonʼs proprietary Heat-Free Technology to reduce oﬃce power consumption, waste, and printing costs, with dry process oﬃce papermaking systems, which eﬃciently recycle paper to conserve water and forest resources. In addition to allowing a more environmentally friendly way to take advantage of the convenience of paper, an in-oﬃce paper recycling ecosystem delivers customer value by reducing costs and strengthening information security. The Eco-Conscious Oﬃce Center*2 on the 29th ﬂoor of Epsonʼs Shinjuku oﬃce serves as a model for a metro oﬃce building. It demonstrates to visitors that a greener oﬃce can be achieved anywhere. Over the three ﬁscal years from 2017 to 2019, Epson installed 19 PaperLabs at its eight main sites in Japan. Through the local recycling of paper for local consumption, Epson is looking to reduce the amount of new paper purchased by the Epson Group. Epson is giving potential customers a concrete idea about how they can improve their environmental performance by publicly disclosing our paper recycling operations and recycling data. *2 The goal is to reduce the annual amount of new copier paper purchased by 30% (equivalent to about 1.3 million sheets) at the Shinjuku office. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 96 Raising Meeting Productivity with Interactive Communication Epson＇s interactive projectors increase the productivity of interactive meetings, deliver more eﬀective presentations, and even contribute to a smaller environmental footprint. Interactive projector EB-1485Fi (known as the BrightLink 1485Fi in certain markets) Reduce Your Environmental Footprint with Videoconferencing Connect your existing videoconferencing system to the projector, and use the projector＇s whiteboard sharing, multilocation interactive and split-screen functions to display your videoconference on one side of the screen and your presentation on the other, to achieve virtual face-to-face collaboration. This interactive projector can reduce the need for travel and reduce your environmental footprint. Whiteboard Sharing Function • Share your whiteboard with up to 15 PCs, tablets, or sites that have a EB1485Fi. Multi-location Interactive Function • Share your PC screen with up to four locations. • Participants in all locations can annotate a presentation and save the content to their PCs. Split Screen Function • Achieve virtual face-to-face collaboration while sharing whiteboard and PC screen images. • Clearly display diﬀerent content on a split screen that measures up to 100 inches. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 97 Use as a Copyboard The all-in-one interactive projector with copyboard, electronic blackboard, and other common whiteboard functions saves both resources and installation space. Directly annotate up to 20 sheets＇ worth of projected data and images, no PC required. Increase meeting productivity and minimize printouts by saving data or by emailing it directly from the projector. Maintenance-free Light Source The laser light source is extremely reliable, eliminating the worry of lamp failure during important presentations. Energy and Resource-saving Within the projector＇s lifecycle, CO2 emissions will be the greatest during the stage in which it is used by the customer. Through product improvements, we will oﬀer reductions in the consumption of electricity and natural resources during use. Eco Features • Connect your videoconferencing system to the projector, and use the whiteboard sharing, multi-location interactive and split-screen functions to display your videoconference on one side of the screen and your presentation on the other, to achieve easy remote collaboration and reduce the need for travel. Helps to reduce your environmental footprint. • This all-in-one interactive projector includes copyboard, electronic blackboard, and EB-1485Fi other whiteboard functions to save both resources and installation space. • Projected data and images can be annotated with digital pens. Minimize printouts by saving data as is or by emailing it directly from the projector. • The laser light source is extremely reliable, eliminating the worry of lamp failure during important presentations. • Energy-saving features 〇 An illuminance sensor detects ambient brightness and automatically adjusts the output of the lamp 〇 You can reduce power consumption by as much as 29% using ECO mode Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 98 Textiles Driving Production Process Innovations with Digital Textile Printers Epson＇s digital textile printers faithfully reproduce prints in vivid colors and wonderful detail —and they do so with outstanding throughput and minimal environmental impact. Digital Textile Printer © Victoria and Albert Museum, London Monna Lisa Evo Tre*1 *1 A digital textile printer developed with Group company, Fratelli Robustelli S.r.l. Streamlined Manufacturing Process Epson’s inkjet digital textile printers expand your design possibilities while minimizing your use of energy, water, materials, and time compared to conventional processes. Digital textile printing involves the use of printing systems to print out digital data to direct to fabric. It is diﬀerent from traditional analog printing in which dedicated printing plates are pressed directly onto the fabric. Digital printing has the following characteristics: 1. Faithful reproduction of ﬁne gradations and subtle color tones 2. Since no analog plates are needed, digital textile printing saves storage space, eliminates time spent on plate management, and enables small production runs at low cost and with fast turnaround 3. Minimize the environmental impact in comparison with analog printing • Little less of dyeing material • No need for water for plate washing Comparison of Analog and Digital Textile Printing Processes Color separation, tracing Printing plate making Plate washing & storage Disposal of unnecessary dye Plate washing & storage Disposal of unneeded ink Mass production 1.5 2 months Analog textile Original design Sample printing Mass printing Post-processing Image layout Ink mixing ● Requires large quantities of energy ink making ● Complex work process ● Substantial waste Pre-processing Original design Sample printing Post-processing 3 days 2 weeks Digital textile Image layout Mass printing ● Low energy consumption ● Fewer steps ● Low environmental impact Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 99 Efficient Inventory Management Digital textile printing minimizes inventory losses associated with materials, partly-ﬁnished products, and ﬁnished products, from production through distribution and sale. Eco Features • Since the digital textile printing process is shorter and does not require printing plates, it uses less energy and water than a traditional analog process, and wastes far less ink. • Ideal for small-lot production. Minimizes inventory losses from manufacturing through to sales. MonnaLisa Evo Tre • Digital textile printer inks have acquired Eco Passport certiﬁcation, indicating that they meet international safety standard for chemical substances of textiles. An Inkjet Workflow for Brightly Colored Garments with Fineness of Detail There is a growing market for the printing of original images on T-shirts, polo shirts, tote bags and other cotton products. We are answering the needs of this market with advanced inkjet printing technology that renders images in vivid colors and intricate, faithful detail with low environmental impacts. Garment Printer SureColor SC-F2100 Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 100 Transforming the Garment Printing Workflow Traditional silk-screen printing requires extensive preparation, including the screen mask making and the mixing of ink, as well as maintenance. For photos and other multicolored prints with gradations, the print process is long, and the longer the process, the more energy, water, materials, and other resources are used. Digital prints produced with a SureColor SC-F2100 print digital data from a PC directly onto T-shirts and other garments. So, not only is there no need for screen mask making but images and photos can be reproduced with smooth gradations and in full color. The SureColor SC-F2100 shortens the garment printing workﬂow. Moreover, the inkjet process saves resources and is more environmentally conscious than analog processes because there are no ﬁlms, and screen masks, and no need to wash and store screens. Silk screen printing Create a Create Create screens Printing Dry ink Finished Store design ﬁlms for each color each color screens Direct-to-Garment printing  For light color T-shirts Create a Remove lints Directly Dry ink Finished design and smoothen print surface  For dark color T-shirts Create a PreDry liquid Directly Dry ink Finished NOTE: Heat press sold separately. design treatment print Infant-safe Prints on Textiles The UltraChrome DG inks and pretreatment liquid used in Epson＇s garment printers are Eco Passport*1 certiﬁed, indicating that they meet international safety standard for textiles. Under this standard, even printed textiles that directly contact the skin of infants and toddlers are safe. *1 Eco Passport by Oeko-Tex® is a system by which textile chemical suppliers demonstrate that their products can be used in sustainable textile production. Eco Features • Streamlined garment printing workﬂow compared to silk-screen printing. • Saves resources because no need for screen mask making, unlike traditional printing processes that require a separate ﬁlm and screen masks for each color. No washing and management required, since there are no screens. • UltraChrome DG ink and pretreatment liquid are certiﬁed of Eco Passport. SureColor SC-F2100 Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 101 Manufacturing The Value of Color on Demand Easily print full-color labels, tickets and tags where and when users need them and in the quantities required. Eliminate large inventories of pre-printed labels on demand by printing labels in short runs. Epson ColorWorks Color Label Printers Epson＇s ColorWorks Inkjet Label Printers Simplify Traditional Processes Thermal printers were traditionally used to overprint black onto pre-printed labels, but this approach can be slow, disruptive, wasteful and inconvenient. Epson＇s range of on-demand color inkjet printers eliminates these issues easily. With the ability to print customized color labels, tickets and tags in-house as and when required, users no longer have to worry about inventory, production downtime, label waste, lost orders or late shipments. Eco Features • Simplifying the traditional label printing process, improve inventory management and reduce waste. 〇 Streamline label production by printing color labels on-demand 〇 No need to keep an inventory of pre-printed labels Epson ColorWorks Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 102 Label Printing Technology Shifting from Analog to Digital The trend toward short-run print jobs has spread to labels and packages, giving rise to demand for eﬃcient printing systems that can agilely respond to this demand. Epson＇s digital inkjet label presses provide customers with a new label printing workﬂow that meets their needs. Digital Label Press SurePress L-4533A/AW An Efficient Label Printing Process with a Low Environmental Impacts A digital printing process does not need the press plates and other prepress processes required by analog printing processes. And, since a digital process does not use developer or ﬁlm or plate materials, it conserves resources. Capable of stable, consistent output, a digital process does not require mock-ups and thus can reduce the waste of ink and label substrates during setup. Digital label presses thus oﬀer both a more eﬃcient workﬂow from start to ﬁnish and lower environmental impacts. SurePress AQ Ink for a Better Printing Environment Epson＇s SurePress AQ ink is a non-toxic, low odor, and noncombustible water-based pigment ink that oﬀers print shops a better working environment. This ink also provides excellent adhesion on label substrates, without the need for pre-treatments or coatings. Eco Features • Save resources by removing the need for pre-press process like plate making, and eliminating the use of developer and ﬁlms. • Easy color-matching and no replacement of plates makes the SurePress less wasteful, and enables it to consume less standard label stock and ink. • No need for special cleaning eliminates waste ﬂuid emissions from maintenance. SurePress L-4533A/AW • Removing the need for pre-treatment, SurePress water-based ink has good adhesion on a variety of standard label stocks. Non-toxic, low odor, and noncombustible water-based pigment ink oﬀers print shops a better working environment. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 103 Reducing Environmental Impacts by Providing Remote Work Assistance with Smart Headsets Epson＇s smart headsets with binocular, see-through lenses increase operational eﬃciency and work quality by displaying digital manuals and work instructions in the ﬁeld of vision and enabling workers to perform work with both hands. In industrial settings, these headsets can be used by managers to provide remote service and maintenance personnel, for example, with instructions and assistance. MOVERIO Pro BT-2000 MOVERIO Pro BT-2200 （For helmet） Remote Work Assistance The centered high-resolution 5 mega-pixel front-facing camera, with an adjustable tilt angle of up to 35 degrees, enables workers to share their view and receive help with complex tasks through streaming or recorded HD pictures and videos. In addition to safely increasing work eﬃciency and contributing to greater overall operational eﬃciency, Epson＇s smart headsets enable skilled personnel in a remote location to provide technical instructions to workers on the ground. This helps to reduce the need for travel and, consequently, your environmental footprint. Advantages • Printed paper manuals and instructions are rendered unnecessary. • Greater work eﬃciency thanks to hands-free operation. • Tasks can be completed safely because the binocular, see-through lenses allow workers to see their surroundings through projected content. • Images and voice can be shared with workers in remote locations so that assistance can be provided eﬀectively. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 104 Usage Scenes BT-2000 Used for work where they wear caps, or where they do not need to wear anything on their head • Infrastructure (server room) • Manufacturing (assembly of oﬃce automation equipment, household appliances, vehicles, etc.) • Maintenance (large equipment such as aircraft, semiconductor manufacturing equipment) • Agriculture (technology transfer) BT-2200 Used for work where wearing a helmet is mandatory • Infrastructure (electricity, gas, water) • Manufacturing (heavy machinery, steel, robotics) • Construction, Public Works (building construction, excavations, bridges) Eco Features • The headsets are equipped with a camera and sensors that provide remote personnel with an accurate picture of the situation so that they can provide workers on the ground with instructions and assistance without having to travel, so the environmental impacts associated with travel can be reduced. The headsets also promise to reduce downtime and time losses associated with travel. BT-2000 • Hands-free operation enables tasks to be performed safely and eﬃciently, improving both operational eﬃciency and work quality. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 105 Stores Intelligent Receipt Printers that Control Peripherals TM-T88V-DT and TM-T88V-i are next-generation receipt printers with integrated printer and PC functions that support smart store operations when connected with tablet and POS peripherals. TM-T88V-DT TM-T88V-i Greatly Simplified System Configuration The TM-T88V-DT is loaded with interfaces for connectivity with a wide assortment of peripheral devices. Since it can be used with a Web browser and is not dependent on any one OS or terminal type, the TM-T88V-DT greatly simpliﬁes POS system conﬁguration. Easy Maintenance The latest applications are always available through the cloud (Web server), reducing the environmental impacts of onsite installation and updating by the service staﬀ. POS Configuration Flexibility Because the number of POS systems can be ﬂexibly changed depending on the level of demand, users can reduce the environmental impacts of their operation by removing unnecessary devices. Every Network Terminal is Available The latest power-saving smart devices can be utilized because the Intelligent receipt printer has no restrictions on the type of terminal or OS. Resource-Saving Design Contributes to resource-saving by incorporating the space-saving design of the TM series printers. It＇s footprint is approx. equal to the TM-T88V. Paper-saving features reduce paper use by up to 30%. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 106 Eco Features • Because the number of POS systems can be ﬂexibly changed depending on the level of demand, users can reduce the environmental impacts of their operation by removing unnecessary devices. • The latest applications are always available through the cloud (Web server), reducing the environmental impacts of onsite installation and updating by service staﬀ. TM-T88V-DT • The latest power-saving smart devices can be utilized because the TM-T88V-DT has no restrictions on the type of terminal or OS. • Equipped with paper-saving features that uses up to 30% less paper than the TM-T88IV. • The TM-T88V-DT contributes to resource-saving by incorporating space-saving design. TM-T88V-i Its footprint is approximately equal to that of the TM-T88V. Photo Revamping the Photo Printing Workflow with Inkjet Minilabs Epson inkjet minilabs are easier to maintain than traditional silver-halide photoﬁnishing equipment. In addition to streamlining the photo printing workﬂow, they save maintenance costs, help to mitigate resource consumption and reduce the environmental impacts of the printing process. Inkjet Minilab SureLab SL-D3000 Efficient Photo Printing with Digital Printing Silver-halide minilabs require chemical adjustment and calibration in the morning, as well as waste ﬂuid processing and cleaning at the end of the day*1. The SureLab SL-D3000 inkjet minilab, however, does not require any special maintenance at startup and shutdown. Inkjet minilabs dramatically improve the photoﬁnishers＇ work environment because, without chemicals, there is no waste liquid to be processed, no parts to be cleaned, and no chemical smell. *1 According to Epson research. Eco Features • No chemicals means no liquid waste. • No washing process means no water hookup is needed. • Compact body has a 2.1 m² installation footprint*2. SureLab SL-D3000 The compact design allows greater installation freedom. *2 Without sorter option Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 107 Commitment to the Environment Epson and the Environment Environmentally Conscious Products We provide eco-conscious products. Our eﬀorts to reduce environmental impacts are yielding products that increase production process and product energy eﬃciency, raise resource eﬃciency, and eliminate the use of harmful and hazardous substances. • Compact, lightweight, energy-eﬃcient Epson products that are designed for long life and easy recyclability have a lower environmental impact across their life cycles. • Epson produces attractive products engineered for easy maintenance and chemical safety. Inkjet Innovation High-Capacity Ink Tanks Reduce Resource Consumption for Consumables Includes ink tanks. Reduced number of ink reﬁlls, contributes to the reduction of environmental impact and allows users to experience improved business eﬃciency as they print. Create Deliver Use ET-4750/L6190 series CO2 emissions of consumables Consumables CO2 Emissions CO2 emissions are less than 1/5th of conventional cartridge model. of Consumables Consumables CO2 emissions are less than 1/5th of conventional cartridge model. Cartridge Printer 37.95 kg-CO2e WF-2630 series Ink cartridges x 436 CO2 emissions High-Capacity 5.98 kgCO2e Ink Tank Printer ET-4750/L6190 series about 84% those of cartridge printer Ink bottles x 34 * Compares CO2 emissions from raw materials, parts manufacturing, production, distribution, use by customer, and disposal for consumables to print 50,000 pages (A4, * Compares CO2 emissions from raw materials, parts manufacturing, production, distribution, use by customer, and disposal for consumables to print 50,000 pages (A4, color) in 5 years with models ET-4750/L6190 series and WF-2630 series. CO2 emissions calculated based on Epson’s evaluation conditions and will vary depending on color) use. customer printer in 5 years with models ET-4750/L6190 series and WF-2630 series. CO2 emissions calculated based on Epson＇s evaluation conditions and will vary depending on [Evaluated]customer Cartridge printer model: use. ink cartridges, packaging. High-capacity ink tank model: ink bottles, packaging. [Evaluated] Cartridge model: ink cartridges, packaging. High-capacity ink tank model: ink bottles, packaging. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 108 Eco Features • Use of ink tanks means fewer ink reﬁlls and resource consumption. In addition, it achieves low electricity consumption with Heat-Free Technology that do not use heat during printing. 〇 About 84% reduction in CO2 emissions of consumables*1 〇 TEC: 0.15 kWh*2 *1 Compared with WF-2630 series when using consumables to print 50,000 pages. *2 Typical electricity consumption (TEC) is calculated by Epson based on the ENERGY STAR® TEC test method criteria. Electricity consumption will vary according to the customer printer use. Compact, Stylish Receipt Printer A compact receipt printer suitable for tablet POS environments. It combines a compact and stylish body with environmental performance. Choose Create Use TM-m30/TM-m10 Compact & Lightweight Design Compact, lightweight POS printers to streamline your register counter. Enjoy greater installation ﬂexibility while reducing your environmental impacts. TM-T20II (2013) TM-m30 (2015) TM-m10 (2015) D: 199 mm Print speed: 200 mm/sec Print speed: 200 mm/sec Print speed: 150 mm/sec Roll size: 80/58 mm Roll size: 80/58 mm Roll size: 58 mm Volume: 4,067,560 mm3 Volume: 2,177,415 mm3 Volume: 1,165,248 mm3 W: 140 mm Weight: 1.7 kg Weight: 1.3 kg Weight: 0.9 kg 46% 71% D: 127 mm 199 smaller smaller W: 127 mm 127 W: 102 mm 102 146 135 112 D: 102 mm 140 127 102 Small footprint Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 109 Energy Saving Design Epson increased total energy-eﬃciency by developing an AC adapter, drivers, software and other features that save energy. Reduce your environmental impacts with remarkable energy performance. Paper Reduction Function Paper-saving functions: Reduce paper consumption by up to 30% with an auto-paper saving function and with optional settings that reduce the top and bottom margins of receipts. Eco Features • The sleek and stylish TM-m10 and TM-m30 receipt printers are approximately 71% and 46% smaller than Epson＇s TM-T20II, making them ideal for tablet POS environments and register counter spaces. • Equipped with a host of energy-saving features, the TM-m10 and TM-m30 consume about 81% and 78% less power than the TM-T20II.*2 • Paper-saving functions conserve resources and cut costs. *2 Comparison when connected to Ethernet (230 V) Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 110 Fully-Integrated, Feature-Rich Compact Teller Device As an all-in-one product, the TM-S9000MJ oﬀers a lower environmental impacts while also lightening the work load of tellers by eﬃciently processing checks electronically. Choose Create Deliver TM-S9000MJ Use Electronic Check Processing: The Faster, Greener Alternative Paper checks are an integral part of life in the U.S. and some other locales. In the past, banks would physically mail checks to one another for processing, but legal changes and technological advances have made electronic check processing standard. With the TMS9000MJ, Epson supports electronic check processing, which not only lightens the work load on banks but also reduces the environmental impact by eliminating the need for physical transport. ALL the Required Function in a Single Unit The TM-S9000MJ combines check scanning, endorsement and receipt printing functions in a single device. In addition to having a small footprint that saves space at the teller counter, this all-in-one device is fast and easy to use. By maximizing work eﬃciency and eliminating the need for several separate devices, the TM-S9000MJ helps save energy and resources. Eco Features • Support the digitalization of the check settlement process and also greatly reduce the environmental impacts related to physically transporting checks. • The functions necessary for the tellers are integrated in one unit, reducing the environmental impacts related to energy use, resources and so on by making separate equipment unnecessary. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 111 Visual Innovation A Projector with a Long-lasting Laser Light Source for Reduced-maintenance Operation The high-output laser light source has a long service life and helps shrink the size of the optical engine. Choose Create Use EB-L25000U Laser Light Source High-lumen projectors designed primarily for use at major events need to be extraordinarily reliable and to maintain stable brightness and image quality around the clock. These large-venue projectors are often installed on high ceilings, which can make lamp replacement troublesome and expensive. The laser light source lasts up to an estimated 20,000 hours*1, practically assuring that it will be ready to go when you are. Maintenance Period of Laser and Lamp A portion of the light from a blue laser is converted to yellow light after striking a yellow phosphor wheel. This yellow beam is then split into red and green. Thus only a single light source is needed to produce the three primary colors of light (red, green, and blue), which helps to reduce the size of the optical engine. *1 Approximate time until brightness decreases 50% from first usage. Measured by acceleration test assuming use of 0.04 0.20 mg/m 3 of particulate matter. Time varies depending on usage conditions and environments. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 112 Lightweight Yet Durable Laser light, which is less susceptible to diﬀusion than lamp light, can more readily be concentrated, meaning that the mirrors, LCD panels, and other main components in the optical engine can be made smaller and lighter. A pipe frame and baseplate structure ensure a durable, knock-resistant case. Besides being compact and light, this projector is designed to be easy to install, remove, and transport again and again. * Compared to the weight and volume of projectors with 10,000 lumens of brightness or more (per Epson research conducted in May 2017). Some projectors use a laser light source, others use a lamp. EB-L25000U wins iF Design Award 2017. Products are evaluated based on a wide range of criteria, including consideration of environmental standards, practicability, workmanship, degree of elaboration and innovation, functionality, usability, safety, aesthetics, and universal design. Scene images Eco Features • The EB-L25000U supports major events with stunning image productions and a level of reliability that only a laser light source can deliver. 〇 Equipped with a 20,000 hours long-lasting laser light source. 〇 Compact, lightweight design, improved robustness, and easy installation. Smaller, lighter mirrors, LCD panels, and other main components in the optical engine. A pipe frame and baseplate structure ensure a durable, knock-resistant case. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 113 Experience a New Way with Light and Comfortable Smart Glasses Compact and lightweight, the Moverio BT-300 is comfortable to wear, even for an extended period of time. Choose Create Use BT-300 Miniaturization of the Optical System Self-illuminating and Focused light distribution as Si-OLED technology contributes for Miniaturization of the optical system. BT-100 BT-200 BT-300 (2011) (2014) (2016) 240 g 88 g 69 g * Weight is headset only. HTPS LCD Si-OLED Backlight Seif illuminating Driver IC Focused light distribution Integrated driver IC BT-300 headset is approx. 22% lighter than BT-200, approx. 71% lighter than BT-100 Eco Features • Compact and lightweight design contributes to resource saving. 〇 Headset is approx. 22% lighter than BT-200, approx. 71% lighter than BT-100. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 114 Robotics Innovation Compact SCARA Robots Epson＇s industrial robots have led the industry for over 30 years thanks to their innovativeness and reliability. And Epson has maintained the top share of the global market for SCARA robots for nine consecutive years*1. T series have a built-in controller and batteryless motors. SCARA robot arms move horizontally and can perform simple tasks that are currently done by hand, such as loading and unloading electronic components and small automotive parts from test equipment. SCARA robots can also help you replace single-axis robots. Choose Create Deliver Use T3/T6 * The T6 has doubled the payload capacity (6 kg) of the T3. *1 Market share based on revenue and unit sales of industrial SCARA robots, 2011-2019. (Source: Fuji Keizai ＂2012 2020 Reality and Future Outlook of Worldwide Robot Market＂) Space-Saving and Simple Cabling Epson integrated all the compact, lightweight controller components into the robot arm so that customers do not need a separate controller box or a space in which to install it. In addition, you no longer have to route long cables to the controller, which simpliﬁes initial setup and redeployment. Epson LS3 SCARA robot and RC90 controller The T3 has a built-in controller * Weights indicated in the above pictures do not include cables. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 115 Saving Energy and Resources The T3 is 30% more energy-eﬃcient than conventional SCARA robots. And it runs on 100 V, so it can be used in facilities where a large power supply is not available. You do not need to replace batteries because the T3 records the back-up status of its motors by using a simple mechanical system with the latest motor technologies. Power Comparison Between a T3 and Conventional SCARA Robot LS3 1.00 kVA 100 V 200 V-240 V AC 0.66 kVA 30％ less Less T3 Battery 100 V-240 V Battery Replacement Cycle Power Every 1.5 years 0.66 kVA Consumption LS3 * Replaced four times with overhaul of six to seven years T3 Never (reduces downtime) Eco Features • Compact all-in-one SCARA robots increase productivity and save space by automating simple tasks and replacing single-axis robots. 〇 Equipped with a built-in controller to save space 〇 Run on AC 100 V, using 30% less power than comparable Epson robot systems*1 〇 No batteries required for the motor unit, thus reducing resource use, maintenance, and factory downtime *1 Compared with an Epson LS3 SCARA robot Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 116 Product Environmental Information Epson is taking steps to comply with the labeling requirements in major countries around the world. Compliance with Environmental Labels An environmental label is a tool for making environmental declarations and providing other information about a product＇s environmental features or performance. The requirements for environmental labels are prescribed by various groups, including the International Standards Organization (ISO). The ISO deﬁnes the three types of environmental labels described below. TypeⅠ Type Ⅰ Indicates that the product has met the criteria set by a certiﬁed third-party organization. Type A ＂self-declaration＂ label that indicates a company volunteers environmental information about its Type Ⅱ Ⅱ products. (Epson＇s ecology proﬁles and eco labels fall under the Type II category.) Indicates that the environmental eﬀects of a product throughout its life cycle from raw material procurement through manufacturing, distribution, use, disposal and recycling are analyzed Type Type Ⅲ Ⅲ using LCA methodology and that the results of such analyses are published as quantitative data. The accuracy and reliability of the claimed data must be veriﬁed before being made public. Eco Labels Acquired in Different Product Categories Substance Substance Safety Safety Type I Country/Region U.S. Germany Sweden China Taiwan South Korea Singapore Thailand Japan Blue China Environmental Green EcoGreen Thai Green Eco Eco Label EPEAT® TCO Angel Labelling Mark Label Label Label Mark Inkjet Printers ● ● ● ● ● ● ● (incl. MFPs) Page Printers ● ● ● ● (Laser & LED) SIDM Printers ● ● ● ● POS Printers Label Printers Scanners ● ● ● ● ● Ink/Toner (Toner (Toner ● Cartridges cartridge) cartridge) Paper ● Projectors ● ● ● ● Label Works PCs (incl. monitors) Watches ● Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 117 Type II Type III Other Country/Region Europe Japan Worldwide Japan Japan/North America China Worldwide THE ECO Epson Type II ENERGY Energy Eco Label DECLARATION PC Green Label Environmental Eco-Leaf STAR® Conservation ECO PASSPORT Labelling Program Certification Inkjet Printers ● ● ● ● ● ● (incl. MFPs) (Textile, garment) Page Printers ● ● ● (Laser & LED) SIDM Printers ● ● ● ● POS Printers ● ● ● Label Printers ● ● ● Scanners ● ● ● ● Ink/Toner Cartridges Paper Projectors ● ● ● Label Works ● PCs ● ● (incl. monitors) Watches For more on environmental labeling and environmental information on Epson products, please contact the Epson sales company in the country or region in which you live. Epson＇s Type II Environmental Labelling Program Our program is used to provide environmental information about products that is both transparent and reliable, in accordance with the ISO 14021 (JIS Q 14021) standard. We have implemented programs for both eco labels and ecology proﬁles. Eco Labels The Epson Group started preparing to use eco labels from December 2009 to communicate the environmental features of its products and services to customers in a simple and straightforward way. The labels are displayed on communication tools such as brochures, product catalogs, and individual product boxes. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 118 Epson Ecology Profiles The environmental attributes of Epson brand products are published in the form of an ＂ecology proﬁle.＂ For ﬁnished products such as printers and scanners, the environmental attributes of the product as a whole, including but not limited to accompanying packaging material, supplies, and consumables, are published in the format speciﬁed by ECMA-370*1. For electronic devices we use our own format to provide quantitative data regarding substances included in these products. *1 ECMA-370 specified requirements for environmental declarations established by the international standards organization ECMA International. ＂The Eco Declaration＂ is often abbreviated as ＂TED.＂ Safety Data Sheets for Printer Consumables To enable customers to safely and properly use Epson products, including consumable printer supplies (ink cartridges, toner cartridges, ribbon cartridges, etc.), Epson provides Safety Data Sheets (SDS), which describe a product＇s chemical content as well as how to operate, handle, and store the product. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 119 Commitment to the Environment Epson and the Environment Climate Change/Realizing a Decarbonized Society Epson is combating climate change by reducing greenhouse gas emissions in production (scopes 1 and 2) and across its value chain (scope 3) to help drive a transformation toward a decarbonized future, as envisioned by the Paris Agreement. Epson also contributes to society by developing energy saving products and further developing inkjet technology. Production Epson＇s initiatives to mitigate global warming revolve around reducing CO2 emissions by conserving energy, and reducing global emissions of greenhouse gases (GHG) other than CO2. We have an SBTi-approved target of reducing scopes 1 and 2 GHG emissions by 19% by 2025. In FY2019, we achieved an 18% reduction in GHG emissions since the FY2017 base year through site energy-saving initiatives. Some 60% of the reduction, or about 62,000 tonnes, came from boosting our percentage of renewable energy use from less than 1% to about 12% (16% from electricity). Our energy use is expected to increase as we grow our business. However, we will achieve our target primarily through energy-saving initiatives, including production innovations, as well as by using low-carbon electricity. 18% Reduction Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scopes 1 & 2) (thousand t-CO2e) Per unit of business profit (thousand t-CO2e/100 mil. yen) Scopes 1 & 2 emissions 600 592 3.00 (compared to FY2017) 544 571 502 486 400 Scope 2 (overseas) 2.00 1.19 200 0.87 0.79 Scope 2 (Japan) 1.00 0.64 0.71 Scope 1 (overseas) Scope 1 (Japan) 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) * CO2 conversion factor of greenhouse gas emissions Electric power: In Japan, we use the adjusted emissions factors for the load serving entities (i.e., utilities) from which our sites purchase electricity, pursuant to Load Serving Entity Emission Factors announced by the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry. Overseas, we use the country emission factors listed in IEA (International Energy Agency) or from the load serving entities from which our sites purchase electricity. Fuel: The factors announced by the IPCC in 2006 were used for both domestic and overseas data. GHGs other than CO2: Equivalents were calculated based on 100-year GWP values in the Fifth Assessment Report of the IPCC. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 120 Energy Usage (GWh) Ratio of renewable energy (%) 1,200 1,168 1,184 1,189 RE (overseas) 15 1,080 1,120 RE (Japan) 1,000 11.6 11.6 Energy (overseas) 10 800 600 400 5 Energy (Japan) 200 0.8 0.5 0.5 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) * RE: Renewable Electricity * Percentage of energy from renewable source Use of Renewable Energy Globally About 78% of Epson＇s GHG emissions come from the consumption of electricity. At home and abroad, we have increased the ratio of renewable electricity to 16% by selecting the optimal low-carbon electricity in each region, such as hydropower and wind power, and by actively investing in on-site electricity generation. Scopes 1 & 2 Breakdown and Electricity Condition (renewable or non-renewable) (Emissions: t-CO2e base) (Usage: MWh base) Other 22% 22% 2% 14% 0.1% Overseas 43% GHG emissions Renewable from electricity 40% electricity 78% 16% 38% Electricity Japan 78% 57% Japan Overseas Renewable Outside Japan, we already use renewable energy for the electricity used in production sites in the United Kingdom and the United States (Portland) and head oﬃce buildings of sales companies in Europe (Germany, Italy, Spain, Netherlands, and the France). Besides those, a new factory in Thailand features a large array of solar panels and is preparing to start operating them. Epson purchases 100 GWh of CO2-free electric power annually for use in Nagano Prefecture, the location of the majority of Epson＇s business facilities in Japan. Eﬀective from April 2020, 60% of this will be from local sources in Nagano. This is both reducing Epson＇s GHG emissions and increasing local consumption of locally produced energy. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 121 Support for Recommendations to Expand the Use of Renewable Energy The use of renewable energy (energy from natural sources) is one of the most eﬀective ways to reduce GHG emissions. Accordingly, Epson is implementing plans to expand its use of renewable energy long-term. However, there are obstacles to expanding renewable energy use, including costs and supply limitations in some regions. Recognizing that there is nothing one company alone can do about these obstacles, Epson decided to declare its support for the important policy recommendations below as one solution. The realization of these recommendations will make it easier to take actions that minimize the impact on future climate change. Coordinated global action is essential to combat climate change. We at Epson will therefore continue our eﬀorts toward decarbonization, including by supporting future such recommendations. Secretariats • Renewable Energy Institute Renerable Energy Institute • CDP Worldwide-Japan https://www.renewable-ei.org/en/activities/information/20200819.php • WWF Japan Recommendations Making Japan a Nation where Renewable Electricity is Easily Accessed: Three Strategies and Nine Policies Sought by Corporations Engaged in Climate Action Transport/Value Chain Value Chain Initiatives Epson is proactively working to reduce the direct and indirect emissions associated with its business and production activities (scopes 1 and 2 emissions). However, it is indirect emissions that occur in the value chain (scope 3 emissions) that account for the vast majority of Epson＇s GHG emissions. The lion＇s share of scope 3 emissions are emissions during the use of our products (category 11: use of sold products) and emissions associated with the procurement of raw materials (category 1: purchased goods and services). Therefore, Epson has incorporated these two categories in its SBT (science-based target). As the company grows, emissions are expected to increase. Therefore, to ensure that these indicators are useful, we are focusing on reducing emissions as a percentage of business proﬁt as we work to achieve growth and increase corporate value. In FY2019, we reduced our category 1 and category 11 GHG emissions, but our emissions per unit of business proﬁt increased due to a signiﬁcant decrease in business proﬁt. Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Value Chain FY2019 GHG Emissions Breakdown of Scope 3 Emissions Use of products 43％ Scope 2 Scope 3 Procurement 363 (10%) 3,024 (87%) of raw materials Scope 1 35％ 122 (3%) Other 9％ Capital expenditures Transportation 7％ 6％ (Unit: thousand t-CO2e) Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 122 Increased *1 Greenhouse Gas Emission (Scope 3: Categories 1 & 11) (thousand t-CO2e) (thousand t-CO2e/100 mil. yen) Scope 3 emissions per unit of business profit 4,000 Per unit of business 5.78 6.00 profit (compared to FY2017) 5.00 *1 Due to a significant decrease in 3,000 business profit 2,544 2,554 4.00 2,361 3.40 3.62 3.00 2,000 Category 1 2.00 1,000 Category 11 1.00 0 0 2017 2018 2019 (FY) * Coverage of science-based target, Category 1: Purchased goods and services, Category 11: Use of sold products Logistics Initiatives Epson is reducing GHG emissions by increasing the eﬃciency of product, part, and waste transportation. We are making products smaller (which increases shipping eﬃciency), rethinking our logistics centers, innovating the loading and packing processes (to boost loading eﬃciency), and reconsidering shipment departure and arrival frequencies and number of trips. Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Distribution (Scope 3: Category 4) (thousand t-CO2e) (thousand t-CO2e/100 mil. yen) 300 Per unit of business profit 0.60 0.50 225 0.44 195 201 0.40 200 181 167 0.30 0.30 0.29 0.30 0.20 100 0.20 Category 4 0.10 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) * Category 4: Upstream transportation and distribution Cooperation with Suppliers Epson and its suppliers can help address societal challenges and achieve sustainability by aligning their approach to supply chain CSR. Supply Chain Environmental Initiatives (Please refer to page 216) Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 123 Case study Transport Epson has manufacturing sites and sales centers in all parts of the world making environmentally-conscious transportation an important consideration. Here we present examples of such environmentally-conscious transportation initiatives in which we introduced high cube containers*1 and changed our shipping method. *1 With a height of 9 ft 6 in (about 2.6 m), they are 1 ft (about 30 cm) taller than standard containers, whose height is 8 feet 6 inches (about 2.3 m). Topic 1: Improving Transport Efficiency with High Cube Containers Currently, high cube containers account for about 70% of shipping containers in the marketplace. Hitherto, Epson has used the standard type of container for shipping products from its factories, but with the widespread adoption of high cube containers, we are gradually making the switch. Since the inner dimensions of the containers are higher, palletizing products for standard containers resulted in wasted space amounting to about 10%. Optimizing the pallets for high cube containers reduces the number of containers required, contributing to reducing environmental impact by raising transportation eﬃciency. Says Koyuru Naito, in charge of logistics planning, who led the initiative, ＂All of our arrangements including the number of products shipped and the height of the pallet racks in our warehouses were optimized for pallet sizes to ﬁt standard containers. In order to introduce high cube containers, it was necessary to ask for the cooperation of the warehouse managers at sales companies who receive the containers. We had to ask them to review the layout of their warehouses, optimize the method of stacking and so on. We had a very hard time adjusting the cost factors, but a shared awareness that this would reduce our environmental impact Koyuru Naito was a very important point in undertaking this activity.＂ For shipments from Southeast Asia, where many of Epson＇s ﬁnished products are manufactured, the switch to high cube containers for all areas of Europe was completed in ﬁscal 2011 and in ﬁscal 2015 for the U.S., Brazil and India. Comparison of Standard and High Cube Containers 40 ft Standard containers 40 ft High cube containers Advantages Container size (LWH) 12,033 x 2,352 x 2,393 mm 12,033 x 2,352 x 2,698 mm 1 ft (30 cm) up Cubic capacity 67.7 m³ 76.4 m³ 12.9% up Case of WF-2650 Series Packaging dimensions 488 x 434 x 301 mm Pallet dimensions 976 x 1,302 x 2,108 mm 976 x 1,302 x 2,409 mm 1 additional layer Number of units per pallet 42 units 48 units 14.3% up Number of units per container 882 units 1,008 units Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 124 Results of Switching Containers for Shipping to the U.S. 654 t-CO2 Reduction CO2 emissions * We have calculated the reductions in CO2 emissions emitted when transporting containers by cargo ship, train and truck from our manufacturing affiliates in Southeast Asia, as a result of reducing the number of containers shipped to the U.S. by about 200. The unit indicator by the Japan Ship Technology Research Association is used for calculating emissions during sea transport. Topic 2: Reduced Environmental Impact by Changing Printhead Shipping Previously, printheads for shipping to our printer manufacturing sites in Indonesia were gathered from our plants around Japan at Tohoku Epson in Yamagata Prefecture and transported by truck to Narita Airport for air transportation. By establishing a sea transportation pipeline from Sakata Port, which is located conveniently about 8 km from Tohoku Epson, we signiﬁcantly reduced our costs and CO2 emissions. Containers shipped overseas from Sakata Port CO2 Reductions Due to Changing the Shipping Method (Unit: t-CO2) Before After Distance CO2 emissions Distance CO2 emissions 89% Land Approx. 500 km 33.9 Approx. 8 km 0.5 Down!! Down!! Air Approx. 5,800 km 401.3 CO2 emissions Sea Approx. 6,200 km 47.7 Total 435.2 48.2 * We calculated the CO2 emissions from shipping a 20-foot container from Tohoku Epson to Indonesia＇s capital, Jakarta. The unit indicator by the Japan Ship Technology Research Association is used for calculating emissions during sea transport. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 125 Commitment to the Environment Epson and the Environment Resources/Forming a Circular Economy To contribute to the formation of a circular economy in which waste is minimized, Epson is working to reduce emissions and preserve water resources in its production processes. Epson is also promoting the eﬃcient use of limited resources by making products smaller and lighter, by collecting and recycling end-of-life products, and by developing digital inkjet printing solutions. Reduction of Waste (zero emissions) Epson is working toward zero emissions by reducing generated business waste and recycling. Wastes are generated in our production processes, oﬃces, and operations. Wherever possible, we reduce, reuse, and recycle these wastes on-site. Plastic runners from molding processes are recycled, for example. The remaining wastes, including valuable wastes, are recycled by a contractor. We carefully sort and separate wastes and select the best available recycling methods and contractors for each type. We will continue to reduce wastes and to work for general improvement in waste processing methods, including by allying with recyclers. To help combat pollution from oceanic plastic wastes, Epson sales companies in Europe banned disposable cups and other single-use plastics in their oﬃce buildings in April 2019. In the FY2019 we employed control metrics benchmarked against previous year emissions, and we met our Group reduction target. Waste Emissions 2.0% Reduction (thousand t) (t/100 mil. yen) Wastes emissions (compared to FY2018) 50 100 Per unit of business profit 79 40 80 34 33 33 Waste (overseas) 31 30 28 Waste (Japan) 60 47 47 46 Recycled (overseas) 20 33 40 10 20 Recycled (Japan) 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) * Waste emissions data includes special wastes that cannot be recycled and wastes that are unrelated to production. * Amounts of FY2018 differ from those in Sustainability Report 2019. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 126 Preservation of Water Resources Water and climate change, as well as other environmental factors, are closely linked. Epson＇s business activities rely on water resources, and the sustainability of water resources substantially aﬀects business continuity. Given this, we are working to preserve water resources by avoiding unnecessary contamination and use, and by recycling the water we do use. We actively strive to increase the rate of industrial wastewater that is recycled in our production processes and to meet strict water quality standards. We are also mitigating our overall environmental impacts, including by introducing more energy eﬃcient water processing facilities. Our eﬀorts extend beyond the water used in our production processes. We ensure that all employees have access to safe drinking water, as well as sanitary kitchens and restroom facilities. Moreover, we make our employees aware of the importance of saving water and preventing water pollution, and we install water-saving ﬁxtures and sanitation facilities. In the FY2019 we employed control metrics benchmarked against previous year usage, and we met our Group reduction target. Water Usage 2.6% Reduction (thousand m³) (thousand m³/100 mil. yen) Water usage (compared to FY2018) 10,000 Per unit of business profit 30 8,324 8,351 8,131 8,000 7,717 7,906 19.9 Overseas 20 6,000 12.0 11.9 4,000 11.1 9.1 10 Japan 2,000 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) Recycled Water (thousand m³) (%) 2,000 Recycled Ratio 25 1,504 1,526 1,548 1,527 20 1,500 1,344 16 16 16 15 15 15 1,000 10 500 5 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) * Past data was revised due to changing the calculation method of recycling ratio. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 127 Addressing Water Related Risk The water-related risks of Epson＇s production sites were assessed using two global standard tools for water risk assessments: Aqueduct, developed by the World Resources Institute (WRI), and Water Risk Filter, developed by the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF). These tools assess water primarily from a perspective of physical quantity of water resources and water pollution risks. The results of the assessments showed that no Epson site qualiﬁes for the highest risk level per the overall risk indicators. However, it was found that some of Epson＇s production sites in China, Southeast Asia and South America are located in areas with water stress. Moving forward, Epson will continue to act to reduce its water usage and explore more accurate water risk assessment methodologies. Water Usage by Region and Baseline Water Stress Map (FY2019) EUROPE JAPAN less than 1% CHINA NORTH AMERICA 70% 8% less than 1% SOUTH AMERICA less than 1% SOUTHEAST ASIA 21% ●：The percentage of Epson＇s total water usage in each region is shown on a baseline water stress map from Aqueduct Global Maps 2.1 (WRI). The size of the circles visually indicates the percentage of water usage in each region. * This map is a derivative of the World Resources Institute＇s Aqueduct Global Maps 2.1, created by Seiko Epson Corp. under the Creative Commons license provided by www.wri.org. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 128 Product Recycling To expand the resource reuse and recycling loop, work with customers, communities, and others in the industry to collect and recycle end-of-life products in countries around the world. Epson＇s Global Collection and Recycling Systems Worldwide Product and Cartridge Recycling Programs Regions where we recycle ﬁnished products Regions where we recycle cartridges Canada China Europe U.S. Japan South Korea Taiwan India Hong Kong Vietnam Singapore Peru Brazil South Africa Chile Australia Argentina New Zealand Collection Trends for Products and Cartridges Finished Products Collected (cumulative through ﬁscal year) Cartridges Collected (cumulative through ﬁscal year) (thousand t) (thousand t) 250 241 thousand t 60 53 thousand t 50 200 40 150 30 100 20 50 10 0 0 2001 2005 2010 2015 2019 2001 2005 2010 2015 2019 (FY) (FY) * Collected either voluntarily or as mandated by local law * Sum of amount actually collected and amount expected to be collected Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 129 Summary of Activities in Each Region Europe Finished Products The European WEEE (waste electrical and electronic equipment) directive has been eﬀective since 2005, and has been reﬂected in national legislation. To comply with the European WEEE directive, Epson is building recycling systems in each country. Moreover, Epson implements environmentally-conscious design in response to the WEEE directive 2012, that requires manufacturers to increase recyclability of products. Epson also acts quickly to comply with similar legislation that is expected to be adopted in EMEA*1 nations that are not EU member states. *1 Europe, the Middle East and Africa Cartridges Epson Europe B.V. (EEB) is building a collection and recycling system for cartridges while monitoring customer needs and legislative trends. In 2013, EEB rebuilt the system to provide customers with more collection options and to increase recycling eﬃciency. • Postal Collections Customers request empty pre-printed envelopes, and return ﬁlled envelopes via post for consumer inkjet and LabelWorks cartridges. Customers simply request and attach a return label, and return up to ten cartridges in a package. • Epson Express Center Customers return consumer inkjet, laser printer, and LabelWorks cartridges to the nearest Epson Express Center. • Box Collections After customers go online and sign up to the program they receive a collection box for large format printer and laser printer (more than 10) cartridges. When the box is full, it will be collected by the recycling company. Americas Finished Products In Canada and the United States, some states are seeking to introduce laws requiring manufacturers to collect and recycle products. In the U.S., Epson America, Inc. (EAI) has run a voluntary take back program since 2002. In addition to the recycling program, EAI and the National Cristina Foundation have joined together with the goal of helping those who are facing economic challenges or have disabilities gain access to the technology of today. In Brazil, the National Solid Waste Policy (PNRS) was launched in 2010, requiring the electronics industry to implement reverse logistics. Epson do Brasil Industria e Comercio, Ltda. (EDB) implemented a Collection Program for disposing of used products and consumables. The Collection Program operates throughout Brazil, with more than 100 collection points countrywide. Products and supplies collected are sent to an approved recycler who disassembles and then sends the item to recycling and/or co-processing*1 as required. *1 Use of waste to replace new resources and fossil fuels. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 130 Cartridges In the U.S. and Canada, EAI has created a mail-based recycling program for ink cartridges. In the U.S., customers can return toner cartridges by attaching an electronic return label printed from a website. Asia Finished Products In India, Epson India Pvt. Ltd. works on promoting recycling program by making an original logo under the India e-waste (Management and Handling) Rules, 2011 Directives. In Taiwan, Epson Taiwan Technology & Trading Ltd. complies with the Resource Recycling Act. In South Korea, Epson Korea Co., Ltd. (EKL) is a member of KERC (Korea Electronics Recycling Cooperative) and complies with the Act on the Resource Circulation of Electrical and Electronic Equipment and Vehicles. Cartridges In Taiwan, Epson Taiwan Technology & Trading Ltd. set up a system in 2001 using a toll-free number and a website to accept collection requests directly from customers to facilitate on the-spot collection. In Singapore in 2012, Epson Singapore Pte. Ltd. joined with Canon Inc. to cooperate with the Singapore National Environment Agency and National Library Board to begin promoting The Homecoming Project to collect ink and toner cartridges. Under the program, consumers can deposit ink and toner cartridges from any manufacturer in collection boxes installed in 21 branches of the national library. Oceania Finished Products Epson Australia Pty Limited (EAL) has partnered with EPSA (Electronics Product Stewardship Australasia), a member of the global recycling industry Sims Group Limited, to have its end of life E-Waste recycled. EPSA is a government approved co-regulatory arrangements for implementation of the Australian Government＇s Product Stewardship Act 2011, which began in 2012. Cartridges EAL participates in the Cartridges 4 Planet Ark program. EAL is a founding member of this promotion to recycle ink cartridges and toner cartridges. The aim of the program is to prevent cartridges from entering the waste stream and thereby reduce the potential environmental impact arising from the end of life disposal of cartridges. Lamps EAL has in place a projector lamp recycling program whereby used projector lamps are recycled, and EAL will recycle any brand lamps – not just Epson. Approximately 95% of the weight of the lamp is recycled. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 131 Japan Finished Products Since 2003 Japan has legally required producers to collect and recycle unwanted computers from individuals and as businesses. In 1999, Epson launched a voluntary program to collect and recycle other Epson-brand waste electrical and electronic equipment (WEEE) also, such as printers, scanners, and projectors, from businesses ahead of the enforcement of applicable laws. Cartridges Epson has built various cartridge collection schemes while monitoring customer needs. In addition to being good for the environment, Epson＇s cartridge recycling program provides employment to persons with disabilities at Epson Mizube Corporation, a special subsidiary to support the employment of disabled individuals within the Epson Group. • Take-Back Service Epson has set up a collection service for customers who consume large numbers of cartridges. As part of this service Epson makes donations to OISCA*1 and NACS-J*2, organizations that work on environmentally sustainable development. *1 The Organization for Industrial Spiritual and ultural Advancement-International. *2 The Nature Conservation Society of Japan. • Bellmark Program Epson has participated in the Bellmark program since 2005. In addition to reducing wastes and helping to preserve the environment, the Bellmark program supports participating schools by awarding them points for ink cartridges collected. Schools use these points to purchase educational materials and equipment. • Cartridge Collection Program at Epson Sites in Japan Epson began collecting used ink cartridges at Epson Group sites in Japan in 2011 in order to expand aid to the Bellmark program. Collection boxes have been installed at every Epson business site to collect cartridges from employees, business partners, and members of the community. The collected cartridges are recycled and Bellmark points are granted based on the number of cartridges collected. The points are then donated to the Bellmark Educational Support Foundation, local schools, or schools that were damaged by natural disasters. We donated approximately 190,000 points to the Bellmark Educational Support Foundation In ﬁscal 2019. • Ink Cartridge Satogaeri (Homecoming) Project Printer manufacturers in Japan joined forces in 2008 to form the Ink Cartridge Satogaeri (Homecoming) Project, a program that uses approximately 3,600 post oﬃces and local governments across Japan to collect used ink cartridges. The project has donated to environmental protection organizations, allowing customers to indirectly participate in social contribution activities. Collection box Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 132 • Joint Environmental Program In April 2012, Epson and Catalina Marketing Corporation launched an environmental program where used ink cartridges from coupon printers are collected and reﬁlled. Under the program, Epson collects used ink cartridges from nearly 30,000 inkjet coupon printers installed in retail stores across Japan. Epson then refurbishes and reﬁlls the cartridges for reuse at the stores. Except for the label, almost all parts of the cartridge are reused and product quality is managed just as it is for new cartridges. Eco Benefits Life cycle environmental impacts per cartridge reduced by 56% CO2 emissions reduced by 39.5 tons per year * Calculated under Epson＇s test conditions. Compared with when users dispose of new ink cartridges after use. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 133 Commitment to the Environment Epson and the Environment Pollution Prevention & Chemical Management To minimize the eﬀects we have on the ecosystem and human life, Epson is working to control substances of concern in products, manage chemicals used in production processes, and manage environmental risks. Epson also emphasizes communication with stakeholders. Management of Chemical Substances in Products Epson gives preference to lower-impact alternatives when selecting the components and raw materials that make up its products. Management of Chemical Substances in Products Increasing international restrictions on substances used in products, notably the RoHS Directive and REACH regulation in Europe, have made it essential to closely control the type and quantity of materials used. Epson systematically controls product substance content at the purchasing, production, and shipping stages to ensure compliance with these restrictions. • Instruct suppliers to comply with the requirements stated in the Epson Group Green Purchasing Standard for Production Materials*1 • Exclude substances that are subject to legal, regulatory, or other restrictions, and obtain information about substances contained in parts and materials. • Conﬁrm that no restricted substances are present in parts and materials before producing products. (Analyze parts and materials using x-ray ﬂuorescence (XRF) spectrometer.) • Conﬁrm that restricted substances have not been used in products before they are shipped. *1 A written standard that sets forth requirements for the building and maintenance of a substance control system by suppliers who provide parts and materials used in Epson products. The standard also defines requirements relating to the elimination or exclusion of legally restricted substances and requirements for providing information on substances present in parts and materials. Examples of Management of Chemical Substances in Products Legal and Regulatory Compliance More and more nations are regulating chemicals. We investigate regulations and chemical hazards as early as possible by using such as an industry standard survey tools, analyze the information we obtain, and then supply products accordingly. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 134 Measures for Meeting the RoHS Directive*1 Epson has made compatibility with the European RoHS directive a standard feature of its entire lineup of products throughout the world, regardless of whether a particular product is bound for the European market or not. *1 The European RoHS Directive restricts the use of the following 10 hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment: lead, mercury, cadmium, hexavalent chromium, polybrominated biphenyl (PBB), polybrominated diphenyl ether (PBDE), phthalates DEHP, BBP, DBP and DIBP. Actions for REACH Compliance European REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and restriction of Chemicals) regulations require that we register the import and production of chemical substances and that we communicate and report when products contain harmful substances (e.g., substances of high concern). We make information on the chemicals used such as in ink available to customers at all times in the form of safety data sheets (SDS) published in 24 European languages on our European sales companies＇ websites. We are also responding to countries and areas besides Europe, to similarly meet our legal and societal obligations, as well as the needs of our customers. Response to GHS *2 The United Nations declared in 2003 that a globally harmonized set of rules was needed to inform consumers and dealers about the hazards and appropriate handling of chemicals. Diﬀerent nations and regions have enshrined these rules as law and made them obligatory at diﬀerent times. Epson has continued to respond to the rules as they primarily apply to ink cartridges and toner cartridges. *2 GHS (the Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labelling of Chemicals) provides a unified, worldwide set of rules on harmful chemical substances. It harmonizes classification standards and labels for the hazards associated with individual chemicals and the way safety data sheets are written. Providing Ink for All Types of Printed Matter We provide inks with safe chemical properties as required for products made with inkjet technology (labels, stickers, fabric, etc.). The Highest Level of Textile Product Safety Eco Passport*3 certiﬁcation Epson＇s textile printer inks*4 have acquired Eco Passport certiﬁcation, indicating that they meet international safety standards for chemical substances used in textile production. Even printed textiles that directly contact the skin of infants and toddlers are safe. *3 Eco Passport by Oeko-Tex® is a system by which textile chemical suppliers demonstrate that their products can be used in sustainable textile production. *4 UltraChrome DS inks for textile printers, UltraChrome DG inks and dedicated fabric processing agents for garment printers, digital textile printer inks. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 135 Safe Printing Ink for Food Labels Compliant with Food Contact Material regulation Epson＇s SurePress digital inkjet label presses and ColorWorks on-demand color label printers inks are compliant with Food Contact Materials (FCM) EU Regulation framework (EC) No. 1935/2004, Good Manufacturing Practices Regulation (GMP) (EC) No. 2023/2006, Plastics Implementation Measure Regulation. Sample of food packages Switching to Safer Materials (e.g. Eliminating Harmful Substances) Epson standards specify substances that are prohibited from inclusion in products, and substances whose inclusion must be controlled. Information on these substances is collected and managed in a database. This database is used to ensure safety in all processes, from design and procurement to volume production. Epson is proactive in eliminating from its products substances that could adversely aﬀect the environment or human health. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 136 Production Epson uses its ＂E-Chem＂ chemical data management system to centrally track information on chemical substances used at Epson sites around the world. We are engaged in ongoing eﬀorts to reduce the quantities of chemicals used and to moderate emissions of pollutant release and transfer register (PRTR) substances and volatile organic compounds (VOC). Using previous year emissions as a benchmark, all Epson business units managed and met their FY2019 targets for reducing emissions. Amid increasingly strict environmental regulations and government guidance, our production sites in China are controlling emissions by using scrubbers to remove harmful materials from exhaust gases before they are released into the atmosphere. In addition, we are building trust relationships by making our substance data available and by creating opportunities to exchange opinions with members of the local community. PRTR Substance Emissions 29% Reduction (t) (kg/100 mil. yen) PRTR substance emissions Per unit of business profit 20 (compared to FY2018) 10 8.8 8 15 6.6 13.4 6 5.7 10 7.8 7.7 4 3.3 5.7 4.6 2.3 5 2 Overseas Japan 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 （FY） VOC Emissions 15% Reduction (t) (t/100 mil. yen) VOC emissions Per unit of business profit (compared to FY2018) 300 1.00 0.80 200 192 197 184 168 0.60 142 0.34 0.40 100 0.30 Overseas 0.23 0.25 0.24 0.20 Japan 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) Environmental Risk Management Any environmental pollution resulting from Epson＇s business activities could have a serious impact on residents of the surrounding area, as well as for the rest of the region or country. We follow Group-wide standards for pollution control and ensure that all members are well acquainted with the ideas and laws of environmental risk management. Each promotion unit uses ISO 14001 to identify and assess the risk of failing to meet standards or of experiencing environmental complaints or incidents in an ongoing eﬀort to continuously mitigate those risks. Epson did not incur any regulatory violations and administrative penalties in FY2019, nor did it incur any large ﬁnes (ﬁnes exceeding US$10,000), claims, or accidents. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 137 Environmental Due Diligence We investigate the environmental aspects prior to acquiring new businesses and land through M&As as part of due diligence. We investigate all sites, and not only manufacturing sites, to conﬁrm whether there are any problems involving things such as soil and groundwater pollution and hazardous wastes prior to entering into new contractual agreements. Soil and Groundwater Remediation Epson is pumping and treating groundwater contaminated by chlorinated organic solvents at several sites in Japan, including at its Head Oﬃce. In addition, we have barriers in place to prevent further contamination. The concentration of trichlorethylene in groundwater is under long-term management and is moving toward compliance with environmental standards. Site Groundwater Data and Remediation Methods Groundwater trichloroethylene concentration trend (annual average in wells with highest concentration at each site) Site Unit FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Remediation Head Oﬃce mg/L 7.1 6.2 18 Barrier, pump and treat, monitoring Shiojiri mg/L 0.24 0.17 0.12 Barrier, pump and treat, monitoring Fujimi mg/L 0.014 0.013 0.008 Barrier, pump and treat, monitoring Suwa-Minami mg/L 0.041 0.048 0.049 Barrier, pump and treat, monitoring Reference: Trichloroethylene standards Environmental quality standard for groundwater under Japan＇s Basic Environmental Law: 0.01 mg/L max. Groundwater remediation standard under Japan＇s Water Quality Pollution Control Act: 0.01 mg/L max. Groundwater standard under Japan＇s Soil Contamination Countermeasures Law: 0.01 mg/L max. Drainage Management Epson＇s Chitose Plant is located upstream from Lake Utonai, which has been designated as a national wildlife protection area and a Ramsar Site. Wastewater generated in manufacturing processes is detoxiﬁed and then discharged into sewers. To prevent leaked chemicals and other substances from leaking oﬀsite, rainwater is collected in a retention basin to monitor the pH and oil levels before ﬂowing into Lake Chitose and Lake Utonai via the Bibigawa River. All chemicals, waste materials, and wastewater treatment systems are located indoors to prevent them from leaking oﬀ the site. Waste Management Epson＇s internal policy speciﬁes that wastes must be processed in the country in which they originate. We do not directly import or export any wastes, including hazardous wastes speciﬁed under the Basel Convention. However, we employ subcontractors who satisfy the requirements of the Basel Convention to process ﬂuorescent lamps, etc., that originate in countries and regions where it is diﬃcult to process them domestically. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 138 Commitment to the Environment Epson and the Environment Biodiversity Conservation We both beneﬁt from and aﬀect biodiversity in myriad ways. Epson believes that preserving biodiversity is also vital to maintaining our business activities and our employees＇ lifestyles. Basically, we look to preserve biodiversity throughout our business activities and to raise employee awareness of its importance. Epson and Biodiversity Epson Business Employee Activities Lifestyles Direct and indirect eﬀects Underground Ecosystem Services*1 Resources Impact of extracting Biodiversity resources and processing them into raw materials *1 Beneﬁts from ecosystems We are steadily mitigating the impact of ﬁve factors that cause biodiversity loss with initiatives in climate change strategy, resource recycling and conservation, and pollution prevention and chemical management. Factor Relationship to Epson Theme Main Initiatives Energy-saving product designs Climate change Climate change Greenhouse gas emissions Production and transport strategy measures Land alternations accompanying Land use underground resource mining Reduced-resource products and Resource recycling recycling Introduced along with imports of Non-native species Resource saving Reduced resource inputs raw materials, parts, etc. Waste recycling Overconsumption Consumption of timber resources Release of chemicals into the Pollution prevention Reduced inclusion in products Pollution environment due to insuﬃcient and chemical and use during manufacturing of control management hazardous substances Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 139 Conservation of Wildlife Resources in Taiwan The Pinglin district, the famous tea-growing region in the north of Taiwan, is the natural habitat of the Taiwan blue magpie, a unique bird of Taiwan. The district is part of the Feitsui Dam water preserve, but in recent years, large-scale tea cultivators in this region have become over-reliant on agrochemicals. These agrochemicals are contaminating the land and water and are threatening the survival of local wildlife. To protect the Taiwan blue magpie, which is registered as a species of least concern on the IUCN Red List of Threatened Species (Ver. 3.1), some local tea growers have been focusing on organic cultivation. However, these organic growers, who cannot use any agrochemicals and who have to pick the leaves entirely by hand, have seen their harvests cut nearly in half. Currently only about 10% of the tea gardens in Pinglin are organic. From 2017 to 2019, Epson Taiwan Technology & Trading Ltd. (ETT), along with a number of major companies, participated as a corporate sponsor in a program to help preserve wildlife in the Feitsui watershed. During those three years, a total of about 100 ETT employees and family members dress up in the traditional costumes of tea leave pickers and go out to organic tea gardens two or three times a year to help harvest the leaves, which must be picked entirely by hand. The organic tea gardens are home to butterﬂies and other insects, but the participants were most excited by the discovery of several Taiwan blue magpies. ETT will support biodiversity conservation activities as it looks to raise employee awareness of environmental issues. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 140 Activities in Protected Area (U.K.) Epson Telford Ltd. (ETL) is a core production site for manufacturing ink cartridges for European market and textile ink. It was the ﬁrst site within the Epson group to achieve ISO14001 and participates in many environmental preservation activities such as recycling of wastes and energy-saving. With an area of 220,000 m², the site includes a nature reserve that many rabbits have made their home. ETL has not only reduced its production based environmental impact, but also protects and supports its local environment by: • Setting aside about 1/3 of its land for the nature reserve, • Creating special areas to preserve the habitat of the crested newt and great burnet*1, which have been speciﬁed as rare species in the U.K. • Planting trees to oﬀset company car emissions • Introducing bee hives within the site so as to improve the diversity of local living creature and preserve bee species. Also other local species have visited or have made homes within the sites. • Raptors: Buzzards, kestrels, owls • Birds: Partridges, red starts, yellow hammers, green woodpeckers • Others: Foxes, etc. *1 Both species have been registered by the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) on the Red List (Least Concern: LC). Bee hives introduced in the site Pond in the special area Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 141 Commitment to the Environment Epson and the Environment Eco Community We are working to achieve new socially and economically sustainable practices through environmental community action centered on products and services. Eco Education Epson wants its employees to remain mindful of the environment while on the job. We feel it is important for them to consider how their conduct, both at work and at home, aﬀects the environment and we want them to take the initiative in coming up with solutions. Toward that end, Epson provides environmental education and promotes correct understanding of ecological practices. Epson also contributes to broader environmental preservation by sharing its knowledge and experience with outside organizations. In-House Environmental Education Our environmental education curriculum for employees consists of a general education program, a professional education program, and general awareness-building activities. The general education program consists of a mandatory Basic Environmental Training course as a ﬁrst step, followed by echelon-based training courses in which non-management employees, managers, and executives learn what action they need to take in their respective positions to address environmental issues. In the professional education program, employees select the courses they need in their particular area in order to acquire the skills and knowledge required for environmental action. We also build general environmental awareness among all personnel in a variety of ways, including through environmental messages from management to all employees and by implementing special actions during Environmental Sustainability Month and Energy Conservation Month. Environmental Education System (Japan) General Training Management Mid-level employees employees e-Learning Basic Environmental Training II General Training for Training for new managers new education By rank employees Training for employees to be transferred overseas ISO14001 environmental auditor training Professional training Energy Star® measurement technician training Professional skills Pollution control oﬃcer training Emissions control oﬃcer training Hazardous materials management training Internal notices, Environmental Awareness Month, Awareness events (best practices presentations), lectures, Websites, local clean-up projects, etc. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 142 FY2019 Environmental Education (Japan) Participants Training (Certiﬁcation Recipients)*1 Basic Environmental Training II 17,008 (2019 Edition) ISO 14001 environmental 175 (1,012) auditor training *1 This is the number of persons who took Basic Environmental Training II during the period it was oﬀered (June 2019 to March 2020). ISO 14001 ﬁgures show the number of certiﬁed person as of the end of March 2020. Eco Communication Introduction of communications on environmental topics. EcoPro 2019 (Japan) EcoPro 2019, Japan＇s preeminent environmental exhibition, was held at Tokyo Big Sight from December 5-7, 2019. Now in its 21st year, this event was geared toward stakeholders with a high level of interest in the SDGs, ESG, and other social trends and issues. Epson has exhibited every year at EcoPro since the ﬁrst year, in 1999. This year the Epson booth promoted the concept of an eco-conscious oﬃce, featuring the environmental contributions of business inkjet printers that use the company＇s Heat-Free Technology to eject ink. Eco-Conscious Office Epson showcased a proposed recycling cycle that starts with paper and presented the activities of an Eco-Conscious Oﬃce Project that was launched in July 2019 at Epson＇s Shinjuku oﬃce along with the results from the ﬁrst ﬁve months of the project. We highlighted our eco-conscious oﬃce concept by demonstrating paper recycling with a PaperLab oﬃce papermaking system and by printing with a highspeed line inkjet printer that delivers sharp, crisp text that won＇t bleed or smudge. Presentation Stage Four programs were conducted on each day of the EcoPro exhibition. One program, titled ＂Epson and the SDGs,＂ featured employees who are leading Epson＇s environmental action and eco-conscious oﬃce initiatives discussing their work. Another program featured a sales demonstrator engaging visitors and communicating the eco-conscious oﬃce value proposition. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 143 Corporate Corner Epson believes it can accelerate the achievement of SDGs and change the world by using inkjet technology to minimize the consumption of materials. Our exhibits thus focused on solutions to social issues that leverage inkjet innovations, a goal of the Epson 25 Corporate Vision. We presented the advantages of Epson＇s unique inkjet technology, our most advanced printheads, and examples of collaboration through sales of printheads to partners. We received a lot of positive feedback from visitors who are excited about the future possibilities. Eco Technology Introduction of corporate citizenship programs that leverage Epson＇s technologies. Release of a Simple Tool for Measuring PFCs Perﬂuorocarbons and some other gases used in semiconductor and LCD fabrication have extremely high global warming potential–a level that is about 10,000 times greater than that of CO2. But measuring PFC gases was difﬁcult until 2000, when Epson independently developed a simple method for measuring PFCs*1 that enables easy and accurate measurement using Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FT-IR). This method enabled Epson to sharply reduce PFC gas. Epson patented the simple method for measuring PFCs but grants a free license, subject to certain conditions, to others. This method is now being used by numerous enterprises to reduce PFC gas. *1 Formerly called the ＂Epson Method＂ Community Dialog (Japan) Seiko Epson and Epson Group companies in Japan organize events to exchange ideas with the local residents of the communities in which we operate for the purpose of cultivating a deeper understanding of our environmental initiatives and risk management system. Environmental Communication Guidelines Epson＇s Global Environmental Communication Guidelines, established in 2008, provides rules for environmentrelated communications. The guidelines are used throughout the Epson Group to help ensure that the information we release about our environmental programs and environmental performance is correct and easy to understand. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 144 Commitment to the Environment Epson and the Environment Environmental Management As stated in its Management Philosophy, Epson＇s business is anchored in a commitment to environmental conservation. Epson carries out environmental programs under uniform standards and goals in every country and region of the world. Our basic environmental stance is set forth in Epson Principles of Corporate Behavior and in the Environmental Policy. In recent years our customers, along with society in general, have become interested in reducing their environmental impacts. The desire to deliver reduced environmental impact products and services that surprise and delight our customers is embodied in the Exceed Your Vision tagline. Environmental Policy (Please refer to page 266 of ＂Appendices＂ ) Environmental Management System Business units within the Epson Group establish their own Promotion System for Environmental Activities environmental action plans based on the Epson 25 CorpoPresident rate Vision, and carry out the activities using an Environmental Management System (EMS). We conduct internal audits General administrative manager in charge of environmental aﬀairs to check performance against the plans and take corrective General manager of the environmental Environmental aﬀairs action against nonconformances. aﬀairs supervisory department supervisory department Committee We operate our EMS in compliance with the international Project teams & ISO 14001 international standard, and we implement a subcommittees planning and control cycle to eﬀect continuous improveBusiness Units ment. Epson＇s main global manufacturing, sales, and service Operations divisions sites are pursuing integrated business process and environGlobal Epson Group mental management initiatives as required by ISO 14001 companies (2015), and are renewing their certiﬁcations. Manufacturing companies All ﬁnancially consolidated companies in the global Epson Group have environmental programs and, in the FY2019, environmental data was gathered from 54 of those companies (representing 95% of revenue). Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 145 Commitment to People Our People Human Resources Development Approach Epson develops and trains its human resources in line with a Human Resources Development Policy established in 1996 that designates talented people as a precious management resource. We assist employees so that they can achieve their dreams of self-fulﬁllment, and we develop people who connect and support all the companies in the Epson Group. We provide training so that our people understand their roles and what is expected of them as members of the Epson team. Training enables them to work and communicate eﬀectively, solve problems and achieve goals, and experience personal and professional growth. Seiko Epson requires that employees complete a course in management practices before being appointed to a management position. This course prepares them to meet the requirements as a manager by ensuring that they understand their role in terms of both business and actions. On the business end, they learn the skills they need to understand strategic business objectives and respond rapidly and nimbly to internal and external changes in the business environment. On the action end, they learn the skills they need to support the growth and development of the people who report to them by putting organizations and individuals in a position to succeed. In addition, we provide training for new employees, group training for each grade, and various open-type training to develop people who will fulﬁll roles as future middle managers step-by-step. Human Resources Development Policy (Please refer to page 267 of ＂Appendices＂ ) Outline of Personnel System for Middle Management Realization Management Philosophy Employee Business axis Conduct axis Principles of Realization Motivation Incentives Realization of Epson 25 of Management Corporate Philosophy Remuneration Behavior system Position for success Personnel requirements Salary based Org. mgmt. Application of skills HR mgmt. on role Licensing Org. design Leader candidates Evaluation system Role deﬁnitions Training Role evaluation Placement HR database Management of objectives Practicing Off-the-Job Training on the Job Training System (Japan) Future Job/LvlSpecOnA feature of human resource development at Epson is that we provide Leader Speciﬁc Group-Wide ialist Global Site level-based group training at every juncture along the career path, from Director Director training entry level jobs through management, and give employees a chance to COO GES/GIS F1 GM GM put into practice on the job the knowledge they acquire. F2 training Site development support Manager Manager training Overseas transfers Basic business skills Compliance Management Specialist job training After completing group training, new hires undergo a one-year practicum. practices Human skills Problem solving skills AM/OL Other employees who complete other group trainings undergo a threeSenior Staﬀ F3 training month practicum. During the practicum, employees prepare action plans Senior staﬀ training based on what they learned and put these plans into action on the job C-Level C-level training under the supervision of their supervisors, thus enhancing their ability to use New Hire New hire the knowledge and skills they learned during training, in their actual jobs. * F1/ F2/ F3: Future leader training * AM: Assistant manager, OL: On-site leader Epson has used a management by objectives systems for more than 30 years. All employees of every grade are subject to the systems, and managers and their subordinates work together to set objectives that they can both agree on. Progress toward the objectives is periodically reviewed, end results are evaluated, and new, higher objectives are set. The management by objectives system is itself an on-the-job human resource training system. It is a win-win development cycle in which individual growth leads to the growth of the organization and the company. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 146 Training Initiatives Global Leadership Training In addition to a course in management practices for managers and employees who will be transferred overseas, Epson provides training (F1, F2, and F3 course) to selected employees. In the F1 course, director candidates learn the skills needed to be a top executive. The F2 course is used to prepare middle managers to take the reins of a business or division. In the F3 course participants learn the basics of business through simulated exercises. Through these courses, Epson develops future leaders across the group. The Global Incubation Seminar (GIS) The Global Incubation Seminar (GIS) is a program for developing global leaders who will be a driving force in the Epson Group. At the seminar, we share Epson＇s vision and values with up-and-coming leaders from around the world, and empower them to put these into practice in their own organizations. Since 1999, the ﬁrst year of the program, more than 380 people have participated in GIS training, and nearly all the chief executives of Epson＇s overseas companies are graduates of the program. The ﬁscal 2018 GIS was held at the Seiko Epson Head Oﬃce for ﬁve days, from February 18, 2019. A total of 25 individuals took part, including personnel from 17 overseas aﬃliates. Those participants developed a deeper understanding of the business vision and strategies by directly hearing from and speaking to members of the executive management team and re-recognize the idea ＂proﬁt relies on compliance＂ through discussion about fraud prevention to make Epson an indispensable company. They also shared issues and actions among themselves, who comes from each area, function and business unit, and think through how we make Epson creates value as a leader in their own organization. They then drafted and committed to executing concrete plans on ﬁnal day and are executing action plan now. By oﬀering this training on a continuing basis, we hope to develop diverse global talent who will drive Epson to new heights in the future. One participant＇s impressions of GIS 2018 Through GIS, I have truly understood what it takes to be an indispensable company and what it meant to have real customer value. Hearing it directly from the Epson executive management team, made such an impact on me as an employee and in turn made me realize how I, as a leader, could make a difference in transforming our organization, to align our direction towards achieving our vision. Getting the inspiration from it, I will collaborate with our HR team and previous GIS participants to come up with a simple program on educating key personnel on the management philosophy and the conduct to achieve it. (Right) Cristina Y. Caro (Left) Chairman Minoru Usui Cristina Y. Caro (then president) Epson Precision (Philippines), Inc. Department Manager, Accounting & Business Control/Compliance Audit Office Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 147 One participant＇s impressions of GIS 2018 I was truly impressed by the sheer amount of products that Epson has managed to produce over the years by using the same core technologies that has helped create the Epson brand. It was also great to network with the other GIS participants from various Business Units and learn from them. My strongest impression from the GIS is Usui-san＇s message that we exist first and foremost to provide value to our customers. Profit is a consequence of such activity. My role as a GIS participant is to share Epson＇s philosophy to our organization, acknowledge the contribution our teams provide to Epson while discovering new ways in our everyday activities that increase (Right) Christian Sammut value and delight to our customers. (Left) Chairman Minoru Usui (then president) Christian Sammut Epson Europe Electronics GmbH Manager, Business Development Global Executive Seminar In May 2017, Epson launched the inaugural Global Executive Seminar (GES) to further strengthen executive management at overseas aﬃliates. The seminar is designed to develop leaders who are capable of devising strategies and analyzing issues, leaders who can help guide us toward Epson＇s long-term goals, understand the roles that they and their companies should play, and identify changes to make in a business environment with limited future visibility. The seminar starts with a three-day group training session (session 1) and is followed by a year-long period during which participants apply lessons in actual practice, after which they gather to report the results over two-days (session 2). Beginning on May 20 to May 22, 2019, we held session 1 of GES 2019-20 with a new group of four leaders from Epson＇s overseas aﬃliates and two from our Japan operations. These six people are scheduled to return for the second session of GES 2019-20 next year. For the next two days, Session 2 of GES 2018-19 was held at the corporate headquarters , with nine trainees, including two from domestic Epson Group companies. The participants each gave a presentation on the management issues they tackled over the past year. The seminar concluded with them promising further growth and development in the future. Through programs like these, we are laying a more robust business foundation for responding to change and executing strategies. (The GIS, which was scheduled for February 2020, and the GES, which was scheduled for May 2020, have been postponed due to the new coronavirus.) Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 148 Training for New Employees in Japan Epson considers the ﬁrst year of employment to be a training period during which new employees learn about the Epson approach to work. For the ﬁrst three weeks, new employees in Epson Group companies in Japan gather for group training, where they learn the following: • Conduct expected of them as Epson employees • The mindset and attitude necessary for practicing ＂monozukuri＂ or the art and science of manufacturing, which is the foundation of Epson＇s eﬃcient, compact and precision technologies • The importance of working cooperatively as a team Training to think about customer satisfaction Training ranges from lectures on the Epson Code of Conduct to hands-on training in manufacturing. New employees learn the importance and enjoyment of working in teams, through group activities that take place throughout the training period. After they complete group training, new employees are sent to the department where they have been assigned. There they learn their job through on-the-job training under a mentor. Mentors are usually selected from among young employees with three to ﬁve years of experience. They produce training plans tailored to the individuals they will be mentoring and, for a full year, provide them with the support they will need to stand on their own. Mentors themselves are expected to grow through this experience. At the end of the ﬁrst year, the new employees gather again for follow-up group training, where they can observe how they and others have grown and developed. To further solidify the foundation they have built as a business professional, they review the previous year and consider action plans for the next year and beyond to achieve further growth and expand their contributions to the company. Lifetime Career Support Epson continuously implements initiatives aimed at being an organization that promotes personnel development. We provide support towards building motivating and challenging careers that encourage growth. To help our employees set their own mediumand long-term career goals and take actions toward achieving them, we have been oﬀering Lifetime Career Support (LTCS) since FY2016. The LTCS provides ageand grade-speciﬁc training, which gives employees an opportunity to independently plan their own career path. FY2019 training results • LTCS50 training (for all employees age 50) 356 people • LTCS40 training (for all employees age 40) 311 people Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 149 Creating Value That Exceeds Customer Expectations and the Monozukuri Juku Epson＇s Monozukuri Juku, or Manufacturing School, aims to enhance the customer value we create. To this end, we teach our personnel basic technology and skills and have them experience monozukuri (the art and science of manufacturing) by performing speciﬁc manufacturing tasks step by step. This helps them tackle jobs from diﬀerent angles. To give a speciﬁc example, employees learn the basics of component processing technology (molding and pressing). Once they learn these, employees have the skills to make the various parts that go into a product. Employees also learn by mastering essential skills for making production lines more eﬃcient (e.g., automating lines or operating them with fewer staﬀ). In addition, we contribute to the community and society by giving practical training for new employees of local businesses, oﬀering corporate experiences to junior and senior high school students, and providing instruction for technical skill trainings. We also send experts abroad to take part in oﬃcial development assistance for building technical skill evaluation systems at the request of the Japanese Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare. Mechatronics Training for Building, Maintaining, and Enhancing Automated Lines Factory productivity improvement initiatives are nothing new at Epson. Earlier examples included the introduction of simple and systematic tools to production processes. More recently, however, we are facing great changes in the manufacturing environment. As wages have risen rapidly and workers prefer non-manufacturing jobs, it is not always easy to recruit the necessary labor. Earlier improvements were based on the assumption there would be plenty of inexpensive labor. Our business is not likely to survive if we just try to repeat such improvements. Therefore, we are making a strong push to build production lines that rely on human labor as little as possible but are still capable of stable production. Monozukuri Juku holds about 100 trainings of various types each year to develop the engineers who keep production lines running. Trainings impart machining skills like mechanical drafting and measuring required to build equipment. The organization prepares such curricula as mechatronics basic technologies, where engineers who promote manpower-saving and automation technology get training in basic technologies like compressed air and electrical control as well as assembling and adjusting simple devices. Other courses include FA robot training, image processing training, and mechatronics practical training, which are designed to teach practical technologies and skills. Thus, we are oﬀering employees an opportunity and place to learn. Monozukuri Juku trains machine tool and maintenance engineers in Japan but also sends staﬀ to teach at overseas aﬃliates that serve as our major manufacturing sites. There, we develop leaders in production and machine tool maintenance at overseas aﬃliates, by giving courses based on our training program in Japan. Training engineers at an overseas aﬃliate (PhilipMechatronics practical training pines) Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 150 Developing Young Technicians through National Skills Competition As a manufacturing company, Epson uses training for WorldSkills competitions to develop ＂groundbreaker technicians＂*1 who have acquired essential manufacturing knowledge and skills at an early age. As a rule, individuals are allowed to take part in WorldSkills trainings just once. The purpose of the short-term intensive trainings is to help participants learn technical skills at the all-Japan level. Every year we send 10-15 individuals to the National Skills Competition associated with WorldSkills to compete in six selected occupational categories that are applicable to our employees＇ work: Instrument making, Press tool making, Mechatronics, Industrial electronics, Web design, and Watch repair. New employees sent to Monozukuri Juku as WorldSkills trainees experience monozukuri (the art and science of manufacturing) in such forms as ﬁling and sawing. They also learn basic knowledge about machinery, electricity, and other general topics in each occupational category. In conjunction with everyday occupation-speciﬁc training, there are training camps three times a year. Participants lodge together, run a long distance, set targets, and the like. All of this helps to build a sense of solidarity as a team. To recreate the feel of the national competition, we also hold joint training events with other companies that take part in WorldSkills. Additionally, our employees actively pursue such national qualiﬁcations as machining technician, electronic device assembly technician, web design technician, and watch repair technician. After participants ﬁnish WorldSkills trainings, they get practical training to help them build the basic skills learned there into skills they can use to make products. Each participant then joins an operations division. The units they join often praise these employees for performing beyond expectations. Everyday training The 57th National Skills Competition of Japan 2019 *1 Technicians with the ability to break from precedent to create innovative technologies and systems. FY2019 Workforce Composition and Training Data Main Online Courses (Japan) Training by Employee Level Course Trainees Training Who People Percent Trained Trained Fundamentals of Security Export Control (2019) 16,204 New employee orientation New hires 311 100% Import/Export Control (Export Edition 2019) 16,149 C-level employee training New C-level staff 285 95.0% Epson’ s Compliance (2019) 19,347 Senior staff training New senior staff 206 95.8% Basic Information Security (2019) 19,550 Section manager training New section managers 90 91.8% Basic Environmental Training II (2019) 17,008 General manager training New general managers 30 85.7% Introdiction to Procurement 2019 (Ethics and code of conduct) 15,974 * Data for Seiko Epson Corporation employees as of March 31, 2020. J-SOX (2019) 18,642 * Employees who have not received training are scheduled to do so in FY2020. Basic Harassment Preventive Training (2019) 15,646 Occupational Safety Training (2019) 18,749 Basic Personal Data Protection (2017-) 16,014 * The number of persons completing the course by March 31, 2020. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 151 Commitment to People Our People Promotion of Diversity Diversity Policy Respect for diversity is a cornerstone of Epson＇s Management Philosophy, and our personnel policies reﬂect it. Diversity is the inclusion of individuals of diﬀerent genders, national origins, religions, regions, educations, social statuses, and LGBT, regardless of whether these traits are innate or acquired, visible, or invisible. Epsonʼs true customers are end users the world over. In order to enrich their lives, we have to understand them and meet their needs. To achieve this, our own diversity is important. We believe that only with a diverse workforce of people who have respect for one another and who know and practice what is important can we create customer value. In order to deliver results that surprise and delight our customers, Epson promotes female managerial staﬀ and foreign nationals, fostering a corporate culture that enables diverse personnel to display their abilities to the full. Masayuki Kawana, Director and Executive Oﬃcer, General Administrative Manager of the Human Resources Division and Health Management Oﬃce Global Talent Epson has sites around the world to accurately identify Employee Numbers by Region (as of March 31, 2020) and swiftly and ﬂexibly meet the changing needs of customers at diﬀerent times and in diﬀerent regions. The Asia/ Oceania 66.6% Epson Group currently employs about 76,000 people. Japan 25.9% Epson is vertically integrated, which means we have conTotal trol over the ＂create, produce, and sell＂ value chain. A 75,608 The Americas high-performing, diverse workforce is essential for achiev4.2% ing vertical integration, making it vital for our operations Europe 3.3% divisions in Japan and Epson Group companies overseas to be on the same page in terms of business vision and policies. That is why we have a variety of international programs to promote communication and interaction among people at various levels within our operations divisions, Head Oﬃce, and other internal organizations. Examples of Our Initiatives Sending Young Staff Members Overseas Epson actively sends young staﬀ members from Japan to Epson＇s overseas sites for professional development as part of its trainee program. Number of Employees Assigned to Overseas Training Programs FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 8 20 34 38 29 28 22 13 Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 152 Employees Sent to Japan for Training Epson actively accepts interns from overseas manufacturing sites to stay in Japan for a period of three months to one year. We provide educational programs that give them an opportunity to learn skills and techniques not available in their home countries and helps them enhance their understanding of business processes. In ﬁscal 2018, we accepted 79 technical interns and trainees, and since 1988, we have welcomed a total of 1,750 Group employees. The photo on the right shows technical interns inspecting parts manufactured with dies they made themselves. Epson also recently introduced a program that is designed to deepen the insights of young employees at Epson sales companies. The program enables them to get a diﬀerent perspective on projects they are working on through interaction with people from the operations divisions and Head Oﬃce supervisory departments in Japan. It also enhances their appreciation of Epson and Epson values. Global Meetings Epson holds a variety of meetings and seminars for representatives from our global sites. Some are function speciﬁc, for areas such as legal aﬀairs, ﬁnance and accounting, safety, and the environment. Others are for global projects involving matters such as IT systems and the adoption of IFRS. Still others, such as sales meetings, are held to discuss a range of topics and to share information and opinions globally. Advancement of Women in the Workplace An early advocate of equal opportunity employment for men and women, Seiko Epson has sought to eliminate the gender gap and enable employees to enjoy a good work-life balance by providing leaves of absence, shorter workdays for women with young children, and ﬁnancial assistance to help cover babysitter expenses. These and other actions have met with some success, as women stay with the company longer than men, on average. However, there is still a gender gap when it comes to promotion to management and other leadership positions in Japan. Seiko Epson recognizes this as an issue and is taking additional action to support the advancement of more women in the workplace. Examples of Actions Taken Plans for Promoting Women＇s Participation and Advancement in the Workplace • We are aiming to have female employees account for 5% (40 people) of management positions and 7% (350 people) of leadership roles (equivalent to assistant manager) by FY2022. • We are increasing the pool of candidates to increase the number of women in management positions in the future. • We will recruit new graduates, with a goal of securing a hiring class composed of at least 25% women. • We will expand and enhance a variety of policies and measures to enable women to shape their long-term careers at Epson. (For example, we will host dialog with management, and encourage women to participate in management and career development training seminars.) • We will explore and expand telecommuting and other more ﬂexible ways of working. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 153 Female Empowerment Project Seiko Epson launched a dedicated project to promote the empowerment of women in the workplace in order to create a climate of support for both male and female employees who want to advance their careers. The members of the project team are knowledgeable internal professionals who are exploring seven topics. They are also working to achieve an action plan as required by the Act on the Promotion of Women＇s Participation and Advancement in the Workplace. The Seven Topics Career design, career counseling, work-life balance support (childrearing), work-life balance (family caregiving), internal networking, hiring and retention, and internal/external PR. Organization President Project Owner (General Administrative Manager, HR Division) Work Subcommittee Corporate Strategy (management & labor) Council General Manager & Leaders (HR Department) Administrative Oﬃce (HR Department) Work-life balance support General Aﬀairs Depts. Career design Networking Hiring & retention (child-rearing) of plants & oﬃces Group companies Work-life balance support Career counseling Internal/external PR (family caregiving) * Report project progress of 7 topics to the project owner once every two months. Female Empowerment Project Subcommittee Goal Main Actions Career More managers eﬀectively motivate women, help them The subcommittee analyzes the causes of design develop their careers, and give them jobs that allow them gender gaps, explore countermeasures, and to accumulate experience of leading organizations and report ﬁndings. projects, thereby expanding the pool of female candidates Provide training for management. for management in a few years. Create a list of candidates for promotion and follow-up individually. Career Create a program so that women who are having trouble Broaden awareness of career counseling on counseling envisioning their career path or who are otherwise the company intranet. undecided about their future career can speak with a Provide individual counseling. female mentor who can help them think positively about their career at Epson. The content of counseling is summarized and issues are proposed to other subcommittees. Work-life Capable and motivated yet time-constrained people are Introduced a work-from-home program balance given the option of ﬂexible hours and ﬂexibility of location for employees who are caring for young or support so that they can make the most of their abilities and elderly family members. (childhelp improve ﬁnancial performance. Women are able to Expanded the purposes for which wellbeing rearing) advance further and faster because their growth curve leave can be taken. (fertility treatment, gradual during childrearing years is not stalled. entry into daycare, temporary school closures) Entered into agreements with company-led nursery schools that give placement priority to the children of employees. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 154 Subcommittee Goal Main Actions Work-life Employees understand the system and the current state of Conducted a survey of employees aged 40 balance care, and the caregiver＇s health is maintained and stress and above. support and anxiety are eased. Provide information on the company intranet (family Flexible work arrangements make it possible to continue about long-term care insurance and present caregiving) working and manage risks of sudden nursing care. examples of employees who are balancing work and long-term care. Held a seminar on balancing work and nursing care. Introduced group insurance for nursing care costs as part of employee beneﬁts. Introduced a work-from-home option for employees caring for young or elderly family members. Networking Young and mid-career women are introduced to a variety Arrange for dialog between management of role models to motivate them and give them a vision and women employees. of what their career path could be. A network has been Support expansion of dialog at business created of women in management, women one step away units and Epson Group companies. from management, and other employees around the age Provide news about dialog on the company of 30 who are facing similar career concerns, creating an intranet. environment where they can consult with each other. Hiring & Women are proactively recruited, and women with Strengthen hiring of women. retention leadership potential are being hired. A variety of actions Interview women during their third year with have been put in place to retain both young and midthe company. career women employees. Gain a clear picture of the diﬀerence in retention rate between men and women. Internal/ We provide information to the public on our eﬀorts to Hold events for female students. external promote the advancement of women, and we communicate Provide information to investors. PR our stance on the promotion of women in the workplace. Disclose information on the company We have fostered a climate Group-wide in which women are intranet. encouraged to advance their careers by providing information Place feature articles in the company on the advancement of women internally. newsletter. Career Design Subcommittee Activities Epson has a Career Design Subcommittee made up of leading internal experts who analyze the factors that hinder the promotion of women and propose measures to assist women who seek promotion in designing their career paths. Mind-set (1) Change companywide (2) Take change as a personal challenge [ Goal ] Support for We created a guidebook for the career design of women managers based on recommenseeking promotion dations of the Career Design Subcommittee and posted it on Company environment Support for the intranet. We are also sup(1) Provide opportunities women themselves porting and encouraging women (1) Motivate who seek promotion and want (2) Evaluate on quality of work not quantity of time spent (2) Supply with confidence management training. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 155 Evaluation System The criteria for evaluating employees who work a full day and employees who work shorter hours are identical. This was done to ensure a level playing ﬁeld when it comes to advancement and promotions. Employees are evaluated based on their achievements with respect to goals that are considered to be achievable within their respective workdays. Promotion Examination To be eligible for promotion exams, employees must write a dissertation and pass a written test in the same year. Since a considerable amount of time is needed to write the dissertation and prepare for the written test, employees who have limited free time faced additional challenges. Another stumbling block was that employees who qualify to take the test must do so (and pass) within a three-year period, after which eligibility expired, so those taking maternity leave could end up losing eligibility. To remove these obstacles and make it easier for time-constrained employees to take tests for promotion, we changed the system, in April 2018. We eliminated the expiration period and made it so that employees could maintain eligibility even if they pass only certain test subjects over a multi-year period. Assistance to Women Seeking Promotion Starting in FY2019, we have been holding interviews to assist women who are seeking promotion. The supervisor and the Human Resources Department follow up individually with these women to go over development plans as so forth. Support for Managers To deepen understanding of the need for diversity (including the participation and advancement of women) to maximize the power of the organization, every year Seiko Epson invites outside lecturers to talk about why diversity matters. Attendance is mandatory for all members of middle and upper management. Bosses, out of an excess of caution, tend to avoid assigning potentially career-enhancing work to women and other employees whose time availability may be limited. For this reason, we have incorporated content in manager training courses to help ensure that all employees are given equal opportunity and are motivated. To further change the mind-set of management, we introduced diversity management training in the FY2018. This training program incorporates content that teaches managers to recognize unconscious bias and eﬀectively motivate their female employees. More than 100 people have taken the course. As a result of these eﬀorts, women made up 2.8% of management at the end of March 2020, up from 1.8% at the end of FY2015, before the start of actions taken to promote the advancement of women. Career Counseling Career Counseling for Women We have installed a career counseling service for women employees who are having trouble envisioning their career path or who are otherwise undecided about their future career. This service puts them into contact with a female mentor who can help them think positively about their career at Epson. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 156 Work-Life Balance Support (Child-Rearing) Telecommuting and Dependent Care Seiko Epson introduced a system in FY2018 that gives time-constrained employees the opportunity to work from home so that they can provide care to dependents, including children and other sick or ill family members. The telecommuting program can be used ﬂexibly on an hourly, half-day, or per-day basis, up to a set maximum number of hours per month. For example, parents can leave work during regular working hours as needed to participate in school events. Or, when their child gets sick, they can work a certain minimum number of hours while their children are sleeping. Whereas parents previously may have had to take paid leave for these situations, they now can work more ﬂexibly around them. Telecommuters: 31 (as of June 2020) Caregiver Telecommuting, by Month (FY2018) Cases Where Telecommuting Was Used 50 50 Took care of unfinished work in the morning or night 40 40 Children’s school activities Illness of child 30 30 Unable to start/end work at the normal time 20 20 Half day off 10 10 Make up for leaving work early another day 0 0 Business travel Apr. May Jun. Jul. Aug. Sep. Oct. Nov. Dec. Jan. Feb. Mar. Accommodating time-zone differences 0 hrs. ≤ 10 hrs. > 10 Staggered working hours Number of users with spouse Personal illness others 0 5 10 15 20 25 Help for Employees with Children on Waiting Lists A growing number of children in recent years have been put on waiting lists for childcare services not only in the Tokyo area but also in Nagano Prefecture, where our main oﬃces are located. Therefore, we are promoting a partnership with company-led nursery schools in the areas where employees live. (There were six schools as of June 2020.) Infertility Treatment We have made it possible for employees to take wellbeing leave* for fertility treatment. Male Participation in Childcare For working mothers to fully participate and advance in the workplace, their partners must share the burden for housework and childcare. The number of fathers who are eager to be more actively involved in childcare has grown in recent years, so we have created a childcare leave guidebook for men and posted it on the company intranet. We also promote the participation of men in childcare by holding discussions with male employees who have taken childcare leave and sharing their experiences on the company intranet. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 157 Exploration of Work Reforms We have expanded the purposes for which employees may take wellbeing leave. Now parents can take time oﬀ to care for their children when schools temporarily close or to help their children get gradually accustomed to daycare. Furthermore, a labor-management subcommittee on work reform is exploring changes that will give time-constrained employees with young children, for example, more work ﬂexibility. Work-Life Balance Support (Family Caregiving) Seminar to Retain Employee Caregivers To help employees understand public and private caregiving options and to prepare them for risks associated with the emergence of sudden caregiving responsibilities, we invite experts to give seminars for working caregivers so that they can stay in the workforce. In addition, we have introduced group long-term care insurance as part of the beneﬁts package to help cover caregiving costs. We also hold seminars on caregiving costs to ease the minds of employees facing a caregiving situation. Networking Dialog Between Executive Management and Female Employees Seiko Epson will continue to hold meetings between members of the executive management team and female employees. These meetings are designed to create a mutual support environment and help women network with female managers, with manager candidates, and with other employees who share similar concerns at around age 30. So far, 16 meetings have been held under the aegis of the Female Empowerment Project, with more than 100 people participating. Members of executive management who participate in these meetings learn ﬁrst-hand about the needs of women in the workplace, such as the ability to telecommute during the childrearing years and availability of a temporary day care space in emergencies. These talks lead to the development of actual trials and the creation of new programs. The network of female employees is expanding through programs such as dialog sessions among women at the same site or in the same or diﬀerent business. Now, women who met through dialog sessions are sharing their concerns with one another and communicating about career design and work-life balance support. Hiring and Retention Strengthening Female Recruitment We have posted interviews with women employees who are advancing inside the company on our recruitment website to let potential job-seekers know that we have an environment that allows women and men to continue to work equally when giving birth and raising children. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 158 Interviews with Third-Year Employees The Human Resources Department interviews young employees who joined the company right out of school and are in their third year with the company to help them quickly improve their eﬀectiveness and to encourage retention. By listening to their concerns about work, the work environment, and their career design, and by following up with them and their workplace, we have seen an increase in retention rate. Internal/External PR Dialog with Investors We provide news about our diversity initiatives as investor relations information. Supporting Female Students＇ Career Choices Since 2017, we have been participating in the Science and Technology Survey of Participants in Epson’s Summer Science and Technology Challenge program of the Cabinet Oﬃce to encourage young women with Challenge Program (FY2017-2019) an interest in science or engineering to choose a career along that path. By “Did the program increase your interest showing these young women Epson＇s latest technology and providing in a science or technology path?” them with hands-on experience in product creation, we are communicatNo answer 8% ing to them the fun of manufacturing and the enjoyment of science. No 8% Somewhat Yes 19% 65% I have no interest 0% Internal PR We put together feature articles on diversity in our comダイバーシティ推進 pany newsletter to help foster a corporate culture in which diverse human resources can maximize their 多様性 を尊重する Epson 25では、人財基盤において「グローバルに集う多様な人材の能力を 最大化し、世界で勝つ強い組織を構築する」というビジョンを掲げています。 potential, regardless of things such as gender, nationalこれを実現させる鍵の一つが「多様性（ダイバーシティ）」です。ダイ バーシティとは何か？ どのように推進していくのか？ を特集します。 ity, educational background, sexual orientation, or genダイバーシティってなんだろう？ 直訳すると「多様性」。企業においては、国籍、性別、年 齢、ライフスタイルなどに固執することなく多様な人材 der identity. を受け入れ、皆が持っているさまざまな能力や特性を 積極的に活用していこうとする考え方を指します。 多様な人材の持てる力を最大限発揮できる機会を提供 し、総合力を発揮することが企業の発展・活性化・競争 力向上に必要かつ有効な戦略とされています。 どうしてダイバーシティが企業に必要なの？ 情 勢 ※エプソン調べ 求められる変化 これからの組 織に 大切なダイバーシティ。 ▶ 日本では、労働力の中核となる生産年齢人口（15～ 64歳）の減少が続いている。 ▶ 多様な人材を受け入れ、お互いが持つ視点、特性を尊重する。 私たちの職 場では ▶ かつては日本で専業主婦世帯が一般的だったが、1992 年に共働き世帯数が上回り、増加し続けている。男女と ▶ ライフイベントに左右されない働きやすい環境作りが大切。 もに働き続けることが一般的に。 ▶ グローバルで人材フォーメーションを考える。 みんなが活 躍しやすい ▶ 女性の労働率が結婚/出産のピークにあたる年代（30～39歳）でいったん低下する傾向にある。 ▶ 海外拠点にも設計機能など、新たな機能を分担・強化する。 職 場になっているかな？ 働く環境 ▶ 2019年 4月に日本で外国人労働者の受け入れ拡大を目的とした法改正が施行。外国人材受け入れ門戸を拡大。 ▶ 企業内で働きかた改革を推進し、長時間働く人が評価される仕組みや慣例を見直す。 ▶ 人口の年平均増減率が、2020年次に日本がマイナスに転じる一方、エプソンの主力海外製造拠点がある中国、 ▶ ICTを有効活用し、新たな働きかたを実現する。 インドネシア、フィリピンではプラス推移を継続する（出典 総務省統計局「世界の統計 2019」）。 ▶ 遠隔地にあるパートナー企業とのコラボレーションも加速。 ▶ 日本では労働法制による長時間労働の規制強化が進んでいる。 ▶ ICTの普及により、働く場所や働きかたの制約が低減。 ▶ 市場の成熟化、グローバル化により、世界中に競合相手が存在する。 ▶ お客様価値を考える社員もさまざまな国籍・性別・年齢など、多様化させることで新た 市場・ ▶ 商品ライフサイクルの短納期化。類似品や代替え品がすぐに出てきて、たくさんの商品が市場に存在する。お客 なイノベーション創出につなげる。 消費行動 様は、自身の価値観に合ったものを自由に選択できる。 ▶ 時には最適なパートナーの力を借りてお客様に多様な価値を迅速に提供する（協業・ オープンイノベーションによる成長の加速）。 日本人の労働に対する意識は組織・会社への帰属意識が薄れ、 「会社中心」から「職種中心」へ。またワーク・ラ 個々人の多様な価値観やライフスタイルへのニーズを尊重する。 人々の ▶ ▶ イフ・バランスの重視など、就業観の変化が見られる。 ▶ 世界各国・地域で異なる使用環境や、それぞれのお客様のニーズをきめ細かく収集し、 価値観 ▶ 経済成長により、生活が豊かになり、人々の価値観が多様化。 商品やサービスに反映してお客様価値を創り上げる。 Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 159 Future Initiatives Seiko Epson will roll out further actions to expand the career advancement possibilities for women and increase diversity. History of the Advancement of Women in the Workplace 1990～ 2000～ 2015～ Launch of the Female Empowerment Project Greater diversity to achieve business strategies Advancement of women in the workplace Equal opportunity employment & work-life balance support Top management commitment Work reform Support for managers Career design for women Telecommuting Work-life balance support (shorter working hours & babysitter service) Introduction & expansion of a work-life balance support system Main Programs Introduced (Japan) 1980 ・ Eliminated gender pay gap (1983) 1990 ・ Main childbirth & childcare programs Parental leave (1991) 2000 Shortened workday (1992) At-home childcare service (2005) Medical leave okayed for paid parental leave (2007) Medical leave okayed for half-days for expanded range of reasons (renamed wellbeing leave) (2009) Certiﬁcation as a company with policies to beneﬁt the next generation Acquisition of the“Kurumin”next-generation accreditation mark, the ﬁrst company to do so in Nagano prefecture (2007) (Ongoing certiﬁcation in 2009 & 2012) Free at-home childcare service (2015) Acquisition of the Grade 3 (the highest grade) Eruboshi certiﬁcation (2016) Acquisition of Platinum Kurumin (2016) Telecommuting system for dependent care (2018) Percentage of Women in Management and on the Junior Manager Level Percentage of Women Among New-hires Directly Out of School 7.00% 25.00% Percentage of women in management 6.00% 20.00% 5.00% 4.00% 15.00% 3.00% 10.00% 2.00% Percentage on the junior manager level 5.00% 1.00% 0.00% 0.00% 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (FY) 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (FY) Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 160 Employing and Supporting Persons with Disabilities Epson employs a large number of persons with disabilities. For this reason we accommodate special needs in a variety of ways. For example, we provide easy-access restrooms, parking spaces, and other facilities. We also provide services such as sign language interpretation for in-house training and interviews, and special shortened working hours for dialysis treatment. Two special subsidiaries in Japan, Epson Mizube Corp., and Epson Swan Corp. have made special provisions to accommodate employees with disabilities and allow them to make the most of their talents, and they are now expanding job opportunities for disabled employees. Employees with Disabilities (Japan) Type of Disability (Japan) （%） 2.62 2.50 2.55 Mental disorders Physical 2.6 2.48 (Target) 30 (10%) 2.43 165 (54%) 2.4 2.24 2.27 2.2 2.13 2.11 2.14 Limb 76 Developmental 1.99 1.94 1.95 2.00 113 (37%) 2.0 1.8 Total Legally required percentage 308 1.6 Hearing 31 1.4 1.2 Vision 6 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (FY) Other physical 7 Cardiovascular 21 * Figures for each fiscal year were as of June 1 of that year. Internal organ 4 Kidney 20 * The data is current as of June 1, 2019. Epson Mizube Corp. Epson Mizube Corporation was founded in 1983 as a special subsidiary of Seiko Epson. It began with a workforce of 15 people, 11 of whom had disabilities, and has expanded steadily since then. Epson Mizube＇s wide range of services include assembly, inspection, cleaning, and packaging of various electronic and precision devices; paper recycling; printing, copying, and bookbinding; document digitization; dust suit cleaning; building cleaning; and sorting and dismantling used ink cartridges. The company employs 141 persons with disabilities at seven sites (as of the end of March 2020). Facilities cleaning services were launched in 2008, and have since grown to a crew of 47 employees who provide services to 5 sites (as of March 31, 2020). The cleaning crews contribute to maintaining pleasant working environments. In 2017, we installed an upcycling model line in the PaperLab. This has expanded employment opportunities for persons with disabilities and promotes environmental impact reduction by using the PaperLab and DFP to turn used paper into business cards and notebook paper. Board assembly PaperLab upcycle center Sorting used ink cartridges Cleaning company facilities Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 161 Certification as an Employer of Persons with Disabilities The Japan Association of Employers of Persons with Disabilities, which works on a commission from the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare, certiﬁes companies that demonstrate excellence in matching disabled employees with the right jobs and working conditions, employ multiple persons with disabilities, and meet certain other criteria for the advancement of persons with disabilities. Epson Mizube earned certiﬁcation as an employer of persons with disabilities in recognition of its eﬀorts to expand hiring of individuals with mental disabilities and for company-wide initiatives to engage and support people with disabilities as they seek to gain independence.（January 1, 2020） Taking part in the Abilympics Many of Epson＇s employees with disabilities have amazing skills that are invaluable to the company. At the National Abilympics competition in Aichi, Japan in FY2019, Shoichi Yokouchi earned silver in the electronic device assembly event and Katsunori Nakajima competed in the building cleaning event. Yokouchi, an Abilympics veteran who has won six medals over the years, including a gold in electronic circuit assembly, is also helping to train his younger coworkers. His mere presence is a source of encouragement for other employees with disabilities and helps to invigorate the workplace. Shoichi Yokouchi at the National Abilympics competition in Aichi, Japan Epson Swan Corp. Epson Swan Corporation started operating in March 2002, when it was established as a special subsidiary of Tohoku Epson Corporation in Sakata, Yamagata Prefecture. It was the ﬁrst certiﬁed special subsidiary in Yamagata Prefecture. It is presently a special subsidiary of Seiko Epson Corporation. Located in the grounds of Tohoku Epson, 22 people with disabilities (as of April 1, 2020) clean dust suits and provide building cleaning services within the company. In addition to employee and leisure support, we also focus on professional development. In FY2019, we entered the facilities cleaning category at the Japan National Abilympics in Yamagata. In addition, Epson Swan communicates both internally and externally by publishing its magazine Smile via its intranet and as hardcopy four times a year. A total of 43 issues have been released, counting the most recent published in May, 2020. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 162 Selecting Senior Executives Epson seeks to put itself in the best position to achieve the goals of Epson 25 by reviewing organizations, roles, and human resources from a global perspective and making adaptations that best serve our business strategies and the ever-changing business environment. The company speciﬁes the roles and requirements for key positions in the global Epson Group. It establishes succession plans and has systems in place to ensure that the best people for these positions are selected without regard to consideration such as age, gender, and nationality. In Japan, personnel reviews that focus primarily on middle managers in each business and function are conducted to identify candidates for future executive management positions. Succession plans are drawn up, and training, both internal and external, is provided to put them in a position to succeed. Epson also has in place a Group-wide training and rotation program to prepare employees for promotion to entry-level management positions. Epson Group companies outside Japan identify certain ranks at which they look for candidates to ﬁll future toplevel management positions. They then compile basic information about everyone at those ranks. Seiko Epson consults with Epson Group companies to grade these individuals based on common global criteria and identify the top talent. Information about their skills and capabilities is gathered by various means, including 360-degree evaluations, and future career path and development plans are explored. As a result of these initiatives, Epson now has home-grown talent in leadership positions at its overseas aﬃliates. The CEO of Epson＇s regional head oﬃce in the US is an American who has responsibility for all administrative and business operations at Epson companies in North, Central, and South America. In Europe, all local aﬃliates controlled by the regional head oﬃce are headed by locals. In addition, a number of Epson sales and manufacturing aﬃliates around the globe have recruited or promoted locals to run their operations. Workforce Composition and Service Period Workforce Composition Male/Female Ratio Mgmt. Diversity*1 Junior Mgmt. Ratio*2 Female 16% Female 3% Female 6% Male 84% Male 97% Male 94% * Data for Seiko Epson Corporation employees as of March 20, 2020. *1 Section manager and higher *2 Team leader Length of Employment (Unit: Year) Total Female Male 19.2 18.9 20.9 * Data for Seiko Epson Corporation employees as of March 20, 2020. Turnover Rate FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Total turnover ratio 3.2％ 3.6％ 3.6％ 4.5％ 4.1% Voluntary turnover ratio 1.6％ 1.6％ 1.5％ 1.8％ 1.5% * Data for Seiko Epson Corporation and domestic major aﬃliated companies as of March 20, 2020. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 163 Commitment to People Our People Respecting Human Rights Human Rights, Non-Discrimination, and Unjust Labor Initiatives Epson is serious about keeping all forms of discrimination and unfair practices out of its operations around the world. This stance is reﬂected in our participation in the United Nations Global Compact since 2004 and in the Epson Group＇s Policies regarding Human Rights and Labor Standards (2005), which articulates Epson＇s strong convictions in areas such as respect for human rights, prevention of all forms of harassment and discrimination, respect for local culture and customs, prohibition of child and forced labor, and maintenance of positive labor-management relations. The Policies Regarding Human Rights and Labor Standards (Please refer to page 269 of ＂Appendices＂ ) • The United Nations Global Compact • The OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises • ISO 26000 • ILO Core Labor Standards Seiko Epson＇s human resources department, working in concert with the HR departments of our global aﬃliates, guides initiatives to prevent human rights abuses, discrimination, and unjust labor practices under the supervision of the director in charge of human resources. Epson has identiﬁed human rights risks such as child labor, forced labor, other exploitative labor, workers＇ rights, labor conditions, discrimination, and harassment as business risks, and Seiko Epson and Epson Group companies conduct an annual CSR assessment to evaluate and mitigate risks related to things such as human rights, discrimination, and unfair labor. These risk assessments are considered to be one of the key CSR themes, and the results are reported to the CSR Executive Council, an advisory body to the president. In addition, Epson＇s socially responsible procurement departments work together to assess CSR-related risks involving suppliers and to drive improvements where needed. Epson has set up the Epson Helpline and various other channels that can be used to report harassment, long working hours, and other concerns involving issues such as human rights, discrimination, and unfair labor. All personnel are regularly notiﬁed of disciplinary actions and other actions taken by the company in response to incidents of discrimination, unfair labor, harassment and other human rights abuses to prevent similar incidents in the future. Power Harassment Prevention Training Epson maintains a harassment hotline to respond to employees＇ harassment concerns. We have also been actively fostering the development of an organizational culture with zero tolerance for harassment. To achieve a fair and pleasant working environment, we have been providing anti-power harassment training seminars to Epson Group companies since 2014 as a way to prevent and stamp out harassment. In addition to echelon-based training tailored to executive management, middle management, leaders, and employees preparing to work overseas, respectively started in FY2015, we also provided an online anti-harassment course for all employees, including those in non-management roles, in FY2018 and FY2019. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 164 Power Harassment Prevention Training 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 People Trained Senior Power harassment prevention management training for senior management Power harassment prevention 1,303 people (100%) at 70 trainings training for middle management at 27 sites in Japan Basic harassment prevention training Basic harassment prevention training Basic harassment prevention training Middle FY2019: 30 people (85.7%) New general manager training management (Training ongoing) FY2019: 90 people (91.8%) New section manager training (Training ongoing) Power harassment prevention 295 people (92%) at 29 trainings Overseas training for overseas assignees at 27 sites overseas assignees Power harassment prevention FY2019: 84 people (100%) training prior to assignment overseas at 6 trainings (Training ongoing) Power harassment prevention 2,561 people (93%) at 131 trainings Junior training for junior management at 22 sites in Japan management FY2019: 208 people at 8 trainings New senior staﬀ training (Training ongoing) Provide basic harassment training for (Non-management employees) all Epson Group employees & information about reporting channels, etc. Current as of March 31, 2020 Anger Management Training Anger management training is said to be an eﬀective way to prevent so-called power harassment (abuse of authority at work). Seiko Epson has provided anger management training since 2016 to teach employees skills needed to control feelings of anger at work. Echelonand department-based anger management training is oﬀered about 70 times a year. An introductory course teaches people the skills they need to defuse their anger and improve their control long-term, while a course in constructive criticism teaches managers and others eﬀective communication skills. More than 6,000 Epson Group employees in Japan have taken a course. By providing its people with the proper training and skills, Epson hopes to eliminate power harassment from the workplace. Epson Slavery & Human Trafficking Statement Based on the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015, the Australian Modern Slavery Act 2018 and the U.S. California Transparency in Supply Chain ACT 2010 (SB 657), Epson discloses the policy for eradicating modern slavery and human traﬃcking from the supply chain and the situation of Epson as follows: Epson Slavery & Human Traﬃcking Statement (Please refer to page 272 of ＂Appendices＂ ) Human Rights Due Diligence Epson is vertically integrated. Most of our products are produced by our manufacturing subsidiaries and are sold around the world through our sales subsidiaries. To identify and understand human rights risks in our supply chain, we ask suppliers to complete a CSR self-assessment questionnaire (SAQ). Meanwhile, we have also identiﬁed human rights risks related to things such as child labor, forced labor, and other exploitative labor, workers＇ rights, labor conditions, discrimination, and harassment within the Epson Group. Accordingly, we directed our overseas manufacturing companies to complete a CSR self-assessment questionnaire in FY2017 and have subsequently required all Epson Group plants, oﬃces, and companies around the world to complete an annual CSR self-assessment. Sites that have identiﬁed risks and issues are directed to take action to mitigate them. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 165 CSR Self-assessments by Epson Group Companies Epson has its all Epson Group plants, oﬃces, and companies around the world to complete a self-assessment questionnaire to evaluate their performance with respect to CSR requirements. The purpose of the SAQ is to identify and address risks and potential threats in areas such as human rights. Epson joined the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) as a regular member in April 2019 and, in 2020, evaluated the situation in the Epson Group using the RBA self-assessment questionnaire. The questionnaire is based on the RBA Code of Conduct and consists of 400 questions concerning human rights, labor, safety and health, environmental issues, ethics, and management systems. The RBA mandates that manufacturing sites complete a selfassessment. However, Epson uses the same SAQ to also evaluate its sales sites and other plants, oﬃces, and subsidiaries so that all are held to the same standard. Questionnaire Content Major category Minor category examples Freely chosen employment, young workers, working hours, wage and beneﬁts, humane treatment, A: Labor non-discrimination, freedom of association B: Health and safety Occupational safety, occupational injury and illness, dormitory & canteen, etc. Environmental permits & reporting, pollution prevention & resource reduction, hazardous materials, C: Environmental wastewater & solid waste, air pollution, energy consumption & greenhouse gas emissions, etc. D: Ethics Business integrity, intellectual property, fair business, advertising & competition, responsible sourcing of minerals, privacy, etc. Company commitment, management accountability & responsibility, risk assessment & risk manageE: Management system ment, training, supplier responsibility, etc. SAQ Overview Items Details Survey period April June, 2020 12 Seiko Epson facilities Surver coverage 8 domestic aﬃliated companies (6 manufacturing companies and 2 sales companies) 54 overseas subsidiaries (18 manufacturing companies and 36 sales companies) Questionnaire RBA Self-Assessment Questionnaire (SAQ) Analysis August September, 2020 Corrective action October, 2020 Companies will begin taking corrective action Status check The status of corrective action will be checked by having companies complete another SAQ Rankings Based on SAQ Scores Risk rank Assessed points Explanation It basically meets the requirements of the RBA Code of Conduct. Low risk 86-100 pts. Is able to independently correct weaknesses. It does not meet all the requirements of the RBA Code of Conduct but is able to independently correct Medium risk 66-85 pts. weaknesses. 65 pts. It needs to be monitored based on an improvement plan to meet the requirements of the RBA Code of High risk or less Conduct. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 166 2020 SAQ Results Japanese aﬃliated companies Overseas subsidiaries Seiko Epson Grand total Manufacturing Sales and others total Manufacturing Sales and others total Risk rank Total score Number of Number of Number of Number of Number of Number of Number of Number of ％ ％ ％ ％ ％ ％ ％ ％ facilities companies companies companies companies companies companies sites Low risk 86-100 pts. 12 100 4 67 0 0 4 50 9 50 12 33 21 39 37 50 Medium risk 66-85 pts. 0 0 2 33 2 100 4 50 9 50 24 67 33 61 37 50 High risk 65 pts. or less 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Total 12 100 6 100 2 100 8 100 18 100 36 100 54 100 74 100 Summary All Epson plants, oﬃces, and Group companies were found to be either middle risk or low risk as a result of the CSR self-assessment questionnaire. No serious human rights, compliance or ethics problems were found. The one overseas aﬃliate (a newly established company) that was found to be high-risk based on last year＇s CSR self-assessment received support from the regional headquarters and training in the Epson Group＇s basic policies, rules, guidelines and so forth. It improved to middle risk this year. A detailed analysis will be conducted, but there was still some sites that had not communicated the Epson Group＇s basic policies, rules, and guidelines to their employees or had not established their own objectives or action plans. The Head Oﬃce supervisory department will provide instruction and support to these sites and promote action across the Epson Group. Security Personnel Trained in Human Rights Seiko Epson outsources security operations to security companies and asks them to train those employees in human rights policies or procedures. In FY2019 we conducted a CSR self-assessment questionnaire to conﬁrm that thoses suppliers, as well as other suppliers of indirect materials, provided human rights training to those people. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 167 Commitment to People Our People Fostering a Better Workplace Equal Gender Opportunity Initiatives Seiko Epson, an early advocate of equal opportunity employment in Japan, abolished gender-based diﬀerence in pay in 1983. In addition, we aim to provide equal gender opportunity at the time of childbirth and childcare. The results of our initiatives show up in the numbers, such as the duration of service and the rate at which mothers return to work after taking childcare leave. Moreover, nearly 100% of employees take parental leave. Childcare Leave Trends Caregiver Leave Trends Childcare Leave Employees Employees using FY Ratio of women using parental FY Caregiver Leave caregiver reduced Total *1 Women granted leave*2 Men *3 reduced hours hours 2019 102 41 100% 61 (42) 147 2019 6 (Men 4, Women 2) 4 2018 75 35 100% 40 (33) 160 2018 2 5 2017 64 44 98% 20 (14) 170 2017 2 2 2016 60 42 100% 18 (16) 2016 2 2015 52 40 98% 12 (11) 2015 6 2014 67 49 100% 18 (13) 2014 4 2013 71 66 98% 5 ( 4) 2013 4 2012 80 66 100% 14 (12) 2012 1 2011 66 55 98% 11 (10) 2011 2 * Data for Seiko Epson Corporation employees as of March 20, 2020. * Data for Seiko Epson Corporation employees as *1 Including individuals who took well-being leave. of March 20, 2020. *2 Number of individuals granted childcare leave/eligible individuals. (Individuals who have had a child and are eligible for childcare leave) *3 Numbers in parentheses indicate employees who took special paid leave. Epson＇s Wellbeing Leave Program Seiko Epson introduced a special paid leave program in March 1998 that allows employees who do not use all their annual paid vacation days during the year to stockpile the remainder, up to 60 days, in a separate account. They have the option of using special paid leave days in the event of personal injury or illness, or to care for children or family members, or to participate in school events for their children in elementary and middle school. Work-Life Balance Initiatives Recognizing the importance of the well-being and development of our children, Epson encourages employees to balance their careers with their personal lives. We enforce an eight-hour no overtime workday at least once per week at our sites in Japan, and an increasing number of sites have a day each year when parents can bring their children to work. To create an environment suitable for both male and female employees who want to pursue a career, we are working to support childcare. From October 2005, we have oﬀered subsidies for babysitting services. We have gradually increased the subsidy, and currently we pay the full amount for up to 16 hours. We are working to provide an environment that makes it easier for working parents to raise children. For example, in April 2018, we introduced a telecommuting program for employees who are caring for dependent family members, and in April 2020 revised our family allowance policy to provide more generous ﬁnancial assistance to employees with children. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 168 Responding to Employee Caregiver Needs With advancing population aging, the number of people requiring care is on the rise. Consequently, the number of employees acting as caregivers for their families is also on the rise. Aiming to eliminate turnover due to caregiver needs, Epson provides the following types of support to caregivers. • Launched a website related to caregiving to provide information related to in-house programs and nursing care insurance systems. • Conducting nursing care preparation seminars to equip employees with the knowledge that will enable them to respond calmly to sudden nursing care needs. • Enable the use of the following programs to support balance between work and caregiving. Caregiving Program Name Overview Caregiver leave May take up to 1 year and 6 months per applicable family member Caregiver reduced hours Available for up to 3 years from start of use Caregiver overtime exemption Exempt employees from overtime exceeding nominal hours Caregiver overtime restriction Restricts employee overtime to less than 24 hours per month or 150 hours per year Caregiver night shift restriction Restricts night shift assignments for employee Caregiver telecommuting program Enables telecommuting up to limited time speciﬁc for each work shift Caregiver leave Allows employee to take 5 days/year for 1 applicable family member or 10 days/year for 2 applicable family members as caregiver leave (unpaid) Family Tours Seiko Epson conducts family tours every August. Children of employees visit the company, see our products, make fans using paper printed from an Epson printer, assemble watches, use the employee cafeteria, and participate in other events that show them what Epson is like. Babysitters Employees can use babysitters at company expense. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 169 Certification as an ＂ Eruboshi ＂ Company On July 11, 2016, the Japanese Minister of Health, Labour and Welfare granted Seiko Epson the top ＂Eruboshi＂ mark in recognition of its eﬀorts as a good company to promote the active participation and advancement of women in the workplace. The Ministry established the Eruboshi mark in February 2016 based on the newly enacted Act on Promotion of Women＇s Participation and Advancement in the Workplace. Companies that draw up and submit an action plan and meet certain standards are eligible to receive the mark if they have demonstrated successful eﬀorts to promote the advancement of women. Companies that apply for the mark are graded on ﬁve criteria and awarded one of three levels of certiﬁcation depending on how many of the criteria they satisfy. Seiko Epson, which met all ﬁve criteria, was certiﬁed to receive the Grade 3 Eruboshi mark*1. Seiko Epson launched a project to step up its initiatives related to women＇s advancement. Through such programs as setting up discussions between female employees and management and establishing a new mechanism that enable people to continue working while they provide care for elderly relatives, the company intends not only to help women continue working, but also to provide an environment where women who want careers can advance into leadership roles. *1 The criteria are recruitment, continued employment, working hours, percentage of women in managerial positions, and diversity of career courses. Certification as a Kurumin and Platinum Kurumin Company As a result of Epson＇s eﬀorts to establish a friendly workplace environment, we were awarded use of the so-called Kurumin symbol from 2007 and the Platinum Kurumin symbol in 2016. Use of these symbols is awarded by the Japanese Minister of Health, Labour and Welfare to companies that implement policies that support the parenting of their employees in accordance with the Act on Measures to Support the Development of the Next Generation. Selected for ＂ Nadeshiko Brand ＂ and ＂ Semi-Nadeshiko Brand ＂ for Three Consecutive Years Since FY2012, the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry working in collaboration with the Tokyo Stock Exchange names companies serving as examples of enterprises that encourage women＇s success as Nadeshiko Brands and Semi-Nadeshiko Brands. Nadeshiko-Brands and Semi-Nadeshiko Brands are promoted to investors focused on mediumto long-term corporate value growth as appealing listed companies that encourage women＇s success. This encourages investment in Nadeshiko Brands, which in turn accelerate the initiatives of these companies. Seiko Epson has been selected for inclusion to the list of Nadeshiko Brands and Semi-Nadeshiko Brands, an honor bestowed on companies that demonstrate excellence in encouraging the empowerment of women in the workplace for the third consecutive year since FY2017. Seiko Epson was recognized for implementing higher quality initiatives to empower women in order to produce greater business success. These actions include work reforms and initiatives to change the thinking with regard to the role of women in the workplace. They, along with changes in the system of tests for promotion, are designed to facilitate the advancement of women and to encourage more women to seek management positions. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 170 Monitoring and Controlling Working Hours Epson speciﬁes its work goals and work culture. Our goal is for all employees to maintain and improve their physical and mental health while working eﬃciently in a vital, rewarding work environment, without excessive labor demands. In this way, the company will develop in perpetuity, raising its corporate value and ensuring a win-win relationship with its employees. We have put in place numerous actions to track and control working hours. In addition to ensuring reasonable working hours and legal compliance by familiarizing employees with an operations manual for managing working hours, we have installed automated systems to track time and attendance to assure that employees do not exceed set limits on working hours. We also frequently remind them in various ways of the importance of maintaining reasonable working hours. Work Reform Actions From ﬁscal 2017, we have been taking comprehensive work reform actions. The goals are to revise our approach to work and seek to improve the productivity of executives, managerial staﬀ, and general staﬀ in their respective positions, thereby achieving an appropriate work-life balance and a state in which our diverse employees can work with enthusiasm to realize the Epson 25 Corporate Vision. Promoting Work Reform Seiko Epson has been promoting work reform since the FY2017 under a program called ＂ WILL BE.＂*1 All aspects of the way we work are examined to look for opportunities for improvement. Ultimately, our goal is to achieve the Epson 25 Corporate Vision by changing the way we approach work and raising personnel productivity, from top to bottom, thereby achieving a healthy work-life balance and a vibrant workplace environment in which our diverse employees can excel. As a result, we are seeing total working hours decrease each year, fostering mindfulness about working eﬃciently, and reducing the risk of health impairments. *1 Work-Life Balance, Innovation, Liveliness, Enjoyment General Work Reform Actions Top management commitment and Improving input and encouragement of employee awareness increasing output Organizing working Increasing work environment productivity ● Main actions ● Main actions Visualize working hours Transfer and hire personnel to reinforce businesses Establish and enforce an eight-hour workday Use IT tools such as Skype for conferences Encourage workers to take scheduled leaves Establish rules for meetings, e-mail, and telephones General work reform actions Encourage and Health and productivity enable diversity management declaration ● Main actions ● Main actions Promote diversity Improvement of the workplace environment Introduce work-life balance initiatives Passive smoking protection and smoking cessation assistance Improvement of lifestyle habits Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 171 Work Reform Targets We have set the following work reform targets: Annual Total Working Hours per Employee FY2016 actual: 2,001 hours FY2017 actual: 1,971 hours FY2018 actual: 1,943 hours FY2019 actual: 1,879 hours Number of Paid Leave Used FY2016 actual: 12.6 days (use rate of 63.0%) FY2017 actual: 14.0 days (70.0%) FY2018 actual: 13.9 days (69.5%) FY2019 actual: 15.6 days (78.0%) * The FY2020 targets will be set once we have a clearer picture of the effect of the new coronavirus. Wages Epson＇s wage standards are compliant with the local labor regulations in the countries where we operate. Our standards provide for things such as suitable wages, allowances, and extraordinary pay. In Japan, for staﬀ members among non-management employees, we have introduced a qualiﬁed grade-based system wherein compensation is determined by the employee＇s job and competencies. For senior staﬀ members, we have a system wherein the compensation is determined by their job, which is given based on their competencies, and the level of roles they are fulﬁlling. We have a role-based grade system for managers wherein compensation is determined by the size of the person＇s role. The wage system does not discriminate by gender. The suitability of non-management employee wages and the wage system are reviewed once a year by a committee made up of members of management and the labor union. In every country and region outside Japan, we establish rules that are compliant with all local wage-related regulations governing things such as minimum wages, legal beneﬁts, and overtime. Wages, deductions, and so forth are calculated based on these rules, and employees receive an electronic or printed pay stub showing the details of each pay period. Payment is made on directly to employees on the appointed date. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 172 Labor-Management Relations As a union shop, Seiko Epson requires all regular employees, Main Employee Welfare and Beneﬁts Systems (Japan) except those in management or in certain other managementCategory Description of System related positions, to join the labor union.*1 Childcare Childcare leave, shorter work hours for parents, home care service Caregiving Caregiver leave, shorter work hours for caregivers, A labor-management council forms the basis of the laborcare insurance Retirement beneﬁts (deﬁned contribution pension plan, management relationship. Held regularly and as needed, this Retirement corporate deﬁned beneﬁt pension plan), asset-building council is where management explains important managepension scheme, etc. Personal injury or illness leave, in-house therapy ment matters to labor union representatives and where the (massages), special paid leave, payment of additional Wellness amount to defray costs of injury, illness and child-rearing, two sides discuss proposed changes to employment condisubsidies for general medical checkups tions. In addition to the labor-management council, Seiko Training Subsidies for passing national exams, work-related correspondence courses, etc. Epson has formed labor-management committees, the safety Company housing, property accumulation savings Housing and health committee, as well as some other committees, to incentives, etc. discuss and solve issues related to things such as working Commuting Commuting expenses (commuter passes, gasoline costs, highway tolls, etc.) styles, family support, and beneﬁts and wages. Insurance Group life insurance, corporate group insurance, income insurance Employee cafeterias, employee stock ownership plan, Informal discussions are also held on the division and departOther long-term service award, etc. ment level to provide a venue for bidirectional communication between employees and managers. Management communicates its thoughts and wishes to employees as well as get direct feedback from them. *1 Rate of joining the labor union among all regular employees: 85.9% Improving Workplace Communication At Epson, we aim, as individuals and organizations, to coopEmployee Survey Cycle erate with one another as we pursue challenging objectives and to maintain a state of free and constructive communicaSurvey ● Conduct survey（December） tion. Results To see where we are in meeting these objectives, we have ● Provide feedback been conducting employee surveys every year since 2005. Analysis ● Analyze company-wide trends ● Analyze division results The survey results are reported to the president and other top （December March） executives. Feedback is provided on the department level, Problems/Issues & solutions and managers periodically review and analyze the state of Annual plan for each organization their departments. They decide on measures to solve prob● Consistent with objectives for Plan execution improving the culture and lems and issues with the goal of fostering a better culture and strengthening organization. （April November） strengthening the organization. These measures are incorporated into action plans at the start of the new ﬁscal year. These actions are carried out throughout the year, the results are checked in the next survey, and additional actions are taken to maintain the good and improve the bad. Result of Employee Survey FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 % of engaged 87.1％ 90.7％ 89.9％ 92.1％ 92.2％ 91.2％ employees * Data for Seiko Epson Corporation employees. Participation 97.4% (FY2019) Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 173 Commitment to People Our People Health and Productivity Management Health and Productivity Management Initiatives Epson believes that providing and maintaining a safe and healthy work environment and promoting physical and mental well-being are the foundation of a healthy company. Accordingly, understanding that safety and health are the lifeblood of the company, we have instituted NESP*1 activities at our sites around the world, so that our employees and partners can enjoy working as part of a team in a healthy environment and in the knowledge that they are safe and secure. Health and productivity management is a priority of these activities, and initiatives in this area support the improvement and maintenance of employee health. Outside Japan, we are working continuously to improve employee health in ways that ﬁt the situation at each company. Occupational health and safety laws vary by country and region, so each overseas aﬃliate manages employee health based on local law. Meanwhile, there are also areas where we need to step up our initiatives to address issues such as protection against passive smoking and the increase in lifestyle-related diseases associated with aging. At the same time, given the need as a society to increase healthy life expectancy, we are expected as a good corporate citizen to maintain and promote the health of our employees. In line with this, Epson management announced, in April 2020, its commitment to building a strong culture of health across the global Epson Group by issuing the Epson Group Health and Productivity Management Declaration. *1 The New Epson Safety & Health Program (NESP), established in FY2000, is an original Epson program that covers safety, health, fire and disaster prevention and management, and facilities. It is based on an occupational safety and health management system (OSHMS) that conforms to International Labour Organization (ILO) guidelines. Basic NESP Policy (Please refer to page 268 of ＂Appendices＂ ) The Health and Productivity Management Declaration, Executive Organization, and Key Issues Epson declares that it will work to manage the health and productivity of all employees and external stakeholders. Health and Productivity Management Declaration At Epson, the health of our employees is our top priority. The company and its employees will work together to create an enjoyable and dynamic workplace environment to ensure the physical and mental wellness of all. Our goal is to energize all employees with a vital workplace, produce results that surprise and delight the world, and make the world a better place. Yasunori Ogawa President and CEO Seiko Epson Corporation On April 1, 2020, Seiko Epson established the Health Management Oﬃce, an organization that reports directly to the president. This oﬃce works closely with Epson＇s health insurance association to drive actions that will maintain and improve health. The oﬃce is focusing particularly on: • Creating an enjoyable and dynamic workplace environment; • Introducing measures to protect people against passive smoking and that help people quit smoking; and • Improving lifestyle habits by increasing health literacy. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 174 ＂Health Action 2020＂ In Japan, Epson has instituted a mid-term health plan every ﬁve years since FY2001. The current plan, Health Action 2020, was instituted in April 2016. The objective of this plan is to promote better employee health, increase productivity, and enhance corporate value. The plan basically seeks to ensure safety and improve the working environment while also fostering employee and workplace independence and autonomy. In addition to physical and mental health, the plan addresses workplace health*1 and includes actions to energize and build a sense of unity between individuals and the organization and to increase productivity through work reforms and personnel measures. Health Action 2020 was examined by executive management at meetings of the General Safety and Health Controllers Committee and approved by the director in charge of health management. It was then rolled out to all sites and Group companies in Japan. Workplace health, physical health, and mental health achievements and issues are reported at meetings of the General Safety and Health Controllers Committee. And Seiko Epson＇s supervisory departments, health insurance association, and occupational physicians work together on a Health and Productivity Management Committee to discuss with executive management not only the issues that were reported but also health management policies and actions so that further improvements can be driven systematically by continuously implementing the PDCA management cycle. *1 Epson coined and has used the term ＂workplace health＂ since FY2016. It is based on the World Health Organization＇s definition of health as ＂a state of complete physical, mental and social well-being＂ but also incorporates the idea of health and productivity management, which has elements of both mental and physical well-being coupled with how we work. It is creating a safe, dynamic, communicative workplace in which everyone feels energized and enjoys job satisfaction. Health Action 2020: Three Key Areas and Actions Health and safety obligations ･ Overwork prevention Creation of a pleasant ･ Workplace harassment workplace prevention ･ Teamwork & energy ･ Encourage individual skills Workplace health W Physical health Mental health Weight E E Eat P Exercise Prevention Self care Prevention We Step activities T S Take a step forward Treatment Smoke Prevention, education, -free early detection/ treatment, recurrence prevention W: Weight control E: Exercise Appropriate Training, S: Smoke-free efforts assignment, consultation support T: Treatment/checkup E: Eating smart P: Prevention/promotion Seiko Epson Recognized Under the Certified Health and Productivity Management Organization Recognition Program (White 500) In March 2020, Seiko Epson was recognized for the fourth consecutive year under the Certiﬁed Health and Productivity Management Organization Recognition Program (White 500), in the large enterprise category. The program, which is jointly administered by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry (METI) and the Nippon Kenko Kaigi, honors enterprises who work with insurers to promote good health and productivity. Under the recognition program, companies are evaluated in 25 areas related to health and productivity management. Epson satisﬁed the criteria for all of them. Epson earned among the highest marks in the sector in items concerning the involvement of executive management, scheme building and employee education, measures speciﬁcally targeting at-risk individuals, and the veriﬁcation and improvement of measures eﬀectiveness. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 175 The Origin of Health and Productivity Management at Epson, and Work Reforms Health and productivity management at Epson originated with ＂Epson＇s Work Goals and Work Culture,＂ a statement of goals set forth in 2004 in a labor-management agreement regarding overtime work and work on days oﬀ. Initiatives designed to increase workplace health, which are described in Health Action 2020, preserve the spirit of ＂Epson＇s Work Goals and Work Culture.＂ Since FY2017, Epson has been carrying out work reforms under the ＂ WILL BE Program＂*2 to achieve our work and work culture goals. This program is driving the improvement of workplace health. *2 ＂WILL BE＂ signifies work-life balance, innovation, liveliness, and enjoyment. Introductory Statement to ＂ Epson＇s Work Goals and Work Culture＂ Our goal is for all employees to maintain and improve their physical and mental health while working eﬃciently in a vital, rewarding work environment, without excessive labor demands. In this way, the company will develop in perpetuity, raising its corporate value and ensuring a win-win relationship with its employees. We aim to achieve this beneﬁcial working style and work culture both for the individual and the company. Mental Health Initiatives Seiko Epson and its group companies in Japan cite mental health as a key area and have introduced initiatives that are focused on prevention and on fostering strong personal relationships in a vibrant workplace culture. Training We have oﬀered ongoing mental health training since 2000. We give group training for new employees, mid-level employees, and others in senior staﬀ and management positions. Certain online courses have been designed for all employees. Also, employees gather together to read out loud from a mental health textbook. One example of training is ＂Around 35: Mental Health for the Prime of Your Career.＂ This course is for employees who are around 35, an age at which their role in the company tends to change and when there are often important changes in their personal lives. The course helps them to better understand themselves, deal with stress, and maintain their own personal mental health. Between the 2012 and 2019 ﬁscal years, 2,414 employees have taken this course, which has been run a total of 194 times. Consultation System Our business sites have health management oﬃces, where medical professionals (occupational physicians, nurses, and clinical psychologists) oﬀer employees advice on mental and physical health issues. Industrial counselors are on duty in our employee counseling oﬃces. They provide all types of advice as well as career counseling to help employees achieve self-realization and chart their careers. Stress Checks Since 2004, all employees undergo an occupational stress evaluation when they take their annual physical examination. Medical professionals and industrial counselors follow up with employees found to be highly stressed. The primary purpose is to help employees manage their stress. This evaluation facilitates early detection and early treatment of mental health issues. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 176 Since December 2015, Japan＇s Industrial Safety and Health Act has required certain employers to oﬀer stress checks to employees. In response, we revised the content of our evaluation to meet the new legal requirements and enacted a Group standard for the stress check system, which is overseen by the safety and health committees of domestic Group companies and sites. We have conducted stress checks in line with this standard since 2016 and, since 2017, have provided a stress analysis report to each department and supported eﬀorts to improve the workplace environment. Recurrence Prevention Employees whose mental health troubles have caused them to take time oﬀ from their jobs can beneﬁt from our back-to-work program. Since FY2007, the program has helped smooth the transition back to the workplace and avoid recurring troubles. Depending on their situation, employees may meet with medical professionals and industrial counselors, working with them as a team to plot their approach. Moreover, the employee＇s primary care physician, workplace manager, and human resources department work together closely to provide better support. In FY2016 we updated the back-to-work program and extended the maximum length of leaves of absence due to personal injury or illness from 18 months to 30 months so that employees can focus on recovery and recuperation. Providing a Clean, Smoke-Free Work Environment We have been stepping up actions to protect employees from harm caused by tobacco smoke. In 2016, we began to gradually reduce the number of smoking areas at our sites in Japan and to move them outdoors. Furthermore, in April 2018, we banned smoking during working hours, except for during the lunch break. We have also been promoting smoking cessation among employees by drawing their attention to associated risks on World No Tobacco Day, oﬀering professional counseling, and fully subsidizing the cost of treatment at a smoking cessation outpatient clinic. These actions have accelerated the rate at which employees in the domestic Epson Group have quit smoking. Whereas the percentage of smokers declined by 2.6% over the ﬁve years from FY2011, it declined by 4.1% over the three years since FY2016. In FY2019, the percentage of smokers dropped to 21.5%. For additional protection against passive smoking, Epson will completely ban smoking on the premises, eﬀective October 1, 2020. Percentage of Smokers (Japan) (%) 30 28.2 26.9 26.2 25.5 25.9 25.6 25 24.1 22.4 21.5 20 15 10 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) Poster (Japanese) Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 177 Epidemic Prevention and Life-Saving Initiatives Emerging Infectious Diseases Prevention Epson considers infectious diseases to be a serious business risk. To eliminate infectious disease-related plant closures, we have been taking action since 2009 to ensure that our people are alert to infectious diseases and that they practice measures to prevent their spread in the workplace. In 2017, we stepped up our inspection and improvement programs at our overseas manufacturing companies to prevent the spread of infectious diseases such as tuberculosis, malaria, and Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS). Epson Group companies around the world maintain their own business continuity plans (BCP) to control risks associated with emerging infectious diseases. These BCP are tailored to their speciﬁc needs and serve not only to protect their employees but to minimize harm and ensure the continuity of business operations. Life-Saving Training Seiko Epson provides ﬁrst aid training in Group companies in Japan to prepare personnel to provide eﬀective ﬁrst aid and care in a medical emergency involving cardiopulmonary arrest. Executives and other personnel have been given hands-on training in cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) and the use of automated external deﬁbrillators (AEDs). As of the end of March 2020, approximately 13,700 employees had received training. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 178 Commitment to People Our People Occupational Safety and Health Approach to Occupational Safety and Health Epson believes that providing and maintaining a safe and Basic Concept of NESP healthy work environment and promoting physical and mental well-being are the foundation of a healthy company. Self-sufﬁcient promotion unit activities Accordingly, understanding that safety and health are the Group-wide activities Deploy unique activities lifeblood of the company, we have instituted safety and Horizontally deploy health activities at our sites around the world, so that our Organization preventative measures for accidents that employees and partners can enjoy working as part of a activities occurred in the past and that are similar team in a healthy environment and in the knowledge that they are safe and secure. Conduct safety patrols to keep workplaces staying safe The core component of this eﬀort is the New Epson Safety & Health Program (NESP), established in FY2000. Covering safety, health, ﬁre/disaster prevention, and facilities, this original Epson program is based on an occupational safety and health management system (OSHMS) that conforms to International Labour Organization (ILO) guidelines. Since that program came into eﬀect, we have enforced the Basic NESP Policy and manage our workplaces with the idea that every workplace is responsible for maintaining its own safety. Basic NESP Policy (Please refer to page 268 of ＂Appendices＂ ) Epson amended the Management Philosophy earlier this year to reﬂect our commitment to making Epson an indispensable company and the world a better place. As part of these eﬀorts, we ensure that all legal, regulatory, and internal requirements are observed at all sites around the world. We also endeavor to provide safe, secure, healthy workplaces to maintain and promote the mental and physical wellbeing of our people. Understanding that safety, security, and health are lifelines of the company, we are working together under the leadership of management to eliminate occupational accidents, injuries, and illnesses and to continuously meet the needs of our customers. Motonori Okumura Managing Executive Oﬃcer Production Planning Division General Administrative Manager and Overall Safety and Health Controller Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 179 Occupational Accidents We had no serious occupational accidents (accidents resulting in fatalities or permanent disabilities) in the FY2019. The frequency and severity of occupational accidents in the Epson Group were also far lower than the national average. Although the frequency rose compared to the previous ﬁscal year, the severity of accidents was lower. Occupational Injury Accident Frequency Occupational Injury Accident Seriousness Manufacturing 1.4 industry average (Japan) 0.12 1.20 1.20 0.10 0.10 1.2 1.15 0.10 1.0 0.08 1.06 1.02 0.08 0.07 Manufacturing industry 0.8 average (Japan) Electrical equipment manufacturing industry average (Japan) 0.06 0.05 0.6 0.54 0.06 Electrical equipment 0.45 manufacturing industry 0.58 0.54 0.04 0.03 average (Japan) 0.4 0.51 Epson Group 0.02 0.02 0.2 0.13 0.09 0.10 0.02 Epson Group 0.01 0.07 0.005 0.002 0.003 0.002 0.0 0.12 0.00 0.002 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) Occupational injury Number of injury accidents Occupational injury Number of working days missed accident frequency 1,000,000 accident seriousness 1,000 Total actual working hours Total actual working hours * Occupational injury accident frequency: the number of injury accidents per * Occupational injury accident seriousness: the number of injury accidents million work hours, where an injury accident is an incident that causes a per 1000 work hours, where an injury accident is an incident that causes a worker to miss one or more days of work worker to miss one or more days of work Workdays lost are calculated based on the criteria below. • Fatality: 7,500 days • Permanent total disability: days of disability level 1-3 (7,500 days) • Permanent partial disability: 50 to 5,500 days depending on disability level from 4-14 • Temporary disability: the total number of lost days, including scheduled day oﬀ, multiplied by 300/365 Safety Management Initiatives Epson＇s FY2020 safety targets are as follows. • Zero serious occupational or industrial accidents • Frequency & severity: Less than last ﬁscal year Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 180 Global Sharing of Information on Safety and Health Epson seeks to improve its safety and health programs around the world by holding regular meetings at our production sites in Japan and overseas to share information and discuss issues at diﬀerent management echelons. At the executive management level, the chief operating oﬃcers and presidents of Epson companies and sites in Japan and overseas separately gather twice a year for meetings of the General Safety and Health Controllers Committee to update one another about actions being taken and discuss issues to identify opportunities for improvement. At the operational level, managers and health and safety personnel also meet regularly to share information. In Japan, they meet every other month to discuss important topics and issues. Overseas, in China and Southeast November 2019 information sharing meeting in Shenzhen, China Asia, representatives from each manufacturing aﬃliate meet regularly to get on the same page with respect to shared issues, discuss key actions to ensure compliance with applicable local legal and regulatory requirements, and drive improvement. Raising Employee Awareness with Accident Reports Epson analyzes all occupational injuries and accidents in the Epson Group, identiﬁes causes, and makes plans for preventing similar incidents. Occupational accidents are reported in the form of Safety News bulletins that describe accident causes, countermeasures, and actions that all sites are to take to prevent similar accidents in the future. These reports are placed on the intranet and discussed with employees. Professional Development through Safety and Health Training Epson considers safety and health training vital for protecting employees. The training curriculum is tailored to the position, roles, and responsibilities of employees. Training for non-management employees focuses on practical techniques such as risk assessment and hazard prediction. Training for managers and supervisors focuses on leadership. All Group companies use the same training curriculum. In the FY2019, we oﬀered an online safety course in Japan that was taken by 100% of managers and supervisors (1,681 people) and by 98.34% of non-management employees (19,412 people). We also planned and implemented basic education courses for managers and supervisors overseas. The course was taken by 100% of managers and supervisors in Greater China (594 people) and by 99% in the Southeast Asia territory (1,029 people). In FY2020, we will provide training to all eligible people, including new managers and supervisors, with a goal of a 100% course completion rate. Safety and health training in Greater China (Shenzhen) in 2019 Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 181 Fire and Disaster Prevention Epson is committed to ﬁre safety and disaster management. Our independent ﬁre brigades help to protect lives and property. Epson Disaster Prevention Day falls on the last work day of each August. We hold ﬁre and disaster drills and practice extinguishing small ﬁres to help minimize damage in the event of a wide-scale disaster. The actions both increase our preparedness and heighten employee awareness. Formation of Independent Fire Brigades Epson has had independent ﬁre brigades in place for 65 years. The ﬁrst brigade was formed in 1955, with 15 employees dedicated to protecting their factory from ﬁre. As our business has grown, so has the number of ﬁre brigades. There are now approximately 900 employee ﬁreﬁghters active at business sites in Japan and at facilities around the world. Fire brigades train yearround to protect life and company property. Members of the Group＇s ﬁrst independent ﬁre brigade (1955) Purpose and significance of independent fire brigade initiatives • Regular training teaches members about ﬁreﬁghting techniques and skills and raises their safety awareness so they can take immediate and proper action in an emergency. This is part of company safety education. • Initiatives help employees take the lead during ﬁre or natural disasters. Members help to ensure personal safety (relief work) and minimize damage to facilities and equipment (initial ﬁre-ﬁghting). • Employees who learn about safety and ﬁreﬁghting techniques and skills become key members of the workplace to instruct others there. They model ﬁre/disaster prevention and safety for all employees, which raise workplace awareness of the same. • Initiatives to ﬁght ﬁre enhance communication. Fire brigades are a good place to foster friendships between members from diﬀerent departments, develop character, and cultivate human resources. Fire Brigade Competitions Epson has held a ﬁre brigade competition annually in September that gives brigade members around the world a chance to demonstrate how quickly they are able to take the proper action in an emergency and to demonstrate their skills in extinguishing a small ﬁre. About 700 people in 43 teams, including 15 from overseas, took part in the 2019 Competition. The 43 teams consisted of 23 in the small pump division, 12 in the indoor ﬁre hydrant division, and eight in the bugle band division. The high level of ﬁre safety awareness was evident from the seriousness with which the teams competed in bad weather, showing that the spirit to protect lives and property under which the brigades were ﬁrst formed is alive and well. The entire Epson Group will continue to improve our ﬁre and disaster prevention and management programs. A men＇s small pump team preparing for sprayMembers of a ladies＇ indoor ﬁre hydrant team Drum and bugle corps performing ing water spraying water while maintaining the trajectory Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 182 Facility Safety Maintenance Epson maintains safe facilities in line with the NESP program to prevent accidents caused by faulty buildings, equipment, and facilities. Facility safety maintenance covers all domestic and foreign Epson Group buildings and building equipment, including but not limited to electrical equipment, air conditioning and sanitary equipment, drainage equipment, disaster management equipment, communication equipment, and equipment for supplying gas and chemicals to production machinery. Maintaining the soundness of buildings and building equipment, preventing damage from ﬁres and earthquakes, and ensuring the safety of employees and others will help Epson to ensure business continuity and deliver products and services on time. Epson thus has in place a variety of facility safety measures. For example, before a new building or new building equipment is constructed, installed, refurbished, or removed, a safety assessment is conducted to identify potential problems and improve designs. In addition to managing safety during construction, we also conduct post-construction safety assessments where we check whether buildings and building equipment were constructed or installed as designed. If there is a problem, we have it ﬁxed, and if it is not ﬁxed, the building or equipment cannot be used until the problem is resolved. In addition to ensuring compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and codes when conducting safety assessments, we are also working to build safer buildings and building equipment by establishing our own standards and preventing the recurrence of past accidents and problems. In many cases, we hire outside contractors to do the actual construction work. When we hire a contractor, we carefully manage safety by communicating the construction rules, controlling access to the site, ensuring that conﬁdentiality is maintained, and providing instructions for working safely. We also try to raise safety awareness among contractors by holding safety conferences. To encourage employees to acquire the licenses and qualiﬁcations needed for facility management and to maintain and raise the level of facility management, Epson provides employees with ongoing professional education. To help ensure electrical safety, Epson created its own program for training and qualifying electrical equipment technicians. Only qualiﬁed technicians are allowed to perform electrical work and maintenance on machinery used at Epson sites worldwide. We at Epson will continue to try to eliminate occupational accidents through activities like these. Building safety assessment Contractor safety conference Electrical equipment technician training Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 183 Commitment to Governance Organizational Governance Corporate Governance To achieve our goals, promote sustainable growth, and increase long-term corporate value, Seiko Epson continuously improves corporate governance to ensure transparent, fair, and fast decision-making, including by ensuring that independent outside directors comprise at least one-third of the board, and by establishing committees to nominate oﬃcers and determine compensation. Epson will continue to enhance the eﬀectiveness of its corporate governance by further improving the supervisory function of the Board of Directors and by enhancing discussions at board meetings, as well as by speeding up decision-making in management as a company with an Audit & Supervisory Committee. Principles of Corporate Governance The general principles of corporate governance at Epson are as follows: 1. Respect the rights of shareholders, and secure equality. 2. Keeping the interests of shareholders, customers, communities, business partners, employees and other stakeholders in mind, work in an appropriately cooperative manner with them. 3. Disclose company information as appropriate and ensure transparency. 4. Directors, Executive Oﬃcers, and Special Audit & Supervisory Oﬃcers shall be aware of their ﬁduciary responsibilities and shall fulﬁll the roles and responsibilities expected of them. 5. Epson shall engage in constructive dialogue with shareholders. Corporate Governance Structure Seiko Epson (＂ the Company＂) has established itself as a company with an Audit & Supervisory Committee with the aim of strengthening the supervision and monitoring of management and of speeding up decision-making by separating the management supervision and execution of operations. The main corporate management bodies and their aims are described below. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 184 Board of Directors The Board of Directors, with a mandate from shareholders, is responsible for realizing eﬃcient and eﬀective corporate governance, through which the Company will accomplish its social mission, sustain growth, and maximize corporate value over the medium and long terms. To fulﬁll its responsibilities, the Board of Directors supervises general operations to ensure that operations are fair and transparent. The Board of Directors also makes decisions on important business aﬀairs of the Company, such as decisions on the formulation of important business matters, such as the establishment of management plans and business plans and decision on investment projects that exceed a certain ﬁxed amount of money. The Board of Directors is composed of 12 directors*1, including ﬁve Outside Directors. Meetings of the Board of Directors are, as a rule, held once per month and as needed. Meetings of the Board of Directors are chaired by the Chairperson of the Board per the Board of Directors Regulation. The Board of Directors makes decisions on basic business policies, important business aﬀairs, and other matters that the Board of Directors is responsible for deciding as provided for in internal regulations. Business aﬀairs that the Board of Directors is not responsible for deciding are delegated to executive management, and the Board monitors these. Under the company with an Audit & Supervisory Committee structure, the scope of business aﬀairs delegated by the Board of Directors to executive management, such as making decisions on investment projects that are less than a certain ﬁxed amount of money, has been expanded. As such, matters discussed by the Board of Directors are limited to motions of the highest importance (e.g., governance, capital policy, compliance, risk management, deliberations on megatrends and midto long-term strategies), thereby speeding up business decision-making and increasing the agility of business. The Company has speciﬁed in the Corporate Governance Policy that at least one-third of the members of the Board of Directors shall be Outside Directors. *1 As of June 30, 2020 Audit & Supervisory Committee The Audit & Supervisory Committee, with a mandate from shareholders, is responsible for independently and objectively auditing and monitoring the execution of Director duties and for ensuring the sound and sustained growth of the Company. The Audit & Supervisory Committee establishes criteria for properly evaluating potential External Financial Auditors. After selecting External Financial Auditors, the Audit & Supervisory Committee veriﬁes whether External Financial Auditors possess the necessary independence and expertise. In addition, the Audit & Supervisory Committee conducts audits in cooperation with internal audit departments and Financial Auditors. The Audit & Supervisory Committee is composed of four Audit & Supervisory Committee members*2, three of whom are Outside Directors. It is chaired by a full-time member of the Audit & Supervisory Committee. Meetings are generally held once per month and as needed. *2 As of June 30, 2020 Compliance Committee The Compliance Committee hears and discusses important matters concerning the Company＇s compliance program in order to supervise whether the compliance program is being properly implemented along the executive line. It reports its ﬁndings and oﬀers opinions to the Board of Directors. As an advisory body to the Board of Directors, the Compliance Committee is composed of Outside Directors and Directors who are Audit & Supervisory Committee members. It is chaired by the full-time member of the Audit & Supervisory Committee, and meetings are held once every six months and as needed. A Chief Compliance Oﬃcer (＂CCO＂) is chosen by the Board of Directors to oversee and monitor the execution of all compliance operations. The CCO periodically reports the state of compliance aﬀairs to the Compliance Committee. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 185 Director Nomination Committee & Director Compensation Committee A Director Nomination Committee and a Director Compensation Committee have been established as advisory bodies to the Board of Directors, with the aim of ensuring the transparency and objectivity regarding selections for and compensation of Directors, Executive Oﬃcers and Special Audit & Supervisory Oﬃcers. Outside Directors are the main members and the human resources department is the secretariat. The outline of each Committee is as follows: Composition Based on the internal rules established by the Board of Directors, in each of the Committees, the chairman is the President and the other members are all Outside Directors and the Director in charge of human resources. The current members*1 are as follows: Chairman: Yasunori Ogawa, President Members: Outside Directors Hideaki Omiya, Mari Matsunaga, Yoshio Shirai, Susumu Murakoshi, Michiko Ohtsuka Masayuki Kawana, director in charge of human resources Directors who are full-time members of the Audit & Supervisory Committee can attend either meeting as observers. *1 As of June 30, 2020 Activities of the Director Nomination Committee The committee met four times from April 2019 to the June 2020 Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders to deliberate things such as Oﬃcer (Director, Executive Oﬃcer, and Special Audit & Supervisory Oﬃcer) selection policies and candidate proposals, succession plans, bylaws concerning the Chairperson of the Board, and areas where there are particularly high expectations for Directors. Most notably, the committee went through the process of selecting a new President and Representative Director in advance of the April 2020 succession date, with the Outside Directors, who make up the majority of the Director Nomination Committee, interviewing multiple succession candidates and holding exhaustive discussions at meetings of the Director Nomination Committee before tendering the Committee＇s recommendation to the Board of Directors. Activities of the Director Compensation Committee The committee met ﬁve times from April 2019 to the June 2020 Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders to deliberate things such as base compensation, individual bonuses, the extension of the performance-linked stock compensation plan, and the performance-based coeﬃcient. Corporate Strategy Council The Corporate Strategy Council is an advisory body to the President. It was created to help ensure that the right decisions are made based on the advice and views of executive management. Meetings of the Corporate Strategy Council are held to discuss important matters that aﬀect the entire Epson Group and matters brought up before the Board of Directors. The Corporate Strategy Council is composed of Directors, Executive Oﬃcers, and Special Audit & Supervisory Oﬃcers. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 186 Nomination of Officers With an aim to ensure transparency and objectivity, Director candidates who are submitted for their appointments to the General Meeting of Shareholders are determined by the Board of Directors after going through a fair, transparent, and rigorous screening and reporting by the Director Nomination Committee in which Outside Directors make signiﬁcant contributions. Policies 1. Oﬃcers must be impartial and possess high integrity and ethical standards 2. Outside Directors must satisfy criteria concerning the independence of Outside Directors in order to guarantee their independence. The Board of Directors established ＂Criteria for Independence of Outside Directors.＂ * Epson＇s Board of Directors is well-balanced and composed of persons who combine a broad spectrum of knowledge, experience, and skill in their respective areas of expertise, without regard to things such as gender, race, ethnicity, country of origin, nationality, cultural background, or age. * As a general rule, Outside Directors shall not concurrently serve as either a Director or a Kansayaku of more than three publicly listed companies other than Epson per the bylaws established by resolution of the Board of Directors. * Per Epson policy, Directors shall attend at least 75% of the meetings of the Board of Directors per year. Procedures 1. After passing a fair, transparent, and rigorous screening and reporting by the Director Nomination Committee, Executive Director candidates and Executive Oﬃcers are selected by the Board of Directors in addition to the foregoing policy and on nomination criteria, such as broadness of insight, extensiveness of experience, sense of mission, sense of responsibility, leadership, and the ability to drive change. 2. The Director Nomination Committee screens Non-Executive Director candidates and Special Audit & Supervisory Oﬃcers in a fair, transparent, and rigorous screening in line with the foregoing policy and on the basis of nomination criteria, including but not limited to broadness of insight, extensiveness of experience, sense of mission, sense of responsibility, management knowledge and specialized knowledge. The Director Nomination Committee reports its opinions to the Board of Directors, which ﬁnalizes the selections. The consent of the Audit & Supervisory Committee is required for nominating Director candidates who are Audit & Supervisory Committee Members and for appointing Special Audit & Supervisory Oﬃcers. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 187 Criteria for Independence of Outside Directors The Company has established the criteria below to objectively determine whether potential Outside Directors are independent. 1. A person is not independent if: 1. The person considers the Company to be a major business partner1, or has served as an executive2 within the past ﬁve years in an entity for which the Company is a major business partner; 2. The person is a major business partner3 of the Company or has served as an executive within the past ﬁve years in an entity that is a major business partner of the Company. 3. The person is a business consultant, certiﬁed public accountant, or lawyer who has received a large sum of money or other forms of compensation4 (other than remuneration as an oﬃcer) from the Company or has, within the past three years, performed duties equivalent to those of an executive as an employee of a corporation or group, such as a union, that has received a large sum of money or other forms of compensation from the Company; 4. The person is a major shareholder5 of the Company or has, within the past ﬁve years, been an executive or Audit & Supervisory Board Member of an entity that is a major shareholder of the Company; 5. The person is an executive or Audit & Supervisory Board Member of an entity in which the Company is currently a major shareholder; 6. The person is a major lender6 to the Company or has been an executive of a major lender to the Company within the past ﬁve years; 7. The person has been employed by an auditing ﬁrm that has conducted a legal accounting audit of the Company within the past ﬁve years; 8. The person has been employed by a leading managing underwriter of the Company within the past ﬁve years; 9. The person has received a large donation7 from the Company or, within the past three years, has performed duties equivalent to those of an executive as an employee of a corporation or a group, such as a union, that has received a large donation from the Company; 10. The person came from an entity that employs someone from the Company as an Outside Director; or 11. A spouse or relative within the second degree of kinship of a person having the interests listed in (1) through (9) above. 2. Even if any of the foregoing criteria apply to a potential Outside Director, the Company can elect that person as an Outside Director if that person satisﬁes the requirements for Outside Directors set forth in the Companies Act, and the Company deems the person suitable as an Outside Director of the Company in light of his or her personality, knowledge, experience, or other qualiﬁcations upon explaining and announcing the reasons thereof. Notes 1. A person (usually a supplier) considers the Company to be a major business partner if 2% or more of its consolidated net sales (consolidated revenue) has come from the Company in any fiscal year within the past three years. 2. ＂Executive＂ means an executive officer, executive director or operating officer, or an employee occupying a senior management position of department manager or higher. 3. A person (usually a buyer) is a major business partner if 2% or more of the Company＇s consolidated revenue has come from that partner in any fiscal year within the past three years. 4. ＂A large sum of money or other forms of compensation＂ means an average annual amount for the past three years that is: I. no less than 10 million yen for an individual; or II. no less than 2% of the annual revenues in any fiscal year for a group. 5. ＂Major shareholder＂ means a shareholder who directly or indirectly holds 10% or more of the voting rights. 6. ＂A major lender＂ means a financial institution or other major creditor that is indispensable for the Company ＇s financing and on which the Company depends to the extent that it is irreplaceable in any fiscal year within the past three years. 7. ＂Large donation＂ means a donation whose annual average amount for the past three years exceeds either: I. 10 million yen or II. 30% of the annual expense of the group, whichever is higher. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 188 Reason for Appointed as Outside Directors, and Attendance at Meetings of the Board of Directors Attendance at meetings of Name Reason for Appointment the Board of Directors Hideaki Omiya Mr. Omiya has served as the President and a Chairman of the Board of 13/13 meetings Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. and has considerable experience and (100%) insight as a chief executive and engineer. He has monitored corporate management by expressing opinions actively including ﬁndings and proposals regarding overall managerial issues from a perspective of a corporate manager well-versed in the global corporate management in the heavy industry, a diﬀerent business ﬁeld. We have nominated him as a candidate for independent Outside Director with the expectation that he will monitor corporate management appropriately aimed at achieving sustainable growth and improving the Company＇s corporate value over the mediumto long-term. Mari Ms. Matsunaga has created new business models and served as an 12/13 meetings Matsunaga Outside Oﬃcer in multiple companies, has a wealth of experience and (92.3%) considerable insight. As an Outside Director of the Company, she has appropriately monitored management, actively pointing out business issues and oﬀering recommendations particularly from the viewpoint of promoting open innovation. We have nominated her as a candidate for independent Outside Director with the expectation that she will monitor corporate management appropriately aimed at achieving sustainable growth and improving the Company＇s corporate value over the mediumto long-term. Yoshio Shirai Mr. Shirai has served as Directors at Toyota Motor Corporation, Hino 13/13 meetings Motors, Ltd. and Toyota Tsusho Corporation, and has considerable insight (100%) and a wealth of experience as a corporate manager, and achievements as an Outside Director who is Audit & Supervisory Committee member of the Company. We have nominated him as a candidate for Outside Director who is an Audit & Supervisory Committee member with the expectation that he will appropriately supervise and contribute to the soundness of the Company＇s management aimed at achieving sustainable growth and improving the Company＇s corporate value over the mediumto long-term. Susumu Mr. Murakoshi possesses a high level of professional knowledge and insight New appointment Murakoshi as an attorney. Given his extensive experience in the legal community, which has included stints as the Chairman of the Japan Federation of Bar Associations and the Chairman of the Political Federation of Japan Patent Attorneys, the Company believes that Mr. Murakoshi can be expected to contribute to the eﬀective supervision and soundness of management so as to help ensure sustained growth and enhance long-term corporate value. Michiko Ms. Ohtsuka possesses a high level of professional knowledge and New appointment Ohtsuka insight as a certiﬁed public accountant. Given that she has experience and considerable insight as an Outside Oﬃcer in a public company, the Company believes that Ms. Ohtsuka can be expected to contribute to the eﬀective supervision and soundness of management so as to help ensure sustained growth and enhance long-term corporate value. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 189 Succession Plans The Company＇s Director Nomination Committee, which is composed primarily of Outside Directors, discusses enhancements to succession plans and the Director appointment process, reviews the roadmap, selects Director candidates, establishes and implements development plans, and reviews the process for evaluating, narrowing down, and replacing candidates. The Company selects candidates for senior management positions in order to systematically develop these individual as future executives. After their development is assessed, the HR Development Strategy Council, an advisory body to the President, devises and implements a concrete development plan. The state of development and issues are reported to the Director Nomination Committee, and development activities are further enhanced under the supervision and advice of the Outside Directors. Candidates to succeed the President are identiﬁed through the aforesaid process and developed by appointing them to key management roles and by providing them with other essential training opportunities. Matrix of Areas of Expertise Particularly Expected for Directors Epson clariﬁes a management system toward achieving the Management Philosophy and Corporate Vision by utilizing a matrix as below. Areas of expertise particularly expected by the Company Diversity Name Title Corporate Collaboration IT Finance HR Legal aﬀairs Global Personnel Gender management Openinnovation Digital Accounting development Compliance (Internationality) Chairman and Minoru Usui Male Director President and Yasunori Representative Male Ogawa Director Representative Director Senior Koichi Managing Male Kubota Executive Oﬃcer Director Tatsuaki Managing Male Seki Executive Oﬃcer Director Masayuki Executive Male Kawana Oﬃcer Director Toshiya Executive Male Takahata Oﬃcer Hideaki Outside Director Male Omiya Mari Outside Director Female Matsunaga Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 190 Areas of expertise particularly expected by the Company Diversity Name Title Corporate Collaboration IT Finance HR Legal aﬀairs Global Personnel Gender management Openinnovation Digital Accounting development Compliance (Internationality) Director FullTime Audit & Taro Supervisory Male Shigemoto Committee Member Outside Director Audit Yoshio & Supervisory Male Shirai Committee Member Outside Director Audit Susumu & Supervisory Male Murakoshi Committee Member Outside Director Audit Michiko & Supervisory Female Ohtsuka Committee Member Compensation of Officers With an aim to ensure transparency and objectivity, compensation of oﬃcers is determined by the General Meeting of Shareholders, the Board of Directors or Audit & Supervisory Committee after going through a fair, transparent, and rigorous reporting by the Director Compensation Committee in which Outside Directors make signiﬁcant contributions. Policies The Company has established the basic policies regarding the Oﬃcer compensation in its internal rules decided by the Board of Directors. Compensation of Officers Who Have Executive Duties 1. Compensation shall provide incentive to improve business performance in order to increase corporate value in the near, medium, and long terms. 2. Compensation shall be suﬃcient to attract qualiﬁed persons both from within the Company and from outside. 3. Compensation shall be commensurate with period performance so that Directors and Executive Oﬃcers can demonstrate their management capabilities to the fullest during their tenure. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 191 Compensation Policies for Officers Who Do Not Have Executive Duties 1. The composition of compensation shall guarantee independence so that these Oﬃcers can suitably exert their general management supervisory function, etc. 2. Compensation shall be suﬃcient to attract qualiﬁed persons both from within the Company and from outside. Compensation System The Oﬃcer compensation system consists of the following components: base compensation, bonuses, and stock compensation. Non-Executive Oﬃcers receive base compensation only, a ﬁxed amount, because their role is to supervise general management. They do not receive bonuses and stock compensation, which are forms of compensation that are linked to performance and share price. Base Compensation (fixed and variable) Base compensation is a monthly monetary amount that is determined by taking into account factors such as the individual＇s position and responsibilities. The variable compensation component of base compensation for Oﬃcers who have executive duties reﬂects the results of annual performance evaluations based on criteria set according to the individual＇s role. (Variable range: 20%) Bonuses (variable) Monetary compensation is paid as a bonus once per year to Oﬃcers who have executive duties in an amount determined in accordance with considerations such as the level of achievement with respect to annual operating performance targets. It is possible that bonuses may not be paid if business proﬁt does not reach a certain amount. Bonuses reﬂect the results of annual performance evaluations based on criteria set according to the individual＇s role. (Variable range of bonuses in months＇ worth of salary: ±1.2 months) Bonuses are calculated based on a calculation standard that the Board of Directors has determined in advance. However, due to the nature of the short-term incentive bonus, non-recurring losses and other factors are taken into account based on the business proﬁt of a single ﬁscal year. The ﬁnal payment amount is decided at the Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders to ensure transparency. Stock Compensation (variable) Oﬃcers who have executive duties are compensated with Seiko Epson shares under a trust scheme. The number of shares issued is dependent on the level of achievement with respect to medium-term ﬁnancial performance targets, such as ROS and ROE. (Variable range: 20%) The ratio of stock compensation to base compensation increases or decreases from 10% to 22% depending on position, while the number of shares delivered is linked to the achievement level of the performance indicators during the target period (3 years). The Company has introduced provisions (malus and clawback provisions) under this stock compensation system that will cause Oﬃcers to lose their right to receive stock and require them to pay back an amount equal to the value of the stock already issued if they are found to have violated any laws, ordinances, or company regulations, standards, or other policies. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 192 Compensation to Directors (Fiscal year ended March 2020) (Millions of yen) Fixed Number of Variable compensation compensation Category individuals Total (Persons) Stock Base compensation Bonuses compensation Directors who are not Audit & Supervisory 8 250 17 85 37 389 Committee members (2) (28) (-) (-) (-) (28) (of which, Outside Directors) Directors who are Audit & Supervisory Committee 4 81 81 members (3) (48) (-) (-) (-) (48) (of which, Outside Directors) Total 12 331 17 85 37 471 Notes 1. The base compensation for Directors who are not Audit & Supervisory Committee members (excluding Outside Directors) consists of fixed compensation and variable compensation. Variable compensation refers to the monetary compensation that reflects the results of annual performance evaluations based on criteria set according to their respective roles. 2. The Company has introduced an officer stock ownership plan to link compensation more closely to shareholders ＇ value. A portion of the base compensation is discretionally allotted for the acquisition of the Company＇s shares. Epson has established the criteria for shareholding by its officers based on internal regulations defined by the Board of Directors to demonstrate its commitment to and responsibilities for business operations to all shareholders. 3. Upon the resolution at the Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders held on June 28, 2016, the maximum base compensation was set to at 62 million yen per month for Directors who are not Audit & Supervisory Committee members (Outside Directors account for 10 million yen of this amount) and at 20 million yen per month for Directors who are Audit & Supervisory Committee members. 4. The amount above includes 85 million yen in bonuses to be paid to six Directors (excluding Outside Directors and Directors who are Audit & Supervisory Committee members), as resolved at the Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders held on June 25, 2020. 5. The Company introduced a performance-linked stock compensation plan (stock compensation) by employing a framework referred to as the officer compensation BIP (Board Incentive Plan) trust, for the purpose of showing its commitment to promoting sustainable growth and increasing its mediumto long-term corporate value, in addition to strengthening the sense of sharing common interests with its shareholders. The stock compensation stated above represents the amount recorded for the current fiscal year based on Japanese Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (JGAAP). 6. Stock options are not granted. Actions to Ensure Board Effectiveness The Board of Directors of Epson analyzes and evaluates the eﬀectiveness of the entire Board of Directors every year based on Article 28 of the Corporate Governance Policy. FY2018 Evaluation Results In the FY2018, the Company analyzed and evaluated the eﬀectiveness of its Board of Directors by asking all Board Members to complete a questionnaire that covered the topics listed below. The results showed that the Board of Directors as a whole is functioning eﬀectively. 1. Board composition, functioning, and operation 2. The function of the Audit & Supervisory Committee 3. The function and operation of advisory bodies to the Board 4. Management team evaluation, compensation, succession planning, and training 5. Dialogue with shareholders 6. Other The Company identiﬁed and addressed the issues below to improve Board eﬀectiveness in the future. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 193 I. Improvement of succession plans and further improvement of the Oﬃcer selection process a. The Director Nomination Committee, which is composed primarily of Outside Directors, discussed further enhancements to succession plans and the director appointment process, reviewed the roadmap, selected director candidates, established and implemented development plans, and reviewed the process for evaluating, narrowing down, and replacing candidates. After going through these procedures, the Company replaced the President and Representative Director, eﬀective April 1, 2020. In anticipation of the replacement in the future of the current President and Representative Director, the Director Nomination Committee has begun working on a new succession plan to ensure that there is ample time for examination. II. Clariﬁcation of the management framework for realizing the Management Philosophy and long-term corporate vision a. The Company clariﬁed the management framework for realizing the Management Philosophy and long-term corporate vision chieﬂy by identifying the areas where there are particularly high expectations for Directors. For details, please see ＂Matrix of Areas of Expertise Particularly Expected for Directors＂ under ＂Nomination of Oﬃcers＂ in this website. III. Sharing of the eﬀectiveness evaluation results of the Audit & Supervisory Committee in the Board of Directors meetings, and implementation of recommendations from the Audit & Supervisory Committee to the Board of Directors based on the audit results a. It has been made standard practice for the Audit & Supervisory Committee to share the results of eﬀectiveness evaluations of the Audit & Supervisory Committee with the Board of Directors. In the FY2019, the evaluation results, which showed that the Audit & Supervisory Committee is operating eﬀectively, were shared with the Board of Directors, and recommendations were made on issues found in the eﬀectiveness evaluation regarding improvements to the Company＇s internal controls and governance system. FY2019 Evaluation Results The questionnaires conducted in the 2017 and 2018 ﬁscal years were comprehensive. The questionnaire conducted in the FY2019 was likewise comprehensive and showed that the Board of Directors as a whole is functioning eﬀectively. In addition, the Company dug deeper based on recent corporate governance trends (such as the interests of institutional investors) and identiﬁed the following issues in order to improve eﬀectiveness in the future: 1. further improving the organization and disclosure of business strategy risks and opportunities; and 2. further improving the organization and disclosure of the thinking with regard to business portfolio management. * A third-party evaluation such as that conducted in fiscal 2017 was not conducted in fiscal 2019, because it is the Company＇s policy to implement it once every three years. In the future, we will work to further improve eﬀectiveness by addressing these issues. Responding to Large-Scale Acquisitions of Seiko Epson Shares Epson＇s Corporate Governance Policy stipulates the following: 1. Whether to accept a bid to purchase a number of shares that would give the acquirer control over the Company＇s ﬁnancial and business policies (＂large-scale acquisition＂ hereafter) should ultimately be decided by the shareholders. 2. Epson shall ask persons who attempt to make large-scale acquisitions of Company shares to provide a suﬃcient amount of the information needed to determine the desirability of the large-scale acquisition from the perspective of ensuring and enhancing corporate value and the common interests of shareholders, after which Epson shall disclose the opinions of the Company＇s Board of Directors regarding the proposed large-scale acquisition, thereby doing its due diligence to provide shareholders with the time and information they need to consider the desirability of the large-scale acquisition. The Company shall also take appropriate actions based on the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act, the Companies Act, and other applicable laws and regulations. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 194 Commitment to Governance Organizational Governance Internal Control System Epson＇s Management Philosophy outlines the vital business principles to which the global Epson Group is committed, while Epson＇s Principles of Corporate Behavior describes the conduct required to live up to these principles. Epson has established the basic concept of internal control of the entire group in the Basic Internal Control System Policy, and Epson takes actions to steadily improve that across the entire Epson Group. Group Governance The Epson Group is managed based on the concept: global consolidated responsibility of product-based divisions; and global responsibility of the Head Oﬃce supervisory functions. The head of the business operations divisions take the responsibility for the business execution systems of subsidiaries. And the head of Head Oﬃce supervisory sections take the responsibility for Group-level corporate functions. With this system, Epson strives to streamline operations throughout the Epson Group, including subsidiaries. Compliance and Risk Management Epson＇s goal is to continuously create value that exceeds customer expectations while building trust with all stakeholders based on the company＇s Management Philosophy. To maintain and strengthen this trust, Epson seeks to increase management transparency and fairness, ensure eﬀective management through faster decision-making, and appropriately manage compliance and risk. Because of that, we conduct various types of monitoring and supervise activities under the following organization. There were no compliance-related issues that are subject to timely disclosure in the FY2019. Compliance Organization Seiko Epson transitioned to a company with an Audit & Compliance Organization Chart Supervisory Committee after receiving approval for the Report & opinions Board of Directors move at its June 2016 general shareholders＇ meeting. The Instructions & inquiries company revised the composition of its Compliance Compliance Committee Chair: Full-time member of the Committee and the role of its Chief Compliance Oﬃcer Audit & Supervisory Committee President (CCO) in conjunction with this change. Monitor & supervise Report Corporate Strategy Council (deliberative body) Under the current organization, the Compliance CommitReport CCO Compliance tee, which acts as an advisory body to the Board of DiReport Internal audit control Audit & Supervisory department department rectors and is chaired by a Full-Time Audit & Supervisory Committee Instructions Independent Committee Member, discusses important compliance monitoring Executive oﬃcer activities, reports and proposes compliance aﬀairs to the Executive organization Board of Directors, and supervises business aﬀairs. The (Divisions, operations divisions, Epson Group companies) CCO supervises and monitors the execution of all compliance operations and periodically reports the state of compliance aﬀairs to the Compliance Committee. In addition, a compliance control department and a risk management department monitor compliance in general, making corrections and adjustments as needed. These compliance organization are deﬁned in the Epson Group Compliance Basic Regulation. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 195 Whistleblowing Systems and Reporting Channels Epson is committed to maintaining eﬀective whistleblower systems and has installed internal and external compliance hotlines and other advisory and support services to facilitate the reporting of potential compliance issues. We have also provided reporting channels for use by our business partners, to quickly catch any potential compliance problems that could go undetected internally. The identity of whistleblowers is rigorously protected and reprisals of any type are strictly forbidden. Counseling and Support Services in Japan Epson helplines Harassment counseling Counseling related to overwork and long working hours Counseling for persons with disabilities Insider trading advisory service Antitrust (antimonopoly) advisory service Corruption (bribery) regulations advisory service Employee counseling Reporting contact for business partners Whistleblowing systems have been installed in all Epson Group companies worldwide. The use of these systems is monitored, and usage data are reported to a corporate management body and to Group companies in an eﬀort to increase system eﬀectiveness. Epson has taken steps to improve the comprehensiveness and eﬀectiveness of the Epson Group＇s whistleblowing systems. As part of this, we have put in place an Epson Executive Compliance Hotline (a global whistleblowing system). This hotline can be used to report directly to Seiko Epson potential compliance problems involving individuals in executive management at Epson＇s overseas subsidiaries. Risk Management Organization The Chief Risk Management Oﬃcer in the Epson Group, including subsidiaries, is the president of Seiko Epson. Group-wide risks are managed globally by Head Oﬃce supervisory departments with the cooperation of the operations divisions and subsidiaries. Risks unique to an individual business are managed by the Chief Operating Oﬃcer of that business, including at subsidiaries consolidated under them. The SEC risk management department monitors overall risk management in the Group, makes corrections and adjustments thereto, and ensures the eﬃcacy of risk management programs. The Epson Group Risk Management Basic Regulation speciﬁes the company＇s risk management organization. Risk Management Organization Chart Management of serious risks in the Epson Group Board of Directors Group-wide management of serious risks (horizontal/functional) President Group-business management of serious risks (vertical/operations) Corporate Strategy Council Risk management Report department Monitoring (Head Oﬃce organization) Operations Operations Operations Head Oﬃce supervisory division A division B division C departments Epson Group sales & manufacturing companies Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 196 Epson identiﬁes serious risks that could have signiﬁcant consequences on the company. Risks that could have serious adverse eﬀects on Epson Group management are considered ＂serious Group-wide risks.＂ Risks that could have serious adverse eﬀects on business operations are considered ＂serious business risks.＂ Epson drafts and executes plans to control both types of serious risks and monitors their progress. The company also strives to ensure control plan eﬀectiveness by evaluating serious Group-wide risks and serious business risks on a quarterly and half-yearly basis, respectively, and by revising the plans as needed. The president of Seiko Epson reports important risk management aﬀairs to the Board of Directors periodically. Risk Management Cycle Risk assessment (CHECK) Control Identiﬁcation plan of serious risks execution (ANALYZE) (DO) Control plan creation (PLAN) Crisis Management Epson has a standing Crisis Management Committee. The committee is chaired by the president. The general administrative manager in charge of risk management serves as vice-chair. The rest of the committee is made up of the general managers of supervisory departments at the Head Oﬃce. An organization and a predetermined crisis management program are in place to enable us to rapidly mount a Group-wide initial response in the event of a crisis. Internal Audits Epson＇s internal audit departments audit a total of 96 business units around the world, including operations divisions in Japan, 51 overseas subsidiaries, and 14 domestic subsidiaries. Audits are used to check compliance, the eﬀectiveness and eﬃciency of their risk management, internal controls, and management methods. If issues are found, the Audit Oﬃce helps minimize business risks by conducting a follow-up audit to check the status of improvements. To ensure eﬀective Group governance, the Oﬃce also centrally oversees internal audits conducted by auditors at regional headquarters in Europe, the Americas, China, and Southeast Asia. Business units come up for audit about once every three years based on the Audit Oﬃce＇s mid-range audit plan. In the FY2019, the Audit Oﬃce performed 22 operational audits, and provided them with advice on correcting 69 items that required improvements. Internal Controls over Financial Reporting Every year, we audit internal controls to ensure the reliability of ﬁnancial reporting (J-SOX). The Epson Group uses an autonomous distributed implementation system in which operations divisions and subsidiaries subject to external audits conduct a self-assessment on the design and operation of their internal controls, while the J-SOX Compliance Department ensures the validity of the assessment results. Operations divisions, subsidiaries, and aﬃliates not subject to external audits are required to independently assess their internal controls and make such improvements as are necessary. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 197 Commitment to Governance Organizational Governance Initiatives of Internal Control Anti-Bribery/Anti-Corruption Basic Principles Epson＇s Principles of Corporate Behavior include Principle 5: ＂Ensuring eﬀective governance and compliance.＂ In Principle 5, Epson commits itself to eliminating all improper transactions, including those that involve bribery, corruption, cartels, and insider trading, and to pursuing fair, transparent, and free competition and appropriate transactions. In respect to employees, the Epson Group Global Code of Conduct breaks down the actions of the Principles of Corporate Behavior and describes the conduct expected of us as Epson employees. This document likewise afﬁrms that we do not seek proﬁt by improper means and urges employees to immediately report it to relevant departments if there is any conduct that presents a risk of violation. In respect to business partners, Principle 7 of the Principles of Corporate Behavior is ＂ Working with business partners for mutual beneﬁt.＂ This principle strictly forbids acts of bribery and collusion in our relationships with business partners and demands that our business partners also eliminate any illegal or unethical business practices. In addition, our Anti-Bribery and Competition Law Guidelines for Business Partners demand that business partners avoid the practice of business bribery and that they promptly notify concerned Epson companies if they discover any such act by an Epson employee. Epson Group Anti-Bribery Regulation The Epson Board of Directors is committed to preventing any bribery on the part of Epson. To that end, in 2014 we established a system to prevent bribery, along with rules to be followed. These make up the Group regulations that apply to all Group companies. The regulations state that Epson employees must not oﬀer bribes to public servants and the like. Moreover, we establish a bribery prevention system, for which the President is ultimately responsible. Under this system, supervisory departments take various measures to prevent bribery. Anti-Bribery Activities One of our designated priority company-wide serious risks is a violation of Anti-Bribery Regulation. As a prevention initiative, we draw up and execute plans to suppress the risk of bribery and corruption. We monitor the progress of this work and evaluate the eﬀectiveness of bribery suppressing eﬀorts. Epson＇s department responsible for compliance conducts our bribery prevention activities as based on Epson Group Anti-Bribery Regulation. The wide-ranging activities cover 12 areas, including entertainment and gifts, donations, hiring and internships, penalty, education by external experts, agent management, sponsorships, and procurement management. The various supervisory departments work together to tackle the risk of bribery. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 198 Compliance Permeation Activities To ensure that compliance awareness permeates the Group, Epson provides online courses, training, and more on a regular basis to both general administrative managers and employees, in keeping with the Epson Group Global Code of Conduct. We invite outside experts to give instruction in compliance training courses for executive management. We also provide compliance online courses and compliance training by internal instructors for all employees. At our aﬃliates outside Japan, our eﬀorts include giving compliance trainings that reﬂect local conditions. Every October is ＂Compliance Month＂ at Epson and this is to help each employee recall the importance of compliance to the realization of the Management Philosophy. During this period each year, we run events for the entire Group, including subsidiaries outside Japan, to raise compliance awareness based on our Management Philosophy and Principles of Corporate Behavior. Speciﬁc activities include: 1) the release of Compliance Messages by the Chief Compliance Oﬃcer and persons in charge of each business divisions/group companies, 2) the publishing of feature stories on compliance in the company newsletter, 3) initiatives to spread information about the Epson Group Global Code of Conduct, and 4) giving compliance training. These and other activities are meant to raise compliance awareness. When the ＂Compliance Month＂ is over, we conduct a survey about these initiatives. We total and analyze survey responses as to participants＇ opinions and suggestions on each company＇s or organization＇s eﬀorts and initiatives. This helps us check employees＇ compliance awareness and collect feedback for the next year＇s activities. Global Compliance Activities Epson has built and is operating an RCCO (Regional-CCO) organizational system centered on the CCO in order to expand compliance activities globally. Since diﬀerent regions of the world have their own languages and cultural norms, the sales company that supervises a region leads the compliance activities in that region, and Group companies cooperate to carry out the activities. We have established a vision of compliance management to which Epson aspires and are implementing a Global Compliance Program to continuously raise the compliance level and realize this vision. We have introduced these policies to Group companies in Japan and overseas, and are working to achieve our goals by spreading compliance policies, issues and measures throughout the company. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 199 International Trade Initiatives Epson is a multinational corporation with production centers, sales centers, customers, and business partners around the world. Smooth international trade operations are essential for delivering Epson products and services to customers in a timely manner. Meanwhile, we must observe numerous conventions and frameworks governing international trade that have been put in place to maintain international peace and security. To maintain compliance with these and to ensure smooth trade, Epson has established comprehensive systems and processes that have enabled Group companies to earn certiﬁcation from the relevant authorities for compliance with international trade programs. (See the table below.) Certifications Program Company Program overview (certifying agency) Special general bulk The program grants a blanket license to export certain items (or export license Seiko Epson provide certain information) to certain destinations without an (Ministry of Corporation individual application if an export control system is found to be in Economy, Trade place. and Industry) The program enables certiﬁed parties to get export permission Authorized exporter Seiko Epson even if goods are not brought into a bonded facility, etc., if an (Ministry of Finance, Corporation export security control and compliance system is found to be in Tokyo Customs) place. The program enables certiﬁed parties to separate import Authorized importer Seiko Epson declarations from tax declarations and accept goods before ﬁling a (Ministry of Finance, Corporation tax declaration if an import security control and compliance system Tokyo Customs) is found to be in place. Epson America Inc. Customs-Trade Partnership Against The program is designed to strengthen security of goods imported Terrorism (C-TPAT) to the US and security of import channels to the US. Epson Portland Inc. (US Customs) Certiﬁcate of AEO Exporter Certiﬁcate of AEO Importer Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 200 Business Continuity Management Epson has a solid business continuity management program in place. For many years we have taken action to prevent and manage disasters, but the program really got started in 2006, when we formulated a business continuity plan (BCP) for what was then our liquid crystal displays business. If a disaster or some other event impacts business at an Epson Group production site, our ﬁrst priority is to ensure the safety of our employees. Next, we take steps to ensure continuity of the product supply so as not to inconvenience our customers. In order to provide a steady supply of products, particularly consumables and core components such as quartz and semiconductor devices, print heads, and small liquid crystal panels, we have preparations in place that allow us to limit damage, secure repair parts, switch to alternative producers, and restore operations in line with established procedures. We conduct exercises to check our procedures and ensure their eﬀectiveness. Mission-critical IT systems and critical data that are essential for business continuity are consolidated in a robust data center, and backups are at the ready in the event of a disaster. We have secured multiple distribution routes to enable us to immediately switch to alternative routes in response to any disruption in international shipping and transport. In addition, our ﬁnance, accounting, public relations, and other key corporate functions have established BCPs so that business can continue in emergencies. Meanwhile, we ask the companies that make up our supply chain to strengthen their BCPs, and we check to see how established those BCPs are. We analyze the items we purchase, and we develop multiple sources for those that are most important. When we cannot secure multiple sources, we keep an inventory of goods on hand or try other means to ensure continuous production in the event that something should happen to a supplier. Every business and site in the Epson Group will continue to reﬁne its BCP to ensure that it has the resilience to withstand threats to business continuity going forward. Tabletop exercise for earthquake Checking the restoration procedure of the production line in a clean room Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 201 Tax Compliance Policy Epson seeks to fulﬁll its corporate social responsibility by paying appropriate taxes in compliance with the spirit as well as the letter of the tax laws and regulations in the countries and regions where it operates. In accordance with this basic policy on taxes, we are taking the actions below to maintain and improve tax compliance. 1. Tax governance • The Board of Directors is responsible for overseeing tax risk, and Epson＇s Chief Financial Oﬃcer is the responsible oﬃcial of Group tax aﬀairs. The group that is in charge of tax aﬀairs reports and manages taxes is under the supervision of the Chief Financial Oﬃcer. • Epson considers tax risk to be an important risk, and regularly reports such risks to the board of directors and the Corporate Strategy Council, which is composed of directors of the company. • Employees are trained in the tax-related regulations and business process standards that Epson has established to ensure that it properly fulﬁlls its tax obligations. We conduct periodic internal tax audits and report the ﬁndings to top management and to the Audit & Supervisory Committee. 2. Monitoring tax affairs • We appropriately respond in a timely manner to changes in local tax systems and taxation trends through regular reporting among the group that is in charge of tax aﬀairs and Epson＇s local subsidiaries. • We enlist the support of tax accounting ﬁrms and other external experts for advice on taxes and for tax support in each country and region. 3. Tax planning and Tax avoidance • Around the globe, we strive to eﬀectively use preferential taxation systems where possible in our normal business activities to ensure a suitable tax burden. • We do not transfer value created to low tax jurisdictions, and do not use tax structures intended for tax avoidance without the spirit of the law. 4. Dealing with uncertainty • Tax risk uncertainty is expected to increase as countries and regions around the globe strengthen their tax reporting obligations, tax audits, and tax enforcement. Epson controls tax risks by identifying situations that could potentially pose serious tax risks. 5. Transfer pricing taxation • Epson complies with local tax laws and OECD guidelines to control transfer pricing tax risks. We have established transfer pricing guidelines for the Epson Group to help ensure appropriate transfer pricing transactions. In line with these transfer pricing guidelines, we control the proﬁtability range of our global subsidiaries to ensure that transactions are made at arm＇s length. • We use an advance pricing arrangement (APA) for transactions with subsidiaries in high-risk countries. 6. Anti-tax haven rules (also known as Japanese Controlled Foreign Company rules, or ＂CFC＂ ) • Epson sets up foreign subsidiaries to carry out its ordinary business activities, but does not do so in ＂tax haven＂ jurisdictions to avoid taxes. When anti-tax haven rules apply, Epson properly ﬁles and pays taxes. 7. Relationships with tax authorities • Epson strives to work in good faith with tax authorities and to maintain and improve good tax corporate governance. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 202 Commitment to Governance Organizational Governance Security Epson, in a code of conduct called ＂Principles of Corporate Behavior,＂ states ＂We will protect the security of people and corporate assets and exercise prudence in handling information, and maintain the security of management resources (corporate assets).＂ The company has put in place a system for ensuring the security of employees and visitors. Employees recognize the importance of security and follow good security practices. The company＇s assets (ﬁnancial, tangible, intellectual, brand, information, and other assets) are properly managed, and the assets of other parties are respected. We strictly control personal data and conﬁdential information to prevent leaks. Information Security Epson has set forth essential information security principles and rules in a Basic Information Security Policy. The company is building an information security governance framework and fostering a corporate culture that reﬂect the importance and principles of good information security practices. Basic Information Security Policy (Please refer to page 270 of ＂Appendices＂ ) Epson＇s various business units build and maintain their own Information Security Organization information security systems based on Group-wide rules. Head Oﬃce The senior executive of the company serves as the Group President Chief Information Security Oﬃcer and promotes the informaInternal Audit Depts. tion security governance. Under this organization, the sysGroup CISO*1 tems and controls of each business unit are internally assessed to check whether information security risks are Information Security Supervisory Dept. being managed eﬀectively. A maturity indicator has also been established for information security actions to gauge Information Security Council the maturity level of each business unit. The business units improve their own activities based on the indicator. The Business Unit Business Unit Chief Executive department that supervises the information security activities of the Epson Group monitors the activities of the busiCISO ness units and instructs them to make improvements where Senior Info. Security Manager needed. Business Unit Information Security Dept. In addition to these internal assessments, the Seiko Epson Departments Printing Solutions Operations Division, Wearable Products Operations Division, and DX Division, along with Epson *1 Chief Information Security Oﬃcer Avasys, have earned and maintain ISO 27001-compliant Information Security Management System (ISMS) certiﬁcation. They have also earned ISMS Cloud Security Certiﬁcation (ISO/IEC 27017) so that customers can use services with greater peace of mind. In addition, to raise employee awareness of the importance of information security, we provide online courses in information security, conduct targeted email attack drills across Epson subsidiaries in Asia and Oceania along with sites in Japan, and train managers to assess information security risks. These and similar actions are taken across the global Epson Group. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 203 Cyber Security We have established a grand design that speciﬁes policies concerning cyber security measures to enable us to contend with cyber security threats and respond to attacks, which are becoming increasingly sophisticated and insidious. As references, we used the Cybersecurity Management Guidelines issued by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry and the Cyber Security Framework set up by the US National Institute of Standards and Technology. As part of this eﬀort, we created a Security Operation Center that covers Asia, Europe, and the Americas. The center Risk assessment education for managers successfully prevented an incident from materializing by quickly responding to an alert issued in relation to Emotet malware, which circulated heavily in FY2019. We have also installed a new type of anti-virus software on PCs that detects malicious behavior and shuts down attacks of all types before PCs can be exposed to danger. We will continue improving and reinforcing our readiness to the ever-changing threats. Personal Data Protection We at Epson are acting to protect the personal data of our customers, business partners, and employees to reward their trust and fulﬁll our social responsibility. Countries and regions around the world are establishing and amending laws and regulations governing personal data protection and privacy protection. The E.U.＇s General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) is a prominent example. To accurately understand the nature of changes being made, Epson participates in an international privacy protection association and ascertains whether internal rules need to be revised. In addition, Epson Sales Japan and Epson Direct, domestic subsidiaries that handle personal data belonging to customers, manage personal data protection based on the PrivacyMark System. In FY2019, we oﬀered three online courses in personal data protection: A course in information security that all oﬃcers and employees are required to complete, A course for employees who handle personal data on the job, and A course concerning the GDPR Epson has also installed a system that temporarily halts email before it is sent to external recipients. The system asks the sender to conﬁrm whether the mail contains personal data or conﬁdential information that can be sent to external recipients. PCs that store personal identiﬁcation numbers are also equipped with a tool that records their operations. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 204 Intellectual Property Protection Epson protects the rights to its proprietary technologies so as to support the smooth and ongoing development of its existing businesses and the development and growth of new businesses. These actions ensure that our IP portfolio contributes to corporate earnings. We also respect the rights of others and implement measures to prevent infringement of those rights. Anti-Counterfeiting Measures around the World To protect the trusted Epson brand, we actively seek to seize counterfeit goods and other fraudulent articles that infringe the Epson trademark or our other intellectual property rights before they reach consumers. We have set up anti-counterfeiting centers around the world that are staﬀed by people who monitor the goods produced and sold by manufacturers and retailers, and especially e-commerce retailers. We ﬁght counterfeiting in a number of ways. For example, we share information with the police and other enforcement authorities to increase raids on counterfeiters. We educate customs oﬃcials to better enable them to recognize counterfeits and block their import and export. We also work with e-commerce site operators to halt the sale of imitation goods that violate our rights. The actions we take stop the distribution of counterfeit goods and help reassure consumers that the goods they buy are genuine Epson brand products. Participating in an IP protection conference Educating customs oﬃcials and police Educating customs oﬃcials organized by customs oﬃcials in China about real and counterfeit goods in the UAE about real and counterfeit goods in Japan Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 205 Commitment to Governance Supply Chain CSR Supply Chain CSR Vision Supply Chain CSR Vision Epson aspires to be an indispensable company, one that seeks to build mutually beneﬁcial relationships with all its business partners, including suppliers, by asking them to uphold the highest standards of integrity and ethics while, at the same time, respecting their autonomy and independence. We are particularly adamant that our business partners meet the following requirements: (1) Strictly forbid acts of bribery and collusion with their business partners and refuse to engage themselves in illegal or unethical business practices. (2) Hold their business partners to the same strict standards that Epson upholds with regard to compliance with laws and maintenance of human rights, suitable labor conditions, the environment, ethics, quality, and information security, and support improvements to any of these areas as needed. (3) Develop and maintain open relationships with their business partners and work with them to increase the competitiveness of the entire supply chain, based on mutual trust and mutual beneﬁt. These supply chain ethics requirements are based on the Code of Conduct of the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA), of which Epson is a member. Epson, which has mapped each of its supply chain initiatives to one or more of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) of the United Nations, will help to achieve the SDGs by taking action throughout the supply chain. Sustainable Procurement Policy Maintaining mutually beneﬁcial relationships with suppliers is one of the CSR Procurement Policies keys to attaining the goals outlined in Epson＇s Management Philosophy. Management Philosophy This is why Epson＇s Principles of Corporate Behavior states that Epson Principles of Corporate seeks to maintain mutually beneﬁcial relationships with its suppliers, sales Behavior channels, collaborators, and other business partners, whom Epson asks Epson Group Basic to live up to the highest standards of ethical conduct while respecting Procurement Policy their autonomy and independence. RBA Epson Group Policy Code of Conduct on Conﬂict Minerals In addition to good partnerships with suppliers, the Epson＇s Basic Procurement Policy requires adherence to high ethical standards and Epson Group Epson Group Procurement Code of Conduct for strict compliance in all supply chain operations. Further, it states that Guidelines Procurement Activities we will strive to reduce the environmental impacts of our procurement Regulations and standards activities and always seek stable and reasonable QCD (quality, price and delivery) from suppliers. Compliance requirements applying to suppliers Internal standards Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 206 Epson Group Procurement Guidelines includes a Code of Conduct pertaining to labor, health, safety, environment, ethics, and management systems. This Code of Conduct is based on the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) Code of Conduct. Epson uses the Epson Group Procurement Guidelines to inform all suppliers about our requirements and to request their adherence to them. Supply Chain Strategy 1. Providing products and services that create customer value • Meet customers＇ quality, delivery and price requirements, and position Epson to sustainably create products and services that will delight customers around the world and earn their trust. 2. Contributing to environmental conservation • Minimize the negative impacts of our production processes on society, environment, and natural resources. • Reduce environmental impacts over the life cycle of products and services. 3. Complying with laws, engaging in proper business practices, and operating with high ethical standards • Implement systems to ensure compliance with local laws, internal rules, and corporate ethics. • Maintain fairness, honesty, and promises. • Act with integrity and avoid any association with bribery, corruption, and extortion. • Maintain open and honest communication with stakeholders with appropriate information disclosures. 4. Respecting basic human rights • Eliminate all forms of discrimination based on race, gender, nationality, physical abilities, religion, and so on. • Prohibit any type of inhumane treatment, including forced labor, slave labor, and child labor. 5. Ensuring safe, healthy, and fair working environments • Maintain a safe and secure work environment. • Ensure that evaluations, work hours, and wages are fair. 6. Implementing business continuity management (BCM) • Establish systems to prevent occupational and industrial accidents and to restore operations promptly in the event of an interruption. Organization The Epson Group＇s global supply chain is managed to ensure susOrganization of CSR Procurement tainability and the responsible sourcing of minerals. President Chief Oﬃcer of supply chain The Sustainable Procurement Committee is made up of personnel management from all of Epson＇s divisions and manufacturing companies, with the Sustainable Procurement Seiko Epson CSR procurement department providing administraSupervisory Department tive oversight. The committee discusses targets and action plans to Sustainable Procurement address supply chain issues. After they are approved by the chief Committee oﬃcer of supply chain management (SCM), the targets and action Divisions plans are communicated throughout the Epson Group. The chief Sales companies oﬃcer of SCM monitors the progress of action plans. Manufacturing companies Business unit Seiko Epson Corporation Epson Group companies Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 207 Mid-term Target (KGI) and KPI Epson has set mid-term targets and major action items for each year. Mid-term targets (achieve by 2020) Sustainable procurement: All critical suppliers earn no less than a medium-risk rank. Conﬂict minerals: Ensure that minerals are sourced only from smelters certiﬁed by the RMI＇s Responsible Mineral Assurance Process. FY2019 Major Action Items, Plans, and Results Description Result Key direct material suppliers asked to complete a CSR SAQ: 100% Ask suppliers to complete a CSR SAQ 1 HR agencies and onsite vendors at major Epson Group KPI: 100% manufacturing sites asked to complete a CSR SAQ: 100% Provide high-risk suppliers with feedback on their High-risk suppliers provided with their score, rank and 2 CSR SAQ results and support corrective action feedback: 100% KPI: 100% High-risk suppliers audited by a 3rd party in FY2019 Complete corrective action plans by high-risk that completed their corrective action plans: 100% 3 suppliers Percentage of suppliers rated high risk based on the KPI: 100% SAQ that completed their corrective action plans: 70% (5/7 suppliers) Ask suppliers to complete a conﬂict mineral 4 survey Targeted suppliers surveyed: 100% KPI: Targeted suppliers 100% FY2020 Major Action Items Action items, KPIs Ask major suppliers to complete a CSR self-assessment questionnaire (SAQ) to check compliance 1) Major suppliers provided with feedback on CSR SAQ results 1 KPI: 100% 2) High-risk suppliers that completed their corrective action plans KPI: 100% (No high-risk suppliers) Customers that responded to CSR survey requests (including conﬂict free mineral survey requests) 2 KPI: 100% Smelters certiﬁed by the RMI＇s Responsible Mineral Assurance Process per the conﬂict mineral survey 3 KPI: 100% Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 208 Commitment to Governance Supply Chain CSR Procurement Guidelines Procurement Guidelines/Epson Supplier Code of Conduct To achieve the goals stated in its Management Philosophy, Epson believes that it is essential for suppliers to understand the Management Philosophy and to comply with the Epson Supplier Code of Conduct. The Epson Group Procurement Guidelines were created in 2005 to inform suppliers about Epson＇s procurement policies and requirements. In 2008, the Epson Supplier Code of Conduct was added as an appendix to the Epson Group Supplier Guidelines. Epson＇s Code of Conduct was based on the code of conduct created by the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC), now called the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA). The Epson Group Procurement Guidelines reﬂect international requirements. They are intended to help ensure that our suppliers work with us as partners to meet quality, cost, and delivery (QCD) obligations and maintain compliance with requirements in areas such as human rights, labor, health and safety, environment, ethics, and trade control and security, as well as information security. Rev. 6.0, released in January 2020, is the latest version of the Epson Group Procurement Guidelines. The content was revised to maintain consistency with the latest RBA Code of Conduct. The Epson Supplier Code of Conduct is now a major part of the Procurement Guidelines and will be available in multiple languages. Over the 15-year history of the Guidelines, we have asked all suppliers to comply with the requirements and have asked our major direct suppliers of production materials to sign a formal agreement. Requirements Under the Supplier Code of Conduct The Epson Supplier Code of Conduct, which is part of the Epson Group Procurement Guidelines, is based on the RBA Code of Conduct. It speciﬁes supply chain requirements in the areas of labor, health and safety, environmental, ethics, and management systems. RBA Code of Conduct Overview A Labor（Human Rights) B Health & Safety Freely Chosen Employment Occupational Safety Young Workers Emergency Preparedness Working Hours Occupational Injury and Illness Wages and Beneﬁts Industrial Hygiene Humane Treatment Physically Demanding Work Non-Discrimination Machine Safeguarding Freedom of Association Sanitation, Food, and Housing Health and Safety Communication D Ethics C Environment Business Integrity Environmental Permits and Reporting No Improper Advantage Pollution Prevention and Resource Reduction Disclosure of Information E Management System Hazardous Substances Intellectual Property Company Commitment Solid Waste Fair Business, Advertising and Competition Management Accountability and Responsibility Air Emissions Protection of Identity and Non-Retaliation Legal and Customer Requirements Materials Restrictions Responsible Sourcing of Minerals Risk Assessment and Risk Management Water Management Privacy Improvement Objectives Energy Consumption and Greenhouse Gas Emissions Training Communication Worker Feedback, Participation and Grievance Audits and Assessments Corrective Action Process Documentation and Records Supplier Responsibility Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 209 Commitment to Governance Supply Chain CSR Supply Chain Initiatives Supply Chain Overview Epson considers suppliers to be important partners in its business activities. As such, our procurement activities are designed to develop mutually beneﬁcial trusting relationships with our business partners based on fairness, transparency, and respect. Epson procures goods and services from all over the world. Domestic Japanese procurement accounts for about 39% of our total procurement spend. Asia accounts for the large majority of the remaining 61%. Our procurement spend for direct materials (production materials and outsourced manufacturing) for about 63% and indirect materials (including factory consumables, machinery, public relations, logistics, and staﬃng) for 37%. Epson has business with 1,700 direct material suppliers and mainly in Asia where our main manufacturing site located, and about an half of indirect materials spend in Japan. Procurement Over View 5% Procurement Procurement material amount 39% 47% 9% 2% 4% Direct material 34% 60% 37% 63% Indirect material 47% 25% 17% 11% Japan Asia Americas Europe Direct material Indirect material Supplier Evaluation Program Epson evaluates all suppliers, both direct materials suppliers and indirect materials suppliers. Suppliers are evaluated from multiple angles on the basis of a supplier evaluation program. The program consists primarily of an indirect evaluation and a direct evaluation (periodic evaluation). The indirect evaluation is based on information from a credit investigation service. The direct evaluation is a self-check that suppliers do to evaluate their own QCD and other performance metrics. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 210 Epson Group Supplier Evaluation Program Indirect evaluation Evaluation based on information from a third-party credit investigation Evaluation items: Credit score, business history, capital composition, business size, proﬁt/loss, ﬁnancing status, management, etc. Direct evaluation (Annual evaluation) Self-assessment of QCDEM Evaluation items: Quality management (Q), cost management (C), delivery management (D), environmental management (E) and business management (M) A green purchasing agreement is required. Detailed CSR evaluation (CSR-SAQ) Self-assessment of compliance with the Epson Supplier Code of Conduct (RBA Code of Conduct) Evaluation items: Labor, safety and health, environmental, ethics, management systems Evaluation of emergency response capabilities Self-assessment of ability to respond in the event of a natural disaster, ﬁre, or other emergency. Evaluation items: Management attitudes, risk countermeasures, ability to respond to emergencies, recover from disasters, continue supplying goods, maintain procurement, and manage inventory, etc. Safety management evaluation Self-assessment of response to ﬁres and other emergency risks Evaluation items: Management of electrical hazards, hazardous materials, ﬁre prevention, etc. Socially Responsible Procurement Program Epson＇s sustainable procurement program is an annual cyclical activity. It consists of steps in which we ask suppliers to comply with Epson＇s procurement guidelines and complete self-assessment questionnaires (SAQ). Epson then analyzes and evaluates risks, veriﬁes the facts on site or audits certain high-risk suppliers, and supports and works with suppliers on corrective actions. Socially Responsible Procurement Program Complying with the Epson Procurement Guideline 0 5 Request to Status supplier 1 check/Audit Status assessment by SAQs 4 Corrective actions 2 Risk 3 evaluation On-site veriﬁcation/Audit Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 211 Direct Evaluation (Annual Evaluation) All suppliers are required to perform an annual self-assessment. Number of They are asked questions in the categories of quality, cost, delivSection questions ery, environment, and management systems. Among other Q. Quality 12 things, the management system questions are designed to check the management of hazardous substances in products, the hanC. Cost 5 dling of personal data, and compliance with legal requirements D. Delivery 5 concerning things such as international trade and bribery. SuppliE. Environment 5 ers that receive a score of 60 points or less in the evaluation are considered to be high risk. Epson engages these suppliers to M. Management system 15 help resolve incidents of noncompliance. Suppliers that do not Total 42 demonstrate improvement are excluded. Prospective new suppliers are also required to complete the self-assessment. Transactions with those that receive a score of 70 points or less are permitted on the condition that corrective action is taken to remedy noncompliance. Direct Evaluation Results FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Target (KPI) % of suppliers completing the self-assessment 100% % of completed the self-assessment 100% 100% 100% Result Number of suppliers 880 994 942 Number of accounts 1,413 1,481 1,525 Detailed CSR Evaluation (SAQ) Epson evaluates supplier compliance with the Epson Supplier Code of Conduct (RBA Code of Conduct) based on a detailed self-assessment questionnaire (SAQ). We work with suppliers to make improvements as appropriate depending on their score and the gravity of noncompliance incidents. The SAQ is based on site audit standards of the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA). Major direct material suppliers (those representing 80% of the Group-wide spend and selected by a business unit), on-site service vendors, and HR agencies are required to complete an SAQ as Epson critical suppliers. Suppliers deemed high risk based on their SAQ scores are asked to undergo an RBA VAP audit under the RBA＇s Validated Audit Program to foster improvement. Epson evaluates supply chain CSR annually. Self-assessment Questionnaire (SAQ) Contents Scope & Number of questions Section On-site service vendor Direct supplier HR agent/Contractor A. Labor (human rights) 27 26 B. Health and safety 24 12 C. Environment 12 D. Ethics 12 10 E. Management system 17 15 Total 92 63 Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 212 Risk Rank by SAQ Risk rank Score Remarks Low risk 86-100 pts. > Suppliers who comply the requirements of RBA Code of Conduct. > Suppliers who do not meet some of the requirements of RBA Code of Conduct but are Medium risk 66-85 pts. expected to take corrective action themselves if needed. > Suppliers who do not meet many of the requirements of RBA Code of Conduct, and need to High risk 65 pts. or less be monitored based on an improvement plan for corrective action. > To be asked to receive RBA (VAP) audit. Results of Detailed CSR Evaluation In 2019, we evaluated direct material suppliers as well as on-site service vendors and HR agencies at major production sites. We asked 233 critical Tier 1 direct material suppliers to complete the SAQ. We received completed questionnaires from 222 of them (391 facilities). We also asked Tier 2 suppliers to complete the SAQ when the Tier 1 supplier was a trading company. For critical Tier 1 direct material suppliers that were deemed to be high risk, we veriﬁed the facts on-site (including third party CSR audit) and supported corrective actions to help them improve to medium risk or better. As a result of these actions, the average score of suppliers who fell into the high-risk rank on the 2018 SAQ improved by 24 points on the 2019 SAQ to attain middle risk or better. We asked on-site service vendors and HR agencies at 10 key production sites to complete an SAQ and received completed SAQs from 124 of them. Service vendors are essential business partners for running our production operations, so Epson requires them to understand and follow the RBA code requirements. Epson provides suppliers and vendors with their SAQ score and with feedback, including advice for corrective actions. SAQ Evaluation Results (Direct material suppliers) FY2016 FY2018 FY2019 Epson SAQ RBA SAQ 312 Suppliers Number of evaluated suppliers 274 Suppliers 207 Suppliers 15 Suppliers (358 sites) (354 sites) (37 sites) Mid-term target (by FY2020) % of high-risk suppliers: 0% Low-risk (> 85 pts.) 60% 58% 84% Medium-risk (66-85 pts.) 32% 37% 16% 0% High-risk (=< 65 pts.) 8% 5% 0% 0% *1 2018 SAQ includes 29 of HR agents and on-site service providers. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 213 SAQ Evaluation Result (FY2016-2019) SAQ Evaluation Result by Section (FY2019) 5% 1% 2% 100% 8% 100% 6% 6% 12% 16% 17% 11% 18% 80% 32% 37% 80% 25% 60% 60% 84% 93% 87% 40% 40% 83% 76% 60% 58% 63% 20% 20% 0% 0% FY2016 FY2018 FY2019 Labor Health and Environment Ethics Management (human rights) safety system Low risk Midium risk High risk Low risk Midium risk High risk SAQ Evaluation Result of HR Agency and On-site Service Vendor FY2019 Type Number of vendors SAQ average score Recruitment agency/HR contractor 45 82 Security 7 85 Canteen 12 71 Cleaning 10 78 On site service vendor Facility maintenance 6 84 Others 44 78 Total 79 78 Audit and Corrective Action Epson supports the corrective action eﬀorts of high-risk and medium-risk suppliers. Audit In 2019, Seiko Epson retained an experienced and qualiﬁed organization to audit a key supplier in Japan. (This third-party audit conformed to the Validated Audit Program of the RBA.) The auditors found the supplier to be high risk. The supplier responded by establishing a corrective action plan and have completed improvement actions. On-site Verification and Support for Corrective Action For suppliers that are not asked to receive a third-party audit, Epson manufacturing company staﬀ members visit their sites to verify conditions on-site and help them improve. Through these activities, we not only help them address CSR issues but also support them when they struggle in other areas, such as in introducing ﬁre prevention measures or establishing business continuity plans. In 2019, we conducted two third party audit including one follow up audit to verify supplier condition which were received third party audit in 2017, and 323 on site veriﬁcation. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 214 FY2018 FY2019 Audit/Veriﬁcation Japan Other area Japan Other area 3rd party Initial audit 0 1 1 0 audit Follow up audit 1 On site veriﬁcation 38 210 9 314 Evaluation of Emergency Response Capabilities Epson is working to improve its ability to eﬀectively respond to threats and to ensure business continuity. When a natural disaster or other unforeseen event strikes an Epson production site, the ﬁrst thing we do after securing the safety of personnel is to act to restore the supply of products to our customers. It is essential for the entire supply chain to be able to eﬀectively respond to emergencies so that we can fulﬁll our responsibility to customers by restoring the supply of goods within the target period if the supply should be interrupted by a disaster, accident, or epidemic. Epson therefore evaluates the emergency response capabilities of suppliers every year and helps them remedy issues as needed. Supply Chain Business Continuity Management To help manage business continuity and improve resilience throughout the supply chain, Epson operates in line with supply chain BCM guidelines. These guidelines are consisted of the ﬁve function, which are supplier, production, sales, logistics, and procurement. Supply Chain BCM Procurement function Supplier function Production function Sales function Supplier Production sites Sales sites Customers Logistics function Epson is working with suppliers to ensure that they establish their own BCM systems so that the supply of parts to Epson is not disrupted. We ask Tier 1 suppliers to evaluate their own BCM capabilities every year, provide feedback, and help them remedy issues as needed. FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Target 319 companies 250 companies 1,136 companies 490*1 companies 228 companies 945*2 companies Result 154% 91% 71% *1 In FY2017, as a special action, self-assessment was conducted by Tier 1 and critical Tier 2 suppliers. *2 In FY2019, selfassessment was conducted by direct material suppliers, but, some of them have not answered due to the novel coronavirus pandemic. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 215 Safety Management Evaluation Epson also conducts an annual safety management evaluation to evaluate the ability of suppliers to respond in the event of a ﬁre or other emergency. After suppliers conduct a self-assessment covering things such as electrical hazards, hazardous materials, and ﬁre prevention, members of Epson＇s safety management staﬀ verify their answers on-site and discuss corrective actions. Safety Management Evaluation Result FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Target 1,353 companies 481 companies 1,384 companies 1,906*1 companies 449 companies 1,025*2 companies Result 141% 93% 74% *1 In FY2017, as a special action, self-assessment was conducted by Tier 1 and critical Tier 2 suppliers. *2 In FY2019, selfassessment was conducted by direct material suppliers, but, some of them have not answered due to the novel coronavirus pandemic. Supply Chain Environmental Initiatives As declared in the Epson 25 Environmental Statement, Epson seeks to contribute to the development of a sustainable society by Deliver Use leveraging its technologies to reduce the environmental impact of products and services across their life cycles. Reducing the environmental impact early in the life cycle, at the procurement stage, is a particularly important issue, and one that Epson is addressing in Recycle Create cooperation with suppliers. & Reuse Think Choose GHG Emissions Targets Epson has set greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions targets in line with an approach championed by the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi). The SBTi has validated Epson＇s 2025 targets for scopes 1, 2, and 3 GHG emissions measured in accordance with the GHG Protocol. Epson＇s validated target for scope 3 emissions, which are emissions from an organization＇s value chain, is to reduce GHG emissions as a percentage of business proﬁt out to 2025. Response to Climate Risk There is a shared global awareness that climate change poses serious and urgent business risks that must be addressed. Epson has suppliers across Asia, including in Thailand, where severe ﬂoods are a regular occurrence, and in China, where there is high potential water risk. Epson recognizes that interrupted or delayed deliveries from suppliers due to ﬂoods and droughts, two typical climate risks, could seriously impact the manufacture and sale of Epson products and need to be addressed to avoid inconveniencing customers. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 216 Supplier Support Initiative Under its supplier engagement program, Epson asks suppliers to complete a self-assessment questionnaire (SAQ). Suppliers are sorted by risk level based on their SAQ score and given feedback on the results. Epson helps highrisk suppliers improve through on-site veriﬁcation and audits. Moreover, to encourage the pursuit of environmental sustainability, Epson selects the suppliers who account for 80% of the value of Epson＇s procurement spending and, in conjunction with a detailed CSR evaluation, asks them to report the amount of water and the amount of electricity, gas, and other sources of CO2 emissions actually consumed for parts they sell to Epson. Epson shares this data with its suppliers and engages them to help drive production line improvements that reduce the amount of electricity and water used and improvements that will reduce the environmental impact of transport. Partnerships with External Organizations Epson is a member of the following organizations that promote sustainable procurement through industry cooperation: • Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) • The Japan Electronics and Information Technology Industries Association (JEITA), CSR Committee Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 217 Commitment to Governance Supply Chain CSR Communication and Training Communications with Suppliers Annual Supplier Conference In addition to its commitment to delivering quality products, Epson believes that maintaining human rights, labor standards and environmental conservation throughout its entire supply chain is an important part of its corporate responsibility. Epson therefore considers all suppliers as important business partners. At an annual supplier conference, we explain our procurement policies. The conference is held in Nagano prefecture where many Epson＇s main facilities are located, we provide a general overview of our business situation and strategies, explain our initiatives and procurement policies, and ask for suppliers＇ understanding and cooperation in improving quality, reducing costs, keeping strictly to appointed delivery dates, participating in CSR initiatives, promoting business continuity plan, and reducing environmental impacts. We consider annual supplier conferences to be valuable opportunities to capture supplier feedback. We host a separate social gathering to foster communication between suppliers and the Epson executive team, including the president of Seiko Epson. The 2020 supplier conference has been suspended due to the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. Supplier Conference for CSR At annual CSR procurement supplier conference (since 2016), we explain CSR trend, our CSR procuring activity and request to the supplier. A lot of suppliers attend the CSR procurement supplier conference in various Epson manufacturing site such as Japan, China, and Indonesia. In the conference, we request to comply the Sustainable procurement policy and the Epson Procurement Guideline. And we explain the guidance for self-assessment (SAQ) of CSR detail evaluation and emergency response capabilities, and conﬂict mineral survey. In 2019, we introduce Environment SAQ as a basic supplier evaluation to reduce the environmental impact of products. We also ask to strengthen emergency response capabilities and conduct in each supplier. Area Total number of attended Rate of Japan China Indonesia Others companies attendance*1 FY2017 237 113 103 453 92% (Japan) FY2018 447 222 168 295 1,132 67% (Japan) FY2019 510 58 193 63 824 83% (WW) Target of critical supplier attendance*2 FY2020 100% (Worldwide) *1 Rate of attendance = Number of attendance/Invited suppliers *2 Target of critical supplier attendance: Rate = Number of attendance/Critical suppliers Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 218 Whistleblowing System for suppliers Epson has established compliance hotlines for receiving reports and consultations from suppliers regarding violations or potential violations of legislative requirements and the Epson Group Procurement Guidelines. Suppliers are asked to report any real or suspected misconduct or legal, regulatory, or ethical violations relating to Epson＇s operations or involving Epson oﬃcers or employees. By establishing compliance hotlines, Epson will further promote corporate ethics. Internal Training The Epson Group＇s Management Philosophy champions respect for the individual and teamwork. Principles of Corporate Behavior, meanwhile, outlines conduct for creating a corporate culture by fostering employee independence and conﬁdence through professional development. We believe it is particularly important to understand legal and other requirements to ensure compliance and sustainability in procurement. Epson thus provides general procurement training for all employees, as well as courses tailored to the needs of procurement staﬀ. The achieved rate of FY2019 was down for the reason of the some of the classes were not held to prevent the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) infection. Basic Procurement Training (Japan) Procurement compliance seminar Course Description For FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Achieved rate Procurement compliance seminar 92% 92% 71% by persons 1. CSR/SDGs and Target procurement Times 26 21 27 Procurement 2. Code of conduct for New Persons 1,060 885 830 compliance procurement procurement seminar 3. Laws and regulations staﬀ Result 4. Operation process Times 36 33 32 5. Case studies Persons 1,120 919 719 Target Procurement Times 30 22 22 1. CSR/SDGs and Procurement Persons 1,260 850 2,700 compliance procurement staﬀ, every 5 seminar Result 2. Law and regulations years (updated) Times 33 22 42 3. Case studies Persons 1,019 674 1,783 Basic online course Description For FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Achieved rate All Epson by persons 1. Code of conduct personnel, staﬃng 2. Laws and regulation, case Target 85% 85% 90% agency employees, studies and other partners Result 86% 91% 96% Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 219 RBA (supply chain CSR) Professional Training (World Wide) Epson provides professional training for procurement staﬀ to manage supplier CSR. These programs are based on the RBA Code of Conduct and RBA (VAP) audit standards. Some are conducted by outside consultants. Course Description RBA seminar (101) General training course regarding the RBA Code of Conduct and RBA system Professional training course regarding the RBA Code of Conduct and detailed RBA seminar (Advanced) requirements concerning labor, health and safety, environment, ethics and management system Workshop training for implementing RBA requirements and preparing for an RBA Workshop for RBA (VAP) audit (VAP) audit CSR auditor training for supplier Internal auditor training for supplier onsite audit audit Worker interview training for Internal auditor training for supplier onsite audit supplier audit Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 220 Commitment to Governance Supply Chain CSR Responsible Sourcing of Minerals Responsible Minerals Sourcing Policy for High Risk Minerals Where minerals such as tin, tantalum, tungsten, gold (3TG) and cobalt are mined in conﬂict-aﬀected or high-risk areas such as the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and adjoining countries, the revenue from the mining and trading of these minerals is a source of funding for armed groups and anti-government forces carrying out atrocities and human rights abuses. Minerals sourced from such conﬂict-aﬀected or high-risk areas have the potential to promote conﬂict, human rights violations and environmental degradation. Epson considers mining to be an intensive process involving social and environmental risks, and believes the mining of metals and minerals, including conﬂict minerals (3TG) and cobalt mined in the DRC, as well as other minerals mined in other regions, must be managed. Epson＇s policy is that we want no part in any human rights violations or environmental destruction. While sourcing minerals that originate in conﬂict-aﬀected or high-risk areas, we will not, by any means, tolerate, knowingly proﬁt from, contribute to, assist with or facilitate the commission by any party of any form of human rights violations or abuses, or support operations that result in the degradation of socioeconomic and environmental stability. As a member of RBA (Responsible business alliance) and RMI (Responsible mineral initiative), Epson requires its suppliers to adhere to this policy and expects them to support and promote compliance within the supply chain. Epson takes the following actions to responsibly source minerals used in Epson products. 1. Requires its suppliers to comply the Epson Group Procurement Guidelines and the Epson Supplier Code of Conduct (harmonised with the RBA code of conduct). 2. Identify and prioritize minerals for inclusion in our responsible sourcing strategy (currently 3TG for all products, and cobalt for microdevices, as of 2020, cobalt for projectors also). 3. Require suppliers to conduct due diligence on prioritized minerals in accordance with OECD Guidance and provide routine reporting using the tools developed by the Responsible Minerals Initiative (RMI) to enable supply chain transparency. 4. To ensure that minerals are procured only from smelters and reﬁners veriﬁed as compliant with the Responsible Minerals Assurance Program (RMAP) developed by the RMI. Epson requires smelters and reﬁners to obtain proof of compliance through their supply chains. 5. Continue to collect relevant information regarding industry trends in the US, customer reactions and movements in the EU and other regions to assure continued compliance to future regulations. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 221 Responsible Minerals Survey Program To conduct practical and appropriate surveys throughout Epson＇s entire supply chain to check that Epson products contain responsibly sourced minerals, Epson established the Epson Group Responsible Minerals Procedures Standard as an internal survey program. This standard is based on the Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals from Conﬂict-Aﬀected and High-Risk Areas issued by the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD). Epson conducts annual surveys using the Conﬂict Minerals Reporting Template (CMRT) and Cobalt Reporting Template (CRT) provided by the RMI to identify upstream suppliers of conﬂict minerals (tin, tantalum, tungsten, and gold; 3TG) and cobalt, identify the smelters and reﬁners in the supply chain and assess gathered information to conﬁrm the status of supplier improvement programs related to prioritised minerals. Epson then implements measures based on risk level. Epson also uses socially responsible procurement supplier brieﬁngs and various other opportunities to promote understanding of Epson policies, requests initiatives to improve survey accuracy, and shares information on prioritised minerals response trends, in our production facility sites in the world. Epson will continue working with suppliers to make sure that minerals used in our products fulﬁll the standards set in our responsible minerals sourcing policy. Target and Results 3TG Survey Results FY2019 KPI FY2017 FY2018 Total Gold Tantalum Tin Tungsten Number of 312 314 344 159 45 93 47 identiﬁed smelters*1 Number of CFS 249 256 268 107 40 78 43 100% Rate of CFS 80% 82% 78% 67% 89% 84% 91% (by March, 2021) Response rate 100% 94% 92% 91% from suppliers (FY2018) *1 For information regarding the details of the smelters, see List of the Smelters or Rifiners identified in Seiko Epson ＇s supply chain which were known by RMI Result of Cobalt survey 2019: Two CF smelters out of 20 identiﬁed smelters (Rate of CFS: 10%). Partnerships with External Organizations Epson is a member of the following organizations that are promoting responsible sourcing minerals, and fostering cooperation to promote the use of conﬂict mineral surveys in the supply chain: 1. The Responsible Minerals Initiative 2. The Responsible Minerals Trade Working Group of the Japan Electronics and Information Technology Industries Association (JEITA). Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 222 Commitment to Governance Supply Chain CSR Green Purchasing Green Purchasing Foreword The Epson Group is working to promote green purchasing of both production materials and general supplies in order to fulﬁll its mission to create and oﬀer eco-friendly products. This page discusses eﬀorts by the Epson Group to assure green purchasing of production materials, and speciﬁcally addresses the following: 1. Basic stance 2. Standards governing operations 3. Basic survey (Guidelines for Surveying Controlled Chemical Substance Content in Products/Survey response tool) 4. Additional survey (Explanation of chemical substances subject to elimination in products/Survey response tool) Epson has two kinds of surveys regarding Green Purchasing; an Epson Group-wide survey, and individual surveys for each operations division. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 223 Commitment to Governance Supply Chain CSR Paper Products Procurement Paper Products Procurement The illegal logging of forests is a very serious issue for those seeking to protect the environment on the global scale and practice sustainable forest management. Around the world, greater eﬀorts are being made to ensure legality and sustainability during the procurement of wood products. Epson thus manages its entire supply chain from the immediate supplier all the way back to the forest to ensure the legality, sustainability and environmental safety of the paper products we procure. We ask that suppliers understand the intent and nature of these initiatives and give us their full support. Stance on Procurement of Paper Products Epson has established a procurement policy for paper, the major forest product we procure. Under this policy, we adhere to the practices below that support, the social, economic and environmental sustainability of forests. 1. We make eﬀective use of used paper and other recycled pulp. 2. When virgin is used as a raw material in paper goods we procure, we conﬁrm its • legality • sustainability • chemical safety • environmental management Scope of Application At Epson, the Procurement Policy applies to the procurement of specialty paper for use in Epson printers. Content of Conforming Procurement Management Suppliers are asked to provide a Certiﬁcate of Conformity to Epson Paper Products Procurement Policy to conﬁrm their compliance with the Procurement Policy. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 224 Commitment to Society Corporate Citizenship Approach to Corporate Citizenship Epson is committed to harmonious coexistence with society through programs rooted in local communities throughout the world based on its commitment to being ＂an indispensable company, trusted throughout the world,＂ as stated in its Management Philosophy. Recognizing that companies are expected to be even more socially involved, each and every employee will continue to contribute to Epson＇s standing as a good corporate citizen and facilitate mutually beneﬁcial relationships. Epson＇s contributions go beyond ﬁnancial support. Epson emphasizes contributions involving the technologies and knowledge that underpin its business as a way to give something back to society. Going forward, Epson will continue to engage in corporate citizenship activities, including contributions involving manpower. Total Corporate Citizenship Expenditures (millions of yen) Contribution Type FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Cash contributions 352 462 438 Employee volunteer activities during work hours (including 38 127 124 self-directed program activities) Provision of products and services 100 79 62 Others*1 121 154 271 Total 611 822 895 *1 Includes salaries and wages of personnel engaged full-time in corporate citizenship work as well as wages of personnel who engaged in volunteer activities outside work hours Maintaining Healthy Relationships with Government Agencies Epson is a multinational corporation with operations around the world. Epson aims to contribute to the soundness of society by building healthy, transparent relationships with political, governmental and supervisory authorities in every region where it operates and by avoiding improper relationships and other unfair activities. Political contributions are made in line with company regulations. Epson made no political contributions in the FY2019. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 225 Commitment to Society Corporate Citizenship Education for Young People Watch Assembly Class (Japan) Seiko Epson traces its roots to Daiwa Kogyo, a watch factory. Over the decades, we have developed world-class watch manufacturing technology and have master watchmakers (human capital). Every year, we conduct 15 hands-on watch assembly workshops for sixth-graders in Suwa, the city in Nagano prefecture where Seiko Epson＇s Head Oﬃce is located. The workshops allow the children to experience the fun of producing a product. In FY2019, a total of 428 students participated in the workshops. Skilled watchmakers from Seiko Epson taught the children how to assemble part of a watch movement, mount the hour, minute, and second hands, and complete a watch so that it actually starts running. The children enjoyed assembling their own oneof-a-kind watch by drawing their own dial pattern with their favorite colors, which gave them a sense of accomplishment and deepened their knowledge about a local industry. ＂ New Horizons＂ Training Program for 10,000 Young People (Europe) In FY2019, Epson Europe B.V. launched a program called ＂New Horizons＂ to support the education of 10,000 young people in Europe, the Middle East, and Africa. This program leverages the company＇s storehouse of technology and expertise to draw out the creative potential of youngsters and elevate their understanding of environmental issues and sustainability. In Germany, we conducted environmental education that touches on paper recycling and energy conservation for 1,700 elementary students. The students learned how to make recycled paper from old newspapers and learned about the history of energy generation by using steam-powered and solar-powered toys. We also used our printing and projection technologies to teach 400 preschoolers and elementary students in Spain about the conservation of biodiversity around their school. In England we had a long-term partnership with an educational institution where we leveraged our latest printing and scanning technologies to provide support to the fashion, jewelry, and fabric design classes of 1,250 students. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 226 Educational Assistance for Children (India) Epson India Pvt. Ltd. (EPIL) believes in the importance of future childhood education and has an assistance program that focuses on underprivileged children. Over the past several years, EPIL has been distributing books, notebooks, and backpacks to public schools that serve underprivileged children primarily in the states of Karnataka, in southwest India where EPIL is located, and in the western state of Maharashtra. The number of recipient schools has been increasing by the year. The children were happy with their new gear that helped with their studies. And in FY2019, we cooperated in and supported a project to increase the literacy rate in India by providing and installing projectors and computers in classrooms. These materials increase the quality of education and increase the students＇ motivation to learn. Teachers told us that the educational assistance Epson is providing is playing an important role in improving the lives of children. Environmental Lectures for University Students (Japan) Seiko Epson provides lecturers and accepts student trainees when asked to by schools and communities in Japan. In February 2020, we hosted practicum students of Shinshu University for a course called the Eco-Mind Program: Experience-Based Training for Environmental Competence. This practicum is designed to give students a chance to learn directly from real-world practitioners about issues and initiatives in the environmental ﬁeld. The head of Seiko Epson＇s environmental aﬀairs organization lectured on Epson＇s environmental stance and initiatives while providing speciﬁc examples. He took questions from the students and listened to their ideas. After the lecture, the students were given a tour of Epson＇s Manufacturing Museum and a demonstration of how Epson＇s PaperLab dry process oﬃce papermaking system recycles and produces paper. They were also given a tour of Epson Mizube Corporation, an Epson subsidiary that sorts and processes used ink cartridges. They deepened their understanding about a variety of actions that we as a manufacturing company are taking to address social issues. When addressing environmental concerns, it is important to take local action to solve global issues. That is why we seek to realize a sustainable society, starting from here in Shinshu, and will continue to engage the local community in a wide range of ways. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 227 Environmental Education (China) In October 2019, Tianjin Epson Co., Ltd. collaborated with the Tianjin Society for the Promotion of Ecological Ethics and Tianjin Nankai Ecology and Environment Bureau to educate 360 ﬁrst-year middle school students about everyday garbage separation and recycling. Our employees introduced them to the PaperLab A-8000, a dry process oﬃce papermaking system that recycles used paper into new paper. We also shared the know-how on garbage separation and recycling that Epson has accumulated over many years with the children to raise awareness about environmental preservation. The Private Educational Foundation Epson International Scholarship Foundation (Japan) The Epson International Scholarship Foundation provides funding for exceptional students from abroad who wish to study in Japan and to students from Japan who wish to study abroad. In August 2019, 15 scholarship students visited the Seiko Epson Head Oﬃce and the Toyoshina Plant. With a tour through the Manufacturing Museum and lectures on products such as our projectors and smart glasses, they deepened their understanding of Epson. Epson Information Science Vocational School (Japan) Our society is increasingly built around information. To meet the needs of changing times, we established the Epson Information Science Vocational School in 1989. Its purpose is to develop technical personnel who are trusted by the community and can make wide-ranging contributions to society. The school had 2,760 graduates as of March 2020. Most of the instructors are engineers and developers who have corporate experience, including at Epson. Classes are designed to ensure that students acquire technical skills they can put to practical use on the job. As a result of the school＇s eﬀorts, at least 95% of the students in each graduating class over the 30 years since the school ﬁrst opened its doors have received informal employment oﬀers before graduation. Students have their choice of three disciplines: Information Systems, Information and Electronic Systems, and Information Business. The school is accredited by the Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology (MEXT). Moreover, MEXT recognizes all three disciplines as Professional Post-Secondary Courses*1. A special class has also been set up to enable the top students to join Epson on school recommendation after graduation. In February 2020, we received the Minister of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology Award, an award granted to the highest achieving companies and schools in Japan in a Digital Technology Certiﬁcation test*2. Only two organizations, our school and another one, won the group award, meaning that the eﬀorts of our students earned recognition nationwide. *1 Courses recognized by MEXT have a curriculum designed to impart the latest practical skills and knowledge through close cooperation with enterprise and systematically seek to ensure the quality of more practical vocational training. *2 This is a certification that tests a wide range of knowledge from ICT and automatic control theory to designing and practical usage skills. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 228 Commitment to Society Corporate Citizenship Culture and the Arts Supporting Special Midsummer Night Media Facade Exhibit at the Savina Museum of Contemporary Art From July to October 2019, Epson Korea Co., Ltd. (EKL) leveraged the value of Epson laser projectors and largeformat inkjet printers in support of a special exhibit of works of art on an endangered species motif. At this exhibition, EKL contributed technology that made possible new productions and expressions that conveyed a message surrounding the co-existence of humans and nature through works such as paintings, photographs, objects, images, and 3D animation. The powerful images of living organisms suﬀering from marine plastic waste gave many visitors that came to the exhibition a strong incentive to think about the environment. For details on the Savina Museum＇s ＂Media Facade,＂ please click here. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=K-7mgracZTc&feature=youtu.be Supporting the Seiji Ozawa Matsumoto Festival (Japan) Seiko Epson has been a special corporate sponsor of the annual Seiji Ozawa Matsumoto Festival (originally the Saito Kinen Festival Matsumoto) since its inception, in 1992. The festival, which runs from August through early September in Matsumoto, Japan, was organized to promote music and the arts among the nation＇s youth. In addition to regular concerts during the festival＇s run, there were special concert events, including symphonic tales, geared towards sixth-graders and seventh-graders. In 2019, these events were attended by a total of 12,610 students from 211 schools in Nagano prefecture. This educational program was designed to further the education and development of youth. Performed by young musicians, they are a valuable opportunity for the youth to hear live orchestra music, thus serving as a catalyst for interest in classical music. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 229 Commitment to Society Corporate Citizenship Community Events Participating in the Establishment of the Cikarang Japanese School (Indonesia) PT. Indonesia Epson Industry (IEI) helped to establish a Japanese school in the Cikarang region in the eastern part of the Jakarta metropolitan area. Many Japanese companies operate in the industrial parks around the Cikarang region, but the only Japanese school in Jakarta was the Jakarta Japanese School (JJS). Employees and their accompanying family members lived in central Jakarta out of necessity because the area is close to the Japanese school. It is, however, far from the Epson Indonesia plant. Therefore, in 2017, a Japanese School, Cikarang community of Japanese industrial leaders established the Japanese School Establishment Committee, chaired by IEI President Eiichi Abe. The Cikarang Japanese School (CJS) was opened in short order, in April 2019, and a ceremony was held in November. Masafumi Ishii, the Japanese Ambassador to Indonesia, joined the people involved in the school＇s founding, the faculty, and the students and their guardians to celebrate the opening of a school that Japanese children in the Cikarang area can attend. IEI President Abe served as the Vice Chairman of the JJS Maintenance Association, which Ambassador Ishii (3rd from left) and IEI is responsible for the CJS, until March 2020, and since April has been a memPresident Abe (1st from right) who attended ber of the CJS steering committee. the memorial ceremony Flood Disaster Relief Volunteer Effort (Japan) A typhoon caused widespread ﬂooding in Japan in October 2019. Seiko Epson＇s management and labor union jointly sponsored two groups of 113 employee volunteers to help with the cleanup eﬀort in the Chikuma river area of Nagano Prefecture, where a failed levee resulted in massive ﬂooding. Volunteers were divided into teams of several people each to help restore homes and buildings, both inside and out, by removing mud and cleaning residents＇ belongings. They also worked in apple orchards to clear away the heavy clay-like mud that had accumulated at the base of the trees to save next season＇s harvest. Lake Suwa Fireworks Festival Sponsorship (Japan) Seiko Epson helps to stimulate the local economy and community by serving, since 1956, as a sponsor of the annual Lake Suwa Fireworks Festival, held in the city of Suwa, Nagano prefecture, where the company is headquartered. An incredible 40,000 ﬁreworks explode over the lake, their sound reverberating oﬀ the surrounding hills. The display ends with a cascade of sparkles along a two-kilometer stretch of the lake. This festival, one of the largest in Japan, is a local summer tradition that attracts some 500,000 visitors. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 230 290 Days of Social Commitment (Germany) Epson Deutschland GmbH (EDG) has been running its ＂190 Days of Social Commitment＂ program since 2008. The program began when 190 EDG employees each took one day of paid leave at their own convenience to serve the community by volunteering their time at social welfare facilities or schools in the area around the Meerbusch oﬃce. EDG changed the name of this program to ＂290 Days of Social Commitment＂ in FY 2017 because the number of employees had increased to 290. As a part of this activity, EDG provided an opportunity to learn about recycling by making new paper from old newspapers at a local kindergarten in FY2019. It also helped nursing homes with gardening, repairing, painting benches and cleaning up. Movie Screenings (Taiwan) Epson Taiwan Technology & Trading Ltd. (ETT) has held movie screenings at elementary schools throughout Taiwan since 2009 to entertain children in the community. ETT provides the projectors and movies used at the venues. In FY2019, ETT showed movies 220 times at 66 schools. They were able to deliver the fun of movies to children in both urban and rural communities. Response to the New Coronavirus ( ＂COVID-19＂ ) (Global) COVID-19 is continuing its spread across the world and the situation remains precarious. Epson mostly focuses its eﬀorts towards the safety of the medical community, and also tries to contribute to your safety and security wherever possible. Main Supporting Activities (as of the end of July 2020) (The activities are in alphabetical order) Month/ Region Recipient Details of assistance rendered Organization Year Epson Surface Feb. Zhenjiang City, Jiangsu China Provided protective clothing Engineering 2020 Province, China (Zhenjiang) Co., Ltd. Provided 51 printers and the necessary supplies for these printers to enable the operation of Leishenshan Hospital and a temporary Jan.Huoshenshan Hospital hospital Epson (China) Feb. China through Wuhan city＇s Co., Ltd. 2020 general charitable organization Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 231 Month/ Region Recipient Details of assistance rendered Organization Year Provided temporary loan of a part of Shenzhen City, Nanshan Epson Started Epson＇s warehouse space. The space was District＇s Engineering Feb. China used as an oﬃce that housed temporary COVID-19 Expense Control (Shenzhen) 2020 goods and disease control supplies such Department Ltd. as disinfectant and alcohol, etc. Batam＇s hospitals, medical institutes, and healthcare 1,240 medical masks, 800 aprons, 2,000 Apr. PT. Epson Indonesia oﬃces that are involved in gloves, 400 shoe covers, 27 sets of 2020 Batam the ﬁght against COVID-19 protective clothing, 8,000 ml of disinfectant pandemic Jakarta＇s Yasni Provided breakfast, food, daily necessities, May Indonesia (orphanage), Daarul nutritional supplements, and various sanitary 2020 Rahman (orphanage) items for 150 people living in orphanages Provided breakfast, daily necessities, nutritional supplements, and various sanitary May Makassar Mardiyah Indonesia items for 55 people living in an orphanage 2020 (orphanage) together with ﬁnancial support for operating the orphanage Provided nutritional supplements, daily necessities, and various sanitary items for 38 May Bandung Panti Asuhan Indonesia people living in a nursing home together with 2020 Mardiah (nursing home) PT. Epson ﬁnancial support for operating the nursing home Indonesia Provided breakfast, daily necessities, nutritional supplements, and various sanitary May Surabaya Ar-Rochim Indonesia items for 50 people living in an orphanage 2020 (orphanage) together with ﬁnancial support for operating the orphanage May Provided various sanitary items such as Indonesia Business partners 2020 masks and disinfectant for 109 people Provided honey, nutritional supplements, and May Indonesia Members of the media various sanitary items such as masks, face 2020 shields, and disinfectant for 50 people Mar.Bekasi regency＇s Annisa Provided 34,000 medical masks, 50,000 ml PT. Indonesia Jun. Indonesia Hospital and West Java, of disinfectant, 50,000 ml of hand soap, and Epson 2020 Karawang＇s Labour Oﬃce 42 sets of protective clothing Industry PM CARES Fund (The Prime Minister＇s Citizen Epson India Jul. 2020 India Assistance and Relief in Provided ﬁnancial assistance Pvt. Ltd. Emergency Situations Fund) Yamagata prefecture, Tohoku Apr. Japan Sakata area＇s Provided 1,500 medical masks Epson 2020 medical association Corporation Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 232 Month/ Region Recipient Details of assistance rendered Organization Year Provided temporary loan of projectors that Apr. were used inside the hospital to support Japan Osaka city＇s hospital 2020 the increase in meetings on the topic of COVID-19 Epson Provided consumables and a temporary loan Sales Japan of computers and inkjet printers. These were Corporation Facilities involved in ﬁghting Apr. used in communication between infected Japan COVID-19 in Fukuoka 2020 people and doctors at task forces and hotels prefecture that opened their doors to people with a mild infection. Independent Administrative Institution: Provided 10 sets of protective clothing, 30 shoe May Japan Japan Organization of covers, 30 protective masks and 30 protective 2020 Occupational Health and glasses Safety Seiko Epson Provided 5,000 Corporation The educational ﬁeld face shields Jun. through Nagano＇s Japan 2020 Prefectural Board of Education Jun. Akita prefecture＇s Ogachi Japan Provided 200 foldable medical masks 2020 Central Clinic Akita Epson Corporation Jun. Japan Akita University Hospital Provided 1,000 foldable medical masks 2020 Epson Oﬀered tuition fee exemption under a Information support system provided by Epson＇s Jul. 2020 Japan Vocational school students Science vocational school for students who have Vocational been ﬁnancially aﬀected by the pandemic School Provided a temporary loan of inkjet printers. Started Facilities involved in These were used for communication Apr. Japan ﬁghting COVID-19 in Chiba between infected people and doctors at 2020 prefecture hotels that opened their doors to people with a mild infection. Epson Sales Japan Provided consumables and a temporary Corporation Started Facilities involved in ﬁghting loan of inkjet printers. These were used for Apr. Japan COVID-19 in Kanagawa communication between infected people and 2020 prefecture doctors at hotels that opened their doors to people with a mild infection. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 233 Month/ Region Recipient Details of assistance rendered Organization Year Medical facilities in Nagano Mayprefecture involved in Provided 5,660 face shields and 102,000 Jun. Japan treating people infected medical masks 2020 with COVID-19 Supported local restaurants by oﬀering takeout lunches for employees and supported local fruit farmers (of cherries, blueberries Seiko Epson and peaches, etc.) by selling their products Corporation at Epson sites in Japan MayLocal food service industry Jun. Japan and farmers 2020 Provided 1,000 medical masks, 142 protective glasses, 56 protective caps, 66 Mar. The Batangas＇s health care protective jackets, 75 protective pants, 2020 Philippines workers Epson 800 washable gloves, 53 sets of protective Precision clothing (Philippines), Inc. Apr. The Laguna＇s health care Provided 1,000 medical masks, 40 protective 2020 Philippines workers glasses, 2,000 nitrile powdered gloves Amang Rodriguez Memorial Epson Apr. The Provided both hospitals with two inkjet Medical Center and Quirino Philippines 2020 Philippines printers Memorial Medical Center Corporation Singapore Apr. Singapore Economic Provided ﬁnancial assistance to support the Epson Singapore 2020 Development Board medical organizations of Batam, Indonesia Industrial Pte. Ltd. Provided 255 internally manufactured face shields MayTelford＇s hospice and Epson Telford Jun. U.K. welfare facilities Ltd. 2020 Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 234 Month/ Region Recipient Details of assistance rendered Organization Year Mar. U.S. Oregon Food Bank Provided ﬁnancial assistance 2020 Mar. Oregon Wheels People U.S. Provided ﬁnancial assistance 2020 (food bank) Epson Mar. Tuality Healthcare Provided medical gloves and protective Portland Inc. U.S. 2020 Foundation clothing Jun. Hillsboro Community U.S. Provided ﬁnancial assistance 2020 Foundation Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 235 Commitment to Society Corporate Citizenship Environmental Conservation Preserving the Ocean (France) Epson France S.A.S. (EFS) began providing support for the operations of The SeaCleaners, an association that will use the Manta, a catamaran powered by renewable energy, to collect, sort, and compact up to 250 tonnes of oceanic plastic waste before returning to land, where the plastic will be processed in waste treatment or recycling facilities. Since FY2018, EFS has provided the association with hardware support, including printers and projectors, for event and communication operations. A Computer-Generated Image Video: World Oceans Day with Epson, Ray Collins and Yvan Bourgnan of the Manta https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FWX-csfjReQ&feature=youtu.be Coral Reef Transplant Project (Indonesia) PT. Epson Batam (PEB) has been helping to back a coral transplant project on Abang Island since 2015 to preserve biodiversity. The project, which involves people from Indonesia＇s ﬁshing and tourist industries as well as government and NGOs, is growing coral reefs (coral gardens) by transplanting about 500 coral fragments every year over a gradually larger area. Residents of Abang Island are hopeful that the transplanted coral can improve the environment for ﬁsh and increase their numbers. PEB＇s environmental conservation programs have earned community recognition for excellence and have garnered environmental awards sponsored by the Indonesian Ministry of Environment and Forestry for 10 consecutive years since 2010 (in 2019 it won the Green Proper Prize). Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 236 Beautification Activities (Global) Epson employees around the world participate in local cleanup activities to keep our communities looking nice and to foster a spirit of community volunteerism and activism. Started in 1992, employees of Epson Portland Inc. (U.S.) volunteer their time to pick up garbage several times a year along a section of U.S. Highway 26, which runs just north of the company. PT. Epson Batam (Indonesia) participated in the National Waste Care Activity in March 2019. This activity was conducted in response to a call from administrative agencies such as Batam＇s Ministry of Environment. At the coast of Tanjung Uma, 13 employees picked up plastics and organic waste, which they then delivered to a recycling facility. Highway clean-up The Tanjung Uma coast before The Tanjung Uma coast after Donations Tied to Used Cartridge Collection (Worldwide) Seiko Epson participates in various programs for donating to environmental bodies, environmental groups, and environmental causes. Amounts are tied to the number of used ink cartridges and toner cartridges collected. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 237 Commitment to Society Corporate Citizenship Social Welfare ＂ Fantas Aquarium＂ Using Projected Images (Japan) Seiko Epson has been bringing the Fantas Aquarium to hospitals and special-needs schools around Japan since 2015. In FY2019, the company staged these projection-based productions at 17 locations nationwide, welcoming 7,341 visitors. The shows are set up and run with the help of employee volunteers, a total of 181 in 2019. The company encourages and supports volunteers by providing paid time oﬀ. Hospital and school staﬀ members, as well as members of the children＇s families, often report that children are stimulated by and respond positively to the Fantas Aquarium. Even children who normally sleep all day will suddenly open their eyes to follow images or will reach out to try to touch them, their faces lit up in wonder. Children who are normally conﬁned to a hospital room will shriek with delight at the prospect of an outing beyond their door. Seiko Epson will take the Fantas Aquarium on the road once again in 2020. An undersea world is created within gymnasiums and large Fantas Cars (mobile carts equipped with a projector) are used conference rooms. to bring the Fantas Aquarium to hospital rooms and ward hallways. Blood Donations (Worldwide) Epson employees donate blood every year. Japan Indonesia U.S. China Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 238 Commitment to Society Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder engagement*1 is an important bridge that connects Epson with its stakeholders. Epson is building trusting relationships by providing all stakeholders with the accurate and unbiased information they Customers need and by using feedback from them to help steer Epson＇s business activities. Employees Shareholders Epson & investors Our primary stakeholders are the customers who use Epson products and services, shareholders and investors who directly inﬂuence our operations, local communities, suppliers, and our employees. Suppliers Local communities *1 Communication between companies and their stakeholders. Engagement enables companies to understand the interests of stakeholders and influences the companies＇ operations and decisions. Stakeholder Engagement Initiatives Stakeholder Engagement objective Main actions • Pursuing Customer Satisfaction To create products and services that • Sales/Service & Support Customers delight customers and earn their trust • Activities to Improve Quality • Product Safety Initiatives • Investor Relations To build strong communication that leads Shareholders & • Dialog with Outside Directors to effective business operations and helps investors and Institutional Investors investors make decisions • Inclusion in SRI Indices To foster mutually beneficial relationships • Approach to Corporate Local with local communities in countries and Citizenship communities regions where we operate through programs rooted in those communities • Discussions with Local Citizens • Communication and Training • Procurement Guidelines To build good partnerships based on Suppliers mutual trust and the principles of fairness, • Socially Responsible coexistence and co-prosperity Procurement Initiatives • Responsible Sourcing of Minerals • Labor-Management Relations To create a working environment that Employees • Improving Workplace contributes to job satisfaction Communication Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 239 Evaluation by External Parties Inclusion in SRI Indices and Rating Selected as a Constituent of the FTSE4Good Index Series for the 16th Consecutive Year Seiko Epson was selected by FTSE Russell, a part of the London Stock Exchange Group, as a constituent of one of the Responsible Investment (RI) indexes in the FTSE4Good Index series for the 16th consecutive year. (June 2020) FTSE4Good Index Series https://www.ftse.com/products/indices/FTSE4Good Selected as a Constituent of the FTSE Blossom Japan Index for the Fourth Consecutive Year Seiko Epson was selected for inclusion in the FTSE Blossom Japan index for the fourth consecutive year. This index is one of the ESG indexes selected by the Government Pension Investment Fund (GPIF) in July 2017. (June 2020) Selected as a Constituent of the Empowering Women Index (WIN) for the Fourth Consecutive Year Seiko Epson was selected for inclusion in the MSCI Japan Empowering Women Index (WIN) for the third consecutive year. WIN is one of the ESG indexes selected by the Government Pension Investment Fund (GPIF) in July 2017. (June 2020) Selected as Global Leader for Engaging its Supply Chain on Climate Change Seiko Epson has been identiﬁed as a global leader for engaging with its suppliers on climate change, being awarded a position on the Supplier Engagement Leaderboard by global environmental impact non-proﬁt CDP. (February 2020) Received EcoVadis Gold Rating for Overall Sustainability for Third Consecutive Year Seiko Epson has been awarded a Gold rating for overall sustainability by independent platform EcoVadis (France) for the third consecutive year. Epson was placed in top 2 percent in manufacture of computers and peripheral equipment industry. (December 2019) Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 240 Selected as a Constituent of the SNAM Sustainability Index for the Ninth Consecutive Year Seiko Epson was selected by SOMPO JAPAN Nippon Asset Management (SOMPO 2020 JAPAN), as a constituent of one of the SNAM Sustainability Index for the ninth consecutive year. The SNAM Sustainability index is used in SRI (socially responsible investment) fund for Sompo Sustainability Index pension funds or institutional investors to invest widely in companies with the high ESG (environment, society, governance) evaluation ratings. (June 2020) Selected as a Semi-Nadeshiko Brand Seiko Epson was selected as a ＂Semi-Nadeshiko Brand＂ by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry (METI) and the Tokyo Stock Exchange. This designation is granted to companies that encourage women to play an active role in the workplace. (March 2020) Recognition Recognized for Health Management Excellence for Fourth Consecutive Year Seiko Epson was recognized for the Fourth consecutive year under the Certiﬁed Health and Productivity Management Organization Recognition Program (White 500), in the large enterprise category. The program, which is jointly administered by the Japanese Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry (METI) and the Nippon Kenko Kaigi, honors enterprises who work with insurers to promote good health and productivity. (March 2020) SBTi Approved Epson＇s GHG Reduction Targets Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) has approved Epson＇s global greenhouse gas (GHG) reduction targets. SBTi recognized Epson＇s targets as being science-based and in line with keeping a global temperature rise this century to well below 2 degrees Celsius, a central aim of the Paris Agreement. (November 2018) Earned the Highest (Grade 3) Eruboshi In 2016, the Japanese Minister of Health, Labour and Welfare granted Seiko Epson the top ＂Eruboshi＂ mark in recognition of its eﬀorts to promote the active participation and advancement of women in the workplace. (July 2016) Earned Platinum Kurumin Certification As a result of Epson＇s eﬀorts to establish a friendly workplace environment, we were awarded use of the so-called Kurumin symbol from 2007 and the Platinum Kurumin symbol in 2016. Use of these symbols is awarded by the Japanese Minister of Health, Labour and Welfare to companies that implement policies that support employees who are raising families, in accordance with the Act on Measures to Support the Development of the Next Generation. (May 2016) Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 241 Certification as an Employer of Persons with Disabilities Epson Mizube Corporation, a special subsidiary of Seiko Epson, received certiﬁcation as an ＂Employer of Persons with Disabilities＂ in recognition of its initiatives to expand employment opportunities for persons with mental disorders and intellectual disabilities and to promote the active participation in society and independence of persons with physical disabilities. (January 2020) Award Epson Subsidiary in Thailand Awarded Gold for its Zero Accident Record Epson Precision (Thailand) Ltd. (EPTH) was awarded the Gold Level Award under the Zero Accident Campaign certiﬁed by the Thai Ministry of Labor. This award recognizes companies that have operated without an occupational accident for 10,000,000 consecutive hours or more. EPTH recorded 13,150,385 hours of accident-free operations between March 19, 2017 and December 31, 2019. In the FY2019, 75 companies were recognized with the Gold Level Award, 16 of which were Japanese companies. (August 2020) Winners include subsidiaries of blue-chip Japanese companies such as Toyota Motors, Oki Electric Industry, Panasonic, and Mitsubishi Motors. Epson Korea Wins the Environmental Preservation Prize at the Chosun CSR Awards Epson Korea Co., Ltd. won the Environmental Preservation Prize for the second consecutive year at the Chosun Corporate Social Responsibility Awards. These prestigious awards are operated by Chosun Media and sponsored by multiple ministries within the Korean government. Reviewers analyzed and evaluated approximately 750 companies in South Korea by looking at their SDG, CSR, and environmental reports for the past three years. The ﬁeld was narrowed down ﬁnally to 12 winners. Epson was the only winner in the Environment Preservation award category. The other 11 companies received awards for excellence or contributions in areas such as social welfare, the environment, culture, and the economy. (March 2020) Received Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry Award at the 29th Grand Prize for Global Environment Awards Seiko Epson won the Japanese Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry Award at the 29th Grand Prize for Global Environment Awards. The award recognizes Epson＇s inkjet innovation eﬀorts to minimize environmental impact. (February 2020) Winner of the METI Minister ＇s Prize Akita Epson Corporation received the METI Minister＇s Prize at the eighth Monodzukuri Grand Awards for its role in helping to develop, in partnership with the Akita University Graduate School of Medicine, Akita University Hospital, and the Akita Industrial Technology Center, the world＇s ﬁrst rapid cancer diagnosis support system using AC electric ﬁeld mixing. (January 2020) Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 242 The Fantas Aquarium won the Global Corporate Sustainability Best Practice Award The Fantas Aquarium won the Global Corporate Sustainability Best Practice Award at the Global Corporate Sustainability Forum, which is sponsored by the Alliance for Sustainable Developments Goals, an organization made up of groups from Taiwan＇s industry, government, academia and NGOs. (November 2019) Received PEZA Outstanding Environmental Performance Award Epson Precision (Philippines), Inc. received its 3rd PEZA*1 Outstanding Environmental Performance award. This award recognizes the eﬀorts of companies for sustained compliance and innovative systems for the period of 3 years (2016-2018) as they strive for continuous improvement in environmental management. (May 2019) *1 Philippine Economic Zone Authority (PEZA) Received the PROPER Rating PT. Epson Batam, which is the one of Epson＇s manufacturing plants in Indonesia, received the Green PROPER rating from the Ministry of Environment and Forestry, Indonesia. Additionally, PT. Indonesia Epson Industry received the Blue PROPER rating. (2018-2019) Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 243 ESG Data Environment Global Environmental Data Energy Use of energy Unit FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Gas/oil MWh 306,088 318,002 330,257 332,795 331,509 Japan Electricity/steam MWh 431,430 448,513 467,629 357,552 360,543 Gas/oil MWh 14,970 16,044 19,592 14,450 15,804 Overseas Electricity/steam MWh 321,491 331,305 341,322 341,566 343,183 Total MWh 1,073,979 1,113,864 1,158,800 1,046,364 1,051,039 Per unit of business proﬁt GWh/100 1.3 1.7 1.6 1.7 2.9 (include renewable energy) million yen * Totals do not add up in some cases due to rounding off of fractions. Use of renewable electricity Unit FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Japan MWh 102 168 257 118,504 119,302 Overseas MWh 5,756 5,777 9,215 18,901 18,695 Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 244 Greenhouse gas (GHG) Greenhouse gas emission (scopes 1, 2) Unit FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Scope 1 t-CO2e 116,826 132,885 136,734 127,737 122,263 Japan t-CO2e 101,296 115,972 122,479 108,210 104,470 Overseas t-CO2e 15,530 16,913 14,255 19,527 17,793 Scope 2 t-CO2e 426,797 438,555 455,110 374,347 363,490 Japan t-CO2e 231,073 235,726 246,022 185,520 184,748 Overseas t-CO2e 195,724 202,829 209,088 188,827 178,743 Total t-CO2e 543,623 571,440 591,844 502,084 485,753 thousand Per unit of business proﬁt t/100 million 0.64 0.87 0.79 0.71 1.19 yen FY2025 target (science-based): reduce 19% total emissions from FY2017 -18% Scope 1: Direct GHG emissions (LPG, LNG, natural gas, kerosene, heavy fuel oil, gasoline, PFCs, etc.) Scope 2: Indirect GHG emissions (electricity and steam, etc.) * CO2 conversion factor of greenhouse gas emissions • Electric power: In Japan, we use the adjusted emissions factors for the load serving entities (i.e., utilities) from which our sites purchase electricity, pursuant to Load Serving Entity Emission Factors announced by the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry. Overseas, we use the country emission factors listed in IEA (International Energy Agency) or from the load serving entities from which our sites purchase electricity. • Fuel: The factors announced by the IPCC in 2006 were used for both domestic and overseas data. • GHGs other than CO2: Equivalents were calculated based on 100-year GWP values in the Fifth Assessment Report of the IPCC. * Totals do not add up in some cases due to rounding off of fractions. Greenhouse gas emission (scope 3) Unit FY2018 FY2019 Calculation method thousand Scope 3 3,263 3,024 t-CO2e Multiplied the mass of materials that Purchased goods and thousand Category 1 1,141 1,064 comprise sold products by their services*1 t-CO2e emission factors Multiplied the capital expenditure thousand Category 2 Capital goods 248 217 in each investment account by t-CO2e emission factors Fueland energy-related Multiplied the amount of each type thousand Category 3 activities not included in 36 36 of energy used at each site by their t-CO2e scope 1 or scope 2 emission factors Emissions from transportation to Epson of products and services purchased from suppliers, and Upstream transportation thousand emissions from the transport of Category 4 201 181 and distribution t-CO2e goods by Epson, were calculated by multiplying the mass of transported goods and the distance transported by emissions factors Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 245 Unit FY2018 FY2019 Calculation method Multiplied the amount of each type Waste generated in thousand Category 5 5 4 of waste generated at each site by operations t-CO2e their emission factors Multiplied the transportation thousand expenses for each transportation Category 6 Business travel 19 32 t-CO2e mode and lodging expenses by their emission factors Multiplied the transportation thousand Category 7 Employee commuting 35 45 expenses for each transportation t-CO2e mode by their emission factors For emissions from the operation of leased assets (excluding those thousand not already included in scope 1 or Category 8 Upstream leased assets 5 5 t-CO2e scope 2 inventories), the ﬂoor area of leased buildings was multiplied by emission factors Multiplied the sold product not Downstream thousand shipped by Epson and the average Category 9 transportation and 7 7 t-CO2e distances of transported volumes by distribution their emission factors per unit Multiplied the electricity consumed Processing of sold thousand in the processing of intermediate Category 10 68 61 products t-CO2e products into ﬁnished products by emission factors Multiplied the estimated electricity thousand Category 11 Use of sold products*1 1,413 1,297 consumption over the lifetime of sold t-CO2e products by an emission factor Multiplied the mass of each type of End-of-life treatment of thousand Category 12 85 75 waste treated by the emission factor sold products t-CO2e for each type of waste treatment Downstream leased thousand Category 13 N/A N/A Not applicable assets t-CO2e thousand Category 14 Franchises N/A N/A Not applicable t-CO2e thousand Category 15 Investments N/A N/A Not applicable t-CO2e FY2025 target (science-based): reduce 44% per unit of Increased Increased*2 business proﬁt from FY2017 (categories 1 and 11) Scope 3: Indirect GHG emissions of the entire value chain *1 Data verified by a third party *2 Due to a significant decrease in business profit Third-party verification of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions We have a third party verify our calculations to ensure reliability. Our FY2019 GHG emissions (scopes 1, 2 and 3) and energy use data were veriﬁed as having been measured and calculated accurately, and a independent veriﬁcation report was obtained. Third-party veriﬁcation report https://global.epson.com/SR/esg_data/pdf/veriﬁcation_report.pdf Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 246 Chemical substance PRTR *1 substance emissions Unit FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Japan t 1.4 1.5 1.7 1.7 1.9 Overseas t 5.2 7.3 4.1 1.6 0.5 Total t 6.6 8.8 5.7 3.3 2.3 kg/100 Per unit of business proﬁt 7.8 13.4 7.7 4.6 5.7 million yen Target: amount of emissions previous year or less -29% * Totals do not add up in some cases due to rounding off of fractions. *1 Pollutant Release and Transfer Register. VOC *2 emissions Unit FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Japan t 74 80 86 85 81 Overseas t 118 117 99 83 62 Total t 192 197 184 168 142 t/100 million Per unit of business proﬁt 0.23 0.30 0.25 0.24 0.34 yen Target: amount of emissions previous year or less -15% *2 Volatile Organic Compounds Industrial waste Industrial waste emissions Unit FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Waste thousand t 12.8 13.8 14.3 14.7 14.3 generated Recycled thousand t 12.4 13.4 13.9 14.1 13.7 Japan Waste thousand t 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.6 0.6 (disposed of) Landﬁlled thousand t 0.5 0.4 0.4 0.6 0.6 Waste thousand t 15.3 17.0 20.2 18.6 18.3 generated Recycled thousand t 13.1 14.2 17.3 15.6 15.3 Overseas Waste thousand t 2.2 2.7 2.9 3.0 3.0 (disposed of) Landﬁlled thousand t 1.7 2.4 2.5 2.3 2.1 Total waste generated thousand t 28.1 30.7 34.4 33.3 32.6 t/100 million Per unit of business proﬁt 33 47 46 47 79 yen Target: amount of emissions (waste generated) previous year or less -2.0% * Totals do not add up in some cases due to rounding off of fractions. * Amounts of FY2018 differ from those in Sustainability Report 2018. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 247 Water Water withdrawal by source Unit FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Municipal water thousand m3 4,611 4,814 5,016 4,990 5,031 Ground water thousand m 3 757 685 742 773 692 Japan (Returned water thousand m3 (376) (315) (419) (465) (415) to the source) Subtotal thousand m3 5,368 5,499 5,758 5,763 5,724 Municipal water thousand m3 2,349 2,408 2,566 2,588 2,407 Ground water thousand m 3 0 0 0 0 0 Overseas (Returned water thousand m3 (0) (0) (0) (0) (0) to the source) Subtotal thousand m3 2,349 2,408 2,566 2,588 2,407 Total thousand m3 7,717 7,906 8,324 8,351 8,131 thousand Per unit of business proﬁt m3/100 9.1 12.0 11.1 11.9 19.9 million yen Target: amount of usage (water withdrawal) previous year or less -2.6% * Industrial water is included in municipal water. * No water was withdrawn from other sources. Recycling water Unit FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Recycled water thousand m3 1,344 1,504 1,526 1,548 1,527 Recycled ratio % 15 16 15 16 16 * Recycled ratio=recycled water/(water usage + recycled water) * Past data was revised due to changing the calculation method of recycling ratio. Water discharge by destination Unit FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Sewerage thousand m3 2,056 2,111 2,348 2,082 2,021 Japan Rivers thousand m3 2,898 3,013 2,899 3,012 2,779 Subtotal thousand m3 4,954 5,125 5,247 5,095 4,800 Sewerage thousand m 3 2,049 2,096 2,285 2,361 2,178 Overseas Rivers thousand m 3 0 0 0 0 0 Subtotal thousand m3 2,049 2,096 2,285 2,361 2,178 Total thousand m3 7,003 7,221 7,532 7,455 6,977 * Totals do not add up in some cases due to rounding off of fractions. * Water consumption=Total water withdrawal-Total water discharge * No water was discharged into other destinations. Third-party verification of water We have a third party verify our FY2019 data. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 248 ISO 14001 Certification List Japan: Development divisions/Operations divisions/Group companies Region Certiﬁed sites Seiko Epson Corporation Production Planning Division Technology Development Division Visual Products Operations Division Microdevices Operations Division Robotics Solutions Operations Division Tohoku Epson Corporation Akita Epson Corporation Japan Miyazaki Epson Corporation Epson Direct Corporation Epson Logistics Corporation Epson Swan Corporation Seiko Epson Corporation Printing Solutions Operations Division Epson Atmix Corporation Overseas: Regional headquarters/Sales/Service subsidiaries and affiliates Region Certiﬁed sites Epson (China) Co., Ltd. Seiko Epson Corporation, Hong Kong Oﬃce Asia/Oceania Epson Taiwan Technology & Trading Ltd. Epson Australia Pty. Ltd. Epson Europe B.V. Epson Deutschland GmbH Epson Europe Electronics GmbH Epson France S.A.S. Europe Epson Italia S.p.A. Epson Iberica S.A.U. Epson Iberica S.A.U., Portugal Oﬃce Epson (U.K.) Ltd. Americas Epson America, Inc. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 249 Overseas: Manufacturing industry Region Certiﬁed sites Tianjin Epson Co., Ltd. Epson Precision Suzhou Co., Ltd. Epson Engineering (Shenzhen) Ltd. Epson Precision (Philippines) Inc. Epson Precision (Johor) Sdn. Bhd. Singapore Epson Industrial Pte. Ltd. Asia/Oceania PT. Epson Batam PT. Indonesia Epson Industry Epson Precision Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. Epson Precision (Thailand) Ltd. Epson Wuxi Co., Ltd. Epson Precision (Shenzhen) Ltd. Europe Epson Telford Ltd. Epson Portland Inc. Americas Epson Portland Inc., Longview Oﬃce Epson Paulista Ltda. Product Recycling Collection Unit FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Finished products*1 thousand t 14.4 13.2 23.0 19.2 20.9 Cartridges thousand t 2.0 2.0 1.7 1.8 1.8 *1 Collected either voluntarily or as mandated by local law. Sum of amount actually collected and amount expected to be collected. Education Environmental education (Japan) Training Unit FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Basic environmental Participants Persons 16,513 16,552 16,991 17,379 17,008 training II*1 ISO 14001 Participants Persons 0 26 444 182 175 environmental Certiﬁcation auditor training*2 recipients Persons 1,956 1,944 697 869 1,012 * Figures of Certification Recipients show the number of certified persons as of the end of fiscal year. *1 This is the number of persons who took Basic Environmental Training II during the period it was offered. *2 Started using ISO14001: 2015 from FY2017. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 250 Social HR Development Main online courses (Japan) Course Unit FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Fundamentals of security Persons 14,406 14,487 14,092 16,072 16,204 export control Import/Export control Persons 13,985 14,342 13,968 15,986 16,149 Epson＇s compliance Persons 16,828 18,125 18,821 18,331 19,347 (code of conduct etc.) Basic information security Persons 18,786 18,519 18,658 19,924 19,550 Basic environmental Persons 16,513 16,552 16,991 17,379 17,008 training II Introduction to procurement Persons 16,302 16,801 (Subcontract Act.) Introduction to procurement（Ethics and Persons 14,759 15,302 15,974 code of conduct） J-SOX Persons 15,645 17,371 17,770 18,497 18,642 * The number of person completing the course by March 31 of that year Training by employee level Training Who Unit FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 New Persons 256 293 293 298 311 employee New hires orientation % 100 100 100 100 100 C-level Persons 133 191 236 182 285 New C-level employee staﬀ % 91.7 95.0 93.4 96.3 95 training Senior staﬀ New senior Persons 186 293 266 247 206 training staﬀ % 96.3 95.8 93.3 91.1 95.8 Section Persons 100 174 138 130 90 New section manager manager % 98.0 95.6 97.2 93.5 91.8 training General Persons 28 33 31 30 New general manager manager % 96.6 92.7 86.9 85.7 training * The number of person completing the course by March 31 of that year (Seiko Epson Corporation) Quality control training (Japan) Course Unit FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 People QC Persons 247 314 414 457 413 trained introduction % trained % 92 90 90 91 88 People Persons 175 257 266 194 168 QC-ABC trained % trained % 82 79 80 76 75 Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 251 Licensed quality control training trainers Region Unit FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Number of production sites Southeast with licensed Companies 7 7 7 7 7 Asia trainers Licensed trainers Persons 260 119 89 97 80 Number of production sites Companies 8 8 8 7 6 China with licensed trainers Licensed trainers Persons 78 79 71 79 61 * Number of licensed trainers as of March 31 of that year Promotion of Diversity Employees with disabilities (Japan) Unit FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Number of employees Persons 253 272 284 295 308 Employment ratio % 2.27 2.43 2.48 2.55 2.62 Target: Employment ratio of disable employees by FY2020 (%) 2.5 * Figures for fiscal year as of Jun 1 of that year Workforce composition Unit FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Female % 17 17 16 16 16 Female/Male ratio Male % 83 83 84 84 84 Management Female ％ 2 2 3 2 3 diversity*1 Male ％ 98 98 97 98 97 Target: Female management position ratio by FY2022 (%) 5 Junior Female ％ 6 6 6 6 management diversity*2 Male ％ 94 94 94 94 Target: Female junior management position ratio by FY2022 (%) 7 * Data for Seiko Epson Corporation employees as of March 20 of that year *1 Section managers and higher *2 Team leader Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 252 Employees by age group Age Unit FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Less than 20 Persons 41 49 42 20-29 Persons 1,319 1,533 1,671 30-39 Persons 2,357 2,208 2,080 40-49 Persons 3,804 3,714 3,650 50-59 Persons 3,637 3,724 3,777 60-69 Persons 1 0 0 70 and over Persons 0 0 0 * Data for Seiko Epson Corporation regular employees as of March 31 of that year Employees by age and by gender (Global) Unit FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Female % 2.0 2.4 1.2 Less than 20 Male % 1.3 1.0 0.7 S. Total % 3.3 3.4 1.9 Female % 20.9 20.4 21.6 20-29 Male % 18.5 18.2 17.6 S. Total % 39.4 38.6 38.6 Female % 12.1 12.0 12.0 30-39 Male % 13.2 13.5 13.4 S. Total % 25.3 25.5 25.4 Female % 7.2 7.7 8.2 40-49 Male % 12.9 12.7 12.9 S. Total % 20.1 20.4 21.1 Female % 2.6 2.6 2.9 50-59 Male % 8.7 8.9 9.4 S. Total % 11.3 11.5 12.2 Female % 0.2 0.2 0.3 60 and over Male % 0.4 0.4 0.4 S. Total % 0.6 0.6 0.7 Female % 45.0 45.3 45.5 Total Male % 55.0 54.7 54.5 G. Total % 100.0 100.0 100.0 * Data for all Epson group companies regular employees as of March 31 of that year Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 253 Length of employment Unit FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Total Years 19.4 19.4 19.5 19.4 19.2 Female Years 22.2 22.2 22.1 21.5 20.9 Male Years 18.9 18.9 19.0 18.9 18.9 * Data for Seiko Epson Corporation employees as of March 20 of that year Average age Unit FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Total Years old 43.6 43.7 43.8 43.6 43.6 Female Years old 44.1 44.3 44.4 43.9 43.6 Male Years old 43.4 43.6 43.7 43.6 43.6 * Data for Seiko Epson Corporation employees as of March 20 of that year Turnover rate Unit FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Total turnover rate % 3.2 3.6 3.6 4.5 4.1 Voluntary turnover rate % 1.6 1.6 1.5 1.8 1.5 * Data for Seiko Epson Corporation as of March 20 of that year (Including retired worker) Fostering a Better Workplace Workforce composition by employment type and by gender (Global) Unit FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Female % 34.6 36.1 35.5 Full-time Male % 41.7 43.0 43.0 employment S. Total % 76.3 79.1 78.5 Female ％ 11.6 10.8 12.0 Part-time Male ％ 4.9 5.2 6.4 employment S. Total ％ 16.5 16.0 18.4 Female ％ 2.7 2.1 1.4 Temporary Male ％ 4.6 2.8 1.6 S. Total ％ 7.3 4.9 3.0 Female ％ 48.8 49.0 48.9 Total Male ％ 51.2 51.0 51.1 G. Total ％ 100.0 100.0 100.0 * Data for all Epson group companies as of March 31 of that year Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 254 Composition of all managerial positions by gender (Global) Unit FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Female % 18.6 18.8 18.8 Junior management Male % 81.4 81.2 81.2 positions S. Total % 100.0 100.0 100.0 Female ％ 14.9 13.4 14.7 Top management Male ％ 85.1 86.6 85.3 positions S. Total ％ 100.0 100.0 100.0 Female ％ 16.3 16.2 16.7 Total Male ％ 83.7 83.8 83.3 G. Total ％ 100.0 100.0 100.0 * Data for all Epson group companies as of March 31 of that year Composition of managerial positions in revenue-generating functions by gender (Global) Unit FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Management Female % 14.8 14.7 14.6 positions in revenueMale % 85.2 85.3 85.4 generating functions S. Total % 100.0 100.0 100.0 Management Female ％ 23.7 24.5 25.6 positions in non-revenue Male ％ 76.3 75.5 74.4 generating functions S. Total ％ 100.0 100.0 100.0 Female ％ 16.3 16.2 16.7 Total Male ％ 83.7 83.8 83.3 G. Total ％ 100.0 100.0 100.0 * Data for all Epson group companies as of March 31 of that year * ＂Management positions in revenue-generating functions＂ means those functions including R&D, design, manufacturing, procurement, sales, customer service, etc. but excluding back-office functions such as general affairs, HR, accounting, legal, administration, etc. Annual total working hours per employee Unit FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Total working hours Hours 2,001 1,971 1,943 1,879 * Data for Seiko Epson Corporation employees as of March 31 of that year Paid leave Unit FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Days 12.6 14.0 13.9 15.6 Number of paid leave used ％ 63.0 70.0 69.5 78 * Data for Seiko Epson Corporation employees as of March 31 of that year Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 255 Childcare leave trends Unit FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Total Persons 52 60 64 75 102 Female Persons 40 42 44 35 41 Childcare leave Ratio of female % 98 100 98 100 100 granted leave*1 Male Persons 12 18 20 40 61 Employees using parental Persons 170 160 147 reduced hours * Data for Seiko Epson Corporation employees as of March 20 of that year *1 Number of individuals childcare leave/eligible individuals Caregiver leave trends Unit FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Care giver Leave Persons 6 2 2 2 6 Employee using caregiver Persons 2 5 4 reduced hours * Data for Seiko Epson Corporation employees as of March 20 of that year Result of employee survey Unit FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Participation ratio % 95.1 96.7 97.4 % of engaged employees % 90.7 89.9 92.1 92.2 91.2 * Data for Seiko Epson Corporation regular employees and employees after retirement age. Labor Union membership Unit FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Ratio of Union membership % 85.5 85.8 85.9 * Data for Seiko Epson Corporation employees as of March 20 of that year Collective bargaining agreements Unit FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Employees covered by collective bargaining % 69.1 66.9 agreements * Data for Epson overseas subsidiaries employees as of March 31 of that year Employee coverage of the individual performance appraisals by MBO (Manegement by Objectives) Unit FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Female % 47.8 59.3 Performance appraisals by Male % 31.0 46.9 MBO Total % 44.9 53.8 * Data for Epson overseas subsidiaries employees as of March 31 of that year * In Japan, MBO is in principle implemented for 100% of employees Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 256 Minimum Wage Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage Unit Amount Local min. wage % to local min. wage Femail 373 373 100% Epson Precision (Philippines), Inc. Philippine Peso Male 373 373 100% (as of March 2019 by the day) Average 373 373 100% Epson Engineering (Shenzhen) Femail 3,300 2,200 150% Ltd. Male 3,300 2,200 150% Chinese Yuan (as of March 2019 by the month) Average 3,300 2,200 150% Femail 6,261,438 5,027,252 125% PT. Indonesia Epson Industry Indonesian Rupiah Male 6,261,438 5,027,252 125% (as of January 2019 by the month) Average 6,261,438 5,027,252 125% Occupational Safety and Health Occupational injury accident frequency (Global) Unit FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Occupational accident rate 0.13 0.09 0.12 0.07 0.10 * The number of injury accidents per million work hours, where an injury accident is an incident that causes a worker to miss one or more days of work Occupational injury accident seriousness (Global) Unit FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Injuries severity rate 0.002 0.002 0.003 0.005 0.002 * The number of injury accidents per 1000 work hours, where an injury accident is an incident that causes a worker to miss one or more days of work Supply Chain Management Supplier conference for CSR Area Unit FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Japan Number of companies Companies 489 237 447 510 China Number of companies Companies 135 113 222 58 Indonesia Number of companies Companies 103 168 193 Others Number of companies Companies 295 63 Total Number of companies Companies 624 453 1,132 824 76 92 67 83 Rate of attendance*1 Japan / WW % (Japan) (Japan) (Japan) (WW) *1 Number of attendance per invited suppliers Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 257 CSR evaluation Evaluation Unit FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Number of Accounts 1,266 1,422 1,413 1,481 1,525 Direct evaluation accounts (Annual evaluation) Ratio of evaluation % 100 100 100 100 100 suppliers Number of Detailed evaluation*1 Companies 274 312 222 companies Direct suppliers Ratio of high risk (Production material) % 8 5 0 rank Number of Detailed evaluation*1 Companies 66 124 companies Indirect suppliers (NonRatio of high risk production material) % 9 16 rank Evaluation of emergency Number of Companies 320 436 319*2 250 1,336 response capabilities companies (BCP self assessment Target % 95 154 91 71 questionnaire) achievement rate Safety management Number of Companies 422 357 1,353*2 481 1,384 evaluation companies (BCP self assessment Target % 92 141 93 74 questionnaire) achievement rate * Including 2nd tier supplier *1 Each attribute evaluation is executed at the every other year. *2 In FY2017, as a special action, self-assessment was conducted by Tier 1 and non-Tier 1 suppliers. Conflict Minerals Conflict minerals survey Unit FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Survey sheet recovery rate % 99 95 94 92 91 Number of identiﬁed 298 314 312 314 344 smelters Number of CFS*1-certiﬁed 211 243 249 256 268 smelters CFS as a % of identiﬁed % 71 77 80 82 78 smelters *1 Cnflict-free smelter Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 258 Each mineral data Unit FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Number of identiﬁed 126 138 146 150 159 smelters Number of Gold CFS-certiﬁed 78 94 100 102 107 smelters CFS as a % of identiﬁed % 62 68 68 68 67 smelters Number of identiﬁed 47 48 41 40 45 smelters Number of Tantalum CFS-certiﬁed 45 43 39 40 40 smelters CFS as a % of identiﬁed % 96 90 95 100 89 smelters Number of identiﬁed 82 93 79 81 93 smelters Number of Tin CFS-certiﬁed 58 67 70 74 78 smelters CFS as a % of identiﬁed % 71 72 89 91 84 smelters Number of identiﬁed 43 52 46 43 47 smelters Number of Tungusten CFS-certiﬁed 30 39 40 40 43 smelters CFS as a % of identiﬁed % 70 75 87 93 91 smelters Corporate Citizenship Corporate citizenship Unit FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Corporate citizenship Billion 0.40 0.61 0.61 0.82 0.90 expenditures yen * The monetary equivalent of donations and grants, as well as human, material, and other assistances Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 259 Governance Corporate Governance Board of directors Unit FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 FY2020 Female Persons 2 2 2 2 2 Independent Male Persons 3 3 3 3 3 outside directors S. Total Persons 5 5 5 5 5 Female Persons 0 0 0 0 0 Inside directors Male Persons 7 6 7 7 7 S. Total Persons 7 6 7 7 7 Female Persons 2 2 2 2 2 Total Male Persons 10 9 10 10 10 G. Total Persons 12 11 12 12 12 Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 260 Appendices Management Philosophy Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 261 Appendices Principles of Corporate Behavior Issued September 2005 Revised April 2012 Revised October 2017 Epson will fulﬁl its social responsibility by aspiring to live up to the principles below based on ＂trust-based management,＂ a concept that underlies Epson＇s Management Philosophy. We seek to create value that surprises and delights our customers and helps to make the world a better place. At the same time, we aim to be an indispensable company, a company that maintains the trust of all stakeholders (including customers, shareholders, investors, communities, business partners, NGOs, NPOs, and employees) and that exists for the world＇s beneﬁt. This signals our commitment as a company to observing these principles. It also serves as a declaration that all Epson personnel, including senior executives, managers, and employees, should be mindful of conducting themselves in line with these principles. Principle 1: Pursuing customer satisfaction We think of our customers＇ perspective at all times and continue to create trusted products and services that please our customers around the world. a) We will ensure that all products and services meet the required safety and environmental standards. b) We will listen to our customers, take all their expectations seriously, and give sincere consideration to their feedback. c) We will strive to deliver high value, quality products and services that meet or exceed the expectations of our customers. d) We will adhere to universal design standards that maximize product usability and give our customers something they will value and enjoy. e) We will consistently provide our customers with high customer value, socially beneﬁcial, innovative, and aﬀordable products and services through R&D and programs conducted from a customer perspective, such as improving manufacturing capabilities across the Epson Group. Principle 2: Preserving the natural environment We integrate environmental considerations into our corporate activities and actively strive to meet high conservation standards when fulﬁlling our responsibilities as a good corporate citizen. a) Harmony with the environment is one of the highest priorities of the Epson Group＇s management. When conducting business activities, we will keep future generations in mind, and consider how they might best be sustained. b) We will strive to minimize environmental impacts in an integrated manner across the entire life cycle of our products and services, from manufacturing to transport, use, and disposal. c) We will participate in environmental preservation and restoration projects as a member of society. d) We will promote environmental awareness and provide information to our employees to enhance their understanding of environmental issues. Principle 3: Fostering diverse values and teamwork We strengthen teamwork by recognizing the value of a diverse workforce and creating synergies between individuals and our organization. a) We will instill in our employees, and practice, the ideals of our Management Philosophy. b) We will put Epson in the best position by hiring a diverse workforce and utilizing their unique skills eﬀectively. c) We will respect the individuality of employees and maintain relationships between the company and employees based on trust. d) We will develop our employees by creating systems that allow individuals to utilize their skills eﬀectively. e) We will create a culture in which employees take pride in their work, work with conﬁdence and actively promote teamwork. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 262 Principle 4: Creating a safe, healthy, and fair work environment in which human rights are respected We respect basic human rights and create a cheerful, safe, healthy, and fair work environment that is free of discrimination. a) We will not tolerate any violation of human rights. b) We will not engage child labor or forced labor. c) We will promptly take corrective action against undesirable behavior including any harassment, violence, devaluation of the individual or any behavior resulting in loss of trust. d) We will eliminate any forms of discrimination against gender, nationality, religion, race and disability. e) We will support employees by facilitating a proper work-life balance. f) We will adhere to and maintain the proper health and safety standards at all sites around the world. g) We will implement programs that support the mental and physical wellbeing of our employees. h) We will establish practices that create a fair and open work environment and build a corporate culture that values individuals＇ rights and that facilitates equal opportunities for all. Principle 5: Ensuring effective governance and compliance We institute eﬀective corporate governance and internal controls, and we observe laws, regulations, and other rules and maintain the highest ethics in all activities. a) We will establish and maintain an eﬀective system which governs our corporate entities and internal controls to ensure that management is transparent, fair, agile, and decisive. b) We will implement systems of compliance to ensure that we observe and respect all applicable laws and regulations, internal rules, and business ethics. c) We will not tolerate any form of bribery, corruption, dishonest marketing, cartels, or insider trading. We will conduct all transactions in accordance with these principles, promoting fair and open competition in the marketplace. d) We will maintain a good, mutually cooperative relationship with governments and their administrative bodies. e) We will not involve ourselves in or have contact with any anti-social movement or group that promotes activities that are illegal or threatening to public order and safety. f) We will employ best practices in risk management to prevent risks from materializing and minimize impact in cases where they do materialize. Principle 6: Ensuring the security of people, assets, and information We protect the safety and security of people and company assets, and we exercise strict care in the management of all information. a) We will establish and maintain systems to ensure the safety and security of Epson personnel, as well as visitors or contractors on our premises. b) We will carefully handle all group tangible and intangible assets (ﬁnancial, intellectual, and those regarding infrastructure, brand, and proprietary information) and respect the assets of others. c) We will take reasonable and necessary precautions to protect the conﬁdentiality of proprietary business information including the privacy of customers, employees and other stakeholders. d) We will only use our company assets (all forms stated above) for appropriate business purposes. Unauthorized use will not be tolerated. Principle 7: Working with business partners for mutual benefit We seek to maintain mutually beneﬁcial relationships with our suppliers, sales channels, collaborators, and other business partners, whom we ask to live up to the highest standards of ethical conduct while respecting their autonomy and independence. a) Acts of bribery and collusion with business partners are strictly forbidden. We will engage in sound business practices and demand that our business partners adhere to a zero-tolerance policy regarding illegal and unethical business practices. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 263 b) We will hold our business partners to the same strict standards that Epson upholds, with regard to compliance with laws and maintenance of human rights, suitable labor conditions, the environment, ethics, quality, and information security. Epson will support improvements to any of these areas as needed. c) We will develop and maintain open relationships with our business partners and work with them to increase the competitiveness of the entire supply chain, based on mutual trust and for our mutual beneﬁt. Principle 8: Prospering with the Community We actively contribute to the communities in which we operate, as well as the international community, facilitating mutually beneﬁcial relationships. a) We will respect the cultures and traditions of the countries and regions in which we operate. b) We will engage in open dialogue with the local and international community. We will also actively engage in activities that promote our standing as a good corporate citizen. c) We will nurture a culture in which our employees are encouraged to participate in volunteer programs and other activities that facilitate good corporate citizenship. We will establish the systems needed to support such eﬀorts. Principle 9: Initiating honest dialogue with our stakeholders We maintain open lines of communication with our stakeholders, thoughtfully considering their views and suggestions. a) We will respect other cultures and traditions while striving to engage in principled, ethical communication. b) We will communicate openly and honestly with our stakeholders, and will establish appropriate systems for the disclosure of information. c) We will utilize appropriate and useful tools to communicate information to our stakeholders. d) We will provide opportunities and establish appropriate systems to engage in dialogue with stakeholders. e) We will utilize the opinions and suggestions of our stakeholders as a vital resource for corporate management. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 264 Appendices Quality Policy 1. We will solve problems by directly observing all of our operations and processes. 2. We will quickly complete the Plan, Do, Check & Act (PDCA) cycle in all situations. 3. We will thoroughly analyze any failures, and establish procedures based on that analysis, so that mistakes are never repeated. 4. We will proactively consider our customers＇ satisfaction so they will genuinely prefer purchasing Epson products and feel conﬁdent using them. 5. We will seize the opportunity presented by customer comments and complaints to inform our decisions when designing new products. 6. We will readily report even negative information. 7. We will foster a climate in which attention is paid to even the most commonplace events. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 265 Appendices Environmental Policy 1. Creating and providing earth-friendly products 2. Transforming all processes to reduce the burden on the environment 3. Recovering and recycling used products 4. Sharing of environmental information and contributing to regional and international preservation eﬀorts 5. Continually improving the environmental management system Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 266 Appendices Human Resources Development Policy Our basic approach is to support employees who have aspirations for self-actualization, to connect all the companies in the Seiko Epson Group with people, and to nurture employees so that both corporate and individual objectives are met. The following is our policy for human resources development. 1. The Company positions human resources as an indispensable resource and aims to integrate employee aspirations for high-level achievements with the highest interests of the Company. 2. HR development is a very important instrument for materializing the Management Philosophy and business plans. It is the key to forming a good management cycle. 3. Each level of employee therefore assumes the following roles. (a) Executives, as drivers of HR development, must serve as role toward fulﬁllment of Company philosophies. (b) Management-level personnel must practice OJT systematically and continuously with a clear objective for the training. Nurturing of employees must be done principally on an individual basis in a comprehensive manner through the setting of detailed objectives, evaluation of results and acceptance of individual experiences of success. At the same time, management-level personnel must prepare their successors. (c) Employees should voluntarily pursue self-improvement. (d) Departments in charge of education must promote HR development through oﬀ-the-job training, as well as OJT. Established in 1996 Revised on October 1, 2006 Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 267 Appendices Basic NESP Policy Epson believes that providing and maintaining a safe and healthy work environment and promoting physical and mental wellness are the foundation of a healthy company. Accordingly, we have established a basic NESP policy and shall take strategic actions to enable personnel at all Epson sites around the world to work with vibrancy as a team in the knowledge that they are safe and secure. NESP: New Epson Safety & Health Program (NESP is a progressive program that Epson has developed based on general occupational safety and health management system principles and organizations.) 1. Involving all personnel (employees, contractors, and other partners), implement the PDCA cycle for NESP activities and drive continuous improvements. 2. Investigate potential hazards (via risk assessments, etc.), and thoroughly analyze the causes of industrial incidents and occupational injury accidents. Develop measures based on these to prevent future incidents and accidents. 3. Foster a vital organizational culture where work and health are in harmonious balance by preventing work-related health problems and supporting employees＇ own health monitoring and improvement eﬀorts. 4. Periodically review the preparations you have in place for ﬁres, earthquakes, ﬂoods, infectious diseases, and other natural disasters and the actions you have planned to save lives, prevent the spread of damage, and restore business operations. Conduct drills on an ongoing basis to verify preparation and action eﬀectiveness, and implement further improvements. 5. Systematically train employees, and raise the level of safety and health awareness and management. 6. Observe occupational safety and health legal and regulatory requirements in your country and region, as well as internal regulations, standards, and policies. 7. Allocate appropriate management resources for safety and health programs, and continuously make eﬀective improvements. Established on April 1, 2001 Revised on July 1, 2020 Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 268 Appendices The Policies Regarding Human Rights and Labor Standards A. Human Rights (1) We will respect fundamental human rights. We will not tolerate any violation of human rights. (2) We will take steps to prevent and eliminate any harassment such as sexual harassment, abuse of power in the workplace. (3) We will respect individual privacy. B. Discrimination (1) We will take steps to prevent and eliminate any discrimination on the basis of race, nationality, ethnic origin, creed, sex, gender, age, religion, disability and any other basis protected by the applicable law of any country or region in which we operate. (2) In respect of employment and occupation, we will not damage the equality of opportunity on the basis of any irrational reason that is not directly linked to legitimate business needs. (3) In any country or region in which we operate, we will respect their culture, custom and history identifying how these may vary, and behave in consideration of the diﬀerences. C. Employment and Labor Condition (1) We will not engage child labor or forced labor. We will never take a child as a laborer who is under the legal employment age as deﬁned in the local law of any country or region in which we operate. (2) We will secure the soundness of employment and labor, and we will comply with the local law of any country or region in which we operate. (3) We will not dismiss employees based on irrational reasons without a direct relationship to legitimate business needs. (4) We will maintain ﬁne industrial relations. (5) We will observe the local laws, internal rules and policies regarding health and safety, and we will adhere to and maintain good working conditions and environment according to the proper health and safety standards. Established on September 26, 2005 Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 269 Appendices Basic Information Security Policy Epson＇s Basic Information Security Policy, established based on the company＇s Management Philosophy and Principles of Corporate Behavior, describes our information security approach and requirements. Epson Group companies, their oﬃcers and their employees must recognize the importance of information security, exercise eﬀective information security governance, and build information security into the corporate culture so that Epson continues to be a company that is trusted by its stakeholders. (Established April 1, 2007) It is therefore company policy to ensure that: 1. All information* used in business activities are recognized as important management assets, and information security activities are treated as a critical management concern. * Including customer and other personal information; confidential information relating to sales and marketing, products, technology, production, and knowhow, and suppliers; and information systems that store and use such information. 2. A standard information security policy is established for worldwide operations, information security responsibility and management systems are identiﬁed, and a management system capable of protecting and controlling information assets is built. 3. Information security risks confronted in business activities are appropriately assessed and managed, to justify the trust placed in the company by stakeholders and to keep business. 4. Continuous training and education are provided to Epson Group companies, their oﬃcers and their employees so that security consciousness is integrated into the corporate culture. 5. A compliance program is developed and implemented to ensure compliance with laws, agreements and regulations related to information security management. 6. The information security management system is reviewed, maintained and improved on a continuing basis by Epson management. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 270 Appendices Basic Procurement Policy 1. We will build good partnerships with suppliers, based on mutual trust and principles of fairness, coexistence and co-prosperity. 2. Exercising high ethical standards and a social conscience, we will conduct our procurement activities in strict compliance with both the letter and spirit of laws and regulations, both national and international, in every region where we operate. 3. We will strive to reduce the environmental impacts of our procurement activities and will always seek stable and reasonable quality, price, and delivery from suppliers. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 271 Appendices Epson Slavery & Human Trafﬁcking Statement for Financial Year 2019 We are committed to ensuring that there is no modern slavery or human traﬃcking in our supply chain or in any part of our business. We will respect fundamental human rights and facilitate a fair, safe, healthy and pleasant work environment. This statement is made pursuant to section 54(1) of the UK＇s Modern Slavery Act 2015, the Australian Modern Slavery Act 2018 and the U.S. California Transparency in Supply Chain ACT 2010 (SB 657). Our organisation Seiko Epson Corporation and Epson Group companies are primarily engaged in the development, manufacturing, and sakes of products and services in the areas of printing, visual communications, wearables and robotics. We use the word Epson to describe all companies in the Epson Group. Epson is organized into operational divisions that come under consolidated management. The majority of advanced R&D and product development is conducted in Japan, while manufacturing and sales activities are conducted around the world by 85 Epson Group manufacturing and sales companies, in 56 countries and regions, with 75,608 employees and over 1 trillion yen in net revenue for FY2019. Epson is vertically integrated and develops and manufactures the majority of its components in-house and then sells through its global network of wholly owned sales subsidiaries. Epson＇s printing solutions business provides home and oﬃce inkjet printers, serial impact dot matrix (SIDM) printers, page printers, colour image scanners, dry process oﬃce papermaking systems, large-format inkjet printers, industrial inkjet printing systems, printers for use in POS systems, label printers, related consumables, and, in the Japanese market, PCs. Epson＇s visual communications business provides 3LCD projectors mainly for business, education, the home, and events; high-temperature polysilicon TFT LCD panels for 3LCD projectors; and augmented reality smart glasses. Its wearables & industrial products business provides wristwatches and watch movements; sensing equipment; industrial robots; IC handlers; crystal units, crystal oscillators, and quartz sensors for consumer, automotive, industrial equipment applications; CMOS LSIs and other semiconductor chips; high-performance metal powders, and high-value-added surface ﬁnishing. Supply Chain In manufacturing and selling the many Epson products mentioned above, currently, Epson procures goods and services from about 1,700 direct material suppliers around the world. Domestic Japanese procurement accounts for about 39% of its total procurement spend. Asia accounts for the large majority of the remaining 61%. Epson considers suppliers to be important partners in its business activities. As such, its procurement activities are designed to develop mutually beneﬁcial trusting relationships with its business partners based on fairness, transparency, and respect. Epson believes its responsibility for products and services goes beyond just ensuring high-quality products for the market. It also believes it is responsible for ensuring that its entire supply chain upholds appropriate standards in respect to human rights, labour, and the environment. Therefore, Epson recognizes the importance of taking CSR initiatives hand in hand with its suppliers. Ensuring that the products and services it provides to customers continue to be outstanding in every respect including quality, price, and eco-friendliness requires having suppliers it can trust. For that reason, Epson practices fair and transparent trade with its suppliers and thereby building trusting relationships. Epson believes that it is only with such partnerships that it can enjoy ＂harmonious development＂ supported by rapport with international and local communities. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 272 Epson standards Epson is serious about keeping all forms of discrimination and unfair practices out of its global operations. As stated in its management philosophy, Epson aspires to be an indispensable company which is trusted throughout the world. In 2005, Seiko Epson Corporation established the Principles of Corporate Behavior (Corporate Social Responsibility Guidelines) which are adhered to by all companies ultimately owned by Seiko Epson Corporation. In 2017, Epson updated the Principles of Corporate Behaviour in response to the latest societal requirements. These guidelines were established to clarify the foundations for implementing trust-based management, which is aimed at building stakeholder trust and is the fundamental principle of Epson management, and which are shared across the Group. Epson＇s stance on Corporate Social Responsibility is reﬂected in its participation in the United Nations Global Compact since 2004. Epson also used ISO 26000 (Guidance on Social Responsibility) and OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises as references. In 2005, Epson documented its policies regarding Human Rights and Labour Standards that outline its strong convictions in areas including respect for human rights, elimination of harassment, eradication of all forms of discrimination, respect for local culture and customs, prohibition of child and forced labour, and maintenance of positive labour relations. In April 2019, Epson joined the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA), a global coalition dedicated to CSR in global supply chains. Epson has committed to complying with the RBA Code of Conduct, progressively implementing the RBA approach and tools in the spirit of the industry＇s common goals. Epson＇s policy requires it to hold its business partners to the same standards as Epson with regards to legal compliance, ethics, quality, the environment, human rights and labour conditions. Epson aspires to be an indispensable company, one that seeks to build mutually beneﬁcial relationships with all its business partners, including suppliers, by asking them to uphold the highest standards of integrity and ethics while, at the same time, respecting their autonomy and independence. Epson is particularly adamant that its business partners meet the following requirements: (1) Strictly forbid acts of bribery and collusion with their business partners and refuse to engage in illegal or unethical business practices. (2) Hold its business partners to the same strict standards that Epson upholds with regards to compliance with laws and maintenance of human rights, suitable labour conditions, the environment, ethics, quality, and information security, and support improvements to any of these areas as needed. (3) Develop and maintain open relationships with their business partners and work with them to increase the competitiveness of the entire supply chain, based on mutual trust and mutual beneﬁt. These supply chain ethics requirements are based on the code of conduct of RBA. Epson, which has mapped each of its supply chain initiatives to one or more of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) of the United Nations, will help to achieve the SDGs by taking action throughout the supply chain. The Epson Group Procurement Guidelines were established in 2005 to inform suppliers about Epson＇s procurement policies and requirements. In 2008, the Epson Supplier Code of Conduct was added as an appendix to the Epson Group Supplier Guidelines. Epson＇s Code of Conduct was based on the code of conduct created by the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC), now called the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA). The Epson Group Procurement Guidelines reﬂect international requirements. They are intended to help ensure that Epson＇s suppliers work with the company as partners to meet quality, cost, and delivery (QCD) obligations and maintain compliance with requirements in areas such as human rights, labour, health and safety, environment, ethics, and trade control and security, as well as information security. Epson revised and released the Epson Group Procurement Guidelines Rev. 6.0 in January 2020, to maintain consistency with the latest RBA Code of Conduct. The Epson Supplier Code of Conduct is now a major part of the Procurement Guidelines and is available in multiple languages. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 273 The labour standards speciﬁed in the Guidelines includes freely chosen employment, child labour avoidance, working hours, wages & beneﬁts, humane treatment, non-discrimination, and freedom of association. The Code provides that suppliers are to be committed to upholding the human rights of their employees and that they treat them with dignity and respect as understood by the international community. The Guidelines require that suppliers＇ management systems contain certain elements including processes (i) to identify the environmental, health and safety, and labour practice risks associated with suppliers＇ operations and (ii) for communicating Code requirements to suppliers and for monitoring suppliers＇ compliance to the Code. Over the 15-year history of the Guidelines, we have asked all suppliers to comply with the requirements and have asked our major direct suppliers of production materials to sign a formal agreement. To enforce the Supplier Code of Conduct, Epson requires suppliers to sign a written consent form and return it to the company. In 2019, the consent form was signed and returned by 94% of suppliers of major manufacturing subsidiaries. Going forward, Epson will further observe the RBA Code of Conduct and work with its suppliers to strengthen CSR supply chain initiatives. Due diligence processes for slavery and human trafficking Epson strives to identify human rights risks throughout its operations but particularly at its production sites in Southeast Asia, where the risk of human rights violations is generally considered to be higher. So, since FY2017, Epson conducted the CSR Self-assessment to assess human rights risks within its own group. The results allowed it to identify risks, which it then instructed its facilities and group companies to take steps to mitigate. In FY2019, Epson had its own facilities, domestic aﬃliates and overseas group companies complete a self-assessment questionnaire (SAQ) to evaluate their performance with respect to CSR requirements. We created the SAQ based on the basic requirements of the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA). The SAQ consisted of 100 questions concerning things such as human rights, labour, safety and health, the environment, ethics, and the management system. The SAQ survey results showed that there were no serious human rights, compliance or ethics problems at any facilities and group companies. The CSR self-assessment will be performed yearly, and we will encourage companies to understand where the issues are and to address them. Epson evaluates supplier compliance with the Epson Supplier Code of Conduct (RBA Code of Conduct) based on a detailed SAQ. Epson works with suppliers to make improvements as appropriate depending on their score and the gravity of noncompliance incidents. The SAQ is based on site audit standards of RBA. Major direct material suppliers (those representing 80% of the Group-wide spend and selected by a business unit), on-site service vendors, and HR agencies are required to complete an SAQ as Epson critical suppliers. Direct material suppliers deemed high risk based on their SAQ scores are asked to undergo an RBA VAP audit under the RBA＇s Validated Audit Program to foster improvement. Epson evaluates supply chain CSR annually. Assessing and managing risk In 2017 Epson created ＂Key CSR Themes,＂ a materiality matrix that identiﬁes important initiatives for addressing social issues such as respect for human rights and supply chain management. Epson examined the relationship between its initiatives and the 169 targets of the 17 SDGs to identify the SDGs that intersect with Epson＇s initiatives. To help ensure that its activities are eﬀective, Epson speciﬁed action items and targets (KPI) for each key CSR theme. Epson will periodically revise the key CSR themes and action items based on feedback from stakeholders and will systematically drive continuous improvements. Since FY2016, Epson has held an annual CSR procurement supplier conference. At the conference, Epson explains CSR trends, its CSR procuring activity and makes requests to suppliers. Hundreds of suppliers attend the conferences in various Epson manufacturing sites such as Japan, China, and Indonesia. In the conference, Epson requests suppliers to comply with the Sustainable procurement policy and the Epson Procurement Guideline. And Epson explains the guidance for self-assessment (SAQ) of CSR detail evaluation and emergency response capabilities, and conﬂict mineral survey. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 274 As part of its initiatives to identify and mitigate risk Epson audits suppliers to ensure they are compliant with Epson＇s policies. Epson has in place systems to: • Identify and assess potential risk areas in its supply chains. • Mitigate the risk of slavery and human traﬃcking in its supply chains. • Monitor potential risk areas in its supply chains. • Protect whistle-blowers. In 2019, Epson evaluated direct material suppliers as well as on-site service vendors and HR agencies at major production sites. Epson asked 233 critical Tier 1 direct material suppliers to complete the SAQ. It received completed questionnaires from 222 suppliers. It also asked Tier 2 suppliers to complete the SAQ when the Tier 1 supplier was a trading company. For critical Tier 1 direct material suppliers that were deemed to be high risk, Epson veriﬁed the facts on-site (including third party CSR audit) and supported corrective actions to help them improve to medium risk or better. As a result of these actions, the average score of suppliers who fell into the high-risk rank on the 2018 SAQ improved by 24 points on the 2019 SAQ to attain middle risk or better. Epson asked on-site service vendors and HR agencies at 10 key production sites to complete an SAQ and received completed SAQs from 124 of them. Service vendors are essential business partners for running our production operations, so Epson requires them to understand and follow the RBA code requirements. Epson provided suppliers and vendors with their SAQ score and with feedback, including advice for corrective actions. Performance indicators Epson sets and acts upon medium-range targets, major action items, and key performance indicators (KPIs) for achieving its supply chain CSR vision. Mid-term targets (achieve by 2020) • Sustainable procurement: All critical suppliers earn no less than a medium-risk rank • Conﬂict minerals: Ensures that minerals are sourced only from smelters certiﬁed by the RMI＇s Responsible Mineral Assurance Process. FY2019 Major Action Items and KPIs Results Key direct material suppliers asked to complete a CSR SAQ: 100% 1. Ask suppliers to complete a CSR SAQ. HR agencies and onsite vendors at major Epson KPI: 100% Group manufacturing sites asked to complete a CSR SAQ: 100% 2. Provide high-risk suppliers with feedback on their High-risk suppliers provided with their score, rank and CSR SAQ results and support corrective action. feedback: 100% KPI: 100% High-risk suppliers audited by a 3rd party in FY2019 3. Complete corrective action plans by high-risk supthat completed their corrective action plans: 100% pliers. Percentage of suppliers rated high risk based on the KPI: 100% SAQ that completed their corrective action plans: 70% (5/7 suppliers) 4. Ask suppliers to complete a conﬂict mineral survey. Targeted suppliers surveyed: 100% KPI: Targeted suppliers 100% Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 275 FY2020 Major Action Items and KPIs 1. Ask major suppliers to complete a CSR self-assessment questionnaire (SAQ) to check compliance. (1) Major suppliers provided with feedback on CSR SAQ results KPI: 100% (2) High-risk suppliers that completed their corrective action plans KPI: 100% (No high-risk suppliers) 2. Customers that responded to CSR survey requests (including conﬂict free mineral survey requests) KPI: 100% 3. Smelters certiﬁed by the RMI＇s Responsible Mineral Assurance Process per the conﬂict mineral survey KPI: 100% Training and whistleblowing systems Epson is committed to exercising high ethical standards and a social conscience, and It has declared that it will conduct our procurement activities in strict compliance with both the letter and spirit of laws and regulations in regions where it operates. Employee training is an important part of this commitment. All employees in Japan are required to take the Introduction to Procurement (Ethics & Code of Conduct) and the Introduction to Procurement (Subcontract Act) online training courses. Employees directly involved in procurement must successfully complete procurement and compliance management training based on an in-house certiﬁcation system. Renewal training is conducted every ﬁve years to ensure that employees acquire the latest information and knowledge. Moving forward, Epson will expand the scope of these initiatives to include overseas Group companies as it further elevates the level of its compliance and procurement initiatives. Epson believes that it is vital to understand the Epson Supplier Code of Conduct (RBA compliant), SAQ, and other initiatives in addition to international CSR trends when promoting socially responsible procurement. Epson therefore invites external instructors to provide education in socially responsible procurement. In FY2019, global procurement department staﬀ members received training on topics including CSR issues, the RBA framework, and the SAQ. Epson provided professional training for procurement staﬀ to manage supplier CSR. These programs are based on the RBA Code of Conduct and RBA (VAP) audit standards. Some are conducted by outside consultants. Epson has established compliance hotlines for receiving reports and consultations from suppliers regarding violations or potential violations of legislative requirements and the Epson Group Procurement Guidelines. Suppliers are asked to report any real or suspected misconduct or legal, regulatory, or ethical violations relating to Epson＇s operations or involving Epson oﬃcers or employees. In FY2019 Epson has established contact points for business partners at overseas manufacturing companies. Epson will further ensure corporate ethics compliance by installing a hotline. Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 276 Further steps Epson will continue to review the eﬀectiveness of the steps it has taken to ensure that there is no slavery or human traﬃcking in its supply chains. To further improve its policies and procedures, it will refer directly to the UK＇s Modern Slavery Act 2015, the Australian Modern Slavery Act 2018, the U.S. California Transparency in Supply Chain ACT 2010 (SB 657) and other legal requirements to ensure complete compliance. This Statement was approved at the Seiko Epson Corporation＇s board of directors meeting on 31 July 2020 and signed by the President of Seiko Epson Corporation. Yasunori Ogawa President, Board of Directors Seiko Epson Corporation Date: 4 August 2020 This statement is made pursuant to section 54(1) of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and constitutes the slavery and human trafficking statement of Epson (UK) Limited for the financial year ending 31 March 2020. Epson (UK) Limited is a wholly owned subsidiary of Epson Europe B.V. of Amsterdam, The Netherlands. Our ultimate parent company is Seiko Epson Corporation, headquartered in Japan. Epson (UK) Limited sells printers, business imaging, visual instruments, consumables and other products manufactured by Seiko Epson Corporation and purchased from Epson Europe B.V., which purchases products and consumables from Seiko Epson Corporation. This is our supply chain for products sold in the UK and these entities are a part of the Epson Group. Epson Europe has a term of Corporate Social Responsibility specialists with responsibility for ensuring the company maintains the highest standards across Epson businesses in Europe, the Middle East, Africa and Russia. As the supplier of its products, Seiko Epson Corporation and Epson Europe B.V. has assured Epson (UK) Limited that it is committed to combatting slavery and human traﬃcking in all its businesses and supply chains. Seiko Epson Corporation, in turn, conﬁrms that it is committed to the same. This Statement was approved at the Epson (UK) Limited＇s board of directors meeting on 18 August 2020 and a resolution made for this document to be signed by the Managing Director. Robert Clark Managing Director Epson (UK) Limited Date: 21 August 2020 Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 277 This statement is made pursuant to section 54(1) of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and constitutes the slavery and human trafficking statement of Epson Telford Limited for the financial year ending 31 March 2020. Epson Telford Limited is a wholly owned subsidiary of Epson Europe B.V. of Amsterdam, The Netherlands. Our ultimate parent company is Seiko Epson Corporation, headquartered in Japan. Epson Telford Limited manufactures and packs ink cartridges for consumer use and ink products and textile inks for industrial use. These products are shipped to other Epson aﬃliates, where they are then distributed worldwide. This Statement was approved at the Epson Telford Limited＇s board of directors meeting on 6 August 2020 and signed by the Managing Director. Kevin Browne Managing Director Epson Telford Limited Date: 17 August 2020 This statement is made pursuant to the Modern Slavery Act 2018 and constitutes the slavery and human trafficking statement of Epson Australia Pty. Ltd. for the financial year ending 31 March 2020. Epson Australia Pty. Ltd. is a wholly owned subsidiary of Seiko Epson Corporation, headquartered in Japan. Epson Australia Pty. Ltd. sells printers, business imaging, visual instruments, consumables and other products manufactured by Seiko Epson Corporation. This is our supply chain for products sold in Australia and New Zealand. This Statement was approved at the Epson Australia Ltd. Pty.＇s board of directors meeting on 12 August 2020 and signed by the Managing Director. Craig Heckenberg Managing Director Epson Australia Pty. Ltd. Date: 12 August 2020 Epson Group Sustainability Report 2020 278 3-3-5 Owa, Suwa, Nagano 392-8502, Japan TEL: +81-266-52-3131 https://global.epson.com Websites ▶ Investor Relations ▶ Epson Corporate YouTube Channel https://global.epson.com/IR/ https://www.youtube.com/user/epsoncorp ▶ Social Responsibility ▶ Epson Corporate Linkedin Channel https://global.epson.com/SR/ https://www.linkedin.com/company/epson/ ▶ Innovation https://global.epson.com/innovation/ Released in September 30, 2020 EE2001
