What if business was society’s greatest problem solver? As a proud participant in the United Nations Global Compact, EY is committed to helping solve society’s toughest challenges. Contents Read on to learn more about how EY upholds and promotes the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Ten Principles and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) by: Supporting our people and communities 08 Supporting our clients and profession Supporting environmental sustainability 20 26 For more information about EY involvement with the UNGC, please contact: Gillian Hinde EY Global Corporate Responsibility Leader +44 20 7951 7903 gillian.hinde@uk.ey.com Matthew Harold EY Global Responsible Business Leader +41 58 286 8025 matthew.harold@ch.ey.com ey.com/ungc 2 How EY supports the United Nations Global Compact A statement from the EY Global Chairman and CEO We live in a world of rapid progress At EY, we have long believed that business and opportunity. Where fewer has a responsibility to use its talents and resources to address global challenges. people live in poverty. Where more It’s a commitment reflected in our purpose of us live longer, healthier lives of building a better working world and in and advancing technologies are our ambition to create long-term value for opening new possibilities. our stakeholders. But it’s also a world where accelerated Our ambition reflects our purpose: change has left many behind. Where the emphasizing the value we create for same technologies have raised questions clients, EY people and society, alongside about widening inequality and trust, financial performance. For society, and rising living standards for some — we want to build trust in the capital and shifts in how we live, produce and markets and have a positive impact on consume — are placing unprecedented communities and the planet. We will strain on the planet. measure the number of lives we impact — with the goal of having a positive impact Left unaddressed these issues will cause on the lives of 250m people by 2025. huge challenges for us all. But what if business was society’s greatest problem Our efforts to fulfill our purpose and solver? meet our ambition are aligned with the United Nations Global Compact’s In the past, business leaders might have Ten Principles and the UN Sustainable stood on the sidelines. Today, there’s Development Goals — and in this report growing recognition that future success we share our progress with our people relies on addressing these challenges and communities; our clients and and building sustainable and inclusive profession; and in supporting environment economies. That doing so not only drives sustainability. growth, but also helps to build trust and deepen relationships with stakeholders, We want to live in a world of rapid who are looking to business for answers. progress and opportunity for all. Guided According to the 2019 EY CEO Imperative by the UNGC principles and working Study, 76% of people want CEOs to take with stakeholders we can build a better the lead on global challenges such as working world. We are proud of what climate change and inequality instead we have achieved over the past year and of waiting for governments to act. look forward to continuing to help drive long-term value in the coming year. Carmine Di Sibio EY Global Chairman and CEO @Carmine_DiSibio How EY supports the United Nations Global Compact 3 Supporting the UNGC Ten Principles and the SDGs Principle Human rights 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights 2. Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses • Labor 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining 4. The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor 5. The effective abolition of child labor 6. The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Anti-corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery 4 How EY supports the United Nations Global Compact Sustainable Development Goals Human and labor rights Supporting our people and communities Inside EY In the EY supply chain • Developing purpose-driven leaders • Encouraging suppliers to operate responsibly • Growing employment • Increasing supplier diversity • Strengthening the EY culture of diversity and inclusiveness In our communities • Being recognized as a great place to work • Developing future-facing skills • Supporting the next generation workforce • Listening to and recognizing EY people • Working with impact entrepreneurs • Accelerating environmental sustainability • Engaging EY people in creating social impact • Engaging with EY clients to drive impact at scale • Championing inclusiveness around the world Anti-corruption Supporting our clients and profession Serving the public interest Operating responsibly • Providing sustainable audit quality • Anchoring actions in EY values and the EY Global Code • Building trust and confidence of Conduct • Exploring “What’s after what’s next?” • Managing the quality of all EY services • Supporting EY clients to implement an integrity agenda • Managing risk • Engaging with external stakeholders Environment Supporting environmental sustainability • Helping EY clients become more sustainable • Positively influencing change • Managing EY impacts How EY supports the United Nations Global Compact 5 How do you change a billion lives for the better? At EY, we’re using our skills, knowledge and experience to address some of the biggest social challenges of our time. Supporting our people and communities Despite progress, inequality within and among nations remains a significant concern, and billions of people still lack access to the opportunities and services on which a better quality of life depends. Economic inclusion is fundamental to upholding human and labor rights. That’s why EY remains committed to supporting a culture of respect, leading inclusively, and creating long-term value for EY people and wider society. Inside EY “ Women now represent more than 30% of the EY Global Executive leadership team 12 At EY, we remain committed to advancing gender equality, with women now representing more than 30% of the EY Global Executive leadership team. Now more than ever we need extraordinary people from diverse backgrounds with the curiosity and drive to help our clients and communities capitalize on the next wave of disruption and innovation. We work to provide the scale, the technology, the culture, the challenges, the learning and the relationships for our people to personalize their careers as part of a truly transformative team. Developing purposeGrowing employment driven leaders EY member firms employ more than 280,000 people in more than 150 Our promise to EY people remains: countries. In FY19, EY member firms whenever you join, however long you hired more than 69,000 client-serving stay, the exceptional EY experience lasts people from among 2 million applicants a lifetime. We support and develop our globally. That equates to 1 new hire every people to become transformative leaders 8 minutes, 365 days a year. Additionally, who are purpose driven and bring out EY member firms are expanding the best in themselves and others. We employment opportunities to help drive encourage them to focus on what their sustainable business growth, for example personal purpose is, how they can become through Neurodiversity Centers of a “better me,” which in turn leads to a Excellence. Neurodiverse individuals are “better us” and our purpose of building often technologically inclined and detaila better working world. oriented, with strong skills in analytics, • Global review 2019 mathematics, pattern recognition and • Our people and culture information processing — among the very skills businesses most urgently need. • Global review 2019 • How neurodiversity is driving innovation from unexpected places How EY supports the United Nations Global Compact 9 Inside EY 345 Strengthening the EY culture of diversity and Being recognized as a great place to work inclusiveness (D&I) EY remains one of the world’s most attractive professional services employers The EY D&I road map sets out our for business students in Universum’s approach, methodology and journey for “World’s Most Attractive Employer” D&I. It’s supported by the Global Diversity rankings for 2019, ranked No. 2 overall. Developing future-facing and Inclusiveness Steering Committee, whose members are drawn from across Among other accolades, EY was recognized skills in Fortune’s “100 Best Companies to the EY organization and are charged with Work For” annual list for a record 21st Overall, approximately US$530m was bringing the road map to life across EY. consecutive year and maintained its status invested into training in FY19 and more A key focus over the last year has been in DiversityInc magazine’s “Top 50 Hall of than 14m formal hours of learning were to create awareness and take action Fame.” EY has also once again been named completed (up 1m hours from FY18). to strengthen a sense of belonging for in the Great Place to Work “World’s Best Recognizing that today’s fast-changing everybody in EY. This work is based Workplaces” list, moving up 12 places to world requires a culture of• lifelong on our guide, Creating a strong sense 7th place in 2019. Voted for by EY people, learning, we introduced EY Badges in of belonging for all, which articulates this is testament to efforts to empower EY 2017. This program lets our people earn the personal and business benefits of people to build exceptional experiences. digital credentials in future-facing skills belonging, the barriers that inhibit it, and such as data analytics, design thinking and suggestions for creating a stronger sense • Global review 2019 inclusive intelligence. More than 50,000 of belonging for ourselves and others. • Diversity and inclusiveness EY Badges were initiated and more than • Accomplishments and accolades 13,000 earned in FY19. Robotic process • Global review 2019 • Diversity and inclusiveness automation (RPA) bootcamps were • Creating a strong sense of belonging also launched in 2019, providing a new for all approach to upskilling EY people quickly and effectively, so they can work on technology-specific engagements. • Global review 2019 10 How EY supports the United Nations Global Compact 6 Listening to and recognizing EY people “ At EY, we invest considerable time and effort in listening and responding to EY people, for example through annual culture and engagement surveys. We also provide additional opportunities for our people to feed back about their experiences via shorter, less formal surveys throughout A key focus over the last year has been the year. LEAD, our integrated approach to career, development and performance, to create awareness and take action provides EY people with ongoing feedback to strengthen a sense of belonging for and helps them to have regular, futurefocused conversations about their career everybody in EY aspirations. We also seek to build a culture of recognition, where EY people actively recognize others who do extraordinary work every day. Our global award program, Better begins with you, continues to recognize and celebrate EY people who have found inspiring and impactful ways to bring the EY purpose — building a better working world — to life. • Global review 2019 • Our people and culture • Better begins with you How EY supports the United Nations Global Compact 11 In the EY supply chain 12 EY spend with diverse suppliers has increased year on year since 2015 and the global organization is on track to meet its commitment to sourcing US$100m of services from women-owned businesses by the end of 2020. At EY, our commitment to promoting the principles of inclusiveness, sustainability and responsibility — including in relation to human and labor rights — extends beyond our own organization. It includes continued efforts to promote the highest ethical standards within the EY supply chain, and Encouraging suppliers to Increasing supplier to maintain and grow a diverse supplier operate responsibly diversity base that reflects the markets, clients and communities we serve. Just as the EY Global Code of Conduct Through the Inclusive & Sustainable sets out the standards of ethical behavior Procurement initiative and a new diverse expected of every EY person, our Supplier supplier portal, EY actively encourages Code of Conduct does the same for EY small and diversely owned businesses to suppliers. We view their performance as become registered suppliers. Working an integral part of the EY value chain and with various advocacy organizations, expect all suppliers to meet high legal, EY provided more than 8,000 hours of ethical, environmental and employmentlearning for 1,500 diverse suppliers in related standards. A new supplier portal, 2019 to help them scale. Our Inclusive launched this past year, provides EY & Sustainable Procurement Network procurement professionals with enhanced also continues to help drive a mindset of visibility of the capabilities of current and inclusiveness and sustainability across all potential suppliers, including in relation to procurement activity. Their communication social and environmental policies, practices of leading practices and processes is vital and certifications. to achieving global sustainability and inclusiveness goals, which include the • Procurement commitment to sourcing US$100m of • Supplier Code of Conduct services from women-owned businesses • Supplier portal by the end of 2020. • Procurement • Supplier diversity • Diverse Supplier Portal 12 How EY supports the United Nations Global Compact “ EY is on track to meet it’s commitment to sourcing US$100m of services from women-owned businesses by the end of 2020 How EY supports the United Nations Global Compact 13 In our communities EY has embarked on an ambitious At EY, we’re using our skills, knowledge sustainable. Our global corporate journey to positively impact the and experience to address some of the responsibility program, EY Ripples, helps biggest social challenges of our time. bring greater scale and sharper focus to lives of 250m people by 2025 and None are greater than the interconnected our efforts, applying our skills, knowledge 1b by 2030. challenges of inequality and climate and experience where we believe they can change, which is why EY is committed make the biggest difference. 123 to driving economic growth that is both socially inclusive and environmentally Supporting the next Working with impact Accelerating generation workforce entrepreneurs environmental In a future defined by careers that don’t All over the world, impact entrepreneurs sustainability exist yet, EY continues to sharpen its are developing some of the best ideas Environmental sustainability is already focus on helping young people and and boldest actions for accelerating integral to our work with the next underserved groups to develop 21st progress toward the SDGs. In FY19, generation and impact entrepreneurs century skills. As well as STEM skills, these capacity-building projects with their life— for example, teaching environmental include uniquely human capabilities — changing enterprises have helped boost literacy as a 21st century skill and helping such as our capacity for critical thinking agricultural livelihoods across Africa, scale impact enterprises that provide and creative problem-solving — which are enhance sanitation in India and scale affordable access to solar energy. In vital to adapting and thriving in an age of access to affordable solar energy in Sierra addition to this, and in recognition of increasing human-machine collaboration. Leone. Together with new webinars and the interconnection between climate In support of these efforts, EY signed business clinics, these projects continue change and inequality, we are developing a global agreement with JA Worldwide to strengthen our commitment to helping new initiatives dedicated to accelerating (Junior Achievement) in FY19 to pilot impact entrepreneurs overcome barriers adoption of behaviors, technologies new mentoring programs in 17 countries, to scale, and to providing opportunities for and business models that protect and building upon existing work with them in our people to be inspired by some of the regenerate the environment, both inside 9 countries. most purposeful businesses on the planet. and outside the EY organization. • Global review 2019 • Global review 2019 • Global review 2019 • Corporate Responsibility • Corporate Responsibility • Corporate Responsibility • How do you prepare for careers that • Can business succeed where charity has don’t exist yet? fallen short? • How to impact a billion lives for the better • How to impact a billion lives for the better 14 How EY supports the United Nations Global Compact 456 Engaging EY people in creating social impact Engaging with EY clients to drive impact at scale Championing inclusiveness around the world An EY Ripples portal, launched in As well as deepening relationships with EY continues to play an important role in November 2018, makes it easier than leading nongovernmental organizations, other collaborations promoting economic ever for EY people to find social impact EY is increasingly working with clients to inclusion and freedom from discrimination. opportunities that match their passions, activate shared purpose and drive impact at Examples in FY19 include: teaming up skills and availability. As well as providing scale. For example, this past year, the World with the UN Women’s Global Innovation for greater visibility of opportunities Bank joined EY in committing to positively Coalition for Change (GICC) to develop globally, the platform also hosts personal affect the lives of 10 million people by principles for embedding gender equality stories from EY people, which showcase 2022. Following ongoing support for impact in technological innovation; joining six participation as an exceptional personal entrepreneurs in its network, and a joint other global organizations in forming the and professional development experience. report with Unilever on the potential to scale Partnership for Global LGBTI Equality, As coverage continues to expand, innovative safe water enterprises, EY was which aims to accelerate adoption of UN spanning the whole of the global EY also invited to join the executive committee Standards of Conduct; and supporting new organization by mid-2020, we hope this of TRANSFORM. Founded by Unilever research with NYU’s Center for Diversity, combination of visibility and inspiration and the UK Department for International Inclusion and Belonging, focused on how will help drive significant increases in EY Development, this initiative aims to help 100 leading organizations are pressing for people’s involvement in social impact million low-income people in Africa and Asia LGBT+ inclusion, even in countries where initiatives over the years ahead. gain access to life-enhancing goods and discriminatory laws make this challenging. services by 2025. • Global review 2019 • Global review 2019 • Corporate Responsibility • Global review 2019 • Women. Fast forward • Collaborating for good: TRANSFORM • EY and UN Women create innovation welcomes EY and Mastercard principles to help accelerate gender • How can a trickle become a torrent? equality in private sector • Global businesses launch partnership for global LGBTI equality • LGBT+ inclusion: Can you apply a globally consistent policy across an inconsistent world? How EY supports the United Nations Global Compact 15 “ Our ambition to dri for society includes impact on commun and we remain com purposeful action th negative impacts of on the environment ve long-term value having a positive ities and the planet, mitted to driving at minimizes the businesses’ activities . Is trust the most valuable asset? Building trust and confidence in business has always been the cornerstone of our purpose and our ambition is to become the most trusted global professional services organization. Supporting our clients and profession Trust has never been more valuable across business and broader society and, in some quarters, it has never been in shorter supply. As a global professional services organization, EY recognizes its pivotal role in serving the public interest and positively influencing business behavior, including working against corruption in all its forms. The insights and quality services we provide help build trust and confidence in the capital markets, guided by the belief that every audit, every tax return, every advisory opportunity, and every interaction with a client or colleague can help make the working world better than it was before. Serving the public interest In 2019, Carmine Di Sibio joined nearly 200 Business Roundtable CEOs in signing a new Statement on the Purpose of a Corporation, “ By integrating the latest technologies into audit processes, we are able to provide high-quality audits, enhance the way we look at risk, reduce client 123 affirming EY commitment to help in creating long-term value for all burden and provide deep insights stakeholders. Providing sustainable Building trust and Exploring “What’s after audit quality confidence what’s next?” Assurance is the backbone of the EY Building trust is a cornerstone of all EYQ is a think tank that anticipates not only organization. It is the largest service EY services. Closely connected to this what’s on the horizon, but also what lies offering today — in terms of both revenue is also the work we do to support our beyond. By bringing together business, the and people — and it will remain so well clients on their journey to becoming more public sector and academia to challenge into the future. The EY Sustainable Audit purpose-led organizations. This year entrenched thinking, EYQ insights help Quality (SAQ) program is our commitment we launched Trust by Design, our latest leaders anticipate the forces shaping our to conducting globally consistent, highmethodology to help clients embrace future, empowering them to seize the upside quality audits sustained over time. disruption and innovate for long-term of disruption and build a better working As illustrated by our global audit quality growth, while building and maintaining world. From the 2019 EY CEO Imperative report, SAQ continues to evolve, supported trust with their stakeholders. In our work Study to an exploration of how “food-byby a more than US$600m investment with the Embankment Project for Inclusive design” stands to reshape what and how we in new and emerging technologies. Capitalism (EPIC), we continue to focus on eat, EYQ is at the forefront of illustrating how By integrating the latest technologies into building trust through new approaches to corporate action on global challenges, such audit processes, we are able to provide corporate reporting of long-term value, as climate change, income inequality and high-quality audits, enhance the way we with the support of all EY service lines. sustainable agriculture, is the new growth look at risk, reduce client burden and imperative for business. provide deep insights. • Global review 2019 • EY Assurance • Global review 2019 • Global review 2019 • Trust by Design • EYQ • EY Assurance • EPIC • For CEOs, are the days of sidelining • Audit quality • EY Beacon Institute global challenges numbered? • Global audit quality report 2019 • Why your next big bet should be in • EY Digital Audit food innovation How EY supports the United Nations Global Compact 21 Serving the public interest 4 Operating responsibly Supporting EY clients to implement an integrity agenda A steadfast commitment to tackling corruption is not only embedded in globally consistent policies and practices, including mandatory training on anti-bribery and corruption; it is also embodied by EY Forensic & Integrity Services. These proactive and reactive services include “ We are committed to keeping our values central to our decisionmaking processes 1 Anchoring actions in EY values and the EY Global harnessing the latest developments Code of Conduct in machine learning, natural language Every day, EY people make choices and processing and robotic process automation decisions that directly affect colleagues, to help clients detect and investigate clients, our communities and other instances of fraud, misuse, corruption stakeholders. We are committed to keeping and other forms of noncompliance. EY values central to our decision-making Additionally, EY Forensics publishes a processes. The EY Global Code of Conduct, significant number of research papers that which all EY people affirm annually, and provide valued perspectives and insights a global inclusion and nondiscrimination on key risks relating to integrity and policy, provide all EY people with guidelines business ethics, and how to tackle them. for making the right decisions throughout • Global review 2019 the global EY organization. • Forensic & Integrity Services • Global review 2019 • Our values • EY Global Code of Conduct 22 How EY supports the United Nations Global Compact 234 Managing quality of all EY serviceshe Managing risk Risk management underpins sustainable business practices and relationships, and Engaging with external stakeholders In addition to the Sustainable Audit Quality At EY, we understand the importance of ultimately helps clients innovate and build program, EY works continuously to improve engaging in the policy process as part of value and trust with their stakeholders the quality of all EY services. Across service our efforts to promote transparency, serve through EY services. EY risk management lines, EY member firms invest in recruiting, the public interest, foster trust in markets teams work across the organization to help training and retaining highly qualified people and build a better working world. We work identify, monitor and manage risk, and help in their respective disciplines. As a global with a broad array of stakeholders, including EY professionals to meet their compliance organization, we also invest in strong Quality regulators, investors, policymakers and other obligations efficiently and effectively. They and Professional Practice functions across community members, and contribute to also provide EY people with the processes, geographies to advise and support EY policy debates around the world. We provide tools and knowledge to take on the right people, and to implement quality initiatives insights, experience and perspectives opportunities, pull together the right teams, to a consistently high standard around the on a range of issues relating to audit, and offer EY clients the broadest range of world. These functions advise on client tax, corporate reporting and corporate services, in accordance with our commitment engagements in real time, and operate governance, while considering the impact to objectivity and independence. our global quality review program, which of digital innovation, data privacy, climate evaluates engagements for quality as well as • Global review 2019 change, cybersecurity and the future of compliance with EY policies and professional work that are shaping the fast-changing, standards. global economy. In addition, EY is part of the Global Public Policy Committee, which brings • Global review 2019 together global leaders across the major • Audit quality accountancy networks for joint initiatives • Global audit quality report 2019 on important global public policy matters. • Global review 2019 • Public policy • EY Center for Board Matters • Business Roundtable commitment How EY supports the United Nations Global Compact 23 Does growth have to cost the Earth? EY continues to play a leading role in developing standards and approaches that encourage companies to preserve and enhance natural resources, rather than depleting them. Supporting environmental sustainability A Virtual Power Purchase Agreement to construct two large-scale, Texas-based wind farms is expected to generate enough zerocarbon electricity to offset the greenhouse gas emissions of the EY member firm in the US. Supporting environmental sustainability Our ambition to drive long-term action that minimizes the negative and sustainability services, while value for society includes having impacts of businesses’ activities on challenging ourselves to work a positive impact on communities the environment. We continue to in a more environmentally 123 and the planet, and we remain make a valuable contribution as a sustainable manner. committed to driving purposeful leading provider of climate change Helping EY clients become Positively influencing Managing EY impacts more sustainable change In executing on the EY global environmental statement launched in FY18, we continue EY Climate Change and Sustainability EY continues to contribute to the broader to challenge ourselves to operate in a more Services (CCaSS) teams help organizations sustainability dialogue, sharing global environmentally sustainable way. While to assess and respond to, and measure viewpoints on some of the key issues facing recognizing we need to do more, especially and report on, some of the world’s most clients. For example, the EY Sustainable to reduce Scope 3 emissions from business significant resource and environmental Impact Hub provides leading-edge travel, we’re proud of positive progress. challenges. In particular, CCaSS teams research and insights on long-term value This includes award-winning efforts by have assisted clients in the areas of climate creation, as well as sharing innovative the UK member firm to reduce single-use risk and adaptation, the circular economy, tools that aim to futureproof sustainability plastics and the US member firm entering renewable energy, and water and waste strategies. The Hub also aims to foster into a Virtual Power Purchase Agreement management. collaboration among organizations with (VPPA) to construct two large-scale Texassimilar objectives. EY also continues to • Global review 2019 based wind farms. This will generate enough build upon the legacy of the Embankment • Climate Change and Sustainability zero-carbon electricity to offset the absolute Project for Inclusive Capitalism (EPIC) Services greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions of the US report published in 2018, which identifies • Sustainable Impact Hub firm, setting it up to be powered by 100% the value drivers important for sustainable renewable energy and become carbon and inclusive growth, and establishes an neutral from 2020. open-source Long-Term Value Framework that any company can use to better • Global review 2019 articulate its long-term performance. • EY Global Environmental Statement • EY Global carbon footprint • Global review 2019 • Reducing plastics in the UK • Climate Change and Sustainability • US VPPA Services • Sustainable Impact Hub • EPIC • How long-term value is being redefined and communicated How EY supports the United Nations Global Compact 27 EY | Assurance | Tax | Transactions | Advisory About EY EY is a global leader in assurance, tax, transaction and advisory services. The insights and quality services we deliver help build trust and confidence in the capital markets and in economies the world over. We develop outstanding leaders who team to deliver on our promises to all of our stakeholders. In so doing, we play a critical role in building a better working world for our people, for our clients and for our communities. EY refers to the global organization, and may refer to one or more, of the member firms of Ernst & Young Global Limited, each of which is a separate legal entity. Ernst & Young Global Limited, a UK company limited by guarantee, does not provide services to clients. For more information about our organization, please visit ey.com. © 2020 EYGM Limited. All Rights Reserved. 000636-20Gbl ED None In line with EY’s commitment to minimize its impact on the environment, this document has been printed on paper with a high recycled content. This material has been prepared for general informational purposes only and is not intended to be relied upon as accounting, tax or other professional advice. Please refer to your advisors for specific advice. ey.com
