UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2020 Reporting Period: August 2019 – August 2020 Gebr. Heinemann UN Global Compact Progress Report 2020 Dear Readers, For Gebr. Heinemann, the only family-owned company among the global players in the travel retail industry with over 8,000 employees worldwide, the beginning of a new decade should have marked a big step towards greater sustainability. But like so many other companies, we have been hit hard by the corona pandemic through no fault of our own. Even though travel is now possible again in many regions, the overall consequences are yet to be seen. Nevertheless, the aim of this progress report is to highlight the importance of responsible action, especially in times of crisis. This also means doing the right thing in an effort to keep asking new, critical questions. In that respect, the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact serve as key points of reference for Gebr. Heinemann. The positive exchange of ideas and the commitment of our colleagues, business partners and suppliers have reinforced our resolve to continue our journey towards greater sustainability in the travel sector through targeted actions. Even in times of reduced human and financial resources, we have largely maintained our department-wide international roundtables and exchanges in the industry, as well as associations on ecological and social topics. Gebr. Heinemann UN Global Compact Progress Report 2020 Therefore, we would also like to continue to report regularly on our progress made in implementing the ten universal sustainability principles for human rights, labour standards, the environment and anti-corruption. In accordance with the comply-or-explain principle, we will therefore make clear at various points the extent to which we are currently unable to report on progress due to the corona pandemic. For example, the publication and implementation of the Gebr. Heinemann Code of Ethics has had to be postponed as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. The document is already complete and will be applied to the Heinemann Group and our suppliers and business partners. We have brieﬂy presented our value chain in a model to make it easier to understand. The model illustrates that our core business takes place in the middle of the value chain. As a retailer, we are above all “inﬂuencers” when it comes to sustainability issues, but we also draw inspiration from our suppliers, customers and business partners. Owner & Supervisory Board Owner & Supervisory Board Max Heinemann, CEO Gunnar Heinemann Claus Heinemann Gebr. Heinemann UN Global Compact Progress Report 2020 ndards a ocial st S business p rocesses Core ream st Do wn processes s tream U p rea ya Traveller / Shopper End of life / disposal /recycling Sec ur Gebr. Heinemann / INTERNATIONAL it B2B customers Industry / Supplier Gebr. Heinemann Duty Free shops Material extraction Purchasing / Fulfilment INTERNATIONAL Material processing Packaging PRIMARILY GERMANY Gebr. Heinemann INTERNATIONAL Logistics OWN LOGISTIC CENTRES IN GERMANY. DISTRIBUTION AND 3PL INTERNATIONAL Environmental standards Gebr. Heinemann UN Global Compact Progress Report 2020 Principle Comment Specific measures Human rights and labour “We treat our employees with respect by promoting human rights and Stakeholder Dialogue / SDG 17 (Partnerships): Principle 1 creating an appropriate work environment.” Support of human rights Max Heinemann, CEO Gebr. Heinemann • Exchange on social issues on the Sustainability Panel at Gebr. Heinemann Strategy Day in September 2019 in Hamburg and at the Business Forum of the European Travel Retail Principle 2 However, we also find it important to network with our international partners and raise questions Confederation (ETRC) in February 2020 in Amsterdam as well as bilaterally with business No complicity in human rights about social standards in upstream and downstream processes. In addition to our dialogue partners and suppliers abuses with various stakeholders, we conducted human rights law risk analysis last year as part of • Constant exchange of ideas in sector associations and via UNGC events the Modern Slavery Act in Australia. Our analysis is now used as a blueprint for all Heinemann Principle 3 Duty Free Shops and will be successively expanded. We see international ventures, such as • Department-wide project groups Freedom of association the Modern Slavery Act and the National Action Plan, as a great opportunity to jointly shape a change in values. That is one of the reasons why we participated in the second monitoring of Human Rights Risk Analysis / Modern Slavery Act Australia / Principle 4 the voluntary execution of the NAP in Germany despite the corona crisis. SDG 8 (Decent Work and Economic Growth): Elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour The Dutch chocolate brand Tony’s Chocolonely shows an impressive commitment to banishing • Conducted for around 24,000 products in the range of our subsidiary Heinemann Australia. child and forced labour in cocoa production. We are delighted to support them in the next step Only 11 % of the products were classified as „critical“ due to the country of production. We are Principle 5 of their mission to make 100 % slave-free chocolate. The brand with the claim “Crazy about exchanging ideas with our suppliers. As a result of the corona pandemic, we have been forced Effective abolition of child labour chocolate, serious about people” has successfully taken its first step into travel retail with us and to postpone the evaluation and publication of the Modern Slavery Statement. is now available in numerous Heinemann Duty Free shops around the world. Ensuring equal opportunities is one of the main priorities of HR management. It is about promoting a balanced relationship between men and women at all company levels and equally about implementing our stringent company regulation that prohibits any form of discrimination Equal Opportunities SDG 5 (Gender Equality), SDG 10 (Reduced Inequalities) on the basis of nationality, ethnicity, religion, ideology, disability, age, sexual orientation or Data has currently only been collected for Gebr. Heinemann SE & Co. KG and refers to 2019 identity. The working conditions within the entire Gebr. Heinemann Group are characterised by a common set of values comprising clear ideas about mutual respect, protection against • Expansion of further digital training opportunities in the corona crisis discrimination and the option of freedom of expression. • Promotion of diversity: Gebr. Heinemann unites 74 different nationalities Principle 6 • Gender balance in the workforce: 60 % women, 40 % men Some of the key aspects of our equal opportunities are the measures intended to help our Elimination of discrimination • Gender balance at management level: in each case around 50 % of team leaders (48 %) and employees balance their family and career. Most employees at our Duty Free Shops work in shifts. Teleworking initiatives are only possible at the corporate offices and are put into practice heads of level (53 %) are women. At director level, 16 % are women and only men have been there. At our shops, presence in the business is a core element of employment. Therefore, we appointed members of the Executive Board consider the requirements of each individual when planning our shifts. • The percentage of employees eligible for parental leave who are actually in parental leave: 9 %, of which 21 % men Gebr. Heinemann firmly believes in the principle of equal pay for anyone who performs the same • No discrimination has been identified in the case of applications submitted with reference to work. None of the diversity profiles listed above (e.g. nationality and ethnicity) should give rise to the Remuneration Transparency Act introduced in Germany differences in pay whenever the same work is performed at our company. Where necessary, we determine the equality of activities based on the respective specific requirements. Gebr. Heinemann UN Global Compact Progress Report 2020 Principle Comment Specific measures Environment and climate Stakeholder Dialogue / SDG 17 (Partnerships): • Exchange on environmental issues on the Sustainability Panel at Gebr. Heinemann Strategy Day in September 2019 in Hamburg and at the Business Forum of the European Travel Retail “It is our duty to protect the natural environment and minimise Confederation (ETRC) in February 2020 in Amsterdam as well as bilaterally with business our impact wherever possible.” partners and suppliers Raoul Spanger, COO • Constant exchange of ideas in industry associations and via UNGC events • Cooperation with the marine conservation organisation OceanCare In that respect, the measurability of environmental effects is an important basis. We are still • Department-wide project groups gathering relevant information to be able to state a concrete reduction plan. However, we have laid a solid foundation through the energy audit conducted at our German headquarters (Koreastraße 3-5) in 2019, our logistics centres in Allermöhe near Hamburg and Erlensee near POS / Range SDG 12 (Responsible Consumption and Production) Frankfurt, as well as selected Heinemann Duty Free Shops. • Resource-preserving retail design Principle 7 Precautionary approach to Some locations have already determined their carbon footprint, such as our joint venture • POS communication to avoid single-use plastics, such as bottle protectors and plastic bags, in environmental challenges Travel Retail Norway or Tax Free in Copenhagen, and they have implemented corresponding cooperation with OceanCare. Over 70 % reduction since the introduction of surcharged plastic reduction measures, such as the avoidance of bottle protectors and the improvement of waste bags In 2017, the proceeds around € 500,000 went to marine conservation compensation Principle 8 management. Irrespective of this, we have also drawn up forward-thinking and resource• Responsible cosmetic products: Gebr. Heinemann offers high-quality products that are Initiatives to promote greater preserving shop concepts (e.g. in Retail Design), but their implementation was still in progress good for both the body and the environment as part of our „Clean Beauty“ concept. This environmental responsibility at the time of this report. initiative also allows companies to promote their sophisticated products on the international stage Principle 9 In addition, we are in close contact with our business partners and industry associations to find out how our negative effects on the environment can be minimised and where cooperation • Responsible luxury foods: Certified organic products Development and diffusion of environmentally friendly might be beneficial. We are particularly focusing on reducing our carbon footprint in the following • Organic certiﬁcation DE-ÖKO-006: The handling of organic products is subject to strict technologies areas: regulation in accordance with the EG-Organic Regulation. The Gebr. Heinemann logistics centres in Hamburg-Allermöhe and Erlensee near Frankfurt have received the organic • Use of packaging and processing materials certification required to handle organic products • Use of plastics and micro-plastics • Avoiding food destruction: Over the course of the corona crisis, all airport shops were • Greenhouse gas emissions closed from one day to the next. Easter bunnies or goods with a limited shelf life were removed • The increased use of recycled and recyclable materials from the shops with great personal commitment by the colleagues on site and taken to food banks and other charitable organisations, and to front-line workers In addition to popular international brands, we are pinning our hopes on the range and therefore on the promotion of regional and certified organic products and manufacturers at almost all our locations. Energy Consumption SDG 13 (Climate Action) • Review of conversion to electricity supply from sustainable sources (no result at the time of the report) • Determining and implementing further potential savings based on the energy audit in accordance with DIN EN 16247 Gebr. Heinemann UN Global Compact Progress Report 2020 Principle Comment Specific measures Anti-Corruption “At Gebr. Heinemann, we condemn corruption as part of Compulsory Training our duty towards society.” Stephan Ernst, CFO • Incorporation in the organisation has already been implemented by holding regular compliance training sessions on data protection, secure supply chains, youth protection Principle 10 We see this procedure as part of our corporate and social responsibility. If a conﬂict of interest and antitrust law. A training concept has already been drawn up for an additional training Anti-corruption measures may arise, line managers or the Compliance department are involved in the situation and session on anti-corruption. A training session in small groups with over 300 participants examine whether decision-making processes can be continued. We observe the principles from different specialist fields was planned for the start of 2020, but it has not yet been of legality, responsibility and propriety when handling invitations, gifts, donations and other held as a result of the corona pandemic. An online training programme is currently in the benefits. This sensitive topic will be addressed successively on a global scale during compulsory works training courses. Gebr. Heinemann UN Global Compact Progress Report 2020 Credits Publisher: Gebr. Heinemann SE & Co. KG, Koreastrasse 3, 20457 Hamburg · Germany Phone +49 (40) 30 10 20 E-Mail: info@gebr-heinemann.de www.gebr-heinemann.de/en www.heinemann-shop.com Editors: Gebr. Heinemann SE & Co. KG – Corporate Affairs, Svenja Fischer (s_fischer@gebr-heinemann.de) Artwork: Gebr. Heinemann SE & Co. KG – Marketing Publication date: August 2020
