Statement of Continued Support by CEO I am pleased to confirm that Peabody reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. In our first annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to integrate the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and operations. We are committed to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication, including our annual ESG Report. Sincerely, Glenn Kellow President and Chief Executive Officer Peabody Wambo Mine OUR PROGRESS HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT IMPLEMENTATION Peabody strives to create a safe and healthy work Peabody encourages and informs employees of environment where all employees are treated with their ability and obligation to report concerns of fairness and respect. Among our core values, we misconduct, which would include human rights emphasize people and strive to offer an inclusive violations, through a strong program of workplace work environment that engages, recognizes and communications and online training tools. Our board develops our employees. The Company is committed of directors has established procedures for receiving, to acting ethically and with integrity in all our business retaining and investigating reported violations. dealings and relationships and to implementing and Retaliation in any form against an individual who enforcing effective systems and controls designed to exercises his or her right to make a complaint in good ensure modern slavery is not taking place anywhere faith is strictly prohibited. in our own business or in any of our supply chains. The company recently expanded its supplier screening Our policies and practices concerning human rights process, and in 2020, will work to develop a formal are supported by Peabody’s Code of Business supplier code of conduct. Conduct and Ethics and are in line with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES In 2019, all claims submitted through Peabody’s confidential reporting hotline were reviewed by the ethics and compliance team and others, as appropriate, based on topic and geography. LABOUR ASSESSMENT Safety is Peabody’s first value and integrated into all areas of our business, and all individuals at our sites must comply with Peabody’s established safety and health rules, along with applicable laws and regulations. Our governing Safety Principles apply to our employees, contractors, visitors and vendors at all our sites. We believe Equal Employment Opportunity is good business and maximizes our opportunity to attract and retain a qualified and highperformance workforce. As stated in our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, it is our commitment to comply with all Equal Employment Opportunity laws and our Equal Opportunity Policy Statement, which require recruiting, hiring, placing, promoting, training, compensating, transferring and terminating employees based on job-related qualifications and performance without regard to race, color, religion, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, age, or status as a special Shoal Creek Mine disabled veteran or veteran of the Vietnam era. Our affirmative action programs are intended to enhance this legal protection. Peabody encourages and informs employees of their We are committed to complying with all applicable obligation to report concerns of misconduct, including labor laws and support the protections afforded labor violations, through workplace communications under such laws and related election processes. In our and online training tools. Our board of directors employment practices, we adhere to the following has established procedures for receiving, retaining principles: (1) that workers have the right to freely and investigating reported violations. Retaliation choose whether or not to form and join trade unions in any form against an individual who exercises his and bargain collectively; (2) that employment shall or her right to make a complaint in good faith is be freely chosen; and (3) that there shall be no use of strictly prohibited. forced labor, including bonded or voluntary prison labor. For 2020, Peabody is targeting to improve its IMPLEMENTATION strong safety performance by reducing its global Management has overall accountability for safety Total Recordable Injury Frequency Rate (TRIFR) and and health and sharing of learnings across the achieving zero fatalities. organization. Peabody’s Safety a Way of Life (SAWOL) MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES management system sets out a risk-based framework In 2019, Peabody did not have any fatalities at its that is the basis for continuous safety and health operated mines. The company reported a global improvement. SAWOL is independently certified under TRIFR of 1.64, which includes the Middlemount Mine the U.S. National Mining Association’s CoreSafety® and contractors across all Peabody locations. framework, sets clear expectations for work activity at operations and is designed to foster a safety culture that promotes participation. Safety incidents are thoroughly investigated to identify root causes and key findings are passed across global operations. ENVIRONMENTAL ANTI-CORRUPTION ASSESSMENT ASSESSMENT Peabody takes responsibility for the environment Integrity is among our core values, and Peabody throughout the life cycle of our operations and works strictly prohibits giving, offering or promising anything to comply with all applicable environmental standards, of value to a government official to influence any rules and procedures, and relevant jurisdictional laws official act or otherwise violate the law. Peabody and regulations. Our governing principles for our sites also prohibits commercial bribery of any kind. Any are outlined in our Environmental Policy, which applies knowledge of such conduct must be reported to our employees, contractors, visitors and vendors at immediately to the appropriate supervisor and all our operations and support Peabody’s alignment our Chief Legal Officer. Employees must comply with Sustainable Development goals. with all laws and regulations of the countries which have jurisdiction over our operations and activities The company’s commitment to the environment including, without limitation, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt extends beyond our operations. As noted in our Practices Act, the UK Bribery Act and the OECD Statement on Climate Change, Peabody promotes Anti-Bribery Convention. the development and deployment of high-efficiency, low-emissions and carbon, capture, use and storage IMPLEMENTATION technologies to achieve goals of substantial reductions Peabody informs employees of their obligation in greenhouse gas and other emissions. to act in a responsible, ethical and constructive manner through workplace communications and IMPLEMENTATION online tools. Our board of directors has established Management has overall accountability for environmental procedures for receiving, retaining and investigating management and for regular review of environmental reported violations. In addition to Peabody’s Code of performance. We strive to conserve water, advance Business Conduct and Ethics training, the company recycling and waste management programs and apply provides targeted education based on employee efficient mining practices, which in turn, can reduce business function to mitigate key risks, including greenhouse gas intensity at our operations. Peabody is anti-bribery and corruption as well as fraud detection also committed to progressively restoring areas disturbed and prevention. by mining to ensure post-mined land use, landform and environmental outcomes are achieved. Peabody’s political and lobbying activities are directed by the executive leadership team with oversight In 2020, Peabody intends to integrate environmental from the company’s board of directors. All financial standards for land reclamation, water management, contributions adhere to federal, state and local laws coal waste/water containment, among others, into its regarding contribution limits on amount and source established risk management system. criteria, and reporting requirements. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES In 2019, Peabody restored nearly one acre for In 2019, Peabody achieved a 100 percent completion every acre disturbed during mining. Approximately rate for all active, continuing employees assigned 20 percent of the water withdrawn by our operations the company’s formalized annual Code of Business in 2019 was recycled or reused. In addition, recycling, Conduct and Ethics training. reuse and energy recovery programs accounted for 60 percent of the company’s waste disposal activities.
