Our progress towards Zero Harm, Zero Waste, Zero Discharge SUSTAI NABI LI T Y R EP OR T 2 0 1 9-2 0 VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 1 OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | ENVIRONMENT | OUR PEOPLE | RETAINING OUR SOCIAL LICENSE TO OPERATE | ANNEXURES Our progress towards Zero Harm, Zero Waste, Zero Discharge Twelve years ago, Vedanta embarked upon a journey to transform how it does business. We committed to not only become the lowest cost metal producer in the world, but to do so in the most sustainable way possible. To achieve this we established policies and standards in line with global best practices. We then began the journey of meticulously embedding them across our business operations. Every big idea needs a vision, ABOUT THIS REPORT and ours was “Zero Harm, Zero Waste, Zero Discharge”. All our Welcome to our 12th Sustainable actions have been guided by Development Report, which has been prepared in accordance with the Global this philosophy. This report is Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards: a marker in the sand a report Core option. It is mapped to the United of progress made. We hope it Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and inspires you as much as it has aligns to Sustainable Development motivated us. Goals (SDGs). It reports our approach and disclosure towards triple bottom line principles people, planet and profit over FY 2019. See page 107 for more information about our reporting. 2 VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 TABLE OF CONTENTS 4 Overview Vedanta at a Glance | Our Products | From the Chairman’s Desk CEO’s Message | Vedanta’s Sustainability Context Progress & Roadmap | Sustainable Development Journey 28 Governance Sustainability Governance Structure at Vedanta | Management for the Long-term Our Sustainability Management Approach | Transparency Letter from the Sustainability Committee 42 Environment Management Approach | Energy Management and Climate Change Waste & Tailings Management | Water Management Air Quality and Emissions Control | Biodiversity Management 70 Our People Management Approach | Safety, Health and Well-being Leadership Development, Talent Management and Employee Retention Diversity and Equal Opportunity 86 Retaining our Social License to Operate Management Approach | Human Rights | Rights of Indigenous Peoples Local Hiring | Community engagement and development initiatives Broader Economic Benefit to Host Country ANNEXURES 104 Awards & Accolades 107 About this Report 108 External Indices 110 Assurance Statement 114 GRI Standards Index VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 3 OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | ENVIRONMENT | OUR PEOPLE | RETAINING OUR SOCIAL LICENSE TO OPERATE | ANNEXURES Overview VEDANTA AT A GLANCE Vedanta Limited (Vedanta) is a diversified global natural resources company. The group produces aluminium, copper, zinc, lead, silver, iron ore, oil & gas and commercial energy. Vedanta has operations in India, South Africa, Ireland and Australia. One of the largest producers of these natural resources globally, we are headquartered in Mumbai, India. Offshore wellpad at Ravva, Cairn Oil & Gas 4 VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 INR INR 324BILLION 835.45 BILLION Contribution to National Exchequers Net Revenue 3.26 MILLION Lives improved through community projects 79 THOUSAND+ #1 Hindustan Zinc ranked top of mining industry by Dow Jones for environmental performance 79,378 employees and contractors VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 5 OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | ENVIRONMENT | OUR PEOPLE | RETAINING OUR SOCIAL LICENSE TO OPERATE | ANNEXURES Our Core Purpose Our goal is to create long-term value for all our stakeholders through research, discovery, acquisition, sustainable development and utilisation of diversified natural resources. For accomplishing that, we empower our people to drive excellence and innovation. We demonstrate world-class standards of governance, safety, sustainability and social responsibility. Our Core Values Our Core Values guide us and help us achieve our purpose. They are: TRUST ENTREPRENEURSHIP INNOVATION EXCELLENCE INTEGRITY CARE RESPECT Our Value Chain Vedanta Resources supplies natural resources that help the world grow. We have a portfolio of top-notch, low-cost, scalable assets that consistently generate strong profitability with robust cash flows, contributing to industryleading market shares across our core divisions. We have undertaken several Greenfield and Brownfield expansion projects throughout the world, successfully completed capital expansions involving complex technologies and large investments, in record time and at significantly lower costs. 6 VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 OUR VALUE CHAIN CONSISTS OF EXPLORATION ASSET DEVELOPMENT We have consistently added more We have a strong track record of executing to our Reserves and Resources projects on time and within budget. We (‘R&R’) through brownfield and take special care to develop the resource greenfield activities. This helps us base to optimise production and increase to extend the lives of our existing the life of the resource. We also strategically mines and oilfields. develop processing facilities. ASSET N DE ATIO VE R L O EX T PL EN PM WHAT O WE DO ITION VALUE EXTRACTION ADD We operate across ADDITION Our operations E XTR the mining value chain E A We meet market focusing on long term and are focussed C LU TIO requirements by low-cost assets in India on exploring VA converting the and Africa and producing primary metals N metals, produced into extracting oil value-added & gas and products such CESSING generating as sheets, rods, PRO power. We bars, rolled extract zincproducts, at our lead-silver, iron zinc, aluminium ore, steel, copper and copper and aluminium. businesses. PROCESSING We produce refined metals by processing and smelting extracted minerals at our zinc, lead, silver, copper, and aluminium smelters, and other processing facilities. For this purpose, we generate captive power as a best practice measure and sell the surplus power to the grid. VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 7 OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | ENVIRONMENT | OUR PEOPLE | RETAINING OUR SOCIAL LICENSE TO OPERATE | ANNEXURES Our Facilities Spread across geographies, our facilities are focussed on all-round operational excellence to achieve benchmark performance across our business by debottlenecking our assets, adopting technology and digitalisation, strengthening people-practices, enhancing vendor and customer bases, optimising the spend base and improving realisations. ZINC-LEAD-SILVER Debari smelter Chanderiya smelters Rampura-Agucha mine Rajpura Dariba mine & smelters and Sindesar Khurd mine Zawar mine Skorpion mine, Namibia Black Mountain mine, South Africa Lisheen mine, Ireland* Vedanta Aluminium-Jharsuguda OIL & GAS Rajasthan block Ravva (PKGM-1) block Cambay (CB/052) block South Africa block KG-OSN-2009/3 block PR-OSN-2004/1 block WORLD-CLASS FACILITIES FOR VARIOUS PRODUCTS IRON ORE Iron ore operations Goa Lanjigarh Alumina Refinery Iron ore operations Karnataka Iron ore projects – Liberia STEEL Electrosteels Steel Limited Jharkhand COPPER Silvassa refinery Fujirah Gold, UAE Tuticorin smelter Mangala Processing Terminal, Cairn Oil & Gas Mt Lyell mine, Australia** POWER MEL power plant SEL Talwandi Sabo Power Plant ALUMINIUM Lanjigarh alumina refinery Jharsuguda smelters & power plants Electrosteel Steels Limited Korba smelters & power plants * Lisheen had safe, detailed and fully-costed closure after 17 years of operation in Nov’ 15 ** Under care and maintenance 8 VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 Our Group Structure TRANSFORMING ELEMENTS VEDANTA Konkola Copper Mines RESOURCES 79.4% (KCM) LIMITED 50.1% Divisions of Vedanta Ltd. Sesa Goa Iron Ore Sterlite Copper VEDANTA Power (600 MW Jharsuguda) LIMITED Aluminium (Odisha Aluminium and Power Assets) Cairn Oil and Gas* Subsidiaries of Vedanta Ltd. 64.9% 51% 100% 100% 96% Bharat Zinc International Talwandi Sabo Zinc India Electrosteels Aluminium (Skorpion 100% Power (HZL) Steel Limited (BALCO) BMM 74%) (1,980 MW) Note: Shareholding as on March 31, 2019 LISTED ENTITY UNLISTED ENTITY *50% of the share in the RJ Block is held by a subsidiary of Vedanta Ltd. VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 9 OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | ENVIRONMENT | OUR PEOPLE | RETAINING OUR SOCIAL LICENSE TO OPERATE | ANNEXURES Our Products INTEGRAL COMPONENTS OF MODERN LIFE Zn The next time you grab your cell phone, take a second to marvel at its incredible construction. While it may look like any other high-tech gadget, it is made up of an array of materials. Fe Pb The main constituents are a variety of metals, with the most common being aluminium alloys, lightweight materials commonly found in the phone case. Lithium cobalt oxide and Ag Al carbon graphite are used to make the batteries. Elements like gold, copper and silver are Cu used in the wiring of the phone. Platinum and tungsten are used in the circuitry. Whether it is a cell phone or a car, you cannot imagine a life without metals. Vedanta is one of the largest global producers of base metals and helps shape modern life like few other companies. Let us consider each of our products individually. World’s Zinc 79% Lead Largest market share in India’s fully integrated PRODUCTION IN FY2020 primary zinc market PRODUCTION IN FY2020 zinc-lead producer 688 kt 240 kt 182 kt Zinc India (HZL) Zinc International Application Areas: Automobile | Rubber | Application Areas: Automobile | Glass | Construction | Shipbuilding | Pharmaceutical | Paint Aerospace | Shipbuilding | Transportation | Paint Iron Ore One of the Silver 9 th & Steel Largest largest silver iron ore miners PRODUCTION IN FY2020 producer in the world PRODUCTION IN FY2020 in India 610 ton 4.4 dmt 848 kt 1,067 kt Iron Ore Pig Iron Other Steel Products Application Areas: Jewellery | Electrical | Application Areas: Automobile | Locomotive | Solar | Telecommunication | Pharmaceutical Shipping | Building & Construction | Engineering 10 VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 37% Operates Oil & Gas 26% Aluminium market share in India PRODUCTION IN FY2020 of India’s crude oil production PRODUCTION IN FY2020 2.3 mpta total capacity 174 kboepd 1,904 kt 1,811 kt Aluminium Alumina Application Areas: Energy | Chemical | Textile | Application Areas: Transportation | Building Plastic | Fertiliser | Pesticide | Paint | Dye & construction | Electronics | Aerospace One of the largest private sector power One of Power generators in India Copper India’s SALES VOLUME IN FY2020 9 GW of diversified PRODUCTION IN FY2020 Largest copper producers power portfolio c. 11 billion units 77 kt* Leading producers of wind power in India Application Areas: Energy Application Areas: Electric Power (captive as well as commercial) Transmission | Renewable Energy *Note: The copper plant at Tuticorin has not been operational since March 2018 VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 11 OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | ENVIRONMENT | OUR PEOPLE | RETAINING OUR SOCIAL LICENSE TO OPERATE | ANNEXURES From the Dear Stakeholders, Chairman’s Desk Vedanta has always been at the forefront of sustainable practices. Our continuous journey of growth and expansion centers around best-inclass safety standards, leveraging new technologies, and established practices to safeguard the environment and communities. A NEW NORMAL FY2020 ended with society facing an unprecedented global pandemic – one that saw entire economies shut-down for an extended period of time. Vedanta has responded to this crisis by securing the safety of our workforce, who have kept operations running, despite the difficulties. We have also upheld the social contract that the company has with the local communities around our areas of operations and towards society at large. The company has donated more than INR 1 billion towards PMCARES – the fund created by the Government of India to administer aid to communities who need it. We have also set up an additional corpus of INR 1 billion to directly intervene and provide relief on the ground. The result has been a swift response where it matters most. We have provided more than 2.4 million meals and ration kits to communities and migrant laborer’s, distributed more than 0.7 million PPEs to communities and front-line workers, fed more than 1.2 million stray animals, established isolation wards with 200+ beds. On the request of the Ministry of Textiles (Government of India), we imported 23 machines to manufacture PPEs and this has provided timely help to Government designated authorized apparel manufacturers to roll-out more than 5,000 PPEs per day. I sincerely wish and pray that you and your families are safe in your homes. Your well-being matters to us, as the world grapples with a health crisis that we all are fighting together. These are undoubtedly testing times, but it also brings to the fore the undaunted and ingenious human spirit that prevails against all odds. Anil Agarwal, Chairman, Vedanta Limited 12 VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 While it has been essential to respond we will report on its progress in the also shown the importance of future to this crisis, it is equally important following years. growth being aligned with the princito respond to the looming economic ples of sustainable development. It is slowdown. Vedanta supports the Prime ZERO WASTE, ZERO DISCHARGE clear that all three – resilience, growth, Minister’s call towards self-reliance or Decreasing the company’s enviand sustainable development – are Atmanirbar Bharat. As India’s largest ronmental footprint is essential for closely related. natural resource company, we believe long-term sustainability. The company that the sector can become a catalyst has launched several initiatives under A talented, diverse and an inclusive for job creation, fulfill local demand, and the “Waste to Wealth” campaign. We workforce has helped make us one reduce the country’s dependency on have deployed technologies that will of the leaders in natural resources. At imports. not only aid in reducing the volume of Vedanta, we respect merit and have waste produced, but also improve metal nurtured a culture, which enables our As we move into this new normal, recovery rates. Our goal is to develop employees to realize their full potential. I envision Vedanta playing a cenprocesses and value-chains that enable We have identified 500+ young leaders tral role in helping communities to the creation of a circular economy across the organization and entrusted enhance their skill-sets and to work model, thereby eliminating future waste them with leadership opportunities as partners with all stakeholders to streams. to drive the next phase of business further develop this sector and the national economy. ZERO HARM Safe operations are central to all our actions. We want to ensure that our workforce returns home injury-free at the end of each day. Over the last five years, we have been systematically working on improve the safety culture and systems within all our businesses. Aspects such as developing robust standards, understanding critical safety risks, engagement with our business partners, visible felt leadership, and regular, robust audits have been key elements in driving this agenda. Climate change continues to be a growth. The company is rapidly moving factor that will have growing impact on to become more gender inclusive. This year, we have seen our safety society and business. We remain fully Today, women constitute nearly 11% performance flat-line, after two years of supportive of the outcomes from the of our total workforce and 25% of our poor performance. We deeply regret the Paris Agreement and are committed Board. We have set ourselves a target loss of 7 of our colleagues in work-relatto minimizing our carbon footprint. Toto achieve 33% women representation ed accidents in the past year. Those inwards this, we have re-constituted the at the Board-level. cidents serve as a reminder that further ‘Carbon Forum’ to help steer the group improvement is required. We remain towards a less carbon-intensive way of Vedanta remains committed to our committed to achieving a zero-fatality operating. As of March 2020, we have vision of “Zero Harm, Zero Waste, year and I hope to report better perfordecreased our GHG emissions intensity Zero Discharge” and will continue to mance in future reports. by 13.83% from a 2012 baseline. This is operate under the highest standards a step in the right direction. Vedanta is of corporate governance and deliver Zero harm also extends to the commuprimarily powered by coal-based thervalue to all our stakeholders. There nities who live around our plants. They mal energy. We recognize its impact is much potential in the markets are one of our primary stakeholders on the climate and that is reason the where we operate, and Vedanta is and we remain committed to ensuring company has committed to substanwell-positioned to create an impact they benefit from the presence of our tially decarbonize its operations by not just for ourselves but also for the business. In addition to the phenome2050. communities, regions, countries and nal work being done by the company’s industries where we operate. CSR program, we have expanded our BUILDING A FUTURE-READY thinking on the subject – incorporating COMPANY a new element to our management The COVID-19 crisis has reminded us Anil Agarwal, practice and decision-making. We call about the need for organizations to Chairman, this approach “social performance” and build resilience into their systems. It has Vedanta Limited VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 13 OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | ENVIRONMENT | OUR PEOPLE | RETAINING OUR SOCIAL LICENSE TO OPERATE | ANNEXURES This is my first sustainability report since assuming the role as Group CEO of Vedanta CEO’s Message Limited and I am honoured and humbled to be leading our great Company, which I have proudly been a part of for this last ten years. I must begin by acknowledging Mr. Srinivasan Venkatakrishnan for his leadership in our Company over the last two years. Under his guidance, we reinforced the company’s foundation for conducting business in a sustainable manner. This will benefit our organization long after his departure. We are grateful for his service. To describe 2020 as a dynamic year is an understatement. The macro environment has been extremely challenging with the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. The virus outbreak, which saw lockout across geographies has become one of the biggest threats to the global economy, disrupting businesses and supply chains world over. During these testing times our priority was to ensure the health and safety of our employees, contractors and stakeholders, while ensuring business continuity to all extents possible. While the full impact of this pandemic will be accessed in the longer term, in the short-term it has required companies to be agile and responsive towards all its stakeholders. Companies such as Vedanta, who have long been following sustainable management practices have found an inbuilt resilience in our systems that comes from having a long-term outlook, humancentred business practices, and a culture of resource optimization. Vedanta’s response to the pandemic has focused on our responsibilities to our employees, business partners and their families. We have also worked hard to ensure that our workplaces remain safe, fully complaint with the environmental regulations, and continue to operate as close to normal as possible. To ensure that the most vulnerable sections of society are able to meet their basic needs, the Company has set up a dedicated ₹1 billion fund as part of its endeavour to join ranks with the Government of India to combat the widespread outbreak of COVID-19. The fund caters to three specific areas – Livelihood of the daily wage worker, employees & contract workers, and preventive healthcare. It seeks to provide Sunil Duggal, Group CEO, Vedanta Limited timely assistance to communities in and 14 VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 around various plant locations of the performance in the short-term and help with this approach during the year. We Company. us move closer towards our objective of plan to adopt this approach in other Zero Harm and Zero Fatality. locations as well. Details about each of COMMITTED TO SAFE our tailings structures can be found on BUSINESS OPERATIONS As discussed above, the last quarter of our website and is in alignment with the We began this fiscal year with a strong FY2020 has been a time of global crisis voluntary disclosure requested by the commitment to improve our safety as a result of the COVID-19 spread. Church of England in 2019. performance. While there have been We are fully committed to the safety of significant gains made across our our employees. Our strategy has been 2020 also is the end-of-cycle for our businesses, I am deeply saddened by threefold: practice physical distancing GHG emissions intensity reduction the loss of 7 lives this year. Our LTIFR for all essential workstreams, rely target. We have managed to reduce stands at 0.67 in FY2020. We have on early diagnosis for our workforce our GHG emissions intensity by completed the incident investigations to prevent an outbreak and share 13.83%. While slightly lower than our for every accident and are taking knowledge and best practices across target of achieving 16% reduction measures to ensure repeats do not our business entities to ensure safe from a 2012 baseline, it is indicative occur. The learnings from all incidents workplaces. While the average footfall of the stretch target we had taken. are being implemented across the at our plants has been reduced, our This reduction in equivalent to business. Occupational health and employees are actively involved in ~9 million tons in avoided GHG safety are non-negotiable factors for building homegrown solutions to the emissions. We have begun work on us, and we are determined to achieve challenges created by COVID 19. For setting our next set of long-term absolute ‘Zero Harm’ in our operations. example, we now have non-touch based GHG reduction targets and will be hand washing system, which was built disclosing those numbers in FY2021. In light of our safety incidents, there is a by our employees. Additional safety renewed focus by the leadership team to measures in terms of sanitizer fogging, Other highlights for us in 2020 include improve our safety performance. Three social distancing measures through achieving ~7.5 million m3 of water safety KPIs were taken to help us improve on ground marking are also in place to savings over a three-year period and our journey to Zero Harm. We are making ensure minimum contact. We have also achieving >100% fly-ash utilization for steady progress in all three areas. launched a healthcare helpline for our 2nd consecutive year. employees in partnership with Apollo In the area of Visible Felt hospitals, through which they can teleINVESTED IN IMPROVING Leadership, where leaders consult with a General Physician or a COMMUNITIES & support personnel are Psychologist. With nearly 190 initiatives spanning mandated to spend quality time healthcare, education, community in the field conducting safety IMPROVING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL infrastructure, drinking water, sanitation, interactions; PERFORMANCE sports, women’s empowerment, In the area of Managing Safety Our unwavering focus on operating a environmental protection & restoration, Critical Tasks such as like sustainable and responsible business livelihood and skills development Ground Control, Working at continued to deliver results in FY2020 Vedanta is a force for good in the Heights, Confined Spaces, and affirmed by third-party experts. communities where we impact more among others that could cause than 3.26 million people across 868 a fatality or a permanent injury; Work on improving the stability and villages. Our flag-ship Nandghar In the area of Business Partner the management of our tailings program opened its 1,302nd childengagement, where we have dam facilities continues. Most of the care centre and we are rapidly established a committee recommendations from an independent moving towards reaching our goal of that has the mandate to help third-party audit of our tailings facilities establishing 4,000 Nandghars across improve Business Partner (conducted by Golder Associates India. These child-day-care centers safety performance. This in FY2019) have been implemented support more than 44,000 children and includes having stringent preby the BUs. In addition, we have 25,000 women. qualification requirements, and updated the Tailings Dam Performance special terms and conditions Standard and have added a detailed Vedanta’s vision has always been that highlight Vedanta’s safety set of Guidance Notes that all our BUs to drive inclusive growth that build expectations for Business must adhere to when managing their communities, enhances the country’s Partners, especially those that tailings facilities. With a view to de-risk self-reliance and does so in an do heavy maintenance and our tailings dam facilities, we have environmentally responsible manner. I construction activities at our embarked on a programme to de-water hope this report highlights the depth of facilities. tailings before storing them in the our work in achieving this vision. tailings facilities. Lanjigarh’s red mud We are confident that these pond has led the way and HZL’s Zawar Sunil Duggal measures will help stabilise our safety location has commenced operations Group CEO, Vedanta Limited VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 15 OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | ENVIRONMENT | OUR PEOPLE | RETAINING OUR SOCIAL LICENSE TO OPERATE | ANNEXURES Vedanta’s Sustainability Context Sustainability topics continue to that need continuous monitoring to take centre-stage in the metals & prevent them from becoming critical mining industry. Companies need to for the organisation over time (Low). periodically reassess their business Classification of the areas was done model and ensure they address those using the following framework: issues that pose a risk to business or where new opportunities may emerge. (i) Importance to external stakeholders; Vedanta’s risk committee evaluates key business risks and aids the leadership (ii) Importance to the Vedanta team in deliberating on mitigative actions. leadership team; In addition, every three years, we conduct an exhaustive materiality assessment (iii) Potential regulatory impact; to understand stakeholder expectations (iv) Potential reputational impact from the Company. (v) Potential financial impact. During FY2020, we completed our largest such exercise, having interacted The materiality assessment process is with nearly 2,900 internal and external in line with Global Reporting Initiative stakeholders via online surveys, (GRI) standards. The materiality matrix focus group discussions, and face-tois reviewed and ratified by the Executive face interactions. The results of this Committee (ExCO). exercise have been distilled by our senior leadership team into areas that These results are specific to ESG-related require our immediate attention and expectations from the Company and do intervention (High); areas that can be not include aspects related to economic/ managed using our existing frameworks financial expectations. and protocols (Medium); and areas HIGH MEDIUM LOW Energy & Climate Change Noise & Vibration Land Acquisition & Rehabilitation Water Management Tailings Dam Management Solid Waste Management Human Rights Air Emissions Resource Efficiency Biodiversity Transparent Disclosure Health & Safety Materials Management Community Development Learning & Development Supply Chain Sustainability Use of Recycled Material Grievance Management Brand Salience Compliance to Government Regulations Innovation Upholding Rights of Indigenous People Governance for Sustainability Ethical Business Practices Diversity & Equal Opportunity ACT MANAGE OBSERVE 16 VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 External and internal developments have drawn management attention on the following topics: Environmental & Tailings Dam Management The disaster at Vale and the partial collapse of a tailings dam wall at our operations in FY2017-18 has led to the development of a strong tailings dam management standard in alignment with ICMM recommendations and overseen by independant, global experts. Read More: Environment (Page 42) Dry tailing plant at Zawar Mines Safety of our Workforce Fatalities in our workplace have shown a decline compared to the previous year, however our leadership team is determined to live up to our vision of ‘Zero harm’. Read More: Our People (Page 70) Safe operating practices at Cairn Oil & Gas Retaining our Social license to operate Closure of our Sterlite Copper plant and a persistent negative perception among our stakeholders about our business practices has resulted in the company embarking on a journey to significantly improve our social performance and regain stakeholder trust. Read More: Retaining our Social License to Operate (Page 86) Nand Ghar at Thoothukudi People & Diversity Management As our business becomes more complex we need right-management-in-place. Additionally, the company remains committed to ensuring that we increase the gender diversity across the workforce at all management levels. Significant work has been undertaken to achieve this goal. Read More: Our People (Page 70) Women at work, BALCO VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 17 OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | ENVIRONMENT | OUR PEOPLE | RETAINING OUR SOCIAL LICENSE TO OPERATE | ANNEXURES Roadmap & Progress Progress on our sustainability targets and our future roadmap, which has been aligned to the UN Sustainable Development Goals is presented in the table below. Achieved Partially Achieved Not Achieved Issues Targets S.N. Emerging As SDG Alignment FY2020 Targets Status Performance FY2021 & Beyond ‘High’ Priority THE SAFETY OF OUR WORKFORCE SDG 8.8: Protect labour Achieve score Average score: Achieve score >75% in rights and provide safe >75% in ten safety 72.5% ten safety performance 1 work conditions for all performance standards Health & standards Safety Zero fatal accidents 7 fatalities I. Zero fatal accidents. and an LTIFR of 0.30 LTIFR: 0.67 II. Introduce TRIFR as the 2 primary lagging metric for safety. ENVIRONMENT MANAGEMENT SDG 6.4: Increase water Achieve water saving 2.99 million m3 I. Review our water use efficiency and ensure of 2.5 million m3 of water savings targets in alignment with sustainable withdrawals achieved global best practices. II. Achieve water savings Water 3 of 0.5 million m3 Management III. For water stressed areas have a sustainable sourcing model by 2025 SDG 12.2: Achieve Achieve 1.75 million ~ 1.92 million GJ Achieve energy savings sustainable management GJ energy saving of energy savings of 3 million GJ 4 and efficient use of natural achieved Energy & resources Climate Change SDG 13.2: Integrate Reduce our GHG 13.83% reduction Develop revised set of climate change measures emissions intensity in GHG emissions GHG emissions intensity 5 into strategies, polices, by 16% from a 2012 intensity reduction targets and planning baseline by 2020 SDG 12.5: Substantially Achieve ﬂy ash 105% utilisation of Sustain ﬂy ash utilisation reduce waste generation utilisation of 80% fly-ash at 100% or more Solid Waste 6 through prevention, Management reduction, recycling and reuse NA Third-party review Completed Continue with Thirdof tailings/ash dyke Party review of our management system tailings dam/ash dyke Tailings Dam 7 and development of structures Management specific improvement plan (India operations) SDG 15.9: Introduce -Intentionally left New Target: biodiversity management blankReview of site8 Biodiversity and planning into biodiversity risk across all development processes our locations 18 VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 Issues Targets S.N. Emerging As SDG Alignment FY2020 Targets Status Performance FY2021 & Beyond ‘High’ Priority SECURING OUR SOCIAL LICENSE TO OPERATE SDG 4.4: Increase the Ensure alignment Baseline conducted Implementation of number of youth and of all BU plans with across Group, programs in line with adults who have relevant issues identified BU plans aligned baseline & key indicators skills, including technical during baseline with findings/ and conduct impact 9 and vocational skills, for surveys recommendation study after 3 years. employment, decent jobs New target: Skilling to and entrepreneurship improve employability of Community 60,000 youth by 2025 Development SDG 2.1: End hunger and 1,200 Nand Ghars to 1,302 Nand Ghars 4,000 Nand Ghars to be ensure access to safe, be constructed by constructed constructed by 2021 nutritious, and sufficient 2020 10 food, all year round SDG 2.2: End all forms of mal-nutrition -Intentionally left blankRollout of employee ’Passion to -Intentionally left blankengagement platform serve’-employee 11 across group volunteering online platform launched in Aug 2019. No specific SDG A standard online ’Nivaran’ portal Timely redressal of community grievance launched in March grievance through unified Grievance record/redressal 2019 portal across BUs 12 Management software to be introduced across the Group SDG 8.7: Eliminate worst -Intentionally left -Intentionally left No targets. However, BUs forms of child labour, all blankblankfollow Modern Slavery Supply Chain forced labour Act requirements to 13 Sustainability monitor suppliers and vendors for breaches of human rights. No specific SDG -Intentionally left -Intentionally left No target, however Upholding blankblankVedanta is committed Rights of to FPIC & plans to 14 Indigenous undertake a Social People Performance pilot in FY2021 -Intentionally -Intentionally left New target: CSR advisory 15 left blankblankat Group level PEOPLE AND DIVERSITY No specific SDG Continue to All our employees Continue to focus on focus on Code of sign a copy of Code of Conduct training Conduct training Code of Conduct for all professional for all professional as part of their employees including new employees including joining process hires. new hires acknowledging that they have gone through the Ethical Code of Conduct 16 Business policy. In addition, Practices we have a digitized COC training module which every employee must go through, at the end of which they have to answer short quiz to complete the training. VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 19 OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | ENVIRONMENT | OUR PEOPLE | RETAINING OUR SOCIAL LICENSE TO OPERATE | ANNEXURES Progress & Roadmap Achieved Partially Achieved Not Achieved Issues Targets S.N. Emerging As SDG Alignment FY2020 Targets Status Performance FY2021 & Beyond ‘High’ Priority PEOPLE AND DIVERSITY SDG 5.5: Ensure full & Achieve 33% female 25% diversity in Achieve 33% female equal participation of representation at Vedanta Limited’s representation at Vedanta women in all decisionVedanta Board-level Board and Group across all key decision making in the political, by 2020. Management making bodies including economic, & public life. Committee. Board, Management 17 Committee and Executive Diversity SDG 5.9: Adopt and Increase in diversity Committee & Equal enforce policies and of Group Executive Opportunity legislation on gender Committee from equality 10% to 12.5%. 5% improvement in We have improved Improve diversity across our campus female our on-campus organization with focus 18 hiring programme recruiting diversity on hiring 50 diversity to promote gender by 8.7% from 27.7% from campuses is 50% diversity to 36.4%. Ensuring right ExCo structure Ensuring right leadership (Executive being reviewed by Management in Place Committee(ExCo)) & respective business with defined deliverables succession for each CEOs and HR heads in terms of Volume, business along with Top Cost & EBITDA and 19 Management every succession for each month – Key focus business is on delivery and business impact. Status on KPIs 20 VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 An inclusive workplace is a hallmark of the future-ready organization. VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 21 OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | ENVIRONMENT | OUR PEOPLE | RETAINING OUR SOCIAL LICENSE TO OPERATE | ANNEXURES Sustainable Development Journey Ensuring long-term growth for all stakeholders has been the cornerstone of our sustainability journey. We have embraced sustainability as a comprehensive, integrated business practice that involves collaboration, innovation, and a course of action. On the sustainability roadmap, we keep achieving our goals and formulating new ones, while continuously progressing towards lasting growth. FY 2013-14 FY 2016-17 • Businesses started embedding Vedanta • VSAP into its fifth year of Sustainability Framework training and implementation implementation of policies and standards • VSAP material priorities identified • External review concluded (URS for the FY 2016-17 occupational Scott Wilson) all recommendations got health and safety, resource use successfully closed and management, stakeholder • Sustainability linked with remuneration engagement, and supplier and sustainable development KPIs linked to contract management executive remuneration • Social Impact Assessment Studies completed for nearly • Vedanta Sustainability Assurance Programme (VSAP) all our businesses. The major social impact assessment into its second year of implementation supported by studies were done at Cairn Oil and Gas Business external auditors • Advancing accountability employee health, safety and well-being identified as a material issue, was a key priority for the company FY 2014-15 • Roll out of Vedanta Sustainability FY 2017-18 Framework continues introduction of safety performance standards, formal safety • Strong focus on safety risk assessment, industrial hygiene baseline • Alignment across businesses on a assessment and safety leadership coaching collective carbon strategy • VSAP into its third year of implementation • Launching a systematic, Group-wide revised as per the material priorities, programme to monitor and maintain supported by external auditors tailings dams in line with global best • Environment & social review of VSAP started external practices review • Consolidating efforts to drive effective implementation • Revisiting our Community Need Assessment Studies of the provisions of the Modern Slavery Act across our aligning all community projects with updated studies businesses • Re-evaluating our social performance standards in order to enhance our Social License to Operate FY 2015-16 • Environment & social review of VSAP FY 2018-19 continued external review • VSAP into its fourth year of • Strategy to increase leadership implementation revised as per the material engagement on workplace safety priorities with more emphasis and focus on • Work begun on upgrading tailings dam safety by inclusion of safety performance facilities and management practices standards, supported by external auditors • Work begun to improve social • Advancing safety by developing safety performance license to operate – perception standards and incorporating executive remuneration surveys, materiality assessment, social • Social Impact Assessment Studies HZL & Cairn India performance review, FPIC requirements aligning all community projects with updated studies review FY 2019-20 • Closure of recommendations from Tailing Dams Audit • Work and planning on effective monitoring of potential workplace health hazards • Carbon Forum reconstituted • Social Performance reviews completed • COVID-19 response on safe workplaces, business continuity planning, and philanthropic assistance to communities 22 VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 COVID-19 Update The COVID-19 pandemic is an unprecedented humanitarian and economic crisis. The metal and mining industry has sought to respond quickly to protect the health of its employees and its communities. These steps are in response to (and often ahead of) emergency measures and lockdowns implemented by governments across the world to control the spread of the pandemic. SDG ALIGNMENT SDG 2 Zero Hunger SDG 3 Good Health and Well-being SDG 8 Decent Work and Economic Growth SDG 17 Partnerships for the Goals PLEDGED: 1 million meals across PLEDGED: INR 101 crores India for daily wage earners & towards COVID-19 relief activities families Below the Poverty Line + INR 100 crores donated to ~0.95 million meals & ration kits #PMCARES distributed till date PLEDGED: Provide 100,000 PLEDGED: Feed 50,000 masks to people across India stray animals across India 0.55 million PPEs and masks >1.2 million meals fed to distributed; ~100,00 soaps & stray animals till date sanitizers distributed Isolation wards with 200+ beds 24x7 General Health (including 10 ICUs) established Helpline established for in aid of civic administrations families in partnership with Apollo Hospitals VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 23 OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | ENVIRONMENT | OUR PEOPLE | RETAINING OUR SOCIAL LICENSE TO OPERATE | ANNEXURES COVID-19 Update Management Approach As it stands today, the COVID-19 situation of a leadership team comprising of a is dynamic and ever-evolving. It has forced non-executive Director of the Board, a the business to react quickly and decisively business CEO, Group Heads from HSE & to ensure our workforce remains safe, the Sustainability, Corporate Communications, continuity of our business is not impacted HR, Marketing, and CEO of the Nand Ghar and the movement of goods and people program. into and from our plant boundaries does not adversely impact the communities At the BU level, the efforts are overseen by where we operate. a similar taskforce, comprising of crossfunctional leadership representation. Their Given the geographic spread of our focus is to implement strong controls and business, we also have had to adopt SOPs, audit the respective units so as to to and assist in the lockdown and ensure complete compliance to COVID-19 unlock rules laid down by the local protocols to prevent the spread of the governments. infection and to monitor and report the proceedings to the business CEO and We have responded at the Group level and Group task force. SOPs include actions the BU level. At the Group level our efforts for practicing social distancing, ensuring have been to ensure that we provide safe operations under reduced staffing clear instructions to our businesses about protocols, isolation and contact tracing operating protocols such as work-fromin case of infection, and awareness home, reduced staffing, and the minimum building among the workforce and local measures that need to be taken by the BU communities. On-site CSR teams have and the employees while in the workplace. coordinated the implementation of our The central team has also spearheaded philanthropic efforts such as the “Meals our philanthropic response as well as our for All” program, feeding stray animals, communication strategy. A COVID-19 distribution of PPEs and assisting the local taskforce has been formulated to oversee administration to improve their response to the response across the group. It consist the general population. Nand Ghar COVID-19 Initiatives The Nand Ghar program has used learning through WhatsApp groups as a its vast geographic spread to ensure pilot to ensure that children are actively Vedanta’s COVID-19 response reaches involved in their studies and other activities a wider population. While the teams during these challenging times. have participated in mask and sanitizer distribution programs and door-to-door The centers have also coordinated the fitness checkups, their focus has been efforts of the Self-Help-Groups (SHGs) to ensure that the learning and nutrition associated with the program in making and Nand Ghar children using e-learning app programs continue unabated. distributing 15,000 face masks in Jaipur. Digital e-learning content along with e-content previously developed in partnership with UNICEF is being used to home-school children in Rajasthan. The content is being made available to all parents on their mobile phones and it has been included in the state’s online nutrition portal. The team has also initiated online Nand Ghar volunteers providing take home ration 24 VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 CASE STUDY 17 2 3 8 Community Connect During the Pandemic Cairn CSR team distributing ration In an independent study1 conducted SHGs to stich facemasks were the to gauge community perception about two most appreciated programs Vedanta’s COVID-19 response: ~96% respondents were happy with ~90% respondents were very how Vedanta has engaged with the satisfied and rated the quality of the community during the pandemic response highly The study has also highlighted the persistent ~83% respondents were aware expectation from our local stakeholders of at least 3 out of 5 COVID-relief around employment, especially as the programs launched by the company economy slows down and migrant labourers return to their villages. This insight will help Vedanta’s contribution to us plan our future actions better and be #PMCARES and our program to use more responsive to community concerns. 1 The study was conducted across 9 states and interviewed more than 600 people from diverse backgrounds. Medicine distribution at Lanjigarh Fresh produce distribution by BALCO SDG 2 Zero Hunger SDG 3 Good Health and Employee feeding stray animals Vedanta Jharsuguda CSR employees distributing masks Well-being SDG 8 Decent Work and Economic Growth SDG 17 Partnerships for the Goals VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 25 OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | ENVIRONMENT | OUR PEOPLE | RETAINING OUR SOCIAL LICENSE TO OPERATE | ANNEXURES COVID-19 Update The Response at our BUs Our BUs have been at the forefront of our response to COVID-19. A brief highlight of their work. 1. Cairn: Rajasthan & Gujarat Use of Mobile Health Vans to conduct mass awareness and sensitization campaigns at 246 villages in Rajasthan, Gujarat, and Andhra Pradesh and 52 wards in Barmer town. 80,000 communication materials such as leaflets, banners and hoardings have been handed over to district administration to help raise awareness. The Cairn Centre of Excellence in Jodhpur has been handed over to district administration to be used as a 120-bed quarantine facility. Cairn also provides three meals a day for 150 people. 2,500 liters of sanitizer has been handed over to the district administration, district hospital & health department in Barmer. ‘Swasthya Sarthi’ – and advanced mobile health van to provide Free OPD to the community (especially pregnant women) in remote parts of the Barmer district. deprived of medical facility. 2. HZL: Rajasthan Community outreach across 189 villages in Rajasthan and Uttarakhand. ~ 100,000 liters of Sodium Hypochlorite solution procured for sanitization purposes. Distributed over 52,000 3-ply masks, 13,000 cloth masks, 100,00 N95 masks, 10,000 PPE kits, 10,000 safety goggles, 2,000 disposable thermometers, 5,000 face shields, 400 thermal scanners & 3,000 disposable hand gloves. Provided ration to more than 26,000 families, supply of food grains through District Administration and working with the communities to stitch facemasks for distribution, thereby providing a means of income for the local community. 5 2 12 3. IOB: Goa, Karnataka, Maharashtra 1 6 Contributed INR 10 million each to Goa and Karnataka State COVID-19 relief fund 7 Sanitation and fumigation drives at public places 3 across areas Goa, Karnataka, Vizag & Dodamarg – Maharashtra where operations present. Distributions of PPE’s, disinfectants, ICU cots, drone 3 3 camera to civic administration. Distribution of food packets to the vulnerable sections 4 of the society. Provision of shelter and cooked meals to migrant labourers. Specific Initiatives for elderly and children. 26 VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 4. Sterlite Copper: Tamil Nadu Contributed INR 50 million to the Tamil Nadu CM’s relief fund. Distributed 200 sets of PPEs to the Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital and the Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital. Distributed over 1,300 litres of liquid handwash, 13,000 bars of soap, 1,000 bottles of hand sanitizers, and 30,000 masks. Partnered with panchayat ward councilors of 20 villages to ensure last-mile distribution of protective equipment and hygiene items. Partnered with 10 Self Help Group (SHG) partners comprising 150 members, to manufacture and distribute masks and personal hygiene items across 20 villages in Thoothukudi Sterlite Copper team distributing PPEs 5. TSPL: Mansa, Punjab Contributed INR 2.5 million to the Punjab Chief Minister’s Relief Fund Extensive sanitization and disinfection carried out in Mansa town and common areas like places of worship, health centres and police check-posts near the power plant. To ensure disinfection drives are regularly conducted in the town by the administration, TSPL provided chemical safety suits and goggles. 2,499 masks provided to health workers and district administration. 3,000 kg of ration support for langar (common kitchen) service to Takht Sri Damdama Sahib gurudwara one of the five holy shrines of Sikhism. Enables meal preparation for more than 20,000 people. 525 dry ration packets distributed to families in need. 1,066 soaps distributed to encourage handwashing and personal hygiene. COVID-19 awareness campaign by TSPL team 6. BALCO: Korba, Chattisgarh 100-bed isolation ward at ESIC hospital, Korba in partnership with local authorities. Dedicated isolation ward at BALCO hospital. Donated 1,000 Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kits, 500 bottles of sanitizers and 5,000 surgical masks. > 500 families have been provided dry ration and 1,000 cooked meals are being prepared daily for those in need. Developed an in-house sprinkler machine and sanitization liquid for sanitizing public areas of the employee township. Ration preparation for the needy by BALCO team 7. VAL: Jharsuguda, Odisha Primary partner to the Odisha Government to set up and manage a 110 bedded (including 10 ICUs) COVID Hospital; open to the entire population of Jharsuguda. Contributed INR 20 million towards equipment and supplies such as ten ventilators, 3,000 corona testing kits, 2 sets of oxygen concentrators, 3,000 N95 & triplelayer masks each, 2,000 surgical gowns, 2,000 aprons, 6,000 surgical caps, 5 nebulizers, sufficient quantities of alcohol-based sanitizers and medicines, bedding and other infrastructure. 1,000 dry ration kits distributed to daily wage earners, slum dwellers, marginal communities and households across Jharsuguda. These kits can feed a family of five for a month. Farmers associated with our CSR project ‘Jeevika Samridhhi’ have been given access to sell their produced to the families of our employees who reside in the Vedanta township, thereby ensuring their earnings remain uninterrupted. Mask distribution by Vedanta Jharsuguda team VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 27 OVERVIEW | | GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE | ENVIRONMENT | OUR PEOPLE | RETAINING OUR SOCIAL LICENSE TO OPERATE | ANNEXURES Governance Good corporate governance, which is a pre-requisite for protecting shareholder value as well as delivering sustainable growth, underpins the delivery of our strategic objectives. Our governance philosophy stems from our values of Trust, Entrepreneurship, Innovation, Excellence, Integrity, Respect and Care. Safety briefing at the underground Sindesar Khurd Mine, HZL 28 VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 TRUST INTEGRITY RESPECT ENTREPRENEURSHIP CARE INNOVATION EXCELLENCE VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 29 OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | ENVIRONMENT | OUR PEOPLE | RETAINING OUR SOCIAL LICENSE TO OPERATE | ANNEXURES Sustainability Governance Structure at Vedanta Composition of the Board In pursuance of our commitment towards responsible business in compliance with the applicable provisions of Companies Act, 2013 and SEBI Listing Regulations including the amendments thereof, our Board presents an appropriate balance between Executive, Non-Executive and Independent Directors to distinct its functions of management and governance, to promote shareholder interests and to govern Vedanta effectively. As on June 6, 2020, the Board comprises eight members as listed below. Age Group Number of S.N. Name Designation Gender Age Directors 1 Mr. Anil Agarwal Non-Executive Chairman Male 67 Less than 30 years 0 2 Mr. Navin Agarwal Executive Vice-Chairman Male 59 Between 30-50 years 2 3 Mr. K Venkataramanan Non-Executive Independent Director Male 75 Above 50 years 6 4 Ms. Lalita D. Gupte Non-Executive Independent Director Female 71 5 Mr. Mahendra Kumar Sharma Non-Executive Independent Director Male 72 Gender Number of Directors 6 Mr. UK Sinha Non-Executive Independent Director Male 68 Female 2 7 Ms. Priya Agarwal Non-Executive Director Female 30 Male 6 8 Mr. GR Arun Kumar Whole-Time Director & CFO Male 48 Board of Directors Mr. Anil Agarwal Mr. Navin Agarwal Mr. K Venkataramanan Ms. Lalita D. Gupte Non-Executive Chairman Executive Vice-Chairman Non-Executive Independent Director Non-Executive Independent Director Mr. Mahendra K Sharma Mr. UK Sinha Ms. Priya Agarwal Mr. GR Arun Kumar Non-Executive Independent Director Non-Executive Independent Director Non-Executive Director Whole-Time Director & CFO 30 VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 Our Board provides strategic oversight and direction to the framework. As part of its decision-making processes, the management. It is collectively responsible for promoting Board considers the long-term consequences of its decisions, the long-term success of the Group through the creation the interests of various stakeholders including employees, and delivery of sustainable shareholder value. The reporting the impact of the Group’s operations on the environment and structure, as shown below, between the Board, Board the need to conduct its business ethically. This is achieved Committees and Management Executive Committees, through a prudent and robust risk management framework, forms the backbone of the Group’s Corporate Governance internal controls and strong governance processes. SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE SHAREHOLDERS BOARD OF CEO DIRECTORS Risk Audit Sustainablity Committee of MANAGEMENT Management Committee Committee Directors COMMITTEE Committee & EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Nomination & Stakeholder Corporate Social Remuneration Relationship Responsibility Committee Committee Committee Finance Standing Share & Committee of Debenture Directors Transfer Committe VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 31 OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | ENVIRONMENT | OUR PEOPLE | RETAINING OUR SOCIAL LICENSE TO OPERATE | ANNEXURES Sustainability Governance Structure at Vedanta Continued... The Board provides strategic perspective and steers the By overseeing the conduct of business with strict business in line with the commitments made to various adherence to ethics and responsibility, the structure stakeholders and sustainable growth. They are supported by: enhances the prosperity and long-term viability of the Company. • Established committees • Sustainable development team The Board Sustainability Committee meets every • Vedanta Sustainability Framework and VSAP six months. • Code of Business Conduct and Ethics EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Chaired by MR. SUNIL DUGGAL Group CEO The Committee meets monthly and is responsible for implementing strategic plans formulated by the Board, allocating resources in line with delegated authorities and monitoring the operational and financial performance of the Group. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT TEAM Group (and BUs) HSE & Sustainability Teams COMMUNITY OCCUPATIONAL DISCLOSURE & ENVIRONMENT SAFETY RELATIONS HEALTH COMMUNICATION REVIEW OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT TEAM AND SEGMENT BUSINESS COMMITTEE (Monthly Operational Reviews/Business Management Group Meetings) 32 VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 Good corporate governance forms the backbone of sustainable operations. VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 33 OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | ENVIRONMENT | OUR PEOPLE | RETAINING OUR SOCIAL LICENSE TO OPERATE | ANNEXURES Management for the Long-term Sustainability is a long-term paradigm. period in comparison to peer companies Our Code of Business Conduct & Ethics, and Individual performance. Vedanta Sustainability Framework, VSAP, management systems, The Long-Term Incentive Plan becomes organisational structures, processes, a key element in the overall remuneration policies and people form part of our of our CEO and other key leaders which internal control systems, which govern allows our management to place the longhow we conduct business and manage term agenda on the table and ensure that associated opportunities and risks, in sustainability principles are part of the the present and in future. decision-making criteria. Executive compensation structures are Additionally, the bonus structure for critical in incentivizing the leadership all employees of the group includes teams to manage for the long-term. The a component for VSAP performance, Long-term Incentive plan comprises of which ensures that all aspects of ESG the Employee Stock Option Scheme, performance, including ensuring safe which is a conditional share plan based on operations, energy & carbon management pre-determined performance criteria. The (climate change), and social license vesting of such awards is contingent to to operate, are accounted in the final long-term sustained business performance, performance review of our employees. total shareholder return during the vesting Risk Governance Framework Vedanta has a robust governance framework to manage risk, helping us balance the riskreward equation expected by stakeholders. The Board regularly reviews the internal risk matrix, significant risks and actions control system to ensure that it remains put in place to mitigate these risks. Any effective. The Board’s review includes weaknesses identified by the review are the Audit Committee’s report on the addressed by enhanced procedures to E X TERN AL E X T E R N AL     EVALUATE IDENTIFY EVALUATE IDENTIFY AUDIT COMMITTEE AUDIT COMMITTEE F IN ANCI AL STR ATE G IC F IN ANCI AL ST R AT E G IC MITIGATE MITIGATE GROUP RISK EXECUTIVE GROUP RISK EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE COMMITTEE (GRMC) (EXCO) COMMITTEE (GRMC) (EXCO) MONITOR MONITOR BUSINESS UNIT MANAGEMENT TEAMS BUSINESS UNIT MANAGEMENT TEAMS O PER ATIO N AL O PE R AT I O N AL RISK GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK GROUP RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK 34 VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 strengthen the relevant controls and supported by the Group-level Risk the control systems. The Group has these are in turn reviewed at regular Management Committee (GRMC), a consistently applied methodology intervals. which assists them in evaluating the for identifying risks at the individual design and operating effectiveness business level for existing operations The Audit Committee is in turn of the risk mitigation programme and and for ongoing projects. EMERGING RISKS Energy & Climate Change chapter of Additionally, retaining our social this report (Page46). license to operate and the associated Sustainability risks are part of the social risk remain areas of changing corporate risk register. These include: We also view the emerging water demands. The company has made Health, Safety, Environment, Climate crisis as a risk to our business. provisions to ensure that we have Change, Managing relationship Several of our operations are located our pulse on the sentiments of the with stakeholders, and Tailings dam in medium water stress regions communities where we operated, Stability. and should there be a change in however it is likely that issues related demand from other stakeholders to emerging environmental or social While some of these risks have the or due to varying precipitation conditions can put the nature of the potential to pose an immediate threat patterns, the availability of water company’s relationship with local to our business and operations, a few can be compromised and affect our communities at stress. Details on like climate change have the potential productivity. Details on our mitigation our mitigation strategies are given in to impact the business over the next strategies are given in the Water the Retaining our Social License to 5-10 years. Details on the risk and our Management chapter of this report Operate chapter of this report (Page mitigation strategies are given in the (Page 62). 86). The Board Sustainability Committee In April 2019, we transitioned the Board Sustainability Committee from Vedanta Resources Limited to Vedanta Limited. The committee meets twice a year and supports the Board in: n Overseeing the Company’s sustainability performance n Outlining initiatives required to institutionalise a and ensuring adequacy of the Company’s sustainability sustainability culture through involvement of the framework. employees at all levels. n Advising the Board on sustainability policies and n Evaluating emerging sustainability risks in terms of management systems, clearly setting out the intensity and impact, in turn, guiding the management commitments of the Company to manage matters of on reasonable avoidance of adversities likely to pose a sustainable development effectively. threat to sustained growth. n Ensuring effective implementation of governance, n Advising the Board to enable it to discharge its advocacy and public relation mechanisms and responsibilities, having regard to the law and the practices related to sustainability. expected international standards of sustainability and stakeholder governance. VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 35 OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | ENVIRONMENT | OUR PEOPLE | RETAINING OUR SOCIAL LICENSE TO OPERATE | ANNEXURES Our Sustainability Management Approach Our goal is to create long-term value for all our stakeholders. To deliver on this promise, we have developed the Vedanta Sustainability Framework to enable our business units to adopt sustainable business principles into their systems and procedures. Vedanta Sustainability Framework (VSF) Developed in line with global standards approach to avoid and minimize potential from international bodies such as ICMM, environmental and social impacts, and IFC Performance Standards, GRI, and to engage with impacted and interested UNGC Principles; the Framework stakeholders over the lifetime of our comprises of policies, standards and operations starting from, exploration guidance notes, which help us in its through to site closure. execution. The framework defines our VEDANTA SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORK 8 87 STANDARDS ROBUST MONITORING POLICIES & GUIDANCE NOTES Biodiversity, Energy & Carbon, Covering all of the policy Annual audit (VSAP) conducted HIV-AIDS, HSE, Human Rights, subject areas at all Vedanta locations to check Social, Supplier & Contractor compliance with VSF Sustainability Management, Water In line with ICMM, IFC Performance Monitored by Group ExCo All of our businesses are expected to adopt these policies and standards so that their business practices are in alignment with Vedanta’s sustainable development philosophy. 36 VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 VEDANTA SUSTAINABILITY ASSURANCE PROCESS (VSAP) VSAP is our sustainability risk assurance tool, used to assess VSAP is an annual process with clear tracking of results by the compliance of all our businesses with the Vedanta the Sustainability Committee and the Executive Committee, Sustainability Framework. The assurance model has different which in turn report to the Board. As per the identified modules, which cover environment, health, safety, community gaps, respective businesses make management plans and human rights elements. The assurance system works on and undertake corrective gap-filling actions, which are the premise of tracking corrective and preventive actionS by periodically reviewed, evaluated and documented. The each of our businesses and commissioning periodic formal successes and failures are identified and highlighted, and audits by external experts. cross-learning opportunities are created. VSAP has been instrumental in helping us embed sustainable development into every activity that we undertake VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 37 OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | ENVIRONMENT | OUR PEOPLE | RETAINING OUR SOCIAL LICENSE TO OPERATE | ANNEXURES Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (CBCE) Vedanta is committed towards upholding un-compromising business ethics as part of Company’s core values and licence to operate. The Company follows “zero tolerance policy” for un-ethical behaviour. Our code complies with the law of the land and goes beyond compliance to raise the bar and set the expected standards of behaviour. It is applicable across the organisational hierarchy, irrespective of the location of operation. Our reporting requirements in the UK covers various governance aspects such as: THE CBCE COMPLIES WITH THE UK BRIBERY n Human rights n Conflicts of interests ACT, 2010 AND IS ALIGNED WITH THE n Insider training n Confidentiality UK MODERN SLAVERY ACT 2015. n Political contributions n Fraud, bribery and corruption Implementation of CBCE The implementation of CBCE is supported by the following additional policies and guidance notes: All these policies, notes and codes are publicly available on our website and n The Insider Trading Prohibition Policy are incorporated into contracts, where relevant, in order to ensure transparent n The Whistle-blower Policy and easy access to our policies in the As part of our public domain. Vedanta’s Whistlecommitment to blower Policy currently communicates continual improvement, n Anti-trust Guidance Notes our commitment to a ‘policy against and going beyond legal retaliation’, and commitment to compliance, we use an n The Supplier Code of Conduct maintaining confidentiality, in case of a e-learning module for company employee. the CBCE across the Group. This year, we Open Complaints on April 1st 2019 5 provided more than Number of whistle-blower cases opened in FY 2019-20 86 40,000 hours of training on Code of Conduct, Number of whistle-blower cases upheld and found correct in FY 2019-20 35 which included Human Number of whistle-blower cases closed in FY 2019-20 87 Rights-related aspects. Open Complaints on March 31st 2020 4 BUSINESS UNITS EMPLOYEES SUPPLY CHAIN All business units are periodically Employees are expected to report Our Suppliers’ Code of Conduct communicates reviewed for risks related to corruption and even minute violations, which are then our requirement for our suppliers to operate in bribery. The Audit Committee, comprising addressed and resolved promptly after an compliance with all relevant legislation, align to four Non-Executive Directors, assists impartial internal or external investigation. our policies while executing work for, or on behalf the Board in maintaining and monitoring Mandatory training is provided for new of Vedanta or on our sites, and adopt ethical the integrity of the Group’s financial recruits and refresher workshops on practices. Vedanta also encourages suppliers to statements, assessing the effectiveness of anti-corruption policies & procedures adopt principles and practices comparable to the Group’s risk management system and are conducted for relevant employees to our own, including the supplier code of conduct, internal controls, and the independence ensure that all employees are well-versed supplier and contractor management policies and and objectivity of the external auditor. with our Code. supplier screening checklist. 38 VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 Transparency Transparency leads to trust and trust in turn leads to a better relationship with all our stakeholders. At Vedanta, trust is one of the core values. We actively foster a culture of transparency in our interactions and encourage an open dialogue, which ensures mutual trust and respect. Transparency is also a key element in reporting. It helps the investors, shareholders and other stakeholders take informed decisions about our operations and business. Our disclosures include the integrated annual reports and annual sustainability reports, press releases, investor presentations and interviews, and news articles to inform and assist all our stakeholders. GRI Based IIRC Based Annual Report Tax Sustainability Transparency Report Report OUR DISCLOSURES SEBI National Voluntary UN Global Compact Guidelines Based Business CDP Climate Disclosures Communication of Responsibility Report Progress OUR REPORTING IS TRANSPARENT, CREDIBLE AND RIGOROUS. IT COVERS THE FULL SCOPE OF OUR OPERATIONS, COMPLIES WITH ALL FINANCIAL AND REPORTING REGULATIONS IN INDIA AND UK. ALL OUR REPORTS ARE EXTERNALLY VERIFIED. VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 39 OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | ENVIRONMENT | OUR PEOPLE | RETAINING OUR SOCIAL LICENSE TO OPERATE | ANNEXURES Letter from the Sustainability Committee K Venkataramanan, Chairperson, Sustainability committee Dear Stakeholder, continue to increase our efforts this and two of our sites will undergo a year with an emphasis on leadership’s pilot program in the next fiscal year – O ur focus remains on our role and capability in managing safety where the focus will be on integrating philosophy of zero harm, zero in the workplace and the ability to the site systems with the requirements waste and zero discharge identify and correct the safety hazards of the new standards. and we continued to make progress present in each task. A strong part of A on these during the year. Despite our this focus has been on the engagement t Sterlite Copper, in anticistrong focus on safety, the company and management of business partners pation of the verdict by the experienced 7 fatal incidents. (or contractors) who are over-repreMadras High Court, teams have sented on our safety statistics. continued to engage with the local Each loss of life is a tragedy, not just The safety culture across the business stakeholders. Many of the learnings for the families of the deceased but has been tested during the time of and expectations of the stakeholdalso for the company. Their occurrence the COVID-19 pandemic. With plants ers have been incorporated into the has led to a re-doubling of our efforts operating at reduced staffing to ensure site SOPs. These include revised and digging deeper to understand the adequate social distancing, teams have local employment and procurement reasons for these lapses. Our Executive worked harder to ensure that there are norms, plans for improved workplace Committee has taken the role of monno safety incidents. The safety managfacilities, and continued support for itoring implementation of key issues ers of Vedanta have been on shop floor developing the local social infrastrucdirectly addressing safety leadership, closely monitoring and advising the ture – through skill-building proimplementation of standards and risk production process. grams, medical facilities, education management. Active monitoring of infrastructure, and the planting of 1 W safety has become the norm at our e have continued to immillion trees. The planning process monthly ExCo and half-yearly Sustainprove in aspects related to for all these programs has begun and ability Committee meetings. social performance and implementation will begin once the completed the first round of social perplant reopens. In addition to the newly introduced formance reviews at four of our BUs – safety standards last year, we have also HZL, VAL-Lanjigarh, IOB, and BALCO. We have reconstituted the Carbon raised the expectation from our manWe also released revised standards on Forum during the financial year. The agement team – requiring visible and external stakeholder engagement and forum will formulate and implement felt leadership on the shop-floor to engrievance management. The teams the carbon agenda for the group. Key sure that unsafe acts are rooted out behave been working on implementing tasks include finalizing the next round fore causing negative impacts. We will the recommendations from the review of long-term GHG emissions reduction 40 VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 MEMBERSHIP AND ATTENDANCE The Sustainability Committee comprises five members and it met on two occasions during the year. K Venkataramanan 2/2 100% UK Sinha 2/2 100% S Venkatakrishnan 2/2 100% Sunil Duggal 2/2 100% Deshnee Naidoo 2/2 100% SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES DURING THE YEAR GOVERNANCE FOR SUSTAINABILITY to improve the safety performance of a Zero discharge and Zero waste goal the company’s Business Partners. and corrective actions and implemenReview and approval of the SustainabilReview of annual health & safety pertation plans. ity Committee Terms of Reference. formance and trends, with a focus on Review of systems being put in place to Finalizing the process for invitees to the actions taken to prevent fatalities. reduce the company’s carbon footprint. Committee meetings. Review of the Occupational Exposure Review of annual environmental perforReview of HSE & Sustainability proLimit protocols across the company, mance and trends. gram for FY2020. with a focus on Lead & Cadmium expoReview of the compliance status across sure at HZL, BUs. HEALTH & SAFETY ENVIRONMENT ESG RATINGS Review of the transparency of the safety metrics and analytics. Review outcomes of the third-party Review of steps taken to improve Review of the work being undertaken tailing dam assessments, waste manVedanta’s ESG ratings – specifically by external experts on safety topics. agement, emissions, technologies to engagement with the Dow Jones SusReview of the work being undertaken make our processes efficient to achieve tainability Index (DJSI). targets, developing Group and BU-level their impact. We continue to close the HSE & Sustainability. Andrew brings carbon governance structures, driving recommendations from the third-parover 30 years of global HSE experience awareness programs to build GHG-rety audit undertaken last year and are having worked in both the metals & duction-thinking into the culture, and focussed on ensuring that adequate mining and oil & gas industry. evaluate disruptive technologies that preparations are made for the monwill help us substantially reduce our soon season. We also take this opportunity to thank GHG emissions. Mr Phillip Turner for his contributions T he Committee has kept the towards driving the Group’s HSE & We made significant progress on Board informed about the Sustainability agenda for the last six tailings dam management and have developments arising from the years. improved management systems HSE & Sustainability aspects of the across all our operations. The Group business. ExCo and the Board have been kept informed of the key risks that remain The committee welcomes Mr Andrew K Venkataramanan and the actions being taken to mitigate Lewin as the new Head from Group Chairperson, Sustainability committee VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 41 OVERVIEW | | GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE | | ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENT | OUR PEOPLE | RETAINING OUR SOCIAL LICENSE TO OPERATE | ANNEXURES Environment Vedanta remains focussed on embracing disruptive, transformative practices and investing in technologies to optimise water consumption, reduce emissions, enhance energy productivity, safeguard biodiversity, maintain air quality and recycle waste. We recognize the significant impact that our industry has on the environment and have put in place systems, procedures and technologies to minimize the adverse effects. Employees planting saplings for a greener and cleaner environment, Sterlite Copper 42 VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 13.83% reduction in GHG intensity from a 2012 baseline (resulting in ~9 million Tonnes of avoided emissions) 13.83% REDUCTION IN GHG 582 million-units of green energy generated in FY 2019-20 582 40 RECYCLED MILLION-UNITS MEGAWATT OF SOLAR POWER 88% WASTE PROJECTS Recycled 88% of 40 MW of solar the high-volume low power projects were effect wastes such commissioned in the fly ash, slag, Jarosite, reporting year Red Mud and Gypsum TAILINGS MANAGEMENT Vedanta’s Tailings Management Facilities independent audit by industry experts Golder Associates VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 43 OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | ENVIRONMENT | OUR PEOPLE | RETAINING OUR SOCIAL LICENSE TO OPERATE | ANNEXURES Management Approach Over the last decade, Vedanta has undertaken multiple programs to improve it’s environmental performance. Zero Liquid Discharge systems, Tailings Dam Management, Waste to wealth initiatives, reduction in our GHG emissions intensity, and consistent programs to increase green-cover across our operational areas have served to minimize our environmental impact. Guided by the suite of environmental polices, standards, and guidance notes of the Vedanta Sustainability Framework, we have worked to address legacy issues at sites that have previously had a negative impact on the environment, retrofitted older assets with new technology and ensured new operations are as efficient as possible by design. For the environmental priorities arising from the materiality process, we have developed specific objectives and targets, and review performance against these issues on a periodic basis. The material issues that marks our environmental performance are: ENERGY MANAGEMENT TAILINGS DAM WATER MANAGEMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE MANAGEMENT AIR EMISSIONS BIODIVERSITY WASTE MANAGEMENT MANAGEMENT MANAGEMENT ENVIRONMENTAL All our operational sites are ISO 14001 INCIDENTS MANAGEMENT certified. The ISO 14001 accreditation helps us to regularly review the Environmental Management System, with programmes in place to mitigate the identified environmental impacts of our products and services. 44 VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 CASE STUDY 12 15 13 A turnaround at ElectroSteel Steels Limited (ESL) Vedanta has grown inorganically, through acquisition. A key to its success has been its ability to turnaround sick companies – not just economically, but also in how they manage for sustainability. ESL is no exception to this practice. In the 21 months since Vedanta acquired the company, there has been significant work done to improve the environmental performance of the unit. INCREASE IN FLY-ASH & BLASTINCREASE IN REUTILIZATION RATES OF FURNACE SLAG REUTILIZATION ETP TREATED WATER From reutilising only 10% of the generated Less than 1000 KL of ETP water was fly-ash, ESL has been able to utilize 100% reutilised in the plant every day. A project of the produced volumes. This has been to identify losses and lay additional pipeline SDG ALIGNMENT achieved by establishing sales agreement across the plant has seen the reutilization for fly-ash with cement companies, where levels of the ETP treated water increased SDG 12 the by-product is used in several blendedto 4,070 KL/day. The additional water is Responsible cement applications. In FY2020, ESL reutilised in the coke oven, blast furnace, Consumption transferred ~108,000 MT of fly-ash to the sinter & lime, DIP, power plant, raw material & Production cement companies. handling & storage, sprinkling and greenbelt Target 12.5 areas of the plant. A similar success story has been achieved Substantially reduce waste generation through with Blast-Furnace Slag, where ESL has WASTE HEAT RECOVERY prevention, reduction, increased reutilization levels from 30% to recycling and reuse 100% of the generated waste. This too has Our non-recovery type coke oven releases happened by collaborating with cement coke oven gas during its operation, which manufactures. is in the temperature range of 10,500oC11,500oC. In normal course, this waste SDG 13 FLY-ASH MANAGEMENT AND LANDgas will be released to the atmosphere, Climate Action RECLAMATION contributing to our overall emissions and negatively impacting the atmosphere. Target 13.2 Low-lying areas within plant-boundaries However, in order to recover the waste Integrate climate change are prone to flooding and can thus disrupt heat, we drive this waste heat through measures into strategies, operations. One such area has been two specially designed boilers, which polices, and planning reclaimed by using nearly 300,000 MT of generate steam to run the turbines in our fly-ash. The area was levelled, lined with captive power plant. A total of 259,255 clay at the bottom layer, before moving MWh of power is generated annually from SDG 15 the fly-ash laying in the plant premises for the WHRBs. This action has allowed us to Life on Land levelling. A layer of top-soil was then added reduce our coal usage by ~82,000 MT and and 50,000 saplings planted, thereby aiding reduce our GHG emissions by ~69,000 Target 15.9 in the biological reclamation of the land. This TCO2e/year. Introduce biodiversity solution has aided in reducing the risk of management and planning flooding as well as the spread of fly-ash due into development processes to wind or water-related events. VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 45 OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | ENVIRONMENT | OUR PEOPLE | RETAINING OUR SOCIAL LICENSE TO OPERATE | ANNEXURES Energy Management and Climate Change Managing our Climate Change Impacts The Paris Climate Agreement seeks to limit global temperature rise to below 2oC by 2050. In keeping with this goal the group has introduced measures to decrease its GHG emissions. In FY2016-17, the company committed to reduce its GHG emissions intensity by 16% from a 2012 baseline by 2020. As of FY2020, we have achieved a reduction of 13.83% against the target. GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE Our Energy and Carbon Management also reconstituted and revised the Terms Policy and Performance Standard commit of Reference for the ‘Carbon Forum’ – a our operations to adopt and maintain body of Chief Operating Officers (COOs) global best practices in carbon and energy of our businesses chaired by the CEO of management and minimise greenhouse one of our businesses. The Carbon Forum gas (GHG) emissions. In FY2020, we has been tasked with developing and revised our Energy & Carbon policy to overseeing the implementation of Vedanta’s include a commitment to substantially carbon mitigation and adaptation approach. decarbonize the business by 2050. We Included in the forum’s work are discussions related to approving Vedanta’s CARBON MANAGEMENT IS EMBEDDED ACROSS carbon management strategy, long-term ALL LEVELS OF THE ORGANIZATION greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity reduction targets, alignment with investor requirements, emerging regulatory risks BOARD OF DIRECTORS and carbon pricing. The carbon forum also informs the Group ExCo, risk management committee, and the Board Sustainability Committee on the best way to manage our BOARD SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE carbon footprint. Executive compensation is (Invitees: Group Head HSE&S, Director Carbon) linked to VSAP performance, which means management of our carbon footprint is also indirectly included in the compensation structure. GROUP EXCO (CEOs, Group Functional Heads, Invitee: Director Carbon) CARBON FORUM HSE&S MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE (CEO Power Business, BU COOs, (Group CEO, CEO Power Group Head HSE&S, Director Carbon) Business, Group Head HSE&S, Select HSE&S Heads from BUs, Director Carbon) BU CARBON WORKING GROUP (Cross-functional team to HSE&S EXCO implement GHG reduction agenda) (Group HSE&S team, BU Heads -HSE&S) INDIVIDUAL HSE & SUSTAINABILITY TEAMS OF BUSINESS UNITS 46 VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 We agree with the recommendations made by the Task Force on Climate-related Climate Disclosures (TCFD). With the formation of the Carbon Forum, we have begun the work to align our carbon management and disclosure practices to those recommended by the framework. CLIMATE-RELATED RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES Vedanta’s global presence exposes the a quarterly basis. To aid in the company’s company to multiple transition and physical understanding of these risks, we plan to risks. Climate change has been recognized undertake a detailed study to quantify their as a key risk in our corporate risk register financial impacts. A brief description of our and is monitored by the Risk Committee on risks is given below. TRANSITION RISKS POLICY & LEGAL RISKS REPUTATIONAL RISK We anticipate regulatory Climate change has become changes aimed at limiting a risk of concern for all of our or reducing GHG emissions. investors. Financial institutions These changes could potentially impact from around the world are looking to the company’s operations with increased decarbonize their portfolios, thereby costs for fossil fuels, levies for emissions minimizing their climate risk. Inability to in excess of certain permitted levels, meet their expectations can result in a loss and increased administrative costs for of reputation, most likely observed in a monitoring and reporting. Given that nearly decline in the company’s ESG risk rating – 90% of Vedanta’s energy is sourced from impacting access to finance. We have been captive coal-based thermal powerplants, consistently reviewing investor expectations any regulation to reduce our GHG or other and the required response at various forums air emissions can significantly impact such as Group ExCo, Carbon Forum, HSE our operating expenses. These expenses ExCo and Risk Committee. could be in the form of increased capital Nursery at Codli, Goa expenditures or due to stringent penalties for non-compliance. PHYSICAL RISKS India has also committed to ensuring that 40% of the country’s energy is generated We also anticipate physical from renewable energy sources by 2030. risks related to extreme In alignment with these targets, the weather events and changes government has introduced the Renewable in the availability of water due to climate Purchase Obligations (RPOs) for all large change. In areas of operation, which are consumers of energy. As of FY2020, all water stressed the availability of water could business units consuming more than 5 become a challenge with changes in the MW of energy need to source 17.5% of mean precipitation. We are also dependent their energy from renewable sources. on a constant supply of water for continuing Those unable to purchase or install operations. We have conducted a water risk renewables of equivalent capacity, can buy assessment to evaluate the risks at 25 of our Renewable Energy Certificates (RECs). locations to understand and address these In FY2020, Vedanta purchased RECs for risks. We have our operations in both water a combined cost of INR 1.09 billion. This stressed areas and areas prone to flooding. cost will continue to increase as the RPO Additionally, our off-shore oil & gas assets Sterlite Copper requirements go up year-on-year. Further, are at risk due to the increased intensity and the progressive introduction of carbon frequency of cyclones off the coast of India. emissions trading mechanisms and tighter Rising temperatures will also pose a risk to emission reduction targets, is likely to raise our workforce, especially those who have costs and reduce demand growth. to work outdoors. To combat heat risk, we VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 47 OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | ENVIRONMENT | OUR PEOPLE | RETAINING OUR SOCIAL LICENSE TO OPERATE | ANNEXURES Energy Management and Climate Change Managing our Climate Change Impacts | Continued... stagger working hours during peak summer efficiency programs that we implement to months, with complete stoppage during the reduce our GHG emissions. Over the last hottest parts of the day. three years, Vedanta has saved nearly 6.24 million GJ of energy. Vedanta has not yet undertaken climate OPPORTUNITIES scenario planning and stress-testing of the company’s projects based on internal In terms of climate-related carbon prices. There is an intention to business opportunities, the introduce internal carbon prices soon. Given company expects to benefit the challenges related to Vedanta’s diverse from an increase in demand for copper, zinc business operations, which have different and silver as the global renewable energy emission intensities, the company is in and electric vehicle industry expands. the process of reviewing whether to apply carbon price at a group or BU level. We will also benefit from the energy TARGETS & STRATEGIES Vedanta’s businesses range from mining switching to large-scale renewable operations (surface and underground), energies has not possible due to the current smelting and refining units, hydrocarbon financial and technical limitations of those exploration and drilling, product technologies. As a result, much of our GHG manufacturing, and power generation. We emissions reduction programs remain rely on coal-based thermal energy to meet focused on improving the energy efficiency a majority of those energy demands. Given of our operations. the nature and location of our businesses, The company has aligned itself with the Nationally Determined Commitments of the Government of India and had committed to reduce our GHG intensity by 16% by 2020 from a 2012 baseline. As of 31st March 2020, we had reduced our GHG emissions intensity by 13.83%. This is equivalent to ~9 million tonnes of avoided GHG emissions. Lanjigarh alumina refinery In FY2020, we reached the end-of-cycle should continue to be aligned to India’s for our GHG emissions intensity reduction emissions reduction goals. Zinc India has targets. We are currently in discussions to committed to SBTs and plans to reduce take the next set of targets that will have its scope 1 and scope 2 emissions by 14% a time horizon of five years (until FY2025). by 2026 from a 2016 baseline. They have While our last set of targets were aligned also committed to reducing their scope to India’s NDCs, we are deliberating if 3 emissions by 20% by 2026 from a 2016 Science Based Targets (SBT) should be baseline. adopted for the entire group, or if we 48 VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 CASE STUDY 13 15 Carbon Sequestration through Green Belt at Ravva Plantation based carbon sequestration has proved to be a simple, cost-effective and reliable technique to offset one’s carbon footprint. Done right, this approach not only helps sequester carbon, but can also enhance the biodiversity of an area, improve local incomes, and protect the area from extreme weather events. At Ravva, Cairn’s offshore terminal, we have been planting flora native to the coastal habitat to enhance the local green-cover. Plants like mangroves, marsh grasses and other wetland species have the natural ability to draw down higher quantities of Carbon Dioxide per year than land plants and can store the carbon for centuries in their roots. SDG ALIGNMENT The Ravva greenbelt program has resulted in the development of a manmade wetland SDG 13 and mangrove forest, planted in 55 acres of To assess the carbon stock of the Climate Action plantations at Ravva, the team undertook swampy terrain in the backwaters of the Bay of Bengal. The site has become a hotspot for extensive field surveys and spatial analysis Target 13.1 in accordance with IPCC GPG LULUCF Strengthen resilience several avifaunal species and refuge to the smooth coated otter. A total of 16 species guidelines. In the assessment, living portion and adaptive capacity of trees, one climber, one Shrub and four of forest biomass carbon i.e. Above Ground of communities and infrastructure herbaceous mangrove associates have Biomass (AGB) & Below Ground Biomass made this habitat their home. Collectively, (BGB) and Soil organic matter were included SDG 15 the Raava greenbelt harbours 33 species of for Carbon stock assessment. Life on Land plants. Target 15.9 The study confirms that the carbon sequestration potential of the Cairn Introduce biodiversity management and planning developed plantation is ~17,959 tons of Carbon dioxide, calculated based into development processes on the total carbon stock stored. GHG EMISSIONS PERFORMANCE The marginal increase in GHG emissions is due to the inclusion YEAR GHG emissions (million TCO2e) TOTAL of GHG emission numbers from Electrosteel Steels Limited (ESL) – a company that Vedanta FY2020 57.48 1.86 59.34 acquired in 2019. If we remove ESL from our calculations, our absolute GHG emissions FY2019 55.12 3.51 58.63 declined by ~3.8% year-on-year. The decline is primarily due to lower production volumes in Q4 FY2018 51.00 1.20 52.2 as a result of the COVID-19 crisis. Scope 1 (direct) Scope 2 (indirect) VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 49 OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | ENVIRONMENT | OUR PEOPLE | RETAINING OUR SOCIAL LICENSE TO OPERATE | ANNEXURES Energy Management and Climate Change Energy Consumption Vedanta meets nearly 90% of its energy requirement from its captive power plants (CPP). Coal and natural gas are the dominant fuels for our CPPs and the company makes significant effort to ensure that we optimize their performance efficiency. In FY2020, the organization undertook more than 70 energy conservation projects. These include: Improvement of boiler efficiencies at our power plant, Load balancing measures dependant on demand for energy, Reduction in the use of furnace oil, upgrade of cathodes and process optimization in smelters. Fuel Type Breakup (%) 90% Coal 4% Natural Gas 1.27% Grid Electricity 1.51% HFO 0.54% Diesel 1.10% Renewable Energy 1.42% Others Energy Consumption, by Business 61% Aluminium 23% Power 9% Zinc India 4.57% Oil & Gas 1.35% Steel 0.51% Zinc Intl 0.15% Copper Ind/Aus 0.06% Iron Ore 50 VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 YEAR Energy consumption (million GJ) TOTAL There is a steep decline in the Indirect energy (electricity from FY2020 519 12 531 state grid/sister companies and renewable energy) because the Aluminium and power sector FY2019 485 68 553 have reduced the purchase of energy from grid/sister companies. This was undertaken FY2018 425 21 446 as a part of a cost savings exercise. Direct energy consumption Indirect energy consumption ENERGY & GHG SAVING INITIATIVES, FY2020 Vedanta companies implemented more than 70 projects across the company to reduce their energy consumption and decrease their carbon footprint. The top 10 programs are listed in the table below: Energy Savings Related GHG S.N. BU Top 10 Energy/GHG Savings Initiatives (GJ) Savings (TCO2e) Improvement of boiler efficiency through increased Gross 1. TSPL 591,263 134,808 Calorific Values 2. TSPL Improved load balancing of CW pump 364,501 83,106 3. VAL-Jharsuguda Decrease in HFO consumption in furnace 326,241 74,383 Cathode upgrade and process optimization of 40 pots in 4. BALCO 96,216 21,937 potline-1 Cathode upgrade and process optimization of 102 pots in 5. BALCO 94,244 21,488 potline-2 Reduction in pot voltage by increasing potline current & 6. VAL-Jharsuguda 77,450 17,659 reduction of dead-pot voltage Increase in Potline1 current efficiency from 94.28% to 7. BALCO 69,856 15,927 94.65% 8. VAL-Jharsuguda Energy saving cathode implementation 66,345 15,127 9. BALCO Reduction in auxiliary energy consumption 53,746 12,254 Increase in Potline 2 current efficiency from 93.85% to 10. BALCO 53,460 12,189 94.38% Totals (Top 10 Projects) 1,793,321 408,877 In total, Vedanta achieved energy savings for 1.92 million GJ against a target of 1.75 million GJ. The total estimate GHG emissions savings from all of the 70 energy conservation projects is 439,811 TCO2e. VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 51 OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | ENVIRONMENT | OUR PEOPLE | RETAINING OUR SOCIAL LICENSE TO OPERATE | ANNEXURES Energy Management and Climate Change Energy Consumption | Continued... GREEN ENERGY We are diversifying our energy portfolio to include renewable energy, which will help us reduce our carbon footprint. We have deployed the following renewable energy technologies across our operations: SOLAR TCO2e per annum. Vedanta is planning (UNFCCC) and the Verified Carbon to further enhance its solar energy Standard program by VEERA and Hindustan Zinc footprint in the coming year. The Debari the Gold Standard, which is the most commissioned 12MW and Agucha solar power projects rigorous certification standard globally solar plant in Debari, 4MW solar plant has been registered under CDM and for carbon offset projects. All energy in Dariba and 22 MW solar plant in Gold Standard, which is most rigorous generated is sold to the respective state Agucha. All the solar power projects certification standard globally for DISCOMs and does not form part of have been installed on waste land/ carbon offset projects. Vedanta’s energy mix. dump yard at Dariba mine, Debari Zinc smelter and Agucha mine, WIND HYDRO reducing our land use. In addition, a 1 MW solar power project has been As part of our commercial In Australia, CMT commissioned at Kayad mine, under renewable energy procures energy from the net-metering scheme. Rooftop installations, the Company the state grid, which solar projects were also completed has installed 274 MW of wind farms generates energy using hydro power. taking the total to 40.6MW for captive in five states across India. These Nearly 23 million units were consumed use. The green power generated from projects are registered under the CDM by CMT, which is currently under care & our solar installations have reduced program by United Nations Framework maintenance. our carbon footprint by nearly 66,000 Convention on Climate Change Mangala Processing Terminal, Cairn Oil & Gas 52 VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 CASE STUDY 7 Rooftop Solar Power at VAL-Lanjigarh With a view of reducing greenhouse gas emissions and harnessing clean energy, solar power panels were installed on rooftops at different locations in the plant i.e. Admin Building rooftop (74 KWp) and HR Gate Office Building Roof Top (26KWp). SDG ALIGNMENT SDG 7 Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable, & modern energy to all Target 17.2 A total installed capacity of 100 Kwp was Lanjigarh to 380 KWp. The project will help Increase substantially the commissioned in this fiscal year, taking the reduce power requirements from the our share of renewable energy in the mix total solar power generation capacity at captive power plant by ~154,000 KWh. VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 53 OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | ENVIRONMENT | OUR PEOPLE | RETAINING OUR SOCIAL LICENSE TO OPERATE | ANNEXURES Waste & Tailings Management Vedanta’s waste management system is built to handle waste in an efficient and responsible manner. The company is guided by The Resource Use and Waste Management Technical Standard and supporting guidance notes, which are part of the Vedanta Sustainability Framework. We follow the principle of first reducing the waste, quantitatively as well as qualitatively (reducing the toxicity), and then performing the recovery and recycle (either ourselves or sold to authorised recyclers). The last priority is disposal in `landfill or by incineration, using authorised, licenced and secured landfills. The wastes of greatest concern are those categorized as hazardous wastes and those that are present in large quantities – categorised as high-volume-low-effect wastes. The hazardous wastes are sent to government authorized handlers or recyclers. Highvolume-low-effect wastes are stored in tailings dams/ash-dykes or other secure-landfill structures before being sent to other industries as raw materials – thereby recycling the waste stream. Other non-hazardous wastes such are sent for recycling, disposed, or incinerated. We are currently focussed on developing “waste to wealth” projects to minimize our waste-stream. Fly-ash bricks, Lanjigarh 54 VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 CASE STUDY 12 Study: Converting Hazardous Waste into Resources At Vedanta, we are always looking for ways to optimize metal recovery and SDG ALIGNMENT minimize waste in a sustainable manner. At our zinc business, hazardous waste (slag) was transported to third-party vendors who would help recover metal SDG 12 residues. The efficiency of this process was about 60%. Sustainable consumption and We piloted an ancillary plant at the Dariba production operations to recover these residues in-house. This Target 12.2 model came with several advantages. It enabled the Achieve sustainable recovery of nearly 95% of the metal residues from management and copper dross, purification waste cake, antimony efficient use of natural dust/slag and raw zinc oxide. The high recovery resources rates resulted in improved project economics and having the plant in-house eliminated safety hazards Target 12.5 and pollution related to transportation. Substantially reduce waste generation The success of the plant at Dariba has encouraged through prevention, us to commission another plant at our Chanderia reduction, recycling operations, thereby taking one more step in our and reuse waste to wealth program. Handling High-Volume-Low-Effect Wastes Fly Ash and Bottom ash form the greatest volume of high-volume-low-effect wastes. Formed when we burn coal for thermal-power-production, the waste residue was IN FY 2019-20, WE traditionally stored in ash-pond dykes. Vedanta started exploring alternative uses for RECYCLED 88% OF fly-ash a few years ago – beginning with supplying it as raw-material to fly-ash brick THE HIGH-VOLUMEmanufacturers. More recently we have entered into agreements to supply the raw LOW-EFFECT WASTES material to the cement industry where it serves as a binding agent. The result is that SUCH AS FLY ASH, over the last two years we have been able to recycle 100% of the generated fly-ash and SLAG, JAROSITE. have also started to make an impact on the legacy waste stored at our site. BALCO’s Chotia coal mines uses the fly-ash to backfill the voids in its open mine-pits, thereby utilizing this waste stream. The process follows a scientific methodology of layering fly-ash with soil, compressing the layers and covering the top-soil with native plantations. Currently permissions allow Chotia to backfill ~12 million MT of fly-ash. WASTE PERFORMANCE High-Volume-Low-Impact Waste Recycling (million MT) DASHBOARD Waste Generation & GENERATED 11.30 0.102 0.86 0.57 2.23 Recycle Snapshot RECYCLED 11.92 0.104 1.00 0.15 0.14 Fly Ash Bottom Ash Slag Jarosite Red Mud VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 55 OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | ENVIRONMENT | OUR PEOPLE | RETAINING OUR SOCIAL LICENSE TO OPERATE | ANNEXURES Waste & Tailings Management Handling High-Volume-Low-Effect Wastes | Continued... CASE STUDY 12 A fix for Jarofix Iron is a common metal associated with zinc concentrates. During the refining process, iron is removed from the metal aggregate using the Jarosite process to obtain zinc. ‘Jarosite’ — a hazardous substance released during the process is combined with lime and cement to form an inert substance called ‘Jarofix’, which is then disposed. Fumer plant, CLZS, HZL This conventional process requires huge land area for disposal, making it an unsustainable option in the long run. To eliminate the generation of this hazardous waste, we have identified a new technology solution known as ‘Fumer Technology’. Patented by Xmetech, South Korea, this process involves fuming the zinc ferrite (zinc-iron metal aggregate) in a furnace to obtain residual metals captured as fume oxide and the iron waste generated as clean slag. This iron-rich slag can be used as a raw material for the manufacturing of cement SDG ALIGNMENT and other construction products. SDG 12 This environment-friendly technology has Sustainable several advantages over the conventional consumption and Jarosite process; The fumer slag contains about 7.6% production lime, which would later translate to a Along with enhanced recovery of the reduction of lime consumption in the Target 12.2 metals (zinc, lead, silver, and copper) cement industry where this by-product Achieve sustainable this technology promises complete of the fumer technology can be used management and elimination of land requirement for as a raw material. efficient use of natural disposal of Jarofix. resources The fumer plant has been build at the The fume gases released in the Chanderiya Lead Zinc Smelter (CLZS) of process have the potential to generate Hindustan Zinc. The project will generate Target 12.5 green energy by the waste heat Substantially reduce ~21 MWH of green power, which will be recovery process. waste generation consumed in the Fumer process itself. through prevention, The need for cement and lime as raw We are awaiting formal commissioning reduction, recycling materials to convert reactive Jarosite of this plant, which is likely to reduce our and reuse to inert Jarofix is also eliminated. environmental liabilities significantly. 56 VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 Over time, modern technologies will eliminate a majority of the waste streams generated in the mining/smelting process. VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 57 OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | ENVIRONMENT | OUR PEOPLE | RETAINING OUR SOCIAL LICENSE TO OPERATE | ANNEXURES Exploring a Circular Business Model Every year the metals & mining industry produces ~174 billion MT of waste. Not only are these waste volumes great, but they often contain traces of heavy metals and chemicals. At best, these wastes result in large tracts of land being used to safely store them, and at worst, they can cause significant harm to environment and society, in instances of run-off or a breach in the storage areas. For many years, the industry has been to safely store this waste. evaluating solutions to minimize and reuse these wastes, however these have been At Vedanta, we follow the waste hierarchy imperfect, and often-times result in the principles of reduce, reuse, recycle and generation of alternate waste-streams. It dispose/store responsibly. Given the large is estimated that nearly 40% of this waste volumes of waste we generate, we are can be recycled and converted into valuealways on the lookout for technologies added-products. or partners who can help us convert this “waste to wealth”. In India, the unscientific disposal of hazardous waste has become a significant Enter Runaya Refining and their mineral environmental issue. One reason is the waste processing solutions. growing unavailability of secure landfill sites RUNAYA Creating circular economy solutions for the metals & mining industry The world produces ~65 Board. Recyclers attempt to recover MMT of aluminium every year. aluminium from the dross, but Approximately 1.5% of the total because they handle cold dross, the quantity is lost in the form of recovery is limited to ~20% metal by aluminium dross – a by-product – weight from the dross (equivalent to that contains recoverable aluminium, a recovery rate of ~10%). aluminium nitrides and oxides, spinel, dimagnesium silicate, gupeiite, The process adopted by Runaya and sodium titanate. Aluminium breaks up the recovery into twodross is classified as a hazardous stages – (i) Recovery from the hot waste under the prevailing Indian dross, and (ii) Recovery from the Environmental regulations due to cold dross. The combined effect is its potential environmental and that one is able to recover ~40% health impacts. Current practice is of the metal by weight (or 90% of to responsibly dispose this waste the metal present in the dross). by sending it to State authorized This is a significant jump, resulting recyclers/re-processors who process in improving the economic viability the waste as per approved guidelines of the process. Also given that it is by the Central Pollution Control processing the dross in its melted 58 VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 state in stage 1, there is a significant reduction in the energy requirements compared to other solutions in the market. Additionally, in keeping with Vedanta’s “Zero Waste” philosophy, Runaya, which has a technological tie-up with TAHA International S.A (Luxemburg), is able to take the non-metallic portions of the residual dross and process it to produce briquettes that can be used as slag conditioner in the steel industry. The end result is that 100% of the dross can be reutilized – through metal recovery and the creation of a value-added-product. This the dependence on the other raw eliminates the amount of waste materials used as slag conditioners sent to secure landfills and is an in the steel industry – thereby environmentally safe way of utilizing living up to the ideals of circular a hazardous waste. It also decreases manufacturing and circular economy. “Runaya’s process is a game-changer for the Aluminum sector. Not only does it have the potential to eliminate a hazardous waste-stream, but it converts that waste into value-added products. It is a sustainable solution in the truest sense – addressing environmental, economic, and social aspects.” Ajay Kapur, CEO Vedanta Aluminium & Power Ajay Kapur A PARTNERSHIP ON RUNAYA PROCESS THE BRINK OF A REVOLUTION A circular economy is one that is restorative 35% Aluminium recovery 5% Aluminium recovery 60% Depleted dross used 100% Recycling by design, aiming to from hot dross from cold dross to make briquettes keep products and components and + + = STAGE STAGE STAGE OUTPUT 1 2 3 materials at their highest utility and Hot dross processing Cold dross processing Steel slag conditioner Briquettes value at all times. The (CLIENT PLANT) (CLIENT PLANT) production (RUNAYA PLANT) Used in steel industry solution being offered by Runaya is an example of what is possible for the aluminium industry and fulfils our vision of “zero waste” by eliminating a hazardous waste-stream. Vedanta is excited to partner ADDITIONAL BENEFITS FROM THE PROCESS with them and usher Decreased requirement for land availability for waste storage in a revolution for the Reduction in transportation related emissions and safety incidents resources sector in Energy and related GHG emissions savings in the metal extraction stage more ways than one. Employment generation opportunities VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 59 OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | ENVIRONMENT | OUR PEOPLE | RETAINING OUR SOCIAL LICENSE TO OPERATE | ANNEXURES Waste & Tailings Management Tailings Dam Management WHAT ARE TAILINGS? The catastrophic failure of a tailings storage facility at Vale’s Corrego do Feijão When minerals and mine in Brumadinho, Brazil serves as a reminder to the extreme potential risks metals are extracted posed by tailings dams. A failure of the dam can cause extensive harm to the local from the mined ore, the communities and environment – leading to loss of life, property, and ecosystems. remaining substance, which consists of Tailings dams and ash ponds are integral to Vedanta’s mining operations. powdered rocks and Effective management of tailings dams is part of our sustainability commitment: water, is considered as Zero Harm, Zero Waste and Zero Discharge. Vedanta remains vigilant to the risks tailings waste. posed by tailing dams/ ash dykes. Vedanta oversees 21 active and one audit our tailing management system and closed tailings management facilities advice on the safe design, construction (TMFs). Our principle concern is to and operation of all our tailings facilities. The company’s Tailings ensure the safety of the people who live These audits were the start of an annual Dam Management downstream from our dams. To improve audit program that will be put in place Standard requires that the management of our tailings dams and from FY2021. The interim period has been all our group companies ash ponds, we have taken some significant used by the business to address the gaps follow consistent, measures over the last 24 months. and recommendations that emerged from international best the audit. Till date we have closed ~84% practices. Additionally, All our Tailing Dams are lined, hence of the findings and the remaining are the contamination of ground water due work-in-progress. all businesses are to seepage of bottom ash is low. We required to prepare apply stringent steps to comply with all Additional oversight mechanisms have the dams for the local environmental standards, ensuring been put in place, including a monthly monsoon season, that the water contained in this waste is sign-off from the CEOs of our BUs, which could see treated and made safe before it can be verifying the activities related to audit overflow conditions discharged into local drainage systems. recommendation closure, monthly arise in case of heavy monitoring of the structures, monsoon rainfall. In FY2018-19, Vedanta hired independent preparedness and other actions to de-risk industry experts Golder Associates to the facilities are being undertaken. CRITICAL ASPECTS OF VEDANTA’S TMF STANDARDS Site selection must be based on a Dam break analysis must be conducted Design must be based on best comprehensive environmental and social based on the advice of the designer/ available technology, to minimise the impact assessment, economics, and consultant to quantify the TMF-related environmental, social, and economic public health and safety risk over the life risks if the TMF is located upstream risks, at an optimal total cost of cycle of the tailing facility as per Good or close to communities or sensitive ownership over the life cycle of the International Industry Practice environmental areas operation. Key initiatives taken to improve oversight of our dam facilities Vedanta is a respondent to Church of • Daily/weekly checks (as required) England’s request to disclose details about • Revision of the risk matrix our tailings facilities, including their location, • Introduction of surveillance systems activity status, hazard categorization, raising • Conducting liquefaction analysis method, engineering oversight among other • Improved training for all key personnel and detailed documentation aspects. Details on this disclosure can be • Quarterly review of dam-state by senior management found at: https://www.vedantalimited.com/ • Emphasis on safe closure planning for all tailing/dyke facilities FactSheet/Sustainable%20Tailings.pdf 60 VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 CASE STUDY 12 Dry Tailings Disposal System – Zawar Tailings dam pose a high-risk because of the semi-fluid nature of the tailings mixture. Stored in slurry form, tailings dams experience tremendous pressure and should the walls breach, the stored tailings are propelled quickly due to the viscosity of the fluid and the release of the stored potential energy. Tailings slurry contains about 50-55% water. withdrawal of fresh water. One solution to increase the stability and life of the tailing dam is to dewater the tailings The dry tailing plant uses multiple stages to mixture. dry the tailings. In the “tailings thickener” stage, trash and feed slurry are separated Hindustan Zinc Limited (HZL) has and process water is transferred to a commissioned a tailing filtration (dry tailing thickener overflow tank. The separated plant) at the near the tailing dam at Zawar. “underflow slurry” is further dried by the The installation and commissioning of dry addition of a flocculant, to separate the tailing plant has resulted in higher water water using a gravity separation system. This recovery, near elimination of water losses increases the slurry composition from 50% through seepage and evaporation, virtual to 70%. The water collected in the thickener stoppage of any probability of ground overflow tank is transferred to different SDG ALIGNMENT water contamination through seepage parts of the plant, such as process water and significant reduction in the risk of pond, flocculent dosing system, firefighting SDG 12 catastrophic dam failure. Excess water is system, and slurry flushing line. A portion Sustainable extracted from tailing slurry by a filtration of thickener overflow water is transferred consumption and process, which transforms it into a cake to water treatment system through water production containing only 16% moisture. The cake pumps, where it gets treated and used in the Target 12.5 is easy to handle, can be transported by tailing filtration & disposal system. Substantially reduce conveyor & dumpers, stored in stacks up waste generation to reasonable height and stabilized by Thickened slurry is sent to the filter feed tank through prevention, compaction & plantation. The extracted where it is pumped using centrifugal pumps reduction, recycling water is recirculated for use in the milling for uniform distribution over the entire width and reuse operation – thereby reducing our need for of the E-disc filter. Key Advantages Recirculation of >90% of the process water. Elimination of the risks of catastrophic tailings flow when a slurry dam (TSF) fails. Safe stacking of tailings cakes even in areas of high seismic activity. Reduction of risk of ground water contamination through seepage. Reduction of storage footprint by 50% and enabling fast rehabilitation when approaching mine closure VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 61 OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | ENVIRONMENT | OUR PEOPLE | RETAINING OUR SOCIAL LICENSE TO OPERATE | ANNEXURES Water Management Water availability plays an important role in all metal and mining companies, particularly for operations located in water scarce regions. A comprehensive water supply strategy for mining projects is important to ensure that fair allocation of water is maintained for municipal, agricultural and industrial users in the region. Our Group water policy administered through our water management standard, drives the implementation of improved water management practices across the business. Waterscreening assessment to identify sensitive water resources, aquatic habitats and any known or suspected water resource constraints in proximity to each operation, is a must and has been conducted by all our businesses. These policies, standards, and SOPs ensure that our operations have built-in measures to evade, curtail, or where required, compensate its effect on water in their respective regions. WATER PERFORMANCE DASHBOARD % YEAR Million m3 Million m3 Percentage FY2020 255.10 73.86 28.95% FY2019 278.67 67.58 24.25% FY2018 280.01 74.40 26.60% Total water consumption (million m3) Water recycled/reused (million m3) Water recycled (%) Cairn Oil & Gas 62 VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 WATER SAVING INITIATIVES, FY2020 Vedanta companies implemented 35 projects across the company to reduce their water consumption. The top 10 programs are listed in the table below: Water Savings S.N. BU Top 10 Water Saving Initiatives (m3) Multiple projects at 2,400 MW Thermal Power Plant, including: • Installation of a new ETP with the ability to treat 500 m3/hr of effluents • Increasing Cycle of Concentration from 6.45 to 7 1. VAL-Jharsuguda • Restricting the unauthorized usage of FF water 1,531,339 • Weekly water audits to identify and control water wastage • 100% utilization of recycled water in Ash Handling Plant • Increase in the Peak Load Factor 2. BALCO Construction of zero discharge pit and installation of pump to reuse waste water 533,859 3. Cairn (Suvali) Reuse of treated produced water via RO 158,120 4. HZL TG condensate water to be reused in system 96,874 5. BALCO Improving Cycle of Concentration from 6 to 8 90,000 6. BALCO Implementation of closed loop systems at CH-3 71,060 7. HZL CPP effluent/Pond water to be used in all drums, replacing use of fresh water 69,390 Improvement in recycling rate of treated cooling tower blowdown in Zero 8. TSPL 68,181 Discharge System Zinc International Increasing recycling of raw water and process waste-water throughout the 9. 64,886 (Skorpian Zinc) plant Iron Ore Business Amona Pit water utilization @ MCD & PP-2.# replacment of PVC pipelie to MS. 10. 48,412 (Value-Added Business) Totals (Top 10 Projects) 2,732,121 Collectively, we have saved or preserved over 2.99 million m3 of water in the fiscal year, against our target of conserving 2.5 million m³. VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 63 OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | ENVIRONMENT | OUR PEOPLE | RETAINING OUR SOCIAL LICENSE TO OPERATE | ANNEXURES Water Management CASE STUDY 6 12 9 Optimization on freshwater consumption In the last ten years, VAL-Jharsuguda has improved its specific water consumption at smelter-1 by nearly 90%. This dramatic improvement has been realized due to the consistent focus to optimize the use of all natural resources. A combination of engineering and behaviour-based approaches have made Jharsuguda one of the most water-efficient operations in the Vedanta Group. SDG ALIGNMENT SDG 6 Clean Water & Sanitation Target 6.4 Increase water use efficiency and ensure sustainable withdrawals Some of the steps undertaken to achieve this result include: SDG 9 • Programs to eliminate water wastage in workers on water efficient practices; Build resilient every step of the process; • Educating the entire workforce to report infrastructure, • A strong focus on zero discharge, water leakages, so that preventative promote inclusive allowing the business to recycle 100% of action can be taken to stop water and sustainable its effluent water; wastage; industrialization and • Adherence to the principles of 3R • Increase in the frequency of water foster innovation (Reduce, Reuse and Recycle); audits, followed by a quick closure of the • Water saving campaigns are organised gaps identified – especially those related Target 9.4 by the utility team throughout the plant to underground leakages Upgrade industries and raising awareness among the shop-floor retrofit industries to make them sustainable Smelter-1 Specific Water consumption (m3/MT) 3.0 2.64 (resource use efficiency, 2.5 clean energy, etc) 2.18 2.0 1.73 1.5 1.24 1.30 SDG 12 1.0 0.58 0.55 0.51 0.49 0.47 Responsible 0.5 0.37 0.34 Consumption & Production 0.0 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 2018-19 2019-20 Target 12.2 Achieve sustainable Additional benefits from improved water management include the decline in energy and management and chemical consumption due to lower operating hours of the pumps, which are no long efficient use of natural processing ‘wasted’ water. The decreased energy consumption has also lowered the carbon resources footprint of the operations. 64 VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 We foresee that effective water management will become a competitive advantage in the near future. VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 65 OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | ENVIRONMENT | OUR PEOPLE | RETAINING OUR SOCIAL LICENSE TO OPERATE | ANNEXURES Air Quality and Emissions Control Air pollution does not recognize geographic boundaries. Some pollutants can travel great distances affecting air quality and public health locally, regionally, nationally, and even internationally in areas that are downwind. We closely monitor the extent of any impact that our operations have on air quality and the effects and implications that this may have on employees, the communities local to our operations, and the broader environment. We are committed to using processes and technology that minimises any particulate release. We strongly comply with all the pollution norms to state and central guidelines and notifications. As part of our ambient air quality monitoring process, we monitor Suspended Particulate Matter (SPM), SOx and NOx. We also keep in check lead emissions in our zinc operations, fluoride emissions in our copper and aluminium operations, and Polycyclic Aromatic Hydrocarbons (PAHs) in our aluminium operations as per our Environmental Management Standard. STACK EMISSIONS DASHBOARD YEAR Stack emissions (in MT) FY2020 11,215 257,676 67,317 FY2019 8,871 242,236 67,278 FY2018 8,421 189,733 56,749 Particulate matter SOx NOx The steep rise in our air emissions numbers are due to the addition of ESLs operations in this year’s data. HZL, Chanderiya Lead Zinc Smelter, Chittorgarh 66 VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 Improving ambient air quality has become an issue of critical importance among domestic stakeholders. VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 67 OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | ENVIRONMENT | OUR PEOPLE | RETAINING OUR SOCIAL LICENSE TO OPERATE | ANNEXURES Biodiversity Management Poorly managed operations can pollute the environment and damage the WE HAVE A biodiversity that underpins economies, provides food, fuel, building materials DEDICATED and freshwater, and helps to mitigate the impacts of climate change and natural ‘BIODIVERSITY POLICY disasters. AND MANAGEMENT STANDARD’ IN LINE Metal and Mining companies are reliant We also follow the International WITH INTERNATIONAL on healthy ecosystems. For example, Council on Mining and Metals STANDARDS AND they need reliable water supplies, and mitigation hierarchy an internationally GUIDELINES OF in coastal areas they might need the recognised approach designed to help INTERNATIONAL protection from storm-surges. limit, as far as possible, the impacts of FINANCE development projects on biodiversity and CORPORATION (IFC). Vedanta’s commitment to “Do No Harm” ecosystem services. extends to the surrounding environment. Plantation developed in mine pit at Sanquelim mines. The biodiversity policy and standards For new projects or major expansions, AS OF 2019-20, 100% advise us on how disruption to the local Vedanta conducts environmental and OF OUR SITES HAVE ecology is to be avoided, minimised social impact assessments to understand RE-EVALUATED THEIR and compensated for, from project the presence of critical biodiversity BMPs AND ARE IN scoping to site closure and beyond. Our attributes before starting work. Sites THE PROCESS OF businesses seek consultation from domain that may have a significant impact on DEVELOPING PLANS experts in identifying biodiversity related the biodiversity of an area must develop TO MITIGATE THEIR business risk and its management. This biodiversity management plans (BMPs) to IMPACTS. is an integral part of our commitment to mitigate that impact. sustainable development. We are members of the India Business & Biodiversity Initiative. Additionally, HZL is part of IUCN’s – Leaders for Nature program and Zinc International has worked extensively with IUCN to ensure that we meet our No Net Loss principles at Gamsberg, which is located in the Karoo Biosphere Reserve We strive to attain a No Net Loss (NNL) of biodiversity at all our operations. 68 VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 CASE STUDY 15 Rehabilitating mined-out areas Over the last 10 years, BALCO has planted ~1.27 million native and fruit-bearing trees in the mined-out areas of their Mainpat and Bodai Daldali bauxite mines. The trees have been grown on soil that has been put back into the mined-out areas using concurrent backfilling techniques. The team has also constructed eight water reservoirs to capture rainwater and recharge groundwater levels. The backfilling has been conducting in The result has been the return of native plant alignment with our progressive mine closure species to the area, which along with the plan. This approach waterbodies, attracts several migratory birds SDG ALIGNMENT to the region. preserves the top-soil at the time of SDG 15 mining, The use of local stakeholders (who are Life on Land predominantly tribal communities) for uses the waste material to fill the Target 15.1 the plantation activity, construction and mined-out areas, Conserve, restore and maintenance of the waterbodies, checksustainably use all levels the backfill area and covers it dams, and stop-dams has resulted in terrestrial eco-systems with top-soil, the generation of local employment. The biologically reclaims the land, fruit-trees have also served to supplement Target 15.3 the incomes of local communities, further Combat plants native, fruit-bearing, and enhancing the overall socio-economic desertification, restore medicinal species in the levelled benefits that have come to the area because degraded land and soil area. of BALCO’s mining operations. RESTORATION AND PROTECTION OF HABITATS We take appropriate measures At the Iron Ore Business’ and restrict access to areas to responsibly restore and mines in Chitradurga, ~5 that have instance of high rehabilitate closed mining areas. hectares of land belonging to a biodiversity – in keeping with The following programs were dumping site has been partially our mitigation hierarchy for undertaken in FY2019-20: reclaimed using geo-textiles biodiversity. and the plantation of native At BALCO’s Chotia coal mines, grasses and trees. The work is At Gamsberg, work is nearly 332 hectares of land has overseen by the Indian Bureau underway to manage the no-go been biologically restored as of Mines. areas as per the conservation part of the progressive mine management plan for the closure plan. The work was At the Inselberg mining Gamsberg Nature Reserve. overseen by experts from IITarea of Skorpian Zinc, work The long-term activity is being Kharagpur. is underway to demarcate overseen by IUCN. VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 69 OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | ENVIRONMENT | OUR PEOPLE | RETAINING OUR SOCIAL LICENSE TO OPERATE | ANNEXURES Our People Vedanta’s employees and business partners take on tough challenges and deliver. The Company has always displayed a result-oriented bent towards any task undertaken and has endeavoured to continuously expand the capacity our workforce to align with business strategy. This ‘can-do’ spirit has allowed Vedanta to become one of the largest, diversified metals and mining companies in the world. The women of BALCO: A diverse workforce is central to Vedanta’s growth strategy. 70 VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 Lower FATALITIES 7 Fatalities in FY 2019-20 (FY 2018-19: 9) 1.55 30% LTIFR: MILLION MAN-HOURS of the new employees are women 0.67 (FY2018-19: 0.47) HSE training given to employees in FY 2019-20 7.46%attrition rate 10.99% turnover rate We constantly evolve at all phases of the talent management cycle, from recruitment to development, and engagement to retention. Through digitisation and user-friendly technology, we continuously upgrade and introduce best-in-class people practices. VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 71 OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | ENVIRONMENT | OUR PEOPLE | RETAINING OUR SOCIAL LICENSE TO OPERATE | ANNEXURES Management Approach Safe, productive, and dynamic – this is how we would like to see our 79,000+ diverse workforce who are spread across multiple countries. We endeavour to develop a unified culture that exemplifies our core values and nurtures safety, excellence, creativity and diversity. Our workforce propels our progress and it is our responsibility to keep them motivated. We achieve that by providing career growth and leadership opportunities across all levels, with an emphasis on promoting gender diversity across roles. We routinely assess our safety performance – benchmarking our practices with peers, with an eye to build a best-in-class safe workplace for our employees and contract workers. SAFETY, HEALTH & WELL-BEING LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT & TALENT MANAGEMENT DIVERSITY & EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 72 VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 Safety, Health and Well-Being Building a Culture of Care Any employee or business partner working at Vedanta should trust that they will return home safely to their family. Our philosophy of building a culture of care, stems from the fundamental right to a safe workplace. With a comprehensive Group-level HSE policy we seek to embed health and safety as a value across our operations. This policy is supported by several management and technical standards that guide our workforce into implementing safe operations. CULTURE OF CARE SAFETY AS A VALUE It is a matter of Culture of Care means ensuring Safety is much more than a priority extreme regret that that every decision and work – safety describes the important and we lost 7 colleagues assignment is undertaken lasting beliefs and ideals shared by in work-related considering and protecting the the members of our work teams about accidents during the safety, health and welfare of those what is good or bad and desirable year. We share the undertaking the work and those or undesirable. Instituting safety as pain of their loved potentially impacted by the work. a value has a major influence on a ones and convey our person’s behaviour and attitude and deepest condolences serves to guide decision-making and to them. Their loss is a actions in all situations. tragic reminder for us to continuously work to strengthen and improve our safety management systems. Policies and Standards The Vedanta Sustainability Framework (VSF) puts significant emphasis on Safety & Occupational Health and every member of the workforce is educated and encouraged to embrace safety wholeheartedly. The following standards support our HSE policy: Machine Guarding, Electrical Safety, Isolation, Confined Space Entry, Work-at-Height, Vehicle & Driving, Molten Materials, Ground Control, Mobile Cranes & Lifting Safety, Scaffolding, and Pit, Stockpile & Waste Dump Stability. Our safety standards portfolio has gradually expanded to incorporate additional critical risks identified as a result of our incident investigations. Today, our businesses adhere to 16 safety standards designed to prevent fatalities in the workplace. We benchmark against organizations like ICMM to guide us on the development of our standards. VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 73 OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | ENVIRONMENT | OUR PEOPLE | RETAINING OUR SOCIAL LICENSE TO OPERATE | ANNEXURES Safety, Health and Well-Being Building a Culture of Care Safety Training Over the last 24 months, we have made understand our safety standards and share In FY2020 we considerable efforts to ensure that our learnings & best practices across the imparted over 1.55 entire workforce has the correct training so organization. Safety & Occupational Health million hours of that their actions result in a safe workplace. is a mandatory module in our induction and safety trainings to our Training programs include programs to refresher training programme. employees, contract help employees make better risk decisions, workers, and business partners. 95% of the hours were dedicated to training our contract workers and business partners. Our Board-Level Safety training at BALCO Sustainability Committee, chaired by the Board’s senior Monitoring, Evaluation independent director, and Leadership Accountability and our Executive Committee, chaired Over the last five years, Vedanta has At the Group-level, an extensive review by the Group CEO, developed a robust methodology to of safety performance forms the opening regularly review our monitor our efforts to improve safety discussion of the monthly Group ExCo safety performance performance. Our monitoring framework review session. The Group Risk Committee and share is well-established and encompasses meeting has also identified HSE as a key recommendations. checks across all levels of organizational risk area for the organization and mitigative Business CEOs hierarchy – from the shop-floor to the actions are evaluated by the committee. and HSE heads Board room. Job risk assessments, permitThe final review of our safety management are answerable for to-work checks, tool-box talks, and weekly systems takes place at the bi-annual their units safety status checks are conducted at the asset Board Sustainability Committee meetings. performance at all and Business Unit level to ensure that safe Additionally, each asset undergoes Group-level Board and work practices and learnings from previous an extensive audit conducted by an ExCo meetings. incidents are being applied consistently. independent third-party under the Vedanta Sustainability Assurance Protocol. Digitalized Reporting to Chairman & Senior Leadership We constantly benchmark our performance with the peer industries. An exclusive dashboard has been developed for the senior leadership team (Chairman, Vice Chairman and Group CEO). The dashboard allows the leadership team to maintain a pulse of the safety performance across our business and seek remedial action should they observe a slippage in performance. 74 VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 Safety Performance Last year, we lost 7 colleagues in workfatality trend, however much work remains related accidents and we send our to allow us to meet our target of zero condolences to their families. We have fatality. In the same time-period, we have disseminated the learnings from these seen an increase in the LTIFR trend. This is accidents and taken actions to avoid repeat primarily due to improved reporting across incidents. The result is a flattening of the the businesses. LTIFR (per million man-hours) FY2020 0.67 FY2019 0.46 FY2018 0.35 FY2017 0.4 Out of 153 LTIs, FY2016 0.49 134 impacted our contract workers. FY2015 0.43 FY2014 0.41 0.0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 TRIFR (per million man-hours) FY2020 1.62 FY2019 1.23 FY2018 1.15 FY2017 1.28 Out of 372 recordable injuries, 330 impacted our contract workers FY2016 1.22 FY2015 1.46 0.0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 FATALITIES FY2020 7 FY2019 9 FY2018 7 FY2017 5 Out of 7 Fatalities, 6 impacted our FY2016 9 contract workers FY2015 5 FY2014 16 0 5 10 15 20 VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 75 OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | ENVIRONMENT | OUR PEOPLE | RETAINING OUR SOCIAL LICENSE TO OPERATE | ANNEXURES Safety, Health and Well-Being Building a Culture of Care We are committed to stem and Nearly 80% of the fatalities occurred in we get the engineering and managerial reverse this trend, risk areas covered by our safety standards. controls in place. To help bridge the through visible felt Nearly 90% of the injuries and fatalities gap between management controls leadership; validating occurred to our contract workforce. These and personal behaviour, we want each the effectiveness trends point towards the need to further person on the shop floor to take personal of critical risk strengthen the monitoring of all critical risk responsibility for the safe behaviours of controls; and better areas, especially on those tasks conducted their peers and their own actions. In this engagement and by our contract workforce. ‘Culture of Care’, the primary intent of every management of our leader on every job is to protect people. business partners. We believe that safe workplaces are as much about having the right standards In FY 2019-20, we have continued to and engineering controls in place as they build upon the safety programs instituted are about ensuring that inattentive and in the previous fiscal year. Today, key uncontrolled high-risk personal behaviours performance indicators (KPIs) on safety are eliminated. Historically, much of our impact performance pay and promotional efforts have focussed on ensuring that opportunities for all leader / senior CASE STUDY 8 Surveillance teams to ensure safe work conditions at night BALCO’s Senior Management has vouched for safety and integrity as their prime focus. They strive to ensure a conducive and safe working environment and have undertaken several programs to demonstrate Visible Felt Leadership. In order to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the plant at night, and any other applicable guidelines laid the management implemented the down under the code of business conduct. Night Surveillance Initiative. The Night Surveillance team promotes smooth flow Over 150 employees are involved in this of operations inside the plant through process, conducting cross-functional SDG ALIGNMENT a regulation-based, proactive safety audits and have helped highlight several oversight system. The team comprises gap areas and best practices. The initiative SDG 8 three executives with one member from the is supported by an online platform Economic Growth & senior/middle management supported by providing immediate learnings and course Decent Work for All an executive each from safety and security corrections. This initiative has provided teams. The primary function of the team is to BALCO an additional platform to spread Target 8.8 visit the SBUs (Metal, Power and Enabling) the awareness on safety and demonstrated Protect labor rights to identify unsafe operational practices, the commitment of the senior leadership and provide safe work conditions for all violation of cardinal rules/zero tolerance team towards HSE & the well-being of the rules, violation of standing order provisions workforce. 76 VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 management positions. To this end, we care time in field to be planned, are driving the following fundamental documented and monitored The safety performance bonus outcomes: will increase in weightage relative Leaderships teams coached to to other input-based KPIs; support their safety deliverables The primary intent of every leader, thereby impacting promotion on every job, is to protect people In addition, we have appointed ‘zoneopportunities wise’ managers who are accountable Business Partners are to be The presence of visible and felt treated as employees for the overall safety of their areas. We leadership on the shop-floor have mandated that the managers Transparent delivery of improved SBU ExCo members to conduct should be chosen from inside the safety performance weekly mentoring of direct reports business; people who staff the shopA fatality will result in on a planned, rotating basis floor daily. consequences for the Functional safety support to be leadership team unless it can be These parameters are closely monitored 80% in field and monitored demonstrated they acted with at BU-level and at the Group EXCo. SBU ExCo member’s and Leader’s CASE STUDY 8 Safety booster program Unsafe work conditions are often a result of consistent, long-term unsafe habits by employees on the shop-floor. Left unchecked, these behaviours can have a negative impact on the safety culture of the site and result in injuries or fatalities. To prevent such behaviours from spreading, the Jharsuguda plant has adopted a “safety booster” program for those employees (Vedanta & Business Partners) who exhibit persistent unsafe behaviour. These employees are identified by the plant-head in consultation with departmental heads and safety teams if they exhibit the following behaviours over a period of time: Higher count of safety notices for areas under their supervision Repeated road safety violations Risk taking behaviours while performing jobs, a repetition of violations, or an unwillingness to perform safe work practices Not conducting Visible Felt Leadership/Behaviour Based Safety/Making Better Risk Decisions after six months. The training program (MBRD) interactions/inspections covers the following topics: life-saving rules, SDG ALIGNMENT Lower safety compliance in their safety standards, Permit to Work system, area Behaviour Based Safety, Zero harm culture, SDG 8 Safety inspections and interactions, HIRA, People working in isolation or Economic Growth & and safety legal requirements. Decent Work for All isolated areas PPE violations This approach has allowed several Target 8.8 employees to self-correct once back on the Protect labor rights Once identified, these employees are provided counselling sessions, safety shop-floor and has improved the overall and provide safe work training, and a review of their performance safety culture of the plant. conditions for all VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 77 OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | ENVIRONMENT | OUR PEOPLE | RETAINING OUR SOCIAL LICENSE TO OPERATE | ANNEXURES Leadership Development and Talent Management Vedanta has always aspired to build a culture that demonstrates world-class standards in safety, environment and sustainability. People are our most valuable asset and we are committed to providing all our employees with a safe and healthy work environment. Our culture exemplifies our core values and nurtures innovation, creativity and diversity. We align our business goals with individual goals and enable our employees to grow on a personal as well as professional front. Hiring & Retaining the Right People Unearthing great talent is key to the mining focus on hiring employees for the future. We industry. Innovation, technology and evertake a multi-pronged approach to recruit, evolving mining landscape are having its retain, and grow individuals, thereby helping effect on the kind of people required. At Vedanta maintain its competitive edge. Vedanta, we are abreast of the changes and DIGITALIZATION PROGRAMS Digitalization has been used to drive efficiencies, track performance, and ensure that we have the right personnel in place staffing our business. Key programs include: V-accelerate MIP Dashboard Campus Analytics Dashboard An end-to end online Internal Job Posting The MIP Dashboard provides a complete We partnered with a reputed analytics firm (IJP) portal, which was developed inhouse, view of the ExCo structure at Group Level, to derive insights from our experiences with was launched in FY2020. The portal has ensuring that we have visibility of all leaders various college campuses and campus increased transparency and significantly at the click of a button. Vacancies are easy to recruits over the years. As a result, we reduced lead time in recruiting internal talent spot, thereby ensuring that critical roles don’t now have an exhaustive dashboard, which to fill vacancies across the Group. remain unoccupied for long periods of time. provides key insights for shaping our campus hiring strategy and onboarding and anchoring young talent. Employees at Cairn Oil & Gas Senior management interaction at Lanjigarh Employees at HZL 78 VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 RECRUITMENT Vedanta Leadership Development Right Management in Place (RMIP) Diversity Hiring Project Program (VLDP) To re-emphasise the Group’s philosophy of VLDP is our flagship programme, which At Vedanta, we see ourselves as an engine empowering the SBUs, we have reviewed aims to build organisational capability by of inclusive growth that operates at scale, our existing businesses and SBU structures, hiring and developing talented individuals and ushers in prosperity for a large section and followed a rigorous assessment process from premier management and technology of the society. to ensure we engage the right talent in institutes. the right role. The RMIP process also In line with our vision to achieve 33% gender ensures that we have filled all the critical It is a tailored programme, which focuses diversity across the group, we have launched roles within our structures and any gaps on nurturing bright young minds to act as a project to bring onboard diversity leaders in the management team are supported catalysts to steer our business to the next across Technical, Operations and Enabling by strategic plans to fill vacancies. Our level of growth. The programme includes functions. This will help us strengthen approach to recruitment is focused on hiring induction sessions and cross-functional representation of women leaders in business diverse, high-quality talent. We operate projects in significant roles, job rotation, and SBU ExCo. our businesses with global best practices development opportunities, and continuous and are benchmarked to global standards. anchoring to ensure that these individuals Through this project, we are looking at hiring Therefore, wherever needed, we also hire get an in-depth knowledge of our operations ~30-40 women professionals across our expats and specialists with world-class and recognise their areas of interest for a various businesses and locations. In the last expertise and experience to manage such suitable role. one year, we made significant progress in operations. increasing the diversity representation in Group ExCo from 5% to 12.5%. Additionally, a newly constituted Management Committee, which is the Group’s apex management body at 25% gender diversity. Employees at BALCO WORKFORCE SNAPSHOT LOCATION FULL-TIME EMPLOYEES CONTRACT EMPLOYEES RETAINERS TOTAL WORKFORCE BUSINESS Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female TOTAL ALUMINIUM India 5,657 772 14,188 580 44 1 19,889 1,353 21,242 Australia 20 2 2 0 0 0 22 2 24 COPPER India 798 110 739 20 3 0 1,540 130 1,670 IRON ORE & STEEL India 4,416 227 8,226 84 2 0 12,644 311 12,955 (includes ports) OIL & GAS India 1,260 259 16,180 121 281 13 17,721 393 18,114 POWER India 72 13 1,117 22 0 0 1,189 35 1,224 India 3,757 424 14,818 136 14 3 18,589 563 19,152 ZINC, LEAD Namibia 430 58 1,353 79 28 21 1,811 158 1,969 & SLIVER South 746 154 1,605 229 40 27 2,391 410 2,801 Africa CORPORATE India 60 81 35 20 13 3 108 104 212 OFFICES UK 4 7 0 0 3 1 7 8 15 TOTAL 17,220 2,107 58,263 1,291 428 69 75,911 3,467 79,378 VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 79 OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | ENVIRONMENT | OUR PEOPLE | RETAINING OUR SOCIAL LICENSE TO OPERATE | ANNEXURES Leadership Development and Talent Management EMPLOYEE TRAINING Developing leaders from within has multiple advantages. For the employees, it ensures growth with stability. For the organisation, it facilitates a talent pipeline with the same imbibed culture. At Vedanta, we nurture and groom talent through a gamut of development programmes that include training, job rotations, additional projects and responsibilities, and mentoring programmes. MAN-HOURS Male Female Total Training Hours Full-time Employees (FTE) 361,787 80,077 Average Training Hours for FTEs 21.01 38.01 Total Training Hours Contract Employees 105,620 5,257 Average Training Hours for Contract Employees 1.81 4.07 LEADERSHIP Scorecard’, an initiative, which aims to provides a quarterly scorecard on the PERFORMANCE drive accountability and performance basis of goals and achievements for SCORECARD for our senior leaders aligned to their rewards and development. The entire respective business, function, role exercise is being executed in a very We take great pride in our and with the overall objectives of the objective and transparent manner, performance-driven culture where organisation. aimed at recognising and further every individual is motivated to growing our top performing leaders, contribute to the best of his/ her The performance scorecard covers assisting those facing challenges and potential. It is with this focus that we ~570 senior leaders, diversity leaders addressing any performance issues. launched the ‘Leadership Performance and advisors across the Group and TOP 50 YOUNG higher responsibility, better visibility, potential candidates from our pool of TALENT ANCHORING differentiated rewards, focused 350+ VLDPs, Management Trainees PROGRAMME guidance and support structure to & Chartered Accountants. This young perform) have formed a key part talent is being centrally mentored by Identifying and of our people agenda. In line with our high performing senior leaders to grooming future this, we launched the Top 50 Young fast track their career growth into future business leaders and providing them Talent Anchoring Programme, where CXOs. with business exposure (in terms of we have identified 50 young, highV-REACH: GRADUATE as graduates, who form the backbone potential leaders will be identified via DEVELOPMENT of our businesses. To identify top 100 desktop analysis based on objective PROGRAMME talent from this graduate talent pool parameters. Next, all the selected and provide them elevated roles and candidates will go through a structured At Vedanta, we have a strong and opportunities, we launched V-Reach, Chairman’s Workshop to identify the unwavering focus on identifying and which will fast track their career growth Top 100 leaders. developing internal talent. We have a within the Group. The project will be 5,000+ strong talent pool who joined us carried out in two steps. First ~300 80 VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 COMMUNICATION & FEEDBACK People love to work for organisations that value their contributions, listen to their viewpoints and engage them meaningfully. At Vedanta, we endeavour to create an inclusive culture that rewards good performance, creates interactive platforms and maintains positivity. The various internal channels of communication, including Chairman’s workshops, town hall meetings, daily leadership update forums, HSE Leadership and Sustainability Steering Committee meetings, site-level risk sub-committees, employee engagement surveys, and the various engagement forums at site both formal and informal, allow us to engage with and provide feedback to our employees consistently. 360O FEEDBACK launched 360o feedback for our ExCo leaders in collaboration with an external At Vedanta we promote growth and partner. We believe that this will help nurturing of our internal talent pool by to fast-track the assessment and encouraging internal dialogue between ATTRITION RATE IN development of leaders and we aim to senior leaders and their young mentees extend this to cover all our professionals FY2020 WAS 7.46% and peers. For this reason, we have in due course. V-PERFORM: ONE System (PMS) and process across safety and sustainability to achieve PERFORMANCE SYSTEM all Vedanta Group companies by our ultimate vision of ‘Zero Harm, FOR ONE VEDANTA leveraging technology. This enables Zero Waste & Zero Discharge’. To functions, teams and individuals to enhance our safety performance in the Our focus is to constantly improve track performance on a regular basis, workplace and strengthen our existing the level of automation in all our evaluate efficiency through advanced Safety Management System, a safety operations. V-Perform is a pananalytics and implement proactive competency assessment process was Vedanta initiative to standardise decisions towards achieving Vedanta’s completed mid-year by all employees.in the Performance Management objectives. We foster a culture of due course. EMPLOYEE STOCK performance on pre-determined grant of Employee Stock Options 2019 OPTION SCHEME (ESOS) performance criteria and continued to Vedanta employees covering 35% of employment with the Company. On the eligible population. Employee stock options scheme is a 29 November 2019, Nomination and conditional share plan for rewarding Renumeration Committee approved the VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 81 OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | ENVIRONMENT | OUR PEOPLE | RETAINING OUR SOCIAL LICENSE TO OPERATE | ANNEXURES Diversity and Equal Opportunity We believe that equality is about ensuring everybody, irrespective of gender, nationality or any other background, has an equal opportunity and is not treated differently or discriminated against because of these characteristics. Diversity and equal opportunity encourage different ideas, inspire creativity and drive innovation. Added with cultural sensitivity, insight and local knowledge, they make a WE HAVE SET business more competitive and profitable. OURSELVES A TARGET TO REACH OVER 33% WOMEN AT SENIOR LEVELS BY 2020 AND Women in the Workforce AIM TO ACHIEVE 20% DIVERSITY AMONGST There is a direct correlation between greater our workforce and have put in place several OUR EMPLOYEES. gender diversity and higher productivity. We policies and procedures to increase female understand the importance of women in representation at work. 30% of new employees are women 25% women on our Board 15% of all our junior management employees (M5 – M7) are women 13.68% of all our management employees (M7 and above) are women 10.9% women in our total employee headcount 7.30% of all our top management employees (M2 and above) are women 82 VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 Nearly 11% of our women employees are part of revenuelinked business functions such as operations, projects, and marketing. Some of our women-oriented initiatives include: PROGRESSIVE POLICIES provide the option to move into another enhanced productivity and retention, job profile or continue with the same especially among our women Our parental leave policy includes 26 role, to manage both professional and employees. These policies increase weeks of maternity leave, 12 weeks of personal priorities. their motivation and engagement, adoption leave and 1 week of paternity which then spreads across the leave. For returning mothers, we also This liberal and flexible approach has workforce. Male Female Number of employees who have taken parental leave in FY2018-19 600 103 Number of employees who were in continuous service for the next 12 551 88 months after returning from parental leave Retention* % 91.83% 85.44% *Retention % is calculated based on the number of employees who returned and were in continuous service for the next 12 months / number of people who went on parental leave. VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 83 OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | ENVIRONMENT | OUR PEOPLE | RETAINING OUR SOCIAL LICENSE TO OPERATE | ANNEXURES Diversity and Equal Opportunity Continued... WOMEN ACROSS THE BOARD As of June 6th 2020, we have two business unit executive committees. woman on our Board, representing Mining is traditionally a male25% of the Board, and Hindustan Zinc We have placed internal recruitment dominated sector, but Vedanta is Limited, has three female directors targets to ensure equal gender among a few global natural resources representing 43% of the Board. representation. We continually focus on companies that enjoy a healthy gender improving gender diversity across the diversity ratio across all levels. With Our Group Executive Committee group, across grades and management varied perspectives, women are has a gender diversity of 12.5%. We levels. As of 31st March 2020, 7.30% of providing a different set of solutions have 14% female representation in our senior leadership positions (Grades for the challenges we face, making us aggregate on the executive committees P through M2) are held by women more responsive to future risks and of our businesses and 16.6% female professionals. opportunities. representation on the subsidiary “Every woman in the workforce has contributed to the growth of our company and we are proud to have arguably, the highest number of women in senior management benchmarked against peers.” Anil Agarwal, Chairman, Vedanta Resources 84 VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 CASE STUDY 5 8 6 Women in Mining Creating equal opportunities for both genders is central to the Sustainable Development Goals. Vedanta has embraced this concept and is leading efforts to open a traditionally male-dominated sector to the female workforce. SDG ALIGNMENT SDG 5 Gender Equality Target 5.1 End all forms of discrimination against women In South Africa, guidelines by the committee to oversee this activity, Department of Mineral Resources and The program has been officially Energy also call for more women in the SDG 6 launched, in order to increase mining workplace. They further go on to Clean Water & awareness and seek buy-in Sanitation establish that special provisions need to be made to promote the Health and Safety of It has been included as a Target 6.2 Women in the mining environment as this is standing item in the regional End open defecation an area that has been neglected. tripartite meetings, where BMM is and provide adequate represented sanitation for all, with The Women in Mining structure is solely A research paper is being prepared special attention to for the health and safety of women in the on the “Perceptions of employees on girls & women industry. It focuses on prevention of sexual the health, safety and development harassment, gender appropriate PPEs, of women in mining” safety and security, minimum standards of fitness and ablution facilities (hygiene). Polices are being review to SDG 8 accommodate gender-specific Decent work and Black Mountain Mines has committed to be considerations Economic Growth part of this long-term initiative and it now The principal inspector of mines has forms part of the health and safety strategy. Target 8.8 acknowledged the progress BMM has made To progress on this aspect: Protect labour rights with the development of the structure and and provide safe work we hope to report on improvements in the There has been a formation of a conditions for all near future. VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 85 OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | ENVIRONMENT | OUR PEOPLE | RETAINING OUR SOCIAL LICENSE TO OPERATE | ANNEXURES Retaining our Social License to Operate Retaining the trust of our host communities is central to our ability to do business. In many instances, we are the primary economic driver where we operate. This places us in a unique position to significantly impact the lives of local communities, whether as employers and business partners or through our community development interventions. We take this responsibly seriously and endeavor to fulfil our role in a manner that upholds the dignity of all our stakeholders and allows us to live up to our values. Children at Nand Ghar 86 VEDANTA LIMITED LIMITEDSDR SDR2019-20 2019-20 INR INR 2.96 BILLION spent on social 324 BILLION investments and CSR activities  contributed to the exchequer 3.26 MILLION improved through 868 VILLAGE LIVES community OUTREACH projects VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 87 OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | ENVIRONMENT | OUR PEOPLE | RETAINING OUR SOCIAL LICENSE TO OPERATE | ANNEXURES Management Approach We have developed policies and standards to help us navigate the complex interactions that enable our social license to operate. Central to these are the stakeholder engagement and grievance management standards and guidance notes, which have been updated to explicitly describe the process and levels of engagement across the lifecycle – from concept & prefeasibility to decommissioning & closure. These standards are supported by the & Vulnerable Tribal Groups Standards, social, human rights, and supplier and have been developed in alignment with contractor policies, which have also been international good practices, including updated in January 2020. Additionally, all ICMM and IFC standards, and are businesses need to adhere to the following implemented across our businesses. technical standards and guidance notes: cultural heritage, land & resettlement Starting in FY2019, we have also expanded management, supplier & contractor our approach to external stakeholder management, security management, engagement to align with our central tenets and indigenous peoples/vulnerable tribal of Zero Harm, Zero Waste, Zero Discharge. groups. In areas with populations of While a significant proportion of our effort indigenous peoples we are committed remains on ensuring that communities to following the principles of Free, Prior, benefit from our presence, we are also Informed Consent. shifting our focus to ensure that our operations do not cause nor are perceived Earning the license to operate in local to cause any harm, and that our interactions communities entails respecting their with the communities are respectful, fair, norms, culture and heritage. Illustrating and transparent. our commitment to serve our host communities in a responsible manner, our We term this integrated approach – Social Cultural Heritage, Land & Resettlement Performance. It is through this lens that we Management, and Indigenous People will develop the stakeholder engagement model of the future. Mushroom cultivation under project Unnati, BALCO 88 VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 Human Rights An integral part of Vedanta’s core value of Respect, Human Rights are a crucial parameter in making key business decisions and act as guidance on issues pertaining to labour rights and industrial relations. Our human rights policy is aligned to the ‘United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights’ and includes strict prohibition on the use of child or forced labour – either directly or through contract vendors. WE ADHERE TO ALL HUMAN RIGHTS REGULATIONS, IN LETTER AND SPIRIT, ENSURING NEARLY 100% OF OUR NEW HIRES THE PROTECTION RECEIVED CODE OF CONDUCT OF FUNDAMENTAL AND HUMAN RIGHTS TRAINING RIGHTS OF ALL DIRECT AND INDIRECT EMPLOYEES AS WELL AS THOSE 83% OF OUR SECURITY PERSONNEL WHO ARE IN UNDERWENT HUMAN RIGHTS TRAINING OUR CIRCLE OF INFLUENCE. Local Communities The nature of our industry necessitates our mapped stakeholders. Each engagement presence in remote corners and diverse also conducts a needs-assessment study geographies. While operating in multiple prior to its commencement. Additionally, locations and multicultural communities, an impact assessment study is conducted we always respect the local people and for all programs on a periodic basis. their culture. Prior to starting operations, all of We have developed standards in alignment our sites conduct an Environmental with international practices including Impact Assessment and Social Impact ICMM guidelines and IFC standards Assessment. These assessments are to conserve and nurture the native updated in case the sites undergo heritage. We strictly abide by these wellsignificant expansion programs. articulated and standards on Cultural and Heritage Standard, Land & Resettlement Public disclosure is a mandated part of the Management Standard, Indigenous People EIAs and SIAs. and Vulnerable Tribal Groups Standard. All locations also have formal grievance 100% of our operations have on-going mechanism cells where external local community engagements. These stakeholders can register their grievances. engagements are driven by a structured It is the endeavour of the business to close Preserving local artforms: artisan stakeholder engagement plan for all of the all grievances in a fair and timely manner. training at VAL-Lanjigarh IN FY 2020, WE RECEIVED 281 FORMAL GRIEVANCES FROM LOCAL COMMUNITIES, OUT OF WHICH WE HAD RESOLVED/ CLOSED 237 GRIEVANCES AS OF 31st MARCH 2020. VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 89 OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | ENVIRONMENT | OUR PEOPLE | RETAINING OUR SOCIAL LICENSE TO OPERATE | ANNEXURES Human Rights UPDATE ON STERLITE COPPER: Making progress with the community at Thoothukudi While Sterlite Copper’s plant at systematically addressed in a holistic Establishing a skillsThoothukudi remains shut due to a manner. development centre for youth government order, the management Supplying potable water to the team has been busy mending bridges Some to the key concerns/ villages located around the with the local stakeholders, many of expectations that have emerged as a plant whom who were part of the protests result of these interactions include: In addition, while Sterlite had no role leading up to the closure of the plant Improved facilities for workers to play in the incident, the company in 2018. within the plant areas has provided financial assistance For the last two years, ten 4-5 Inclusive local procurement and to families of seven protestors who member teams have been reaching employment policies were killed in the police firing on out to multiple stakeholder groups 22nd May 2018. The incident is Availability of world-class being investigated by governmental in Thoothukudi to understand their educational and medical concerns about the plant’s activities. authorities. facilities The teams have reached out to local Easy access to potable water We continue to maintain open lines village communities, small business of communication and dialogue with owners, contract workers, college In response, Sterlite has committed all stakeholders and it is our hope students, fishermen, religious groups, to improving facilities, modified that when the plant reopens, it does government administrative bodies, its local procurement policies and so with the social license from the and other civil society organizations. committed to developing four community. significant community infrastructure The discussions are meticulously development programs (planning for analysed for potential actions that which is underway): need to be taken – either immediately Note: As of this writing, the bench or once the plant reopens. The Planting one million trees in the of the Madras High Court has ruled Sterlite ExCo, chaired by the CEO of Thoothukudi region in favour of keeping the plant shut. the business, monitors daily progress Establishing a multi-speciality We plan to appeal the decision in the and ensures that the findings are hospital Supreme Court of India. Livelihood and skills training at Sterlite Copper 90 VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 Vedanta has deployed world-class organizations to be our Business Partners Direct and Indirect Workforce ON AVERAGE, 55% When it comes to upholding human rights, we do not differentiate between our direct OF OUR FULL-TIME and indirect workforce. Comprehensive systems for employee well-being and contract EMPLOYEES AT labour management are in place at all our locations, ensuring that fundamental aspects of human rights are protected for all workers. BALCO, HZL, IRON ORE BUSINESS, AND ZINC INTERNATIONAL COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ARE COVERED BY COLLECTIVE We endorse the right to freedom of association. Where present, collective bargaining BARGAINING agreements are formed based on transparent and fair discussions between management AGREEMENTS. and union representatives. Remuneration, allowances, working conditions, incentives and bonuses, health and safety, manpower productivity are part of the arrangement. SUPPLIER contracts across the Group and all new communicate our expectations from DILIGENCE suppliers are required to sign, endorse our suppliers: to operate in compliance and practice this Code. with all relevant legislation and follow As leaders in the our policies while executing work for natural resource industry, we uphold We also have in place a Supplier & or on our behalf. These include labour the principles of human rights in our Contractor Sustainability Management and human rights laws, Vedanta’s circle of influence. Our Suppliers Code Policy to implement human rights HSE & sustainability policies, and a of Conduct is implemented as part of practices across the supply chain. commitment to conduct business in an the terms and conditions of supplier Both the Code and the Policy clearly ethical manner. THE SUPPLIER AND CONTRACTOR TECHNICAL STANDARD FURTHER INCLUDES A SUPPLIER SCREENING CHECKLIST TO EVALUATE CONTRACTOR COMPLIANCE RELATING TO KEY ISSUES, E.G. LEGAL COMPLIANCE, HSE MANAGEMENT, LABOUR MANAGEMENT, HUMAN RIGHTS AND CHILD LABOUR. We continue to enhance adherence by conducting inductions, screenings, inspections and audits. Any concerns raised by interested parties on any of our key suppliers is promptly addressed by undertaking an independent assessment. VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 91 OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | ENVIRONMENT | OUR PEOPLE | RETAINING OUR SOCIAL LICENSE TO OPERATE | ANNEXURES Human Rights ENSURING RIGHT AGE FOR THE RIGHT JOB The presence of child and forced/compulsory labour is a non-negotiable offence at Vedanta be it direct or through a contractor. We strictly enforce this policy at all our operations. Further, we carry out periodic inspections of our remote mine locations and require proof of age for all contract workers. At some locations, we also use a fool-proof radiological age identification process to assess child labour violations STATEMENT ON COMPLIANCE WITH THE MODERN SLAVERY ACT Since 2016, Vedanta has complied of conduct and recruitment time information on suppliers, with the Modern Slavery Act (UK). procedures including aspects of human The result is that over time, the rights, bribery and other legal Development of MSA awareness systems to ensure that our vendors matters packs and training programs for and supply chain are slave labour vendors HZL has launched a program free, have matured. In FY2020, called RuBaRu to develop the Audits for high risk vendors we audited 53 out of 154 high risk capacity & skills of the local vendors. The remaining audits will Annual declarations from vendor workforce be conducted once the situation with vendors Communication on the subject the COVID-19 pandemic normalizes. MSA compliance confirmation with our Business Partners has We have also begun the practice of for the onboarding of new been strengthened across the seeking a MSA self-declaration from vendors business each of our vendors. MSA training programs have SOME OF THE KEY INITIATIVES been provided to employees and ADDITIONALLY the subject is actively discussed IMPLEMENTED DURING THE a vendor conferences and other YEAR INCLUDED Cairn has enhanced its due strategic meetings diligence process using an Inclusion of a MSA Clause in online tool to provide real vendor contracts, supplier code Business partners emplyed at Cairn Oil & Gas operations 92 VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 Vedanta has steadily improved its systems to access human rights violations among its pool of business partners. VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 93 OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | ENVIRONMENT | OUR PEOPLE | RETAINING OUR SOCIAL LICENSE TO OPERATE | ANNEXURES Rights of Indigenous Peoples Earning the license to operate in local communities entails respecting their norms, culture and heritage. Illustrating our commitment to serve our host communities in a responsible manner, our Cultural Heritage, Land & Resettlement Management, and Indigenous People & Vulnerable Tribal Groups Standards, have been developed in alignment with international good practices, including ICMM and IFC standards, and are implemented across our businesses Indigenous Peoples and Vulnerable Tribal Groups One of Vedanta’s BUs operate in remote peoples and vulnerable tribes. regions, inhabited by IPs and VTGs. As a result, we have made it a priority to respect We have made special provisions for and protect their rights. minorities and marginalised groups. To safeguard their rights and engage in a The standards and guidance notes that meaningful dialogue with them, we follow are a part of the Vedanta Sustainability the principle of Good Faith Negotiation Framework, have been developed to (GFN), Informed Consultation and avoid negative impacts and risks for all Participation (ICP) and/or Free, Prior stakeholders, especially the indigenous Information and Consultation (FPIC). CASE STUDY 1 8 3 4 6 Improved socio-economic conditions of tribal communities Vedanta’s Lanjigarh refinery is located in one of the most backward districts (Kalahandi, Odisha) in India. The district scores extremely low on socioeconomic indicators of development, such as, poverty ratio, literacy, per-capita income, size of land holding, irrigation coverage, connectivity, urbanization, industrialization, Infant & Maternal Mortality Rates (IMR, MMR), safe drinking water, coverage of health infrastructure, household savings, banking network, and education. SDG ALIGNMENT The population of the area is predominantly tribal and several measures have been SDG 1 undertaken to ensure that our presence and practices does not impose upon their culture, No poverty while at the same time, it helps improve the quality of their lives. Target 1.1 CULTURAL INTEGRATION interactions. Further, the company Eradicate extreme poverty ~50% of the individuals who directly participates in or supports local festivals and Target 1.2 engage with the local communities, religious customs. Reduce by half people belong to the communities themselves, living in poverty thereby ensuring that cultural sensitivities WORKFORCE INTEGRATION are understood and kept in mind during Lanjigarh and Kalahandi district are rural, 94 VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 SDG ALIGNMENT SDG 3 Health and Wellbeing Target 3.1 Reduce maternal mortality Target 3.2 End preventable deaths of newborns and children under the age of five years Target 3.3 Reduce by 1/3rd premature mortality from non-communicable diseases SDG 4 Quality Education Target 4.2 Ensure all children have access to quality pre-primary education & development SDG 6 Farmers training: project Unnati, BALCO Clean Water & Sanitation agrarian societies. To help locals who have for the local community and there has been employed in the Vedanta plant, we been an uptick in the literacy rate of the Target 6.2 run a comprehensive integration program community. Schooling is now seen as End open defecation where individuals are given tools to adapt a critical first step to integrate with the and provide adequate their work practices to an industrial setting. mainstream economy. sanitation for all Workers are taught safety protocols and Vedanta’s values, policies and compliance LOCAL EMPLOYMENT Target 6.3 regime. They are also educated about At least 25% of the local population is Improve water quality & reduce water their labour rights and about the grievance directly or indirectly employed with Vedanta pollution mechanisms in place to resolve their or its service providers. This has led to a complaints and issues. rise in the local per-capita incomes thereby boosting the local economy. HEALTHCARE SDG 8 Vedanta’s hospital has provided the IMPROVED CONNECTIVITY Promote economic community with an alternative to traditional Better roads between Lanjigarh and the growth & decent healers or government health services. The district Headquarter town of Bhawanipatna. work for all hospital has improved health outcomes The result is improved accessibility for all (eg: water-borne illness, vector diseases) as villages and towns on this route. Target 8.1 larger sections of the local population avail Sustain per-capita BETTER SANITATION of its services. economic growth Vedanta has been actively running DEVELOPMENT OF LOCAL BUSINESSES campaigns to improve the water and Target 8.3 60 fly-ash brick units have emerged in the sanitary hygiene standards of the Promote policies that area due to the availability of fly-ash from communities. The result is that six gram encourage the growth of small and mediumVedanta’s plant. Markets for local goods panchayats in the area have been declared sized industries and services have also come up in order to Open Defecation Free zones, which is a provide for the needs of Vedanta’s direct and significant improvement in the hygiene Target 8.8 indirect workforce. conditions of the area. It has also had a Protect labour rights positive impact in decreasing the spread of and provide safe work EDUCATION water-borne illnesses that spread as a result conditions for all Vedanta’s school serves as the benchmark of open defecation practices. VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 95 OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | ENVIRONMENT | OUR PEOPLE | RETAINING OUR SOCIAL LICENSE TO OPERATE | ANNEXURES Rights of Indigenous Peoples Land Acquisition and Resettlement As part of our Risk Screening processes, we better understand the standards. cover a wide range of sustainability issues that include land acquisition, resettlement, In FY 2019-20, we had resettlement indigenous people (vulnerable groups), activities being undertaken at our Lanjigarh among other concerns. operations. Three villages with 235 families are being relocated. The compensation This has led us to develop Vedanta’s includes options such as: provision of Cultural Heritage Land Acquisition and alternate homestead lands, home-building Resettlement Standards that includes a assistance, employment opportunities, and Guidance Note for all our operations to cash payments. Women at Lanjigarh Local Hiring Our comprehensive engagement strategy with the communities includes creating opportunities for employment and local hiring, including in senior management positions, and using the services of local vendors, while implementing focussed CSR and community development activities. Collectively, these actions allow us to create a positive social impact leading to economic progress of the region. Nearly 21% of our senior management team belong to the same state as where our operations are located. This indicates not just the company’s commitment to hire and nurture local talent, but also points to the economic opportunity that is being created by Vedanta, which compels talented individuals to stay or return to their places of origin. Additionally, ~26% of our new hires in FY2020, were local to our area of operations. Contractors on the shop floor, ESL 96 VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 Community Development Programs Our vision is to uplift communities and provide them with opportunities to lead respectable and sustainable lives. Our development initiatives are governed by the needs of the communities where we operate. Needs assessment studies form the basis of the course of action undertaken by the BU CSR teams. These actions enable us to create a positive social impact where we operate. All our community development programs the performance, spends and outcome of are governed by the Vedanta CSR Policy, CSR programmes for all Business Units. and Corporate Technical Standards that The council is instrumental in implementing are part of the Vedanta Sustainability improvement projects to create a seamless “Vedanta has Framework. Further, in order to benefit from enabling eco-system for Business Units always been a diverse perspectives, and in keeping with a to carry out best-in-class community proponent of culture of collective leadership, Vedanta has development programmes. developing local formed a CSR Council. The council which is In FY2020, Vedanta spent INR 2.96 communities. led by a senior business leader, comprises of CSR Heads & CSR executives from billion on social investments and CSR Our extensive the different Business Units. The council activities. This money is spent across community is responsible for governance, synergy 868 villages, benefitting nearly 3.26 development and cross-learning across the Group CSR million people. programs that efforts. It meets every month and reviews span nine thematic areas are a testament to this philosophy. These programs fulfill the basic needs of the communities, impacting millions of lives. The company also gains goodwill and an enhanced social license to operate.” -Sunil Duggal, Group CEO VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 97 OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | ENVIRONMENT | OUR PEOPLE | RETAINING OUR SOCIAL LICENSE TO OPERATE | ANNEXURES Community Development Programs SIGNATURE PROGRAMME CASE STUDY 1 8 2 4 6 Nand Ghar Nand Ghar has its genesis in the Government of India’s vision of eradicating child mal-nutrition, providing healthcare, and empowering women with skill development. SDG ALIGNMENT SDG 1 No poverty Target 1.1 Eradicate extreme poverty Target 1.2 Reduce by half people living in poverty SDG 2 Zero hunger In India ‘aanganwadis’ or day-care-centres been designed for both smart-phone and form a critical resource for women in rural or feature-phone users. The program has Target 2.1 low-income clusters to provide nutrition and used Interactive Voice Response Systems End hunger and ensure early education for their young children. The to ensure that feature-phone users do not access to safe, nutritious, and country has nearly 1.4 million aanganwadis miss out on the curriculum due to access sufficient food that support nearly 85 million children and challenges. 20 million women at any given point in time. Target 2.2 However, given their wide geographical Nand Ghar’s today provide 44,000 children End all forms of mal-nutrition spread, often times they operate in sub-par access to safe drinking water along with SDG 4 conditions. nutritious pre-cooked meals. The meals cater Quality Education to local tastes and have been developed in Nand Ghar was envisioned as a proof-ofaccordance to the nutrition norms provided Target 4.2 concept, where Vedanta would establish by the “Integrated Child Development Ensure all children have state-of-the art centers that provide Services” government programme. One of access to quality pre-primary e-learning opportunities, healthcare facilities, the ancillary outcomes of providing nutritious education & development hygienic pre-cook-nutritious meals and a meals has been the improvement in school space for women to be provided vocationattendance. Mobile Health Van’s and a SDG 6 based skills training. doctor-on-call provide healthcare services to Clean Water and Sanitation the children, their mothers, and members of As of 31st March 2020, Vedanta has the community. Target 6.1 established 1,302 such centers across the Universal and equitable states of Chattisgarh, Jharkhand, Karnataka, 25,000 women are also enrolled in skillsaccess to safe & affordable Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, and Uttar training programs and 3,000 of them have drinking water for all Pradesh. Our goal is to establish 4,000 Nand launched micro-enterprises, secured by SDG 8 Ghar’s by 2021. 100% of these centers are INR 2 million in loans. They are also provided Promote economic powered by solar-energy with nearly 1 MW of market linkages, financial literacy, business growth & decent work for all installed capacity. development and soft-skills training. The monthly income of these women from Target 8.3 E-learning programs have been this program ranges between INR 5,000 – Promote policies that developed by education experts and 10,000. The women have responded to encourage the growth of small rolled out by UNICEF and the State the COVID-19 crisis by manufacturing and medium-sized industries education boards. The material has >50,000 face masks. 98 VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 Our community engagement and development initiatives primarily fall under the following focus areas: PROGRAM AREAS KEY FEATURES More than 50 initiatives across our group Children’s Well-Being and Education companies Nearly 300,000 children benefit from these SDG 2: Zero Hunger programs Types of interventions: Aanganwadis and SDG 4: Quality Education child-care centres, Public school infrastructure support (including sanitation), Scholarships, SDG 6: Clean Water & Sanitation Teacher training, Digital classrooms & Computer aided learning centers, Libraries, Vedanta-run Schools, Exam preparation counselling, Career counselling, Science Fairs Healthcare More than 35 initiatives across our group companies SDG 3: Good Health & Well-being Nearly 1.9 million people benefit from these programs Types of interventions: Support to Primary Health Centres, HIV/AIDS awareness programs, Health camps, Mobile Health Vans, Specialist doctor support, Nutrition programs, Vedanta-run hospitals, Health awareness drives Drinking Water & Sanitation More than 24 initiatives across our group SDG 6: Clean Water and Sanitation companies Nearly 388,000 people benefit from these programs Types of interventions: Provision of drinking water, Construction of toilets, RO plant setup, Digging of borewells, Handpump repair/ installation, Sanitation drives Women’s Empowerment More than 15 initiatives across our group SDG 4: Quality Education companies More than 48,000 women benefit from these programs More than 3,100 SHGs, 250+ micro-enterprises Types of interventions: Self Help Groups, Women’s co-operatives, Micro-enterprises ALL OUR COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS ARE GOVERNED BY THE VEDANTA CSR POLICY, AND CORPORATE TECHNICAL STANDARDS THAT ARE PART OF THE VEDANTA SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORK. VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 99 OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | ENVIRONMENT | OUR PEOPLE | RETAINING OUR SOCIAL LICENSE TO OPERATE | ANNEXURES Community Development Programs Our community engagement and development initiatives... PROGRAM AREAS KEY FEATURES Community Infrastructure More than 20 initiatives across our group companies SDG 1: End Poverty More than 200,000 persons and 4,000+ families benefit from these programs SDG 3: Good Health Types of interventions: Tube-wells/ Openand Well-being wells/Borewells, check-dams, Public education infrastructure, Roads, Community centres, Health SDG 6: Clean Water and Sanitation centres, Parks, Village walls & gates, Renovation of sports complexes, Temples, Irrigation channels, Drains, Ponds, Street lights, Bus stands, Public SDG 11: Sustainable Cities CCTV installations and Communities Skilling Youth More than 10 initiatives across our group SDG 4: Quality Education companies More than 3,900 youth trained Types of interventions: Sewing centres, Vocational training centres, Technical & computer literacy programs, Traditional crafts and painting training Agriculture & Animal Husbandry More than 12 initiatives across our group companies SDG 1: End Poverty More than 90,000 farmers benefitted Types of interventions: Climate change SDG 2: Zero Hunger adaptation, Wadi-based agriculture, Water-shed rejuvenation, Agriculture-based natural resource SDG 13: Climate Action management, Dairy & Livestock development, Farmer training, Self Help Groups, Co-operatives, SDG 15: Life on Land Veterinary care, Irrigation channel maintenance Sports & Culture More than 20 initiatives across our group companies SDG 4: Quality Education More than 97,000 sports-persons and culture enthusiasts benefitted Types of interventions: Rural sports, Sponsorship for: para-athletes, marathons, sports tournaments, and music festivals, Football and archery training academies 100 VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 CASE STUDY 5 8 6 Enhancing livelihoods in communities Livelihood programs are central to the community development activities undertaken by Vedanta. As the largest private entity in many of the areas where we operate, community members look towards our organization to improve their economic circumstances. Project Sakhi, HZL Where possible we have tried to integrate individually or in a group. Women who community members into our workforce or have participated in these programs have into our supplier network. For others, we started tailoring units, farms, toy making, have established robust, tested, livelihood among other endeavours. These activities programs to help individuals gain new skills, have not only supplemented their household allowing them to add new or enhanced incomes, but also empowered them to sources of income. become independent members of society. Some success stories are given below: A third model involves the setting up of technical training centres, which teach The agriculture support program individuals the skills to become part of the managed by the BALCO CSR team provides modern workforce. From call centre training soil testing, fencing infrastructure, fertilizer provided by Cairn to the vocational training and seed-based input support, and technical programs such as plumbing, electrician, training programs. This intervention has machine operators, among others – these SDG ALIGNMENT motivated several farmers to adopt modern programs have allowed individuals to farming techniques such as System of Rice becoming primary wage earners for Intensification (SRI), which has doubled their families. HZL’s skill development yields and enhanced incomes. Many farmers programmes have a wide range of options to SDG 8 Decent work and have also diversified their crops, further cater to each segment of youth from those Economic Growth enhancing family incomes. who have attended secondary schooling to graduates, ITI & diploma-holders. Training Target 8.6 Self Help Groups (SHGs) are another way partnerships with automobile companies Reduce youth to empower women and enhance family such as Maruti Suzuki have provided unemployment, incomes. Build on the community-loan participants with a two-year ITI degree illiteracy, model, SHGs help women entrepreneurs along with a stipend. unproductivity start their own micro-enterprises – either VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 101 OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | ENVIRONMENT | OUR PEOPLE | RETAINING OUR SOCIAL LICENSE TO OPERATE | ANNEXURES Broader Economic Benefit to Host Country Our operations are primarily located in the developing economies of India and Africa, and we have an important role to play in developing our host communities and countries, enabling them to partake in the value we create. With a business model of growth, constant value creation, and improved operations, our vision is focussed towards building the wealth of our shareholders in a sustainable manner while minimising the effect of our operations on the environment and maximising the benefits for the local communities We have trifurcated our approach to value-creation: SEED VALUE ACROSS THE WORKFORCE AND THE ADD VALUE TO THE ENHANCE VALUE OF OUR COMMUNITY THROUGH COUNTRIES’ EXCHEQUER ASSETS BY INNOVATIVE EXTENSIVE TRAINING, AND BY UNLOCKING THEIR AND ADVANCED LONGTERM PROJECTS NATURAL RESOURCES AND PROCESSES THAT HELP AND PROGRAMMES THAT PAYING TAXES & ROYALTIES US BE MORE PRODUCTIVE ACCELERATE DEVELOPMENT FOR OUR OPERATIONS AND COMPETITIVE AND ENSURE EQUITABLE GROWTH THE COMMODITIES THAT WE PRODUCE AND THE ENERGY THAT WE GENERATE CONSTITUTE THE BUILDING BLOCKS OF THE MODERN WORLD. HOWEVER, THE VALUE WE CREATE IS NOT LIMITED TO THESE OUTPUTS BUT EXTENDS ACROSS SOCIETY IN A MEANINGFUL AND EFFECTIVE MANNER. ETP-Gamsberg, Zinc International 102 VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 Offshore well-pad-Ravva, Cairn Oil & Gas Economic Value Generate & Distributed In INR million We are committed to giving back to the stakeholders Economic Value Generated (A) 890,324 who play a vital role in powering our growth. Reducing the social and economic divide by adding value to the Revenues 890,324 economy, distributing wealth, creating direct and indirect Economic Value Distributed (B) 741,460 employment, contributing to the exchequer, investing in Operating Costs 574,456 employees and empowering the local community through our community development initiatives are all key elements Employee Wages & Benefits 26,720 of our sustainability framework. Further, our operations Payments to Providers of Capital 67,660 also help to provide the products these communities Payments to Government 42,978 need to further their development, for example, through infrastructure and housing. Community Investments 2,9646 Economic Value Retained (A-B) 14,8864 VEDANTA’S ECONOMIC & SOCIAL IMPACT Given that we operate in a primary foreign exchange due to the domestic mining-related activity. sector of the economy, Vedanta’s production of zinc, aluminium, copper, business has a significant impact of oil & gas. Lastly the closure of Sterlite Copper’s India’s GDP. In a study conducted by plant in Thoothukodi has resulted in the Institute for Competitiveness, by The tax contributions to the national an economic impact of more than 2019 estimates, Vedanta’s contributes and state governments can support US$ 2.5 billion to India’s economy. 3.6% to the GDP (Direct impact: the primary education of 22.25 million Similarly, the ban on mining 0.40%, Indirect impact: 1%, Induced students and 425,000 medical operations in the State of Goa has impact: 2.20%). Additionally, the officers per year. resulted in a cumulative loss of INR company generates 17.27 jobs in the 180.2 billion to the Indian economy. economy for every employee hired by Over the last four years, the company Vedanta. has also contributed INR 28.57 billion to the District Mineral Funds (DMFs). The study has revealed that the DMFs are funds setup in areas where The report can be read at: https:// overall economic value created by mining is the predominant economic www.vedantalimited.com/ the organization has far-reaching activity. These funds are to be used MediaDocuments/e_Version_29_ implications. Collectively, India by the government for the interests July%20(Ver%204.0).pdf saves more than INR 144.5 billion in and benefits of persons affected by VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 103 OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | ENVIRONMENT | OUR PEOPLE | RETAINING OUR SOCIAL LICENSE TO OPERATE | ANNEXURES Awards and Accolades Our group companies received more than 80 awards in the sustainability, HSE, CSR, and HR categories. We present a few select awards below. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT & CSRR ENVIRONMENT Cairn Oil & Gas HZL “Innovation in CSR practices” for the 1st Water Conservation Award 2019 in the Nivaaran application by ET Now Office Category, awarded by IGBC/CII” World CSR Awards Appreciation letter by the District Health Vedanta Jharsuguda Department, Barmer Government of Rajasthan Health care interventions in Excellence in Energy Management CPP Barmer district Hospital that resulted in 1215 MW bagged the CII Enenrgy Efficiency the Hospital getting ranked #1 amongst all Unit Award 2019 in 20th National Award for district hospitals in Rajasthan Excellence in Energy Management HZL Inclusion in the RobecoSAM Sustainability Yearbook 2020 Ranked 5th Globally and 1st in Asia-Pacific Region in the Metals and Mining Sector of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index Included in the FTSE4Good Index Series by FTSE ASSOCHAM Women Achievers Award 2019 to the Sakhi Project Bravery award for “Rescuing the flooded bus” in the 18th International OSH Awards BALCO Award for “Sustainable Mining Practices” at Mining Mazma of the Federation of Indian Mineral Industries (FIMI) 104 VEDANTA LIMITED LIMITEDSDR SDR2019-20 2019-20 HEALTH & SAFETY HUMAN RESOURCES Cairn Oil & Gas VAL Jharsuguda 8th FICCI Safety Systems Excellence Awards Jharsuguda Bagged 1st Prize in for Industry -Platinum Prize (1st Prize) in “Digitalization in HR” & “Talent Management Mining category in the Manufacturing Sector “ & bagged 2nd prize in “Leadership & EHS Excellence Award 2019 “Five Employee Development” & “Employee Star rating” for the excellence in EHS Engagement” in CII National HR Circle (Environment, Health and Safety) practices Competition 2019 in the large scale industries, by CII Cairn Oil & Gas HZL Great Place to Work | April 2019 – March Gold Rating Manufacturing category 2020 National 5s Excellence Awards 2019 BALCO Won CII Chhattisgarh SHE Awards for excellence in Safety, Health & Environment Vedanta Jharsuguda Won award for Longest Accident Free Period from Hon’ble Minister of Labour, ESI and Energy, Government of Odisha Bagged 37 gold awards and 100 silver awards at the 26th Chapter Convention of Quality Concepts, Rourkela Two teams from CPP 1215 MW awarded gold in LQC and Kaizen category at the 43rd International Convention on Quality Control Circles, Singapore Won 12 awards in Par Excellence and 14 awards in Excellent categories at the 32nd National Convention on Quality Concepts Received International JUSE Certification in 5S from Union of Japanese scientists and engineers at the 32nd NCQC VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 105 OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | ENVIRONMENT | OUR PEOPLE | RETAINING OUR SOCIAL LICENSE TO OPERATE | ANNEXURES Partnerships & Associations Vedanta is proud to associate with the following organizations, as we work to enhance our HSE & Sustainability practices. Thinktanks & Subject-Matter NGOs and Civil Society OrgaIndustry Associations Academic Institutions Expert Organizations nizations Aluminium Association of Quality Circle Forum of India* IIT Madras Wockhardt Foundation India# Federation of Indian Mineral National Safety Council* IIM – Sambalpur Industries (FIMI)# CII* UN Global Compact * ISB Hyderabad FICCI*CC UN Women’s Empowerment IISC – Bengaluru Principles* ASSOCHAM*CC IUCN – Leaders for Nature* Indian Steel Association* British Safety Council Federation of Indian Indian Green Building Council* Petroleum Industry *CC Indian Chamber of Commerce* International Zinc Association* * Institutional member # Member of Executive Board CC Committee Chair 106 VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 About this Report This is Vedanta’s 12th Sustainable Development Report and along with our Integrated Annual Report provides an overview of our approach and our achievements in FY 2020, outlining our actions over the past year to achieve our mission to be a world-class diversified natural resource company. Reporting Scope and Boundary Covering the financial year 2020, the have been defined using reporting No significant changes in terms of report is structured around the material principles prescribed in the GRI acquisition and physical boundaries issues identified in the materiality Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI from the previous reporting periods in matrix and divided under Governance, Standards) of the Global Reporting the scope and aspect boundaries. Environment, Our People and Retaining Initiative. We followed the approach Our Social License to Operate. described in GRI implementation The report is also mapped to the United manual for designing the report Nations Global Compact (UNGC) All group subsidiary companies have content. The material aspects that have and United Nations Sustainable been reported in full as though they been covered in the report are clearly Development Goals (UN SDGs). were 100% wholly owned as we brought out in the materiality matrix. It should be considered as our recognise the level of control and In the report, the DMA (Disclosure on Communication of Progress (COP). It sphere of influence the Group has over Management Approach) describes the reports our approach and disclosure these operations. Company’s approach to the subjects towards triple bottom line principles relevant to it and the indicators provide people, planet and profit over the The aspect boundaries and content of details on performance on the specific financial year 2020. this Sustainable Development Report subjects. GRI Standards Content and Disclosure Document The GRI Standards detailed content index and Vedanta GRI Standards Disclosure Document FY 2020 includes additional indicators including the Mining and Metal and Oil and Gas supplements. Assurance and Disclosure Document Assurance of this report was carried out by KPMG under ‘limited assurance’ services in accordance with the ISAE 3000. There is an internal approval system in the Company for appointment of external assurance provider for the sustainability report. VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 107 OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | ENVIRONMENT | OUR PEOPLE | RETAINING OUR SOCIAL LICENSE TO OPERATE | ANNEXURES External Indices United Nations Global Compact We continue to uphold the ten principles of the UNGC. Our Sustainable Development report communicates our progress in implementing the ten principles, and below we have mapped the principles against our various sustainability aspects and specific report sections. Aspect UNGC Principle Report Reference Page No. Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection Human Rights 88-89 of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights Human Rights 88-89 abuses Labour Rights Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association Human Rights 91 and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Child and Forced Labour Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory Human Rights 92 labour Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour Human Rights 92 Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of Diversity and Equal 82-85 employment and occupation Opportunity Environment Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to GRI Content Index 114 environmental challenges Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Environment 42-69 sustainability Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of Environment 42-69 environmentally friendly technologies Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all its Code of Business 38 forms, including extortion and bribery Ethics 108 VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs) In September 2015, the UN member states agreed on a set of 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), to end poverty, fight inequality and injustice, and tackle climate change by 2030. Given below is our SDG priority list which states our endeavours that align with the said goals. SDGs Corresponding Sections Page No. Rights of Indigenous Peoples 94, 98, SDG1: No Poverty Community Development Programs 100 Progress & Roadmap 19, 23, 98, SDG2: Zero Hunger COVID-19 Update 99, 100 Community Development Programs Rights of Indigenous Peoples 23, 95, 99, SDG3: Good Health and Well-being COVID-19 Update 100 Community Development Programs Rights of Indigenous Peoples 95, 98, 99, SDG4: Quality Education Community Development Programs 100 Progress & Roadmap 20, 85 SDG5: Gender Equality Diversity & Equal Opportunity Progress & Roadmap 18, 64, 85, SDG6: Clean Water and Sanitation Water Management 95, 99, Diversity & Equal Opportunity 100 Community Development Programs Energy Management & Climate Change 53 SDG7: Affordable and Clean Energy Progress & Roadmap 18, 23, 76, SDG8: Decent Work and Economic Growth COVID-19 Update 77, 85, 95, Building a Culture of Care 98, 101 Diversity & Equal Opportunity Community Development Programs Water Management 64 SDG9: Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure Diversity & Equal Opportunity 82 SDG10: Diversity and Equal Opportunity Community Development Programs 100 SDG11: Sustainable Cities and Communities Progress & Roadmap 18, 45, 55, SDG12: Responsible Consumption and Production Environment 56, 61, 64 Progress & Roadmap 18, 45, 49, SDG13: Climate Action Environment 100 Community Development Programs Progress & Roadmap 18, 45, 49, SDG15: Life on Land Environment 69, 100 Community Development Programs Governance 28-41 SDG16: Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions COVID-19 Update 23-27 SDG17: Partnership for the Goals VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 109 OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | ENVIRONMENT | OUR PEOPLE | RETAINING OUR SOCIAL LICENSE TO OPERATE | ANNEXURES Assurance Statement KPMG Assurance and Consulting Services LLP Telephone: +91 124 307 4000 Building No. 10, 8th Floor, Tower-C Fax: +91 124 254 9101 DLF Cyber City, Phase II Internet: www.kpmg.com/in Gurugram 122 002 (India) Independent Limited Assurance Statement to Vedanta Limited on their Corporate Sustainability Report for FY 2019-20 To the management of Vedanta Limited Introduction We (‘KPMG Assurance and Consulting Services LLP’, or ‘KPMG’) have been engaged by Vedanta Limited (‘the Company’ or ‘Vedanta’) for the purpose of providing an independent assurance on its Sustainability Report for FY 2019-20 (‘the Report’). The Report is prepared by the Company based on Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards ‘in-accordance – core’ option for sustainability reporting. The development of Report, its content, identification of key material topics and related impacts, engaging with stakeholders is the sole responsibility of the management of the Company. KPMG’s responsibility is to provide limited assurance on the Report content as described in the scope, boundary and limitations for assurance. Reporting Criteria Vedanta applies its sustainability performance reporting criteria based on Sustainability Reporting Standards of Global Reporting Initiative (GRI Standards) including the Mining and Metals and Oil & Gas Sector Disclosures, National Voluntary Guidelines on Social, Environmental and Economic Responsibilities of Business (NVG) framed by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA), Government of India, United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) principles, International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM) and Sustainable Development Goal frameworks for the Company as detailed in the ‘Scope, Boundary and Limitations for assurance’. . Assurance Standards We conducted our assurance in accordance with limited assurance requirements of International Federation of Accountants’ (IFAC) International Standard on Assurance Engagement (ISAE) 3000 (revised) – Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information. Under this standard, we have reviewed the information presented in the report against the characteristics of relevance, completeness, reliability, neutrality and understandability. Limited assurance consists primarily of enquiries and analytical procedures. The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary in nature and timing and are less in extent than for a reasonable assurance engagement. Scope, Boundary and Limitations for Assurance The Assurance has been provided for selected sustainability performance disclosures presented by Vedanta in its Report. The reporting boundary included data and information for the period 01 April 2019 to 31 March 2020 for India and Global operations, based on Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) Standards in accordance Core option. Our Scope of assurance included verification of the sample data and information on selected material topics reported at the following units/locations and Corporate offices in Gurgaon and Udaipur: x Vedanta Limited (Jharsuguda Smelter & Power x BALCO (Korba Smelter & Power Plants, Odisha) Plants, Chhattisgarh) x Vedanta Limited (Sesa Goa Iron Ore, Amona, x Electrosteel Steels (Bokaro, Goa) Jharkhand) x Vedanta Limited (Cairn Oil & Gas Mangala x Vedanta Zinc International (Black Bhagyam, Aishwariya Field, Rajasthan) Mountain Mining, South Africa) KPMG Assurance and Consulting Services LLP, an Indian limited KPMG (Registered) (a partnership firm with Registration No. BARegistered Office: Lodha liability partnership and a member firm of the KPMG network of 62445) converted into KPMG Assurance and Consulting Services Excelus, 1st Floor Apollo Mills independent member firms affiliated with KPMG International LLP (a Limited Liability Partnership with LLP Registration No. AATCompound,N. M. Joshi Marg, Cooperative ( KPMG International ), a Swiss entity 0367), with effect from July 23, 2020 Mahalaxmi, Mumbai 400 011 110 VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 KPMG Assurance and Consulting Services LLP Telephone: +91 124 307 4000 Building No. 10, 8th Floor, Tower-C Fax: +91 124 254 9101 DLF Cyber City, Phase II Internet: www.kpmg.com/in Gurugram 122 002 (India) x Hindustan Zinc Limited (Chanderiya Lead and x Hindustan Zinc Limited (Rampura Zinc Smelters, Rajasthan) Agucha Mines, Rajasthan) x Hindustan Zinc Limited (Dariba Smelting x Hindustan Zinc Limited (Sindesar Complex, Rajasthan) Khurd Mines, Rajasthan) x Hindustan Zinc Limited (Udaipur Corporate x Vedanta Limited (Corporate Office, Office, Rajasthan) Gurgaon, Haryana) Scope Limitations for Assurance: The assurance scope excludes: x Data and information outside the defined reporting period and boundary; x The Company’s financial performance; x The Company’s compliance to legal obligations/disclosures; x The Company’s statements that describe expression of opinion, belief, aspiration, expectation, aim or future intention and assertions related to Intellectual Property Rights; x Aspects of the report other than those mentioned in the scope of assurance and x Strategy and other related linkages mentioned in the report The Universal and Topic Specific Standard Disclosures subject to assurance were as follows: Universal Standard Disclosures Topic Specific Standard Disclosures x General Disclosures x EnvironmentDO o Organizational Profile (102-7, 102-8, 102-10 to x Energy (302-1, 302-3, OG3) 102-11) x Water (303-1, 303-3) o Strategy (102-14) o Ethics and Integrity (102-16) x Biodiversity (304-1) o Governance (102-18) x Emissions (305-1, 305-2, 305-4, 305-7) o Stakeholder Engagement (102-40 to 102-44) x Effluents and Waste (306-1, 306-2, OG5, OG 6, o Reporting Practice (102-45 to 102-56) OG7, MM3) x Management Approach x Social o Disclosure on Management Approach (103-1) 1 x Employment (401-1, 401-2, 401-3) x Occupational Health and Safety (403-2) x Training and Education (404-1, 404-2) x Diversity and Equal Opportunity (405-1) x Non-Discrimination (406-1) x Security personnel trained in human rights policies or procedures (410-1) x Local Communities (413-1) Assurance Procedures Our assurance processes involve performing procedures to obtain evidence about the reliability of specified sustainability disclosures. The nature, timing and extent of procedures selected depend on our judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the selected sustainability disclosures whether due to fraud or error. In responding to the assessed risks, we have considered internal controls relevant to the preparation of the Report in order to design assurance procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances. Our limited assurance procedures also included: 1 Disclosures on Management Approach were verified for select topic specific disclosures as per the given table KPMG Assurance and Consulting Services LLP, an Indian limited KPMG (Registered) (a partnership firm with Registration No. BARegistered Office: Lodha liability partnership and a member firm of the KPMG network of 62445) converted into KPMG Assurance and Consulting Services Excelus, 1st Floor Apollo Mills independent member firms affiliated with KPMG International LLP (a Limited Liability Partnership with LLP Registration No. AATCompound,N. M. Joshi Marg, Cooperative ( KPMG International ), a Swiss entity 0367), with effect from July 23, 2020 Mahalaxmi, Mumbai 400 011 VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 111 OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | ENVIRONMENT | OUR PEOPLE | RETAINING OUR SOCIAL LICENSE TO OPERATE | ANNEXURES Assurance Statement KPMG Assurance and Consulting Services LLP Telephone: +91 124 307 4000 Building No. 10, 8th Floor, Tower-C Fax: +91 124 254 9101 DLF Cyber City, Phase II Internet: www.kpmg.com/in Gurugram 122 002 (India) x Assessing that the report is prepared in accordance with the Sustainability Reporting Standards of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI Standards – in accordance “Core” option); x Reviewing the Report to ensure that there is no misrepresentation of disclosures as per scope of assurance and our findings; x Reviewing the materiality and stakeholder engagement framework deployed at Vedanta; x Understanding the appropriateness of various assumptions used for estimation of data by Vedanta; x Assessing the systems used for data collection and reporting of the Universal Disclosures and Topic Specific Disclosures of material topics as listed in the assurance scope above; x Verifying systems and procedures used for quantification, collation and analysis of sustainability performance disclosures included in the Report; x Holding remote discussions with senior executives at the selected plant locations and at the corporate office to understand the risks and opportunities from a sustainability perspective including the strategy that Vedanta has adopted to address the same; x Assessing data reliability and accuracy; x Review of select key performance data for the duration from 1st April 2019 to 31st March 2020 was carried out remotely through virtual interactions and screen sharing tools Appropriate documentary evidences were obtained to support our conclusions on the information and data reviewed. Where such documentary evidences could not be collected due to sensitive nature of the information, our team reviewed the same with Vedanta representatives through virtual interactions Conclusions We have reviewed the Sustainability Report of Vedanta. Based on our limited review and procedures performed in line with scope, boundary and limitations of assurance, nothing has come to our attention that causes us not to believe that the sustainability data and information presented in the Report is fairly represented in line with the identified material topics and is in accordance with the sustainability reporting standards of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI Standards). Data representation and calculation related errors were observed but the same were resolved during the assurance process. We have provided our observations and areas for improvement to the company in a separate management letter. These, do not, however, affect our conclusions regarding the Report. Independence The assurance was conducted by a multidisciplinary team including professionals with suitable skills and experience in auditing as per requirements of ISAE 3 standards. Our work was performed in compliance with the requirements of the IFAC Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants, which requires, among other requirements, that the members of the assurance team (practitioners) be independent of the assurance client, in relation to the scope of this assurance engagement, including not being involved in writing the statement. The Code also includes detailed requirements for practitioners regarding integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, confidentiality and professional behavior. KPMG has systems and processes in place to monitor compliance with the Code and to prevent conflicts regarding independence. The firm applies ISQC 1 and the practitioner complies with the applicable independence and other ethical requirements of the IESBA code. Responsibilities Vedanta is responsible for developing the Report contents. The Company is also responsible for identification of material sustainability topics, establishing and maintaining appropriate performance management and internal control systems and derivation of performance data reported. This statement is made solely to the Management of Vedanta Limited in accordance with the terms of our engagement and as per scope of assurance. Our work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company those matters for which we have been engaged to state in this statement and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to KPMG Assurance and Consulting Services LLP, an Indian limited KPMG (Registered) (a partnership firm with Registration No. BARegistered Office: Lodha liability partnership and a member firm of the KPMG network of 62445) converted into KPMG Assurance and Consulting Services Excelus, 1st Floor Apollo Mills independent member firms affiliated with KPMG International LLP (a Limited Liability Partnership with LLP Registration No. AATCompound,N. M. Joshi Marg, Cooperative ( KPMG International ), a Swiss entity 0367), with effect from July 23, 2020 Mahalaxmi, Mumbai 400 011 112 VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 KPMG Assurance and Consulting Services LLP Telephone: +91 124 307 4000 Building No. 10, 8th Floor, Tower-C Fax: +91 124 254 9101 DLF Cyber City, Phase II Internet: www.kpmg.com/in Gurugram 122 002 (India) anyone other than the Company for our work, or for the conclusions expressed in this independent assurance statement. The assurance engagement is based on the assumption that the data and information provided to us are complete and true. We expressly disclaim any liability or coresponsibility for any decision a person or entity would make based on this assurance statement. Our assurance statement is released to Vedanta Limited on the basis that it shall not be copied, referred to or disclosed, in whole or in part, without our prior written consent. By reading this assurance statement, stakeholders acknowledge and agree to the limitations and disclaimers mentioned above. Santhosh Jayaram Partner KPMG Assurance and Consulting Services LLP 07 September 2020 KPMG Assurance and Consulting Services LLP, an Indian limited KPMG (Registered) (a partnership firm with Registration No. BARegistered Office: Lodha liability partnership and a member firm of the KPMG network of 62445) converted into KPMG Assurance and Consulting Services Excelus, 1st Floor Apollo Mills independent member firms affiliated with KPMG International LLP (a Limited Liability Partnership with LLP Registration No. AATCompound,N. M. Joshi Marg, Cooperative ( KPMG International ), a Swiss entity 0367), with effect from July 23, 2020 Mahalaxmi, Mumbai 400 011 VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 113 OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | ENVIRONMENT | OUR PEOPLE | RETAINING OUR SOCIAL LICENSE TO OPERATE | ANNEXURES GRI Standards Index GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE RESPONSE GRI 101: Foundation 2016 [GRI 101 does not include any disclosures] General Disclosures ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE GRI 102General 102-1: Name of the Organization Vedanta Limited Disclosures 2016 102-2Activities, brands, prodVedanta Sustainability Report 2019-20: Pages 04-11 (Overview) ucts, and services 102-3: Location of headquarters Vedanta Sustainability Report 2019-20: Back Cover 102-4: Location of operations Australia, India (Andhra Pradesh, Chattisgarh, Goa, Gujarat, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Odisha, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu), Namibia, South Africa 102-5: Ownership and legal form Vedanta Limited Annual Report 2019-20: Pages 257, 393 102-6: Markets served Vedanta Sustainability Report 2019-20: Page 04-11 (Overview) 102-7: Scale of the organization Vedanta Sustainability Report 2019-20: Page 05 (Overview), Page 10 (Our Products), Page 79 (Workforce Snapshot), Page 103 (Economic Value Generated and Distributed), Page 104 (Other Indicators of Economic Performance) 102-8: Information on employees Vedanta Sustainability Report 2019-20: Page 79 (Workforce Snapshot) and other workers 102-9: Supply chain Vedanta Sustainability Report 2019-20: Page 06-07 (Our Value Chain) Vedanta’s supply chain spans all five areas of the metals & mining business exploration, asset development, extraction, processing, and value addition. We work with over 8,000 Tier 1 suppliers from 30+ countries, and given the nature of our business, our supply chain consists of vendors who provide us with the workforce who help us operate our extractive and processing businesses as well as operators who supply us with high-end technologies that help us conduct our operations in the most efficient, responsible, and cost effective manner possible. We are also committed to ensuring that we encourage local vendors become part of our supply chain so that the presence of our businesses benefits the local economies and communities. 102-10: Significant changes to No significant change to our supply chain or our organization in FY2019-20 the organization and its supply chain 102-11: Precautionary principle or Vedanta seeks to ensure that all of our operations follow a stringent application approach of environmental and social principles. All of our businesses undergo an Environmental and Social Impact Assessment before beginning operations. Any findings from the ESIA are considered and a mitigation plan developed. We are also committed to ensuring that we follow the principles of Free, Prior, Informed Consent (FPIC) in communities that consist of populations of indigenous peoples. 10212: External initiatives Vedanta aligns itself with the following external charters & principles: UN Global Compact, UN Sustainable Development Goals, ICMM, IOGP, IFC Performance Standards, GHG Greenhouse Gas Protocol 10213: Memberships of assoVedanta Sustainability Report 2019-20: Page 108 (Partnerships & Associaciations tions) 114 VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE RESPONSE STRATEGY GRI 102General 102-14: Statement from senior Vedanta Sustainability Report 2019-20: Page 12 (From the Chairman’s Desk), Disclosures 2016 decision-maker Page 14 (CEO’s Message) ETHICS & INTEGRITY GRI 102General 102-16: Values, principles, stanVedanta Sustainability Report 2019-20: Page 06 (Our Core Values) Disclosures 2016 dards, and norms of behaviour GOVERNANCE GRI 102General 102-18: Governance Structure Vedanta Sustainability Report 2019-20: Page 30-32 (Governance) Disclosures 2016 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT GRI 102General 102-40: List of stakeholder Vedanta Limited Annual Report 2019-20: Page 72-73 (Aligning Stakeholder Disclosures 2016 groups Expectations with Business Strategy) 102-41: Collective bargaining Vedanta Sustainability Report 2019-20: Page 91 (Collective Bargaining) agreements Collective bargaining agreements are governed by and in accordance with the respective regulations of the countries where we operate. Where applicable, 100% of our 102-42: Identifying and selectVedanta Limited Annual Report 2019-20: Page 72-73 (Aligning Stakeholder ing stakeholders Expectations with Business Strategy) 102-43: Approach to stakeholdVedanta Limited Annual Report 2019-20: Page 72 (Aligning Stakeholder er engagement Expectations with Business Strategy) 102-44: Key topics & concerns Vedanta Limited Annual Report 2019-20: Pages 73 (Aligning Stakeholder raised Expectations with Business Strategy) REPORTING PRACTICE GRI 102General 102-45: Entities included in Vedanta Limited Annual Report 2019-20: Page 03 (About the Report Scope Disclosures 2016 the consolidated financial & Boundary) statements 102-46: Defining report content Vedanta Sustainability Report 2019-20: Page 109 (About this report) and topic boundaries 102-47: List of material topics Vedanta Sustainability Report 2019-20: Page 16-17 (Vedanta’s Sustainability Context) 102-48: Restatements of inforVedanta Sustainability Report 2019-20: Page 109 (About this report) mation 102-49: Changes in reporting Vedanta Sustainability Report 2019-20: Page 109 (About this report) 102-50: Reporting period The reporting period for this report is FY2019-20. 102-51: Date of most recent Vedanta’s previous sustainability report was released in June 2019. report 102-52: Reporting cycle Annual 102-53: Contact point for quesQuestions can be directed to: sustainability@vedanta.co.in tions regarding the report 102-54: Claims of reporting Vedanta Sustainability Report 2019-20: Table of Contents, Page 109 (About in accordance with the GRI this report) Standards 102-55: GRI Content Index Vedanta Sustainability Report 2019-20: PPage 114 (GRI Standards Index) 102-56: External Assurance Vedanta Sustainability Report 2019-20: Page 112 (Assurance Statement) VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 115 OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | ENVIRONMENT | OUR PEOPLE | RETAINING OUR SOCIAL LICENSE TO OPERATE | ANNEXURES Specific Standard Disclosures CATEGORY: ECONOMIC GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE RESPONSE ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE GRI 103: Manage103-1: Explanation of the materiBoundary: Entire organization ment Approach 2016 al topic and its boundary 103-2: The management apVedanta Sustainability Report 2019-20: Page 102 (Broader Economic Benefit proach and its components to Host Country) 103-3: Evaluation of manageVedanta Sustainability Report 2019-20: Page 102 (Broader Economic Benefit ment approach to Host Country) GRI 201: Economic 201-1: Direct economic value Vedanta Sustainability Report 2019-20: Page 103 (Economic Value Generated Performance 2016 generated and distributed. and Distributed) 201-3: Defined benefit plan Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations FY2019-20 obligations and other retirement (INR million) plans Defined contribution pension scheme costs 840 Defined benefit pension scheme costs 890 Share based payment charge 980 Total 2,710 201-4: Financial assistance FY2019-20 FY2018-19 FY 2017-18 received from government Financial assistance received from govern116 157.50 ment (INR million) MARKET PRESENCE GRI 103: ManageVedanta Sustainability Report 2019-20: Pages 8-11 ment Approach 2016 GRI 202: Market 202-1: Ratios of standard entry At all our significant locations, we ensure that the ratios of entry level wages Presence 2016 level wage by gender compared meets or exceeds the legal requirements and complies with all applicable laws. to local minimum wage With regards to gender, the ratio is 1:1 and we don’t discriminate in any way in terms of standard entry level wages. 202-2: Proportion of senior Vedanta Sustainability Report 2019-20: Page 96 (Local Hiring) management hired from local community INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS GRI 103: ManageVedanta Sustainability Report 2019-20: Page 97 (Community Development ment Approach 2016 Programs) GRI 203: Indirect 203-1: Infrastructure investments Vedanta Sustainability Report 2019-20: Page 98 (Nandghar), Page 99 Economic Impacts and services supported (Healthcare), Page 99 (Drinking Water & Sanitation), Page 100 (Community Infra2016 structure) Vedanta Limited Annual Report 2019-20: Pages 193-200 (Annexure A) 116 VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE RESPONSE ANTI-CORRUPTION GRI 103: ManageVedanta Sustainability Report 2019-20: Pages 50, 190, 262, 264, 265 ment Approach 2016 GRI 205: Anti-Cor205-1: Operations assessed for Our operations are assessed for risks related to corruption. The assessments are ruption 2016 risks related to corruption conducted by the Management Assurance Services (MAS) team. More details can be found at: Vedanta Limited Annual Report 2019-20: Page 262 205-2: Communication and Vedanta Sustainability Report 2019-20: Page 38 (Code of business conduct training about anti-corruption and Ethics) policies and procedures Vedanta Limited Annual Report 2019-20: Page 265 (Awareness sessions/ Workshop on Compliances and Ethics) 205-3: Confirmed incidents of Vedanta Sustainability Report 2019-20: Page 38 (Implementation of CBCE) corruption and action taken ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOUR GRI 103: ManageFrom of Code of Business Conduct and Ethics: ment Approach 2016 Vedanta is committed to free and open competition in the marketplace. Employees should avoid actions that would be contrary to laws governing competitive practices in the marketplace, including federal and state anti-trust laws. Such actions include misappropriation and/or misuse of a competitor’s confidential information or making false statements about the competitor’s business and business practices. The Group and its employees shall under no circumstances engage in any anti-competitive practices such as illegal fixing of prices, sharing of markets or other actions which prevent, restrict or distort competition in violation of applicable anti-trust laws. GRI 206: Anti-Com206-1: Legal actions for No legal action. petitive Behaviour anti-competitive behaviour, an2016 ti-trust, and monopoly practices MATERIAL ASPECT : OIL RESERVES OG1 Volume and type of estimated Proved & Probable Proved & Probable proved reserves and production Reserves Reserves (developed) Oil Gas Oil Gas (mmstb) (bscf) (mmstb) (bscf) Reserves as of 1st April 2018 55 31 39 19 Additions/revision during the year 132 117 78 60 Production during the year (23) (8) (23) (8) Reserves as of 31st March 2019 164 140 94 71 Additions/revision during the year 12 30 12 20 Production during the year (20) (13) (20) (13) Reserves as of 31st March 2020 156 157 86 78 VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 117 OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | ENVIRONMENT | OUR PEOPLE | RETAINING OUR SOCIAL LICENSE TO OPERATE | ANNEXURES CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENT GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE RESPONSE ENERGY GRI 103: ManageVedanta Sustainability Report 2019-20: Page 52 (Energy– Management and ment Approach 2016 Climate Change) GRI 302: Energy 302-1: Energy consumption Vedanta Sustainability Report 2019-20: Page 31 (Energy Consumption) 2016 within the organization Unit wise breakup of total energy consumption (GJ) within organisation is as below: Business Total Energy (GJ) FY 2019-20 FY2018-19 FY2017-18 Aluminium 321,507,053 311,669,874+ 161,939,598 Copper Australia 84,731 87,985 92,959 Copper India 712,411 715,028# 4,107,254 Iron Ore Business 1,056,605 891,674# 1,445,642 Oil and Gas Business 24,091,852 23,692,722 19,358,552 Port Business 46,494 42,132 42,343 Power Business 122,855,935 110,565,128 198,418,692 Steel 10,115,364 Zinc India 46,565,687 47,091,020 47,657,692 Zinc International 3,540,375 51,918,842* 3,060,086 Total 530,576,551 546,674,405 436,122,818 + Increase due to ramp up in production in our Aluminium India Business # Decrease due to the shut-down of our operations in Tuticorin and mines in Goa * Increase in total energy consumption is due to the addition and ramp-up of operations in Gamsberg 302-3: Energy Intensity Specific Energy Consumption (GJ/Unit of Production Output) Business Sector Company name FY 2019-20 FY2018-19 FY2017-18 Aluminium BALCO 53 52.45 52.90 Lanjigarh 7.27 7.5 8.15 Jharsuguda 52.16 52.46 54.18 Copper Australia CMT Copper India Sterlite Copper# 15.92 8.33 Sterlite IPP# 11.57 Iron Ore Business VAB – Pig Iron 0.91 1.00 0.88 Oil and Gas Cairn India 2.52 2.19 1.87 Port Business VGCB 0.01 0.01 0.01 Power Business MALCO* TSPL 7.22 7.34 9.38 Jhasuguda IPP 8.35 8.14 10.36 BALCO IPP 9.90 10.22 Steel ESL 0.31 NA NA Zinc India HZL – Mines 0.32 0.26 0.29 HZL – Smelter 15.82 16.86 17.05 Zinc International Skorpion 25.15 34.23 29.31 Lisheen* BMM 0.30 0.43 0.35 Gamsberg 0.29 79 *Malco, Lisheen are not operational # Sterlite Copper’s smelter and power plant in Tuticorin was closed for the entire reporting period 118 VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE RESPONSE 302-4: Reduction of energy Vedanta Sustainability Report 2019-20: Page 51 (Energy & GHG Saving consumption Initiatives) Disclaimer: Productions numbers used to calculate intensity figures may vary from those presented on page 10 of this report. Those numbers represent volumes sold, whereas the numbers used in the calculation below represent total ores/metals processed. OG2 Total amount invested in RenewINR 110,250 able Energy OG3 Total amount of renewable enerSource Amount Generated (KwH) gy generated by source Solar 632,340 Wind 2,064 Total 634,404 WATER GRI 103: ManageVedanta Sustainability Report 2019-20: Page 62 (Water Management) ment Approach 2016 GRI 303: Water 2016 303-1: Water withdrawal by During the reporting period, we withdrew over 154.22 million cubic meters of source water. The water was sourced from: 12.71% ground water, 80.72% surface water, 4.56% wastewater from another organisation, 1.38% water from tankers and 0.63% rain-water harvesting. The total water withdrawal has marginally decreased in comparison to FY2018-19, when we withdrew 155.60 million cubic meters of water. FY2019-20 FY2018-19 FY2017-18 Business Ground Surface Ground Surface Ground Surface Water Water Water Water Water Water (m3) (m3) (m3) (m3) (m3) (m3) Alumin51,961,258 59,940 51,359,992 59,195 28,097,056* ium Copper 11,815 12,250 107,345 14,756 1,313,793 India Copper 3,092,374 1,425,667 4,073,032 2,499,008 4,015,868 3,425,614 Australia Iron Ore 192,342 2,632,878 253,539 3,395,598 259,120 3,139,259 Business Oil and 10,984,227 10,612,957 11,563,732 Gas Business Power 42,319,740 46,498,898 41,563,995 Business Port 4,349 2,557 2,935 Business Steel 5,448,267 NA NA NA NA Zinc 3,114,616 16,749,889 2,876,756 19,664,380 3,681,071 20,382,341 India Zinc 2,210,172 3,939,967 2,717,883 2,817,135 2,002,257 5,027,207 International Total 19,605,546 124,482,015 17,717,351 126,344,913 21,595,999 102,949,265 303-2: Water sources signifiIn about two locations, our water withdrawals are greater than or equal to 5% of cantly affected by withdrawal the water body’s annual average volume. However, none of these withdrawals of water can be considered sensitive as it does not threaten the biodiversity of the area. At all of our locations, we carefully monitor our water withdrawals and usage and where feasible, make efforts to recharge the water sources. 303-3: Water recycled and Vedanta Sustainability Report 2019-20: Page 62 (Water Management) reused Vedanta has historically reported water recycling rates based on our total water consumption volumes. This amounts to 28.95% of water recycled. However, as per GRI requirements, the recycle rate of water is to be taken on water withdrawal volumes. The corresponding recycle rate becomes 47.89% in FY 2019-20. VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 119 OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | ENVIRONMENT | OUR PEOPLE | RETAINING OUR SOCIAL LICENSE TO OPERATE | ANNEXURES CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENT GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE RESPONSE BIODIVERSITY GRI 103: ManageVedanta Sustainability Report 2019-20: Page 68 (Biodiversity Management) ment Approach 2016 GRI 304: Biodiversity 304-1: Operational sites owned, The following sites are located adjacent to areas of high biodiversity value or 2016 leased, managed in, or adjacent protected areas: to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside Business Site Location Area of Biodiversity Value protected areas Unit Aluminium Vedanta Lanjigarh Lanjigarh, India Niyamgiri, Khambesi and nine other reserve forest areas Zinc Skorpan Zinc Rosh Pinah, Sperrgebiet National Park International Namibia Black Mountain Gamsberg, Succulent Karoo Biodiversity Mines South Africa Hotspot 304-3: Habitats protected or Vedanta Sustainability Report 2019-20: 69 – 70 (Restoration and Protection of restored Habitats, Rehabilitating mined-out areas) 304-4: IUCN Red List species IUCN Classification Africa Asia Australia and national conservation list species with habitats in areas Critically Endangered 7 affected by operations. Endangered 3 17 8 Vulnerable 10 41 7 Near Threatened 4 15 0 Least Concern 55 280 NA MM2 The number and percentage of Vedanta Sustainability Report 2019-20: Page 68 (Biodiversity Management). total sites identified as requiring biodiversity management plans according to stated criteria, and the number (percentage) of those sites with plans in place. OG4 Number and percentage of 100% of Cairn’s sites have conducted a biodiversity risk assessment and have a significant operating sites in biodiversity management plan to mitigate their impact on the local ecology. which biodiversity risk has been assessed and monitored. EMISSIONS GRI 103: ManageVedanta Sustainability Report 2019-20: Pages 46, 66 (Energy Management ment Approach 2016 and Climate Change, Air quality and Emissions Control) GRI 305: Emissions 305-1: Direct (Scope 1) GHG Vedanta Sustainability Report 2019-20: Page 49 (GHG Emissions Perfor2016 emissions. mance) Our business-wise Scope I emissions are: Business Scope I Emission (TCO2e) FY 2019-20 FY2018-19 FY2017-18 Aluminium 34,664,758 33,166,782 33,167,409 Copper India & Australia 35,037 30,571 624,738 Iron Ore Business 1,750,789 1,951,258 1,837,129 Oil & Gas Business 1,841,600 1,658,183 1,550,610 Port Business 0 376 0 Power Business 11,804,420 13,342,185 8,894,216 Steel 2,719,295 NA NA Zinc India 4,480,887 4,668,533 4,830,185 Zinc International 186,082 146,548 87,919 Total 57,482,868 54,964,436 50,992,206 120 VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE RESPONSE EMISSIONS GRI 305: Emissions 305-2: Energy indirect (Scope 2) Vedanta Sustainability Report 2019-20: Page 29 (GHG Emissions Perfor2016 GHG emissions mance) Our business-wise Scope II emissions are: Business Scope II Emission (tCO2e) FY 2019-20 FY2018-19 FY2017-18 Aluminium 804,257 2,655,128 237,024 Copper India & Australia 48,314 48,600 87,591 Iron Ore Business 762 265 18,428 Oil & Gas Business 134,987 118,000 84,980 Port Business 10,601 6,248 11,641 Power Business 2,775 777 8,901 Steel 113,155 NA NA Zinc India 253,756 168,248 154,564 Zinc International 496,104 508,921 594,167 Total 1,864,771 3,506,187 1,197,296 305-4: GHG emissions intensity FY2019-20 FY2018-19 FY2017-18 Business Scope 1 + Revenue GHG Scope 1 + Revenue GHG Scope 1 + Revenue GHG Scope 2 GHG (INR mn) Intensity Scope 2 GHG (INR Intensity Scope 2 GHG (INR mn) Intensity Emissions (TCO2e/ Emissions mn) (TCO2e/ Emissions (TCO2e/ (TCO2e) INR mn) (TCO2e) INR mn) (TCO2e) INR mn) Aluminium 35,469,015 265,770 133 35,821,911 292,290 123 33,404,433 231,560 144 Copper India 83,352 90,530 0.92 75,171 107,390 0.70 712,329 249,510 3 & Australia Iron Ore 1,751,552 34,360 51 1,951,523 29,110 67 1,855,557 31,620 59 Business Oil & Gas 1,976,587 126,610 16 1,776,183 132,230 13 1,635,590 95,360 17 Business Port 10.601 NA NA 6,624 NA NA 11,641 NA NA Business Power 11,807,195 58,600 201 13,342,962 65,240 205 8,903,117 56,520 158 Business Steel 2,832,450 42,830 66 NA NA NA NA NA NA Zinc India 4,734,643 181,590 26 4,836,781 206,560 23 4,984,749 220,500 23 Zinc 682,186 31,280 22 655,469 27,380 24 682,086 34,460 20 International Total 59,347,581 831,840 71 58,466,624 860,200 68 52,189,502 919,530 57 305-5: Reduction of GHG Vedanta Sustainability Report 2019-20: Page 51 (Energy & GHG Saving Initiaemissions tives, FY2020) VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 121 OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | ENVIRONMENT | OUR PEOPLE | RETAINING OUR SOCIAL LICENSE TO OPERATE | ANNEXURES CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENT GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE RESPONSE EMISSIONS GRI 305: Emissions 305-7: NOX , SOX , and other Vedanta Sustainability Report 2019-20: Page 42 (Air Quality and Emissions 2016 significant air emissions. Control) FY2019-20 (in MT) FY2018-19 (in MT) FY2017-18 (in MT) Business PM SOx NOx PM SOx NOx PM SOx NOx Emissions Emissions Emissions Emissions Emissions Emissions Emissions Emissions Emissions Aluminium 2,908 70,278 21,714 2,850 56,031 17,547 2,733 35,144 12,406 Copper India 19 6 2 7 773 & Australia Iron Ore 324 100 73 426 112 88 255 20 20 Business Oil & Gas Business Port Business Power 4,634 160,876 32,131 4,421 155,782 41,000 4,387 131,579 37,526 Business Steel 2,322 3,272 1,486 Zinc India 1,027 23,069 8,913 1,155 30,235 8,641 1,039 22,112 6,798 Zinc 81 70 105 International Total 11,215 257,676 67,317 8,871 242,236 67,278 8,421 189,733 56,750 EFFLUENTS AND WASTE GRI 103: ManageVedanta Sustainability Report 2019-20: Page 54 (Waste & Tailings Management Approach 2016 ment) GRI 306: Effluents 306-1: Water discharge by qualiVedanta Sustainability Report 2019-20 and Waste 2016 ty and destination. Our operating philosophy is of ‘zero discharge’, where the generated waste water is treated and completely recycled back into process areas such as slag granulation, lime preparation and gas cleaning plants. In addition to these initiatives, effluent and sewage treatment plants are installed at many locations for reusing water at primary locations. Waste water discharge complies with applicable regulatory limits and, at all sites waste water is treated in effluent treatment plants. Metals are precipitated by addition of lime and flocculants with the use of sediment ponds. Wastewater Discharged:: Business FY 2019-20 (m3) FY2018-19 (m3) FY2017-18 (m3) Aluminium 105,304 117,142 310,497 Copper India & Australia 2,994,846 4,073,032 4,208,027 Iron Ore Business 3,639,459 168,054 180,939 Oil & Gas Business 1,946,503 1,925,225 1,009,356 Port Business 25 7 Power Business Steel NA NA Zinc India Zinc International 119,271 67,227 72,551 Total 8,805,383 6,350,705 5,781,377 122 VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE RESPONSE EFFLUENTS AND WASTE GRI 306: Effluents 306-2: Waste by type and disVedanta Sustainability Report 2019-20: Page 55 (Waste & Tailings Manageand Waste 2016 posal method. ment) FY2019-20 FY2018-19 FY2017-18 Business Hazardous Waste Non-Hazardous Waste Hazardous Waste Non-Hazardous Waste Hazardous Waste Non-Hazardous Waste (MT) (MT) (MT) (MT) (MT) (MT) Generated Recycled Generated Recycled Generated Recycled Generated Recycled Generated Recycled Generated Recycled Aluminium 286,437 189,670 8,227,914 6,332,779 288,847 177,397 7,315,093 5,987,418 241,366 157,413 7,724,472 5,362,730 Copper India/ 658 624 73 66 25 153,802 83,938 39,053 1,788,903 1,857,134 Australia Iron Ore 26 291,057 211,241 31 268,048 336,770 1 240,721 282,313 Business Oil and Gas 47,700 43,240 15,133 11,207 5,164 5,916 Business Power Business 102 60 4,877,887 5,251,073 117 66 5,379,208 6,218,588 36 3 5,531,056 5,260,133 Steel 41,553 613,853 840,787 NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Zinc India 77,746 44,555 1,059,574 689,905 74,016 38,248 932,390 404,968 71,712 42,022 1,085,397 413,669 Zinc 19,752 19,688 150 66 705 91 International Total 473,974 297,837 15,070,285 13,325,785 378,367 227,050 13,894,764 13,101,546 402,922 244,498 16,370,549 13,175,979 HAZARDOUS WASTE DISPOSED: FY2020: 321,026 MT | FY2019: 97,985 MT | FY2018: 105,211 MT MM3 Total amounts of overburden, Generated Unit FY 2019-20 FY 2018-19 FY 2017-18 rock, tailings, and sludge’s and their associated risks. Overburdened MT 34,936,738 42,253,662 112,770,226 Tailings MT 15,059,116 30,691,989 29,490,392 Waste Rocks MT 14,135,872 27,730,316 29,626,329 The decrease in the Overburden is due to a decrease in activities at our Black Mountain and Skorpian Zinc locations. OG5 Volume and disposal of formaUnit FY 2019-20 FY 2018-19 FY 2017-18 tion or produced water. Total Produced Water KL 37,451,655 36,721,753 32,230,591 Produced Water Re-injected KL 35,793,387 34,933,829 28,544,747* * Restatement: For FY2017-18 & FY2019-20 the volume of produced water re-injected has changed from 37,807,548 and 35,139,091 respectively. The change is due to double-accounting of reinjection volume associated with the Bhagyam & Aishwariya fields. OG6 Volume of flared and vented Unit FY 2019-20 FY 2018-19 FY 2017-18 hydrocarbon. Volume of Flared Hydrocarbon SCM 174,725,509 95,346,945 70,786,868 Volume of Vented Hydrocarbon SCM 743,709 783,948 922,253 OG7 Amount of drilling waste (drill Total amount of drill mud generated is 63,507 MT this includes WBM & SOBM. mud and cuttings) and strateThe figure represented quantity of drilling waste generated. gies for treatment and disposal. Category Unit Disposal FY 2019-20 FY 2018-19 FY 2017-18 Method Drilling waste MT Secure Landfill 2,616 3,257 containing oil Water Based MT Used as sub20,267 8,483 1,998 Mud Drill grade material Cuttings for construction Synthetic Oil MT Secure Landfill 43,240 11,207 0 Based Mud Drilling Waste VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 123 OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | ENVIRONMENT | OUR PEOPLE | RETAINING OUR SOCIAL LICENSE TO OPERATE | ANNEXURES CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENT GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE RESPONSE PRODUCT AND SERVICES G4 – OG8 Benzene, lead and sulphur Not applicable content in fuels. SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT GRI 103: ManageAt each of our businesses, the vendor on-boarding process requires vendor ment Approach 2016 disclosure of their HSE & Sustainability systems. In addition, project specific requirement may require additional screening of vendors for the environmental management systems. GRI 308: Supplier 308-1: New suppliers that were All new tier 1 suppliers undergo sustainability screening checklist and scoring Environmental Asscreen using environmental system before getting registered with us. sessment 2016 criteria CATEGORY: SOCIAL GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE RESPONSE EMPLOYMENT GRI 103: ManageVedanta Sustainability Report 2019-20: Page 72, 80 ment Approach 2016 GRI-401: Employ401-1: New employee hires and FY 2019-20 FY2018-19 ment 2016 employee turnover Employee turnover including retirements and 11% 8.65% including VRS Total Attrition (Refers to Employee initiated 7.46% 5.19% separation) Employee Turnover & Attrition by Region (FY2019-20) Australia Namibia South Africa India Employee turnover Number 2 116 59 1,948 including retirements Rate 9% 24% 6.56% 10.87% and including VRS Total Attrition (Refers Male 10% 6% 3.75% 6.76% to Employee initiated Female 0% 16% 7.14% 15% separation) 124 VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 CATEGORY: SOCIAL GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE RESPONSE EMPLOYMENT GRI-401: Employment 2016 401-1: New employee hires and employee turnover Employee Hires Stelite Cairn Oil & Fujairah CMT VZI HZL TSPL BALCO VL Lanj VL Jhar MALCO Copper Iron Ore Corporate Gold Electrosteel Vizag Ports Gas Gender Region Age Total SA India Australia Namibia SA – BMM Fujairah Gamsberg <30 yrs 1 2 3 5 21 97 11 4 2 19 165 Local 30-50 yrs 1 3 5 7 5 2 25 16 64 > 50 yrs 1 1 2 4 8 Male <30 yrs 1 1 10 36 28 111 305 25 11 1 83 612 Non 30-50 yrs 9 12 3 2 13 27 1 37 1 24 2 131 Local >50 yrs 1 1 3 5 1 1 12 <30 yrs 3 3 3 5 52 5 15 86 Local 30-50 yrs 2 1 37 7 47 > 50 yrs Female <30 yrs 2 6 15 15 57 75 10 24 20 224 Non 30-50 yrs 2 7 2 2 47 1 1 62 Local >50 yrs VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 125 OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | ENVIRONMENT | OUR PEOPLE | RETAINING OUR SOCIAL LICENSE TO OPERATE | ANNEXURES CATEGORY: SOCIAL GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE RESPONSE EMPLOYMENT GRI-401: Employ401-2: Benefits provided to We provide an array of benefits to our employees that are not provided to ment 2016 full-time employees that are not temporary or part time employees. The benefits include: life-insurance scheme, provided to temporary or parthealth-insurance scheme, disability coverage, parental leave, retirement benefits time employees and management grades are covered under stock options scheme of Vedanta. 401-3: Parental leave Vedanta Sustainability Report 2019-20: Page 83 (Progressive Policies) LABOR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 GRI 402: Labor/ 402-1: Minimum notice periods Mechanism to bring awareness to all employees on any significant operational Management Changregarding operational changes change like restructuring, mergers, acquisitions, expansions etc. is in place. Noes 2016 tice period(s) regarding significant operational changes is indicated in collective bargaining agreements and certified standing order of respective entities. For example in India it is minimum 21days, Zambia Minimum Notice Period is One Year; Namibia Three Months and South Africa One Month. G4-MM4 Number of strikes and lock-outs In FY 2019-20, there were no strikes or lock-outs exceeding one week at any of exceeding one week’s duration, our operations. by country. OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY GRI 103: ManageVedanta Sustainability Report 2019-20: Page 50 (Safety, Health and Well-bement Approach 2016 ing) GRI 403: Occu403-1: Workers representation in 100% of total workforce represented in formal joint management –worker health pational Health & formal joint management-worker and safety committee. Safety health and safety committees. All units are having safety committee, having representation from the management and unionized workers, which covers entire workforce working at site. The total workforce vary significantly based on the operations and are generally specified in collective contractual agreements. The committee meets on regular basis to advice on occupational health and safety improvement. In case of operations without a worker union, the principle contractor along with sub-contractors is invited to the monthly meetings to discuss specific HSE issues. 403-2: Type of injury and rates Vedanta Sustainability Report 2019-20: Page 75 (Safety Performance) of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and All definitions as per ICMM guidelines total number of work related Unit FY 2019-20 FY 2018-19 FY 2017-18 fatalities. Employees Total Injuries 42 51 45 Injury Rates (Total Record0.99 1.22 1.11 able Injury FR) Lost Day Rate 25.39 24.98 18.88 Work-Related Fatalities 1 2 2 Contract Total Injuries 330 191 167 Workers + Injury Rates (Total Record1.76 1.18 1.19 Third Party able Injury FR) Lost Day Rate 70.93 17.66 15.86 Work-Related Fatalities 6 7 5 403-3: Health and safety topics Health and safety topics are covered in the formal agreements with trade union. covered in formal agreements It is clearly stated in the agreement that the workmen / Recognized Union / with trade unions Federation will support in all the measures / initiatives to be taken by the Company for improving production / productivity, work culture, quality & safety. Beside this, certified Standing Orders of units also cover these topics. 126 VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE RESPONSE TRAINING AND EDUCATION GRI 103: ManageVedanta Sustainability Report 2019-20: Page 80 (Employee Training) ment Approach 2016 GRI 404: Training 404-1: Average hours of training Vedanta Sustainability Report 2019-20: Page 80 (Employee Training) and Education 2016 per year per employee. 404-2: Programs for upgrading In line with our philosophy, continuous learning & capability building is imperemployee skills and transition ative for an organization to grow. To cater to this need, our business entities assistance programs. provide internal and external training on technical skill building. In FY2019-20, employees availed of more than 3,000 internal and external training opportunities across the business. There are no structured transition assistances programs. 404-3: Percentage of employ100% of our employees receive regular performance reviews. ees receiving regular performance and career development reviews. DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY GRI 103: ManageVedanta Sustainability Report 2019-20: Page 82 (Diversity and Equal Opporment Approach 2016 tunity) GRI 405: Diversity 405-1: Diversity of governance Composition of Governance bodies and Equal Opportubodies and employees. nity 2016 List different type of Age group Gender Board less than Between Above Male Female 30 years 30-50 years 50 Years Board of Directors 0% 25% 75% 75% 25% Employees 89.10% 10.9% 405-2: Ratio of basic salary and We are an equal opportunity employer. Across Vedanta Group we recruit both remuneration of women to men. men & women on equal salary ratio. Our remuneration is linked to performance of the individual, business entity and overall growth. NON-DISCRIMINATION GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 GRI 406: Non-dis406-1: Incidents of discriminaVedanta is an equal opportunity employer and does not discriminate based crimination tion and corrective actions taken on race, religion, caste, gender, age, disability, HIV/AIDS status, and any other characteristic. We see sexual harassment at the workplace as one form of discriminatory behaviour. We have formal procedures for mediating cases of sexual harassment brought to the committee. The committee includes external members on the panel to ensure independence and provide balance. Sexual Harassment cases FY2019-20 Number of sexual harassment cases opened 15 Number of sexual harassment cases upheld and found correct 14 Number of sexual harassment cases closed 15 VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 127 OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | ENVIRONMENT | OUR PEOPLE | RETAINING OUR SOCIAL LICENSE TO OPERATE | ANNEXURES CATEGORY: SOCIAL GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE RESPONSE FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING GRI 103: ManageVedanta’s Human Rights Policy recognizes the right to associate freely and to ment Approach 2016 collective bargaining. GRI 407: Freedom 407-1: Operations and suppliers Vedanta Sustainability Report 2019-20: Page 91 (Collective Bargaining) of Association and in which the right to exercise Collective Bargaining freedom of association and We have collective bargaining agreements with our workmen at HZL, BALCO, 2016 collective bargaining may be Sesa and Zinc International Operations. The agreements are negotiated and violated or at significant risk. agreed by both management and union representatives. The agreements include clauses relating to remuneration, allowances, working conditions, incentives and bonuses, health and safety, manpower productivity. All the significant policy and operational changes affecting the unionized employees are intimated to them through union representatives. Our units at BALCO, HZL, SESA GOA, & Zinc International have recognized unions while other locations have adequate systems and processes for employee development, appraisal, remuneration and grievance redressal. Similarly our significant suppliers are generally the big & well reputed industry organizations like Coal India, SAIL and L&T with whom we engage directly for the bulk of material for further processing or as raw material. All these organizations have adequate mechanisms for employee representation. CHILD LABOUR GRI 103: ManageVedanta’s Human Rights Policy states that the company has zero tolerance for ment Approach 2016 child labour – directly or through contracted labour. GRI 408: Child La408-1: Operations and suppliers Vedanta Sustainability Report 2019-20: Page 92 (Ensuring right age for the bour 2016 at significant risk for incidents right job) of child labor. FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOUR GRI 103: ManageVedanta’s Human Rights Policy states that the company has zero tolerance for ment Approach 2016 forced or compulsory labour – directly or through contracted labour. GRI 409: Forced or 409-1: Operations and suppliers Vedanta Sustainability Report 2019-20: Page 92 (Statement on Compliance Compulsory Labour at significant risk for incidents with the Modern Slavery Act) 2016 of forced or compulsory labour SECURITY PRACTICES GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 GRI 410: Security 410-1: Security personnel trained Vedanta Sustainability Report 2019-20: Page 89 (Human Rights) Practices 2016 in human rights policies or procedures RIGHTS OF INDIGENOUS PEOPLES GRI 103: ManageVedanta Sustainability Report 2019-20: Page 88 (Management Approach) ment Approach 2016 GRI 411: Rights of 411-1: Incidents of violations There were no violations involving the rights of indigenous peoples during the Indigenous Peoples involving rights of indigenous reporting year. peoples G4-MM5 Total number of operations The Lanjigarh refinery operates in an area where there is a population of indigetaking place in or adjacent to nous peoples. Indigenous Peoples’ territories, and number and percentage of There are several programs underway to engage positively with the communioperations or sites where there ties. Details on these initiatives can be found here: are formal agreements with Indigenous Peoples’ communities. Vedanta Sustainability Report 2019-20: Page 94-95 (Improving socio-economic conditions of tribal communities) 128 VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE RESPONSE RIGHTS OF INDIGENOUS PEOPLES G4-OG9 Operations where indigenous None of our operating mines for the oil & gas business are operating in or adjacommunities are present or cent to indigenous people territory. affected by activities and where specific engagement strategies are in place. G4-MM6 Number and description of sigNo significant disputes relating to land use, customary rights of local communinificant disputes relating to land ties and indigenous peoples was brought to our notice during the reporting year. use, customary rights of local communities and Indigenous Peoples. G4-MM7 The extent to which grievance No significant disputes relating to land use, customary rights of local communimechanisms were used to ties and indigenous peoples was brought to our notice during the reporting year. resolve disputes relating to land use, customary rights of local communities and Indigenous Peoples, and the outcomes. G4-OG10 Number and description of None significant disputes with local communities and indigenous peoples. HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT GRI 103: ManageVedanta Sustainability Report 2019-20: Page 88 (Human Rights) ment Approach 2016 Vedanta’s Human Rights policy is the guiding document for our human rights practices. GRI 412: Human 412-1: Operations that have been Each year, all of our operational sites undergo the Vedanta Sustainability AssurRights Assessment subject to human rights reviews ance Program (VSAP) audit. This audit is conducted by an external 3rd party 2016 or impact assessments. overseen by our Management Assurance Services (MAS) team. As part of the audit, sites are evaluated on their human rights management related to supplier and vendor management. 412-2: Employee training on Vedanta Sustainability Report 2019-20: Page 89 (Human Rights) human rights policies or procedures 412-3: Significant investment Vedanta Sustainability Report 2019-20: Page 92 (Statement on Compliance agreements and contracts that with the Modern Slavery Act) include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights Through our Human Rights policy – which has been implemented across all screening Group businesses Vedanta is committed to ensuring that the processes that it has in place, and continues to develop, follow the UN Guiding Principles. The company also abides by the principles of the Modern Slavery Act (MSA) and has introduced measures to evaluate MSA adherence by our Tier 1 vendors. LOCAL COMMUNITIES GRI 103: ManageVedanta Sustainability Report 2019-20: Page 97 (Community Development ment Approach 2016 Programs) GRI 413: Local Com413-1: Operations with local Vedanta Sustainability Report 2019-20: Pages 89 (Local Communities) munities 2016 community engagement, impact assessments, and development All of our operations have on-going local community engagements. These programs engagements are driving by a structured stakeholder engagement plan for all of the mapped stakeholders. In this fiscal year, we completed the process of conducting a needs and impact assessment for all of our CSR projects. Prior to starting operations, all of our sites conduct an Environmental Impact Assessment and Social Impact Assessment. These assessments are updated in case the sites undergo significant expansion programs. Public disclosure is a mandated part of the EIAs and SIAs. VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 129 OVERVIEW | GOVERNANCE | ENVIRONMENT | OUR PEOPLE | RETAINING OUR SOCIAL LICENSE TO OPERATE | ANNEXURES CATEGORY: SOCIAL GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE RESPONSE SUPPLIER SOCIAL ASSESSMENT GRI 103: ManageVedanta’s Supplier Code of Conduct (SCOC) serves at the guiding document for ment Approach 2016 all our interactions with suppliers and vendors. It is mandatory for all our suppliers to abide by the Code. The SCOC covers aspects related to: Labour & human rights, Health, Safety, Environment & Sustainability, Ethics & business integrity, Intellectual property, and Prohibition on insider trading. GRI 414: Supplier 414-1: New suppliers that were The company abides by the principles of the Modern Slavery Act (MSA) and has Social Assessment screened using social criteria. introduced measures to evaluate MSA adherence by our Tier 1 vendors. Details on vendors who were screened using MSA principles can be found here: Vedanta Sustainability Report 2019-20: Page 92 (Statement on Compliance with the Modern Slavery Act) PUBLIC POLICY GRI 103: ManageVedanta’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is the guiding document on our ment Approach 2016 interactions with the government and political parties. GRI 415: Public Poli415-1: Political Contributions It is the Board’s policy that neither Vedanta nor any of its subsidiary companies cy 2016 outside India may, under any circumstances, make donations or contributions to political organisations. Subsidiaries in India may make political donations or contributions as this is customary in India and permitted under local legislation. Any political donations made in India are disclosed in the Company’s Annual Report and Accounts. Vedanta Limited purchased electoral bonds valued at INR 1.14 billion during the financial year ended 31 March 2020. ARTISANAL AND SMALL-SCALE MINING G4 – MM8 Number (and percentage) of We do not track this information. company operating sites where artisanal and small-scale mining (ASM) takes place on, or adjacent to, the site; the associated risks and the actions taken to manage and mitigate these risks. RESETTLEMENT G4 – MM9 Sites where resettlements took Our operations in VAL-Lanjigarh are in the processes of implementing a volunplace, the number of households tary resettlement exercise for three villages located in the vicinity of the plant. By resettled in each, and how their the end of the exercise 235 families will be resettled. Individuals and families are livelihoods were affected in the being compensated as directed by the government-guided process. Compenprocess. sation elements include: provision for homestead land, house building assistance, provision of employment or cash in lieu of employment, skill upgradation training, assistance for self-relocation, avenues for generating self-employment, maintenance allowance, and transportation allowance. MATERIAL ASPECT : CLOSURE PLANNING G4 – MM10 Number and percentage of opAs a part of statutory clearance all our mines operations have a closure plan. erations with the closure plans. G4 – OG11 Numbers of sites that have No site has been decommissioned or are in the process of decommissioning in been decommissioned and sites the oil & gas business. those are in the process of being decommissioned. PROCESS SAFETY G4 – OG13 Number of process safety There were total 7 incident of Tier 1 (3) and Tier 2 (4) process safety events events, by business activity. reported in financial year FY 2019-20 FY 2018-19 FY 2017-18 Tier 1 2 0 2 Tier 2 5 3 2 Total 7 3 4 130 VEDANTA LIMITED SDR 2019-20 GET IN TOUCH We value your feedback and welcome comments on this report or any aspect of our approach to sustainability reporting. sustainability@vedanta.co.in VEDANTA LIMITED REGISTERED OFFICE: Vedanta Limited, 1st Floor, ‘C’ wing, Unit 103, Corporate Avenue, Atul Projects, Chakala, Andheri (East),Mumbai – 400093, Maharashtra, India T +91 22 6643 4500 | F +91 22 6643 4530 CIN: L13209MH1965PLC291394 www.vedantalimited.com
