2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 2 Table of Contents A Message From Our Executives 3 Who We Are 4 Our Sustainability Strategy 9 People & Community 10 People 11 Community 13 Circular Economy 15 Design for Sustainability 16 Circular Services 18 Operational Performance 19 Procurement, Manufacturing & Logistics 20 Energy Usage 21 Governance 22 Value Cycle 23 Haworth’s 2025 Commitments 24 Global Reporting Index 25 Who We Are Corporate Sustainability Strategy People & Community Circular Economy Operational Performance Governance Haworth’s 2025 Commitments Global Reporting Index 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 3 A Message from Our Executives Haworth is a family-owned company with global expertise In 2019, we gathered top leaders from around our company and and design leadership—the only organization in our industry outside our industry to build upon our heritage and values as we with this unique combination of experience and competency. strive to be a sustainable corporation. We developed ambitious Matthew R. Haworth Complemented by a solid foundation rooted in values, our targets that leverage our core strengths and drive our mission Chairman company strives to be a conscious business—a company with forward by 2025. purpose and a history of caring for our members, communities, and our environment. Our values bring balance in all that we do as Our 2025 areas of focus: our organization evolves—even when faced with unprecedented change in the world. 1. People & Community – pouring our efforts into helping people do great work, from within our company, for our customers, and The coronavirus global pandemic has jarred us all to stretch across our communities. Franco Bianchi President & CEO beyond our comfort zones and think differently in our daily work 2. Circular Economy – making the best of the Earth’s resources and home lives. For us as a leadership team, we’ve drawn from to engage in sustainable design and strive for a sustainable our values to ensure we prioritize the health and safety of our future. members, reducing the spread of COVID-19, and meeting the 3. Operational Performance – partnering with suppliers and needs of our customers. We’ve also tapped into all areas of our implementing improvements across all functions of operations organization to creatively adjust to this new normal, and support to address the long-term impact on our environment. one another through these challenges. Michael Warsaw We are on a journey—one that promotes longevity and delivers Vice President of Global As a company that’s spent 30+ years in global markets to value to the people, communities, and planet that we serve. At Design, Innovation & bring the best ideas from around the world directly to our our core, we are a family—and we weather challenges together. Sustainability customers, we’ve positioned ourselves to support our members, We thank our members who inspire us daily. Haworth is built upon our communities, and our customers. We design, source, and a culture that empowers members and all stakeholders to make manufacture products in the markets where they are delivered. positive changes. The majority of our business is done locally—supporting sustainability and the communities where our clients and We look forward to strengthening existing partnerships and members live and work. As a true global company, we deliver building new ones, while empowering our members and the best in design and performance to clients wherever they leveraging our global reach, as we continue our drive toward are in the world. making positive changes for the people and communities we serve all over the world. Who We Are Corporate Sustainability Strategy People & Community Circular Economy Operational Performance Governance Haworth’s 2025 Commitments Global Reporting Index 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 4 Who We Are We partner with customers, dealers, and influencers to create spaces that result in effective people and efficient real estate. Haworth designs and manufactures a mix of products that offer $2+ billion in Global for endless options for transforming space as organizational needs global sales 30+ years evolve. Through our brands and brand partners, our portfolio fills an entire floorplate—from the core elements in office environments to social spaces, hospitality, higher education, and healthcare. 7,500+ members 100+ global design & Values-Driven Organization worldwide research partners Our values define our business behavior and inform our decisions, guiding today’s activities and tomorrow’s growth—in the global markets we serve and the communities where we live. First drafted in 1975 by Chairman Emeritus Dick Haworth, our values Operating in have been modified several times to suit change happening in the 400+ patents world and our evolving business. 120+ countries • We listen to our Customers. • We rely on our Members. • We honor Integrity. • We embrace Continuous Learning. 650 dealers Zero production waste • We lead with Design. • We create Value. worldwide to landfill since 2012 • We work to make the World better. Who We Are Corporate Sustainability Strategy People & Community Circular Economy Operational Performance Governance Haworth’s 2025 Commitments Global Reporting Index 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 5 Organic Workspace Informs Our Sustainability Strategy Space matters and positively impacts quality of work and life. Over our 71-year history, We spend countless hours investigating the links between workspace design and we’ve provided workspaces used by millions of people who work hard to deliver their performance, studying how space influences people’s behaviors and experience at work. own value every day. It’s their space, and it matters to their work. Organic Workspace leverages this research and applies circular design thinking that places people, communities, and our planet first. Each unique Organic Workspace serves We view our role in supporting our customers and their employees with tremendous as a living organism that can adapt as people and organizations need. responsibility, and work to craft solutions that help our customers succeed. This mindset led us to name our perspective and process for workspace design, sharing and building As we work to deliver Organic Workspace solutions, circular design thinking drives our upon our foundation. It’s called Organic Workspace. sustainability strategy, helping customers succeed for years to come. Who We Are Corporate Sustainability Strategy People & Community Circular Economy Operational Performance Governance Haworth’s 2025 Commitments Global Reporting Index 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 6 Global Expertise Our global teams service stakeholders in all regions: The Americas, EMEA (Europe, Middle East, and Africa), and Asia-Pacific. Manufacturing Partner Locations Research Centers Showroom/Sales Offices Dealer Locations Who We Are Corporate Sustainability Strategy People & Community Circular Economy Operational Performance Governance Haworth’s 2025 Commitments Global Reporting Index 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 7 Global Partnerships We value the engagement of our internal and external stakeholders. Creating value for our customers drove us to design, manufacture, and distribute products in the global communities where our customers operate. We listen and continuously learn from our members, customers, dealer partners, architect and design partners, industry influencers, research organizations, government agencies, non-profit organizations, and others to collaborate on providing innovative solutions for the most pressing issues we face today. We are uniquely positioned worldwide to meet client preferences and needs based on local cultures, standards, and norms. Sustainability Memberships and Organizations • Business and Institutional Furniture Manufacturers Association (BIFMA) • CDP • European Federation of Office Furniture (FEMB) • German Design Council • Health Product Declaration Collaborative (HPDC) • Healthier Hospitals Initiative (HHI) • IAO Fraunhofer Office 21 • Indian Green Building Council (IGBC) • Michigan Recycling Coalition (MRC) • The German Environmental Management Association (B.A.U.M. e.V.) • United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) • US Green Building Council (USGBC) • West Michigan Sustainable Business Forum Who We Are Corporate Sustainability Strategy People & Community Circular Economy Operational Performance Governance Haworth’s 2025 Commitments Global Reporting Index 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 8 Our Journey 2019 Awards & Rankings 1998 Most Innovative Workplace Design ISO 14001 certification Presented by Fast Company, Finalist for Digital Knits 2005 Corporate Sustainability Report* Best of NeoCon Awards 2008 Presented by Contract magazine and co-sponsored by McMorrow Report, Merchandise HQ LEED NC Gold certified Mart Properties, IIDA, IFMA. Gold award in the Textiles: Upholstery category for Haworth 2008 Digital Knits; Gold award in the Lounge Furniture Collections category for Cabana Organic Workspace Strategy – Lounge™ 2009 sustainable spaces Landfill Free North America HiP at NeoCon Product Awards manufacturing + HQ* Presented by Interior Design magazine. Cabana Lounge nominated as a finalist and 2012 honored as a winner in the Workplace: Highback Seating category; Lauren Rottet Landfill Free Global manufacturing + HQ* Lounge nominated as a finalist in the Workplace: Sofa category; Haworth Knits nominated 2013 as a finalist and honored as a winner in the Materials category; Back-Wing Armchair Beijing Showroom LEEDv4 Gold nominated as a finalist and honored as a winner in the Hospitality: Seating category certified** 2013 Launched Haworth’s banned chemical German Design Council Award commitment Poppy™ lounge chair 2016 WELL Commercial Interiors Metropolis Likes, NeoCon 2019 in Shanghai 2018 Awarded to Haworth Knits New accredited European LEVEL EcoVadis Corporate Social Responsibility Gold 2018 5th time Launched Digital Knit technology* 2019 no cut/sew/scrap EcoVadis Corporate Social Michigan Veterans Affairs Association Employer Award Responsibility Gold Silver-level employer 5th time 2019 Toastmasters President’s Distinguished Club and Founders Award Established Long-Term, Global 27 years as Haworth/Holland Toastmasters club sponsor Sustainability Commitments * First in industry ** First in the world Who We Are Corporate Sustainability Strategy People & Community Circular Economy Operational Performance Governance Haworth’s 2025 Commitments Global Reporting Index 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 9 Our Sustainability People & Community Focus on building strong relationships with and support for Strategy internal and external stakeholders Priority Areas People Empower people In 2019, we gathered 64 top leaders from across our company, including Commercial Interiors, Lifestyle Designs, and Performance Community Technology, to build upon our heritage and values of becoming Contribute to the sustainable development of our communities a sustainable corporation. Drawing from experts from within our company and outside our industry, we developed ambitious targets for leveraging our core strengths and driving our mission Circular Economy forward. The result of the collaborative work is a focused Optimize resource utilization and closed loop material flows strategy centered on three key areas that form a road map for continuous improvement. Priority Areas Design for Sustainability Our work is informed by our commitment to the United Nations Design that considers environmental, social, and economic factors Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDG) and the actions needed to address challenges facing our world. We’re eager to Circular Services continue this journey by promoting sustainability and delivering Economic systems aimed at eliminating waste and the continual value to the people, communities, and planet that we serve. use of resources Our Sustainability Commitment Operational Performance Focus on improving our footprint In our drive to create Organic Workspace solutions, we think beyond our business with a collective purpose to make the Priority Areas world better. As we strive to be a sustainable organization, Procurement, Manufacturing, and Logistics Haworth empowers and engages its members in practices Optimize resource use and minimize impact of buildings, and processes that positively impact our global communities, packaging, manufacturing, and transportation economy, and environment. Energy Usage Corporate responsibility is a company-wide commitment Optimize direct and indirect use of non-renewable energy and informed by and integrated into our business strategy. source renewable energy Governance is led by the Haworth Board of Directors and Executive Leadership team. Who We Are Corporate Sustainability Strategy People & Community Circular Economy Operational Performance Governance Haworth’s 2025 Commitments Global Reporting Index 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 10 People & Community As of December 31, 2019, Haworth employed more than 7,500 people, whom we call members. We value and rely on our members and collaborate on one key goal: to help people do great work— within our company, our community, and for our customers. To deliver on our goal, we empower members through a vast Volunteering in the Community array of purpose-driven experiences, continuous learning, and Members all over the leadership development opportunities. Members around the world engage with their world connect to bring a spirit of optimism, drive, inclusiveness, communities to support and an unwavering appreciation for service. local non-profit agencies. Well-Being & Safety We pour our efforts into every customer experience. Our diverse A wide variety of team of members focuses on everything from workplace research, programs are available product design, material science, ergonomics, global sourcing and to nurture well-being. logistics, technology, and, of course, manufacturing products that form each Organic Workspace we deliver. We recognize that our success is intrinsically linked to the health and vitality of the communities where we live and work. It is an honor and a privilege to apply the assets, capabilities, and resources that help make us successful to efforts that help communities prosper. Development & Training Continuous learning remains one of our core values as it’s critical to both personal achievement and business success. Who We Are Corporate Sustainability Strategy People & Community Circular Economy Operational Performance Governance Haworth’s 2025 Commitments Global Reporting Index 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 11 People Member Engagement From the members and supply teams who make our products to the thousands of Haworth We’ve been conducting member engagement surveys for nine years. This survey members around the world, we believe in providing opportunity for all. Leveraging different enables members to confidentially share their perspective and experience. As our perspectives leads to unique ideas and unlocks innovation. values affirm, we rely on our members to help prioritize change as we strive to be an employer of choice. Dick Haworth Values Award In 2019, members agreed that: In 2019, 23 members received the Dick Haworth Values Award. Company Chairman 87% I understand how my work contributes to the overall success of this organization. 81% Emeritus Dick Haworth established the peer-nominated award in 2001 to recognize members who daily integrate into their activities: listening to our customers, empowering The people I work with treat me with respect. 81% and engaging members, honoring integrity, leading with design through creative thinking, driving continuous improvement, and striving to make the world better by I enjoy working with the people on my team. 80% embracing diversity, caring about the environment, and creating economic value. Expected “how” behaviors have been communicated to me. The Dick Haworth Values Award consists of an inscribed wood plaque, a copy of Diversity the Haworth Values signed by both Dick For members to live their best lives, we must work to meet their diverse needs. Our and Matthew Haworth, along with a post-tax goal is to nurture a culture in which everyone is included, empowered, and rewarded for check for $2,000. individual and team successes. We take pride in and celebrate the diversity of members. 2019 Member Diversity 40% 39% 36% 25% 60% Millennials 1980-2000 Gen X 1965-1979 Baby Boomers 1946-1964 Who We Are Corporate Sustainability Strategy People & Community Circular Economy Operational Performance Governance Haworth’s 2025 Commitments Global Reporting Index 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 12 Development & Training Well-Being We continue to build a creative and inclusive culture, where all voices are welcome, We view the work environment as a tool to promote well-being, an enduring state that heard, and provided with opportunities to learn and grow. Continuous learning remains encompasses physical wellness, cognitive performance, and psychological comfort. We one of our core values and is critical to both personal achievement and business success. apply this same philosophy to our organization, supporting members in living their best life. We offer a breadth of learning and development opportunities—from online courses to in-person training. A number of programs and services nurture member well-being, including: wellness fairs, mammograms, flu vaccines, smoking cessation programs, fitness benefits, and 2019 Member Development & Training a state-of-the-art fitness center at our global headquarters. Mental health is also a More than $1.6 million invested in member training globally. key part of well-being. Through our member assistance program, we offer access to short-term counseling and assistance for a range of challenges including daily stresses, Program Courses Offered Courses Delivered Participants Training Hrs marital conflict, financial or legal pressures, and professional services. Professional Development 16 82 1,174 6,264 Business Systems Training 86 219 1,306 4,705 2019 Member Well-Being Haworth Leadership Institute 5 2 136 6,528 Orientation 4 114 1,064 8,794 Fitness Center Refresh Instructor-Led Sales Training 9 47 170 2,175 We began a renovation project at our global headquarters in Online Sales Training 95 — 164 7,790 2019 to better serve members in support of their well-being. Completion: Q1 2020 The Center, our online portal created in 2008, offers more than 800 courses that members engage in starting with their onboarding experience. They learn standards pertaining to Participation Fitness Network safety, ethics, values, diversity, and inclusion, Haworth Management System (continuous Members in Germany can apply for participation in the HANSEFIT improvement) and environmental practices. Members track their progress and can fitness network with financial support through Haworth and the customize their development plan by also selecting from courses offered through our option to train at any fitness studio in the network. partnerships with ThinkWise and SkillShare. Additional support is available via the Tuition Assistance Program, offering funding for members pursuing degree programs. Benefits for Parents At our global headquarters we updated our mothers’ rooms to provide Members have also formed networks to foster connection, mentorship, and celebrate the relaxing retreats that balance nursing mothers’ need for privacy and diverse spectrum of individuals across the company. Member Resource Groups include functionality. US-based non-birthing new parents now receive two Toastmasters, Veterans, and Young Professionals. weeks of leave to help with the transition into parenthood. Weekly Yoga Class The Shanghai showroom hired an external yoga instructor to provide a free yoga class for members every week. Who We Are Corporate Sustainability Strategy People & Community Circular Economy Operational Performance Governance Haworth’s 2025 Commitments Global Reporting Index 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 13 Safety Community As an extension of our commitment to well-being, the personal safety of Haworth members We recognize that our success is intrinsically linked to the vitality of the communities and contract employees is of utmost importance. Through our Haworth Management where we live and work. Our goal is to contribute to community prosperity by leveraging System (HMS), we continue to develop and implement strategies that enhance safety. Local our resources and expertise to partner with community leaders who are evolving the teams define goals and metrics at all Haworth global facilities. Occupational health and economic and social systems in our own backyard. safety performance are regularly tracked. Improvement measures and training are then implemented. Risk assessment is evaluated on an ongoing basis to help keep members In addition to offering our time, Haworth and our members contribute financial safe and reduce the overall incident rate. Throughout our global locations, our overall resources to support community initiatives. For 53 years, members in North America lost-time injury rate was 0.83 for calendar year 2019. have had the opportunity to contribute to United Way, helping to provide programs and services to improve people’s lives in four areas: basic needs, health, education, and Lost-Time Injury Frequency and Severity financial stability. In 2019, members generously contributed $302,028. 2.5 35 2019 Highlights 30 2.0 Haworth partnered Lost-Time Injury Frequency Lost-Time Injury Severity with Western Michigan 25 University’s Haworth College of Business study abroad 1.5 20 program to provide students a hands-on learning opportunity about Haworth’s 15 1.0 sustainability strategy. They had the opportunity 10 to serve the community in partnership with Youth for 0.5 Parivarthan, an organization 5 focused on making positive change in their cities. 0.0 0 2018 2019 LTIF = Lost-Time Injury Frequency (LTI x 200,000/worked hours) LTIS = Lost-Time Injury Severity (lost days x 200,000/worked hours) Who We Are Corporate Sustainability Strategy People & Community Circular Economy Operational Performance Governance Haworth’s 2025 Commitments Global Reporting Index 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 14 1 2 Here are just a few of the ways members supported their communities in 2019. 1 In Chennai, India, members worked to clean the heavily littered, popular Marina Beach. 2 In Delhi, India, members conducted a workshop for young adults at a Life Project Center in Sangam Vihar to teach how sustainable practices could be part of their everyday life. The group then planted trees in the community. The connection continues as members provide the Center with discontinued 3 fabric and finish samples to support entrepreneurial projects. 4 5 3 In Chicago, Illinois, members volunteered at Cradles to Crayons, sorting and packing clothes, shoes, coats, books, and toys for 150 children in need. 4 In Budapest, Hungary, members visited a local animal shelter, painting kennels, and helping care for the dogs. 5 In Holland, Michigan, members volunteered to remove invasive plants from local natural areas along Lake Michigan. 6 In Bad Münder, Germany, members partnered with the Springe Vocational school and hosted wood mechanics apprentices 7 from France for mentoring, learning experiences, and team building. Plans for the German wood mechanics to visit France 6 are in the works for 2020. 7 In Bruce, Mississippi, members sponsored the Family Freedom Festival, an opportunity to learn about local Veterans of Foreign Wars and promote patriotism within the community. Who We Are Corporate Sustainability Strategy People & Community Circular Economy Operational Performance Governance Haworth’s 2025 Commitments Global Reporting Index 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 15 Circular Economy Haworth’s design philosophy has resulted in numerous innovations that have transformed millions of people’s work experience. Design Haworth Banned Diverting from thinking permeates everything we do—from products to spaces. Chemicals Landfill Haworth has avoided We ensure our We incorporate two key elements: performance and desire. customers have or eliminated more This combination, along with four design characteristics—open, than 55 chemicals and alternatives to the informed, experiential, applied—complement our pursuit to create chemical compounds landfill when disposing Organic Workspace environments that align people and space for of concern from our of workplace products optimal performance. products. no longer needed. All Haworth members are part of creating something—from presentations to new products, process improvement, and our customers’ collective experiences. Design thinking is ingrained in our culture—it speaks to who we are, what we care about, and why our company exists. As part of our commitment to make the best use of the Earth’s resources, we are focused on two priority areas: Design for Sustainability and Circular Services. A circular economy is one of the biggest opportunities to design a sustainable future and is an essential part of our strategy. Achieving Industry-Leading Certifications Haworth has a variety of products that meet stringent sustainability requirements. Who We Are Corporate Sustainability Strategy People & Community Circular Economy Operational Performance Governance Haworth’s 2025 Commitments Global Reporting Index 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 16 Design for Sustainability mindful Materials A global effort, Haworth joined this product certification library to increase Through our design-led approach, we’re committed to addressing the environmental transparency and provide sustainability data to our customers. impacts of our business. Our design teams consider the environmental, social, and economic impact through sustainable material choices, waste-reducing engineering Number of mindful Materials Listed Products by Region processes, avoidance of Haworth banned chemicals, and alignment with leading certifications. The drive toward sustainable, healthier solutions also supports our clients in achieving their sustainable goals. 2019 Highlights 33 15 Circular Product Design Framework A collaborative effort across North American business partners led to the development 9 of a New Product Introduction (NPI) tool that provides our product launch teams with a standardized, strategic method to easily identify compliance, ergonomic, and sustainability targets and track progress through launch. Reducing Haworth Banned Chemicals We are committed to providing our customers with products that support safe and healthy environments. Haworth has avoided or eliminated more than 55 chemicals and chemical compounds of concern from our products. Considerations for the use of safer materials continues to drive us to evaluate more sustainable solutions as alternatives become Rethinking Packaging Design commercially available. We continue to offer products free of problematic chemicals such In North America, as a result of a design change, Compose® tiles can be nested as non-stick additives derived from perand poly-fluorinated compounds, antimicrobials, during shipment, eliminating a one-inch honeycomb spacer. Total annual savings PVC, and associated phthalates, flame retardants, and heavy metals. is approximately 63.5 tons of corrugated material per year. Who We Are Corporate Sustainability Strategy People & Community Circular Economy Operational Performance Governance Haworth’s 2025 Commitments Global Reporting Index 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 17 Product Certifications North America BIFMA LEVEL 3 Workspace Circular design principles are helping us reimagine the way products are designed, packaged, manufactured, and shipped. We continue to lead the industry in achieving global accredited certifications, providing customers the ability to make informed choices. Certifications offer a common methodology to present the environmental and social characteristics of products. With 113 certified products certified under the Business and Institutional Furniture Manufacturer’s Association Product Sustainability Standard (BIFMA) LEVEL program, Haworth has a variety of options to meet customer requirements. We also added European LEVEL Certification to our product portfolio in 2018, for a total of 14 LEVEL 3 certified products. North America Europe • BIFMA LEVEL 1 • European LEVEL 3 36 products 14 products • BIFMA LEVEL 2 • GREENGUARD 24 products 10 products • BIFMA LEVEL 3 • GREENGUARD Gold European LEVEL 3 Workspace 30 products 10 products • GREENGUARD • SCS Indoor Advantage Gold 76 products 21 products • GREENGUARD Gold • NF Environment Mark 47 products 12 products Haworth Health Asia-Pacific • GREENGUARD • BIFMA LEVEL 1 27 products 18 products • GREENGUARD Gold • GREENGUARD 18 products 27 products • GREENGUARD Gold 18 products • GEGC 17 products Who We Are Corporate Sustainability Strategy People & Community Circular Economy Operational Performance Governance Haworth’s 2025 Commitments Global Reporting Index 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 18 Circular Services Finding new ways to support a more circular business model is an essential part of our strategy and commitment. We aim to make it easier for customers to utilize alternatives to the landfill when disposing of workplace products no longer needed. We continue to explore environmentally preferred solutions that drive environmental stewardship, economic growth, and community prosperity. 2019 Highlights 340,000 s.f. Diverting from Landfill in the US One significant example of our circular services commitment involved key partners who share our mindset. The American Express Company partnered with Haworth and Green Standards to donate, recycle, or resell 340,000 square feet of office furniture and equipment, diverting 569.5 tons (99.3%) of material from the landfill, reducing environmental impact, and positively contributing to the community. Nine community organizations benefited from the Phoenix, Arizona-based project. Partnership with Valdelia in France 9community Haworth France, together with 12 other professional furniture industrial companies, created Valdelia in 2012. Valdelia is a non-profit eco-organization approved by the organizations French Ministry of Ecology, Sustainable Development, and Energy, whose mission is benefited 99% to collect and recycle professional furniture waste. Haworth continues to foster this partnership and transfer insights to other markets. of office furniture & equipment diverted 569.5 tons of material from the landfill Who We Are Corporate Sustainability Strategy People & Community Circular Economy Operational Performance Governance Haworth’s 2025 Commitments Global Reporting Index 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 19 Operational Performance Powder-Coat Paint We’ve realized an Manufacturing and environmental responsibility is not a trade-off; over 90% reduction in VOC emissions from neither are profit and people. We continue to seek opportunities our processes since to address the environmental impact of our business in all facets 2007, in part through of our operations. We believe operating a sustainable corporation the use of powderwill allow us to help people do great things for generations to come. coat paint, and we continue to implement efficiencies in the paint Our customers care about the quality of the products they buy. process. They also care about the work that goes into those products. Within our own facilities, and in collaboration with our suppliers, we strive for healthy social and environmental working conditions. Using our Supplier Code of Conduct, we work together to increase the transparency of sustainability standards addressing worker safety, labor compensation, anti-discrimination, anti-corruption, worker respect, and environmental compliance. Progress in operational performance involves commitment and effort in partnership with our suppliers and within our own facilities. We focus on continuous improvement in the procurement, manufacturing, and logistics of all products and aim to operate Solar Panel Project efficient facilities that are designed with our long-term impact Our Shanghai plant on the environment in mind. installed 2,304 solar panels covering its two roofs. Product Packaging Reductions North America implemented reductions and made eliminations to packaging to reduce environmental impact. Who We Are Corporate Sustainability Strategy People & Community Circular Economy Operational Performance Governance Haworth’s 2025 Commitments Global Reporting Index 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 20 Procurement, Manufacturing, Product Packaging Reductions & Logistics North American packaging engineers identified and implemented improvements in product and packaging design, as well as changes in shipment methods, resulting in: We optimize resource use and minimize the impact of buildings, packaging, manufacturing, projected IMPACT FROM and transportation. Through the Haworth Management System (HMS), we ensure the switching to shipping chairs in polypropylene bags principles of continuous improvement are applied. Our global HMS team inspires all savings of 80% versus corrugated boxes, also resulting in the members to support, facilitate, and lead initiatives that drive results and eliminate waste, 346 tons reduction of trucking miles by 100,000 miles/year 20% advancing our strategy to create sustainable value for customers, members, and the change in nesting product components during shipping, of material communities we serve. eliminating corrugated spacers previously required used annually 2019 Highlights One of our packaging material suppliers eliminated stretch wrap from the shipping process, resulting in projected annual savings of 305 lbs. of material used. Procurement of Sustainable Wood Every piece of our wood furniture is sourced with an eye on environmental stewardship. In Big Rapids, Michigan, the components team incorporated an automatic bander Our Shanghai, China, plant progressively replaced non-Forest Stewardship Council to reduce polypropylene stretch wrap while keeping X Series® personal storage (FSC) wood commodities with FSC-certified ones, successfully launching FSC lowtowers secure on pallets during shipment, resulting in projected material savings pressure laminates to complement our FSC high-pressure laminates. of 1,072 lbs./year. Globally, Haworth sources 92% of Powder-Coat Waste Reduction wood from certified In Portugal, the paint team implemented efficiencies that resulted in a capacity increase sustainable sources. of 66%, downgrading the environmental impact of the paint process by reducing powder, energy consumption, and resources spent on surface treatment. Leader in Reducing VOC Emissions For most metal parts, Haworth uses powder painting, a VOC-free finishing process. Through a transition to water-based finishes and powder-coat paints, we’ve realized an over-90% reduction in VOC emissions since 2007. Continued efforts to reduce VOC emissions resulted in a reduction of more than 20% for all production facilities in 2019 (from 30 t to 24 t) through substitution of cleaners and choice of adhesives that contain minimal to no VOCs. United Kingdom Team Achievement Our team in the UK was awarded the First Mile Silver Certificate for their efforts to improve waste separation and recycling. Who We Are Corporate Sustainability Strategy People & Community Circular Economy Operational Performance Governance Haworth’s 2025 Commitments Global Reporting Index 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 21 Energy Usage Reducing Energy Use with Stakeholders Haworth’s global headquarters team partnered with the Holland Board of Public Works Through ambitious energy programs and partnerships, we are advancing our strategy to and Consumers Energy for the installation of an uninterruptible power supply (UPS), which improve our carbon footprint and align with science-based reduction targets for emissions. yielded 30% energy reduction in comparison to previous UPS. Decreasing Greenhouse Gas Emissions 2019 Highlights Since 2005, through our ISO 14,001-certified Environmental Management System, we have reduced our greenhouse gas emissions by 20%. We report our progress annually Installing Solar Panels in China within our Corporate Responsibility Report and for the CDP. Our Shanghai plant launched a renewable energy project, installing 2,304 solar panels covering its two roofs. Energy production is estimated at over 2,000 mwh per year, Using LED Lighting Globally covering 31% of the plant’s annual energy use and leading to annual reductions of 592 A global effort involved updating lighting with energy-efficient LED. Specifically, our tons CO2, 162 tons carbon dust, 18 tons SO2, and 225 tons standard coal. Holland, Michigan distribution center replaced 641 metal halide fixtures with LED lighting. The solar panels are metal halide fixtures estimated to be able to cover 31% of the plant’s total electricity use every year. LED lighting annual savings of 352 watts 175 watts = $45,383 based on 8,760 hrs of operation ≈ 80 tons of CO2 Equivalents Who We Are Corporate Sustainability Strategy People & Community Circular Economy Operational Performance Governance Haworth’s 2025 Commitments Global Reporting Index 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 22 Governance Our executive team is accountable for meeting sustainability Asia-Pacific goals and objectives. The executive sponsors, in partnership with our global sustainability team, set company-wide goals and metrics based on the company’s long-term strategy. The global sustainability team drives the metrics and reports progress regularly to our Vice President of Global Design, Innovation & Sustainability, who is responsible for the direction and pace of our sustainability plan, reporting to the CEO. The CEO provides formal sustainability oversight through corporate sector reviews. Sridhar Harivanam Alex Przybyla Reta Yang Region-specific functional leaders help direct local sustainability India China China efforts. They represent and provide the conduit for regional efforts and priorities. Europe Haworth supports the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact with respect to Human Rights, Labor Rights, Anti-Corruption, and Environmental Protection. As a private company, we take great pride in our corporate values that include valuing people and the world we live in. We continue our commitment to our business strategy, culture, and operating processes. We work in our supply chain to advance these principles beyond the walls Bianca Doenicke Susanne Schliehe-Diecks of our facilities and into the communities in which we operate. Germany Germany Through the Haworth Management System, we ensure the principles of continuous improvement are applied. North America Our global sustainability team informs strategic direction and policy, ensures the company and its leadership are kept abreast of current concerns, and shares industry best practices across all regions. They are supported by an interdisciplinary group of Haworth members across the globe who play a crucial role in promoting and maintaining the strategic direction. Dominic Daunter Jim Kozminski Anne McManus Devin O’Herron US US US US Who We Are Corporate Sustainability Strategy People & Community Circular Economy Operational Performance Governance Haworth’s 2025 Commitments Global Reporting Index 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 23 Value Cycle Becoming a sustainable corporation involves commitment by all our members, suppliers, and partners. To help translate our strategy, we use a value cycle that serves as a framework to guide our actions. Design Design Supply Chain Designing with people and the environment in mind through sustainable material choices and the avoidance of harmful chemicals. Supply Chain Engaging with supplier partners in continuous dialog to ensure responsible sourcing. Continued & Manufacturing Manufacturing & Logistics After Use & Logistics Maintaining ISO certifications and Zero Production Waste to Landfill status globally. Usage & Performance Earning top certifications, promoting healthy spaces, and fostering well-being. People & Community Continued & After Use Providing lifecycle assessments, and educating customers on landfill alternatives. People & Community Strengthening communities by helping to protect and restore the environment and supporting people through volunteerism, health and safety protocols, and continuing education Usage & Performance Who We Are Corporate Sustainability Strategy People & Community Circular Economy Operational Performance Governance Haworth’s 2025 Commitments Global Reporting Index 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 24 Haworth’s 2025 People & Community Commitments Education & Training Personal Sustainability Impact. 100% participation in member development programs to advance individual and organizational sustainability goals. Community Outreach Volunteering. 100,000 hours of community engagement through volunteerism and educational opportunities. People are at the center of everything we do. In our drive to create Organic Workspace solutions, we think beyond our business with a collective purpose to make the world better. Circular Economy As we strive to be a more sustainable organization, we’ve set the following ambitious targets. Circular Design 100% of new products designed using circular design principles. End of Life Program Offer sustainable solutions for customer’s used furniture including repair, refurbish, reuse, recycle, and/or remanufacture. Product as a Service Program(s) for Product as a Service in place including leasing, pay-per-use. Operational Performance Sustainable Wood Source 100% of wood from sustainable sources. Responsible Sourcing 100% tier one suppliers are screened according to responsible sourcing criteria. 100% of tier one suppliers sign Haworth Code of Conduct. Zero Waste Zero Waste to Landfill for manufacturing sites and world headquarters with reliance on waste to energy (W2E). Maximize Material Efficiency to 90%. Ensure highest value use for remaining 10%. Reduce Global W2E <1% annually. Sustainable Packaging 100% renewable, reusable, recyclable, or compostable packaging. Renewable Energy Sourcing 100% renewable energy sourcing for electricity for manufacturing facilities. Who We Are Corporate Sustainability Strategy People & Community Circular Economy Operational Performance Governance Haworth’s 2025 Commitments Global Reporting Index 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 25 Global Reporting Index General Disclosures Global Reporting Index (GRI), Sustainability Development Goals (SDG), and United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) GRI SDG UNGC 102-1 Name of the organization Haworth, Inc. 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Haworth Products: North America Haworth Products: Europe Haworth Products: Asia-Pacific 102-3 Location of headquarters Haworth, Inc. One Haworth Center Holland, Michigan 49423 USA 102-4 Location of operations Haworth Overview The Americas, Haworth Overview EMEA and Asia Pacific 102-5 Ownership and legal form Haworth, Inc. is a privately held corporation. 102-6 Markets served Haworth Overview The Americas, Haworth Overview EMEA and Asia Pacific 102-7 Scale of organization Haworth Overview The Americas, Haworth Overview EMEA and Asia Pacific 102-8 8, 10 Labor Information on employees and other workers Gender North America Europe Asia-Pacific Total Female 39.1% 31.0% 56.0% 39.8% Male 60.9% 69.0% 44.0% 60.2% Age Baby Boomer (1946-1964) 29.8% 23.0% 3.0% 25.4% Gen X (1965 – 1979) 35.7% 41.0% 28.0% 35.8% Millennial (1980-2000) 32.8% 36.0% 69.0% 38.8% Hires Turnover Rate 24.38% 12.57% 15.20% 20.8% New Hires 20.91% 10.88% 16.11% 18.3% Number of Interns 43 43 5 — Note: This table does not include Haworth contract workers. However, contract workers are included in Haworth health and safety procedures and statistics. Who We Are Corporate Sustainability Strategy People & Community Circular Economy Operational Performance Governance Haworth’s 2025 Commitments Global Reporting Index 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 26 GRI SDG UNGC 102-9 Human Rights Supply Chain Haworth takes a holistic approach to evaluating the impact we make on our global economy throughout every Labor aspect of our business, including our supply chain. Environment Anti-Corruption We engage in continuous dialogue and education with our global network of suppliers. We share best practices to ensure socially and ecologically responsible sourcing. Nurturing these relationships maintains integrity and transparency throughout our supply chain. With over 94% of global suppliers (by spend) signing this Code of Conduct, we work together to help increase the transparency of sustainability standards and initiate improvement measures. We conduct audits on quality, health, and safety for current suppliers. Each audit is followed by action plans and a close follow-up process— all designed to support our supplier partnerships. 102-10 Significant changes to the organization There have been no significant changes to the organization or its supply chain. and its supply chain 102-11 Precautionary principle of approach The precautionary principle is integrated into our Haworth Management System (HMS). All manufacturing sites maintain certifications according to ISO 9001 and ISO 14001. Additionally, our manufacturing site in China is certified according to the ISO 45001 and manufacturing sites in Switzerland and Germany carry the certification according to OHSAS 18001. We will advance our journey to become a more sustainable corporation through our 2025 Commitments. 102-12 External initiatives Haworth is a signatory of the UN Global Compact. Moreover, we report annually with the CDP. 102-13 Membership of associations Sustainability Memberships and Organizations 102-14 Executive statement on sustainability A Message from Our Executives 102-15 A description of key impacts, risks, Haworth takes a holistic approach to evaluating the impact we make on our global economy throughout every and opportunities aspect of our business. Using our Value Cycle as a framework, we consider the economic, environmental, and social impacts along with associated challenges and opportunities when we developed our 2025 Commitments. 102-16 16 Anti-Corruption Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior Haworth Overview The Americas, Haworth Overview EMEA and Asia Pacific 102-17 16 Anti-Corruption Description of internal and external mechanisms for Ethics training is a mandatory element of Haworth’s onboarding process. Standard operating procedures are advice, ethics trainings in place to maintain ethical and business conduct. Reporting procedures and anti-retaliation policies are in place, along with confidential helplines to support members. 102-18 Governance structure Haworth Overview The Americas, Haworth Overview EMEA and Asia Pacific Governance 102-19 Delegating authority Haworth executive leadership has delegation oversight for Haworth’s sustainability strategy. The Vice President of Global Design, Innovation & Sustainability and the Sustainability team work with functional leaders across the company to determine strategies, policies, and goals related to corporate responsibility. 102-20 Executive responsibility for economic, environmental The Vice President of Global Design, Innovation & Sustainability oversees corporate responsibility across and social topics Haworth. Governance Who We Are Corporate Sustainability Strategy People & Community Circular Economy Operational Performance Governance Haworth’s 2025 Commitments Global Reporting Index 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 27 GRI SDG UNGC 102-21 16 Process for consulting stakeholders on economic, Haworth has ongoing relationships with global business leaders, government agencies, and sustainability environmental, social topics with leadership organizations that help us understand the most pressing challenges facing our world. 102-22 5, 16 Composition of the highest governance body and Governance its committee 102-23 16 Chair of the highest governance body: our leadership Governance 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, Haworth’s corporate sustainability strategy is a company-wide commitment informed by and integrated into values, and strategy our business strategy. Haworth executive leadership retains oversight responsibility. Governance 102-27 4 Collective knowledge of highest governance body Haworth’s corporate sustainability strategy is an element of annual business strategy planning amongst our leadership. Governance 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance Haworth’s Board of Directors and executive leadership team conduct annual performance evaluation in accordance with Haworth’s performance review system, involving both self-evaluation as well as peer and leadership evaluation. Governance 102-29 16 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and Governance social impacts 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management process Governance 102-31 Frequency of the review of economic, environmental, Governance and social 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting Haworth’s Vice President of Global Innovation, Design & Sustainability is responsible for monitoring and managing the company’s sustainability strategy, providing final review of the Corporate Responsibility Report with the support of executive leadership. Governance 102-33 Process for communicating critical concerns A Message from Our Executives Please contact haworth.sustainability@haworth.com. 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Stakeholders are: Haworth members Haworth customers and dealer partners Haworth suppliers and operations contract partners Haworth shareholders Business leaders and industry influencers Government agencies Non-profit organizations This list is not exhaustive but encompasses stakeholder groups we monitor and consult closely. Who We Are Corporate Sustainability Strategy People & Community Circular Economy Operational Performance Governance Haworth’s 2025 Commitments Global Reporting Index 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 28 GRI SDG UNGC 102-41 Percentage of total employees covered by collective Haworth employs members globally. Each country carries with it local employment laws and norms. Due to bargaining data privacy legislation in many countries, exact percentage of members who are represented by trade unions is not available. 102-42 Basis for identifying and selecting stakeholders Management and executive leadership identify stakeholders, and provide recommendations and guidance for both formal and informal engagements. 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Engaging with stakeholders and listening to their ideas and concerns is vital to the success of our company. Stakeholder engagement involves a variety of methods that create forums for communication with each group. In addition, we periodically seek third-party insight to complete confidential interviews with key stakeholders to learn feedback regarding Haworth’s brand and strategic efforts. 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised through stakeholder Our stakeholders not only help us identify improvement opportunities, but also help us understand the most engagement pressing issues facing our communities and our world. Stakeholder input influences the evolution of our Sustainability Strategy. Global member engagement surveys are conducted on an annual basis. 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Data within the Haworth 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report is derived from calendar year January 1, 2019 to December 31, 2019 for our global regions: EMEA (Europe, Middle East, and Africa), Asia-Pacific, and the Americas. 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries Haworth utilizes a holistic approach to evaluate the impact we have on our global economy throughout every aspect of our business. In 2019, we gathered 64 top company leaders for a focused workshop to build upon our heritage and values as a sustainable corporation. Drawing from experts from within our company and outside our industry, we developed ambitious targets for leveraging our core strengths and driving our mission forward. The result of the collaborative work is a focused strategy centered on three key areas and 11 commitments, forming a road map for continuous improvement. 102-47 List of material topics Our Sustainability Strategy 102-49 Changes in reporting No significant reporting changes from 2018 to 2019. 102-50 Reporting period 2019 Calendar Year: January 1, 2019 – December 31, 2019 102-51 Date of most recent report Haworth 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Please contact haworth.sustainability@haworth.com. 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with GRI Standards The report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core Option. We report on several additional disclosures related to Haworth strategy and analysis and our priority material topics. 102-55 GRI content index This GRI Index table. Who We Are Corporate Sustainability Strategy People & Community Circular Economy Operational Performance Governance Haworth’s 2025 Commitments Global Reporting Index 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 29 Management Approach GRI SDG UNGC 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Governance 103-2 1, 5, 8, 16 Environment The management approach and its components Governance Human Rights 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Governance Economic Performance 201-1 2, 5, 7-9 Direct economic value generated Haworth’s 2019 global sales were $2.25 billion. and distributed Indirect Economic Impact 203-1 2, 7, 9, 11 Infrastructure investments and services supported Please refer to the People and Community focus of our sustainability strategy. 203-2 1–3, 8, 10, 17 Significant indirect economic impacts We rely on and support our members to impact the performance of our customers. This cascades to the relationships and deep connection to communities as well as our suppliers and stakeholders. We contribute to community prosperity through our philanthropic and volunteer efforts. And we partner with our dealers and customers to live our values and continue to seek opportunities to make the world better. Anti-Corruption 205-2 16 Anti-Corruption Communication and training about anti-corruption Ethics training is a mandatory element of Haworth’s onboarding process. We have standard operating policies and procedures procedures in place to maintain ethics and proper business conduct. Reporting procedures and antiretaliation policies are in place, along with confidential helplines to support members. Materials 301-2 Recycled input materials used We remain dedicated to maintaining the highest environmental standards in the market and will continue to be transparent in our efforts and progress. We report on our material transparency efforts in our product environmental data sheets (PEDS). We include the percentage of recycled input material used for each product. Material recycled content data is based on supplier material declarations or industry average recycled content data. PEDS are available on Haworth’s website. Who We Are Corporate Sustainability Strategy People & Community Circular Economy Operational Performance Governance Haworth’s 2025 Commitments Global Reporting Index 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 30 GRI SDG UNGC 301-3 8, 12 Environment Reclaimed products and their packaging materials Haworth offers a program to assist our customers with the repurposing of used furniture assets when purchasing new Haworth products. Aligned with our zero waste to landfill philosophy, we partner with several companies that will find a second life for products—often through remanufacturing or charitable donations— with recycling considered as a last resort. So far, Haworth has offered to take back products after use for an agreed price/cost to handle the recycling or re-use of materials or ensure a second life of the products. Learn more from this 2019 customer project. Energy GRI SDG UNGC 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Energy Consumption in kWh 350,000,000.00 300,000,000.00 250,000,000.00 200,000,000.00 150,000,000.00 100,000,000.00 50,000,000.00 0.00 2018 total 2019 total Diesel 609,518.95 637,004.88 Propane Hi-Lo’s 284,892.79 264,808.39 Fuels 11,479,195.58 14,203,169.37 Fuel Oil 340,966.03 414,490.45 Biomass 2,035,900.00 2,080,000.00 Natural Gas 188,118,525.16 173,463,788.28 Electricity 98,450,443.09 90,470,254.47 Scope: Haworth global headquarters and manufacturing sites (full operational control of facilities). Global average share of renewable energy of our electricity consumption constituted approximately 20% in 2019. 302-4 7–8, 12–13 Reduction of energy consumption Haworth continues to focus on implementing ambitious programs to reduce our GHG emissions and increase the energy efficiency of our operations. 302-5 7–8, 12–13 Environment Reduction of energy requirement of products & services Low standby consumption of products, such as height-adjustable tables, are considered during the New Product Introduction process. Who We Are Corporate Sustainability Strategy People & Community Circular Economy Operational Performance Governance Haworth’s 2025 Commitments Global Reporting Index 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 31 Water GRI SDG UNGC 303-1 Interactions with water as shared resource Water is used for sanitary purposes and for industrial uses (e.g., powder-coating). It is mainly provided by public supply networks, only a small amount is taken from wells. For our manufacturing facilities, water management (reduction of withdrawal as well as proper discharge) is included in the environmental management system, which is certified according to the ISO 14001. 303-3 Water withdrawal by source Water Consumption in Mil Gallons 70.00 60.00 50.00 40.00 30.00 20.00 10.00 0.00 2018 Total 2019 Total Asia, All Plants 1.53 1 .16 Europe, All Plants 2.74 2 .62 North America, All Plants 61.73 62 .23 Well water constituted 2% of the water used (included in total) Scope: Haworth global headquarters and manufacturing sites (full operational control of facilities). Biodiversity 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products, and services of Indirect impacts on biodiversity from Haworth’s activities are linked to the supply chain through using resources biodiversity such as wood. Efforts to mitigate impacts include the sourcing of wood from certified sustainably managed sources. We are determined to achieve our commitment of sourcing 100% sustainable certified wood. In 2019, 92% of the wood we purchased was sustainable certified. We partner with our suppliers to achieve this goal. Who We Are Corporate Sustainability Strategy People & Community Circular Economy Operational Performance Governance Haworth’s 2025 Commitments Global Reporting Index 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 32 Emissions GRI SDG UNGC 305-1 3, 12–15 Environment Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Global Greenhouse Gas Emissions (in Tons) 100,000.00 90,000.00 80,000.00 70,000.00 60,000.00 50,000.00 40,000.00 30,000.00 20,000.00 10,000.00 0.00 2018 2019 Scope 2 52,268.15 47,756.29 Scope 1 38,773.32 36,535.08 t CO2e/$1M Sales 64.20 58.95 Scope: Haworth global headquarters and manufacturing sites (full operational control of facilities). Emission factors from publicly available sources (e.g., EPA GHG Protocol Year 2018, GEMIS 5, IPCC) were used for calculations. Greenhouse gases included in the calculation were CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, and PFCs. There were no known sources for SF6 or NF3. 305-2 3, 12–15 Environment Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Please see 305-1. 305-4 13–15 Environment GHG emissions intensity Please see 305-1. 305-5 13–15 Environment Reduction of GHG emissions Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions included increased fuel efficiency and movement away from fossil energy sources. Who We Are Corporate Sustainability Strategy People & Community Circular Economy Operational Performance Governance Haworth’s 2025 Commitments Global Reporting Index 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 33 Emissions GRI SDG UNGC 305-7 3, 12–15 Environment Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and other Global VOC emissions in t significant emissions 35.00 30.00 25.00 20.00 15.00 10.00 5.00 0.00 2018 2019 VOC 30 24 Scope: Haworth global headquarters and manufacturing sites (full operational control of facilities). Calculations are based on site-specific data. From 2018-2019, Haworth reduced VOC emissions from operations by 20%. This results in a total reduction of 95% since 2007. Effluents & Waste 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method In 2012, we attained Zero Waste to Landfill status globally for manufacturing sites, and we continue to advance our waste reduction initiatives. Disposal methods for waste generated by Haworth facilities include recycling, energy recovery, and composting. We work continuously together with our members and suppliers to reduce waste and to improve reuse and recycling while adhering to federal and state legislations of the countries in which we do business. Our main waste fraction at manufacturing sites is wood waste from production. If recycling is not an option, one method to capture value from this material is to use it for thermal energy, including at several of our manufacturing sites. Other fractions are metals, plastics, powder-coat, corrugated, and paper, which can be readily recycled if separated properly. Monitoring and proper handling of hazardous waste from production is part of our certified environmental management system according to ISO 14001 and regulatory compliance programs. Who We Are Corporate Sustainability Strategy People & Community Circular Economy Operational Performance Governance Haworth’s 2025 Commitments Global Reporting Index 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 34 Supplier Environmental Assessment GRI SDG UNGC 308-1 Environment New suppliers that were screened using environmental Global criteria 100.0% 90.0% 80.0% 70.0% 60.0% 50.0% 40.0% 30.0% 20.0% 10.0% 0.0% 2018 2019 93.5% 94.8% Scope: Haworth global regions: the Americas, EMEA, and Asia Pacific. All our suppliers are encouraged to sign and adhere to the Haworth Supplier Code of Conduct, an agreement that addresses worker safety, labor compensation, anti-child labor, anti-discrimination, anti-corruption, worker respect, and environmental compliance. With over 94% of global suppliers (by spend) signing this Code of Conduct, we work together to help increase the transparency of sustainability standards and initiate improvement measures. We conduct in-depth audits on quality, health and safety, for current key suppliers. Surveillance audits conducted in 2018 identified significant improvements for suppliers reassessed. Each audit is followed by action plans and a close follow-up process — all designed to support our supplier partnerships as we continuously improve together. 308-2 Environment Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain Please see 308-1. and actions taken Who We Are Corporate Sustainability Strategy People & Community Circular Economy Operational Performance Governance Haworth’s 2025 Commitments Global Reporting Index 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 35 Employment GRI SDG UNGC 401-1 5, 8, 10 Labor New employee hires and employee turnover by age Please see GRI 102-8. group, gender, and region 401-3 Parental leave Haworth parental leave policy aligns with laws of each country in which we do business. For example, for members in the United States, a two-week paid leave is available for non-birthing parents. Occupational Health & Safety 403-1 Occupational health and safety management system Through our Haworth Management System (HMS), we ensure the principles of continuous improvement are applied to both manufacturing operations and office processes. To continuously improve, local teams develop goals and define metrics for health and safety at all Haworth global facilities. We regularly track occupational health and safety performance, initiate improvement measures, and provide training. Transparency in health and safety is deeply embedded in our philosophy and culture. The risk assessment process is evaluated on an ongoing basis. Participation and consultation of members is valued as a vital source to improve our performance, helping keep members safe and reducing the overall incident rate. We offer a wide variety of programs nurturing member well-being. Services such as mammograms, flu vaccines, wellness fairs, and smoking cessation programs, as well as fitness benefits, including a state-of-the-art fitness center at our global headquarters. Mental health is also a key part of well-being. Through our member assistance program, we offer access to short-term counseling and assistance for a range of challenges including daily stresses, marital conflict, financial or legal pressures, or professional services. 403-2 3, 8 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident Please see 403-1. investigation 403-3 Worker participation, consultation, and communication Please see 403-1. on occupational health and safety 403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety Please see 403-1. 403-6 Promotion of worker health Please see 403-1. Who We Are Corporate Sustainability Strategy People & Community Circular Economy Operational Performance Governance Haworth’s 2025 Commitments Global Reporting Index 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 36 GRI SDG UNGC 403-9 Work-related injuries Work-related injuries are tracked as lost-time cases (LTIF) and lost time injury severity (LTIS). Lost-time cases are defined as the absolute number of lost time on-site work injuries that require a person to stay away from work for a minimum of one day/shift (or more); commuting accidents are excluded, as per internal records. Lost-time injury severity (LTIS) is the number of days lost due to on-site work injuries divided by the number of worked hours in the same time, and multiplied by 200,000; calculation of worked hours as per time recording (actual working time) or regular working hours. Lost-Time Injury Frequency & Severity 2.50 35.00 Lost-Time Injury Frequency Lost-Time Injury Severity 30.00 2.00 25.00 1.50 20.00 1.00 15.00 10.00 0.50 5.00 – – 2018 2019 LTIF = Lost-Time Injury Frequency (LTI x 200,000/worked hours) LTIS = Lost-Time Injury Severity (lost days x 200,000/worked hours) Scope: Haworth global headquarters and manufacturing sites (including temporary workers). 403-10 Work-related ill health Please see GRI 403-9. Training & Education 404-1 Average hours of training per year, per employee Haworth invests in member learning to provide knowledge, tools, and resources for current roles as well as career development. Haworth tracks training efforts as absolute numbers of courses and hours offered to all members. Investment in member training was $1.6 million in 2019. 404-2 8 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition Please see GRI 404-1. assistance programs 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance Please see GRI 404-1 and career development reviews Who We Are Corporate Sustainability Strategy People & Community Circular Economy Operational Performance Governance Haworth’s 2025 Commitments Global Reporting Index 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 37 Diversity & Equal Opportunity GRI SDG UNGC 405-1 5, 8 Labor Diversity of governance bodies and employees: Please see GRI 102-8. generations, gender ratio per region, interns Human Rights Assessment 412-1 Human Rights Operating with human rights reviews, impact Haworth respects the rights of all members who help create value for our customers. Our values and code of assessments, human rights as part of SCOC, and conduct guide hiring policies, discrimination, and other universally recognized labor and human rights. percentage covered Haworth suppliers are encouraged to sign and adhere to the Haworth Supplier Code of Conduct, an agreement that addresses worker safety, labor compensation, anti-child labor, anti-discrimination, anticorruption, worker respect, and environmental compliance. With over 94% of global suppliers (by spend) signing this Code of Conduct, we work together to help increase the transparency of sustainability standards and initiate improvement measures. Local Communities 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact Haworth embraces the communities where we operate and where our members live and work. assessments, and development programs Supporting people and community is one of three focus areas of our sustainability strategy. Learn more in the People & Community section of this report. Supplier Social Assessment 414-1 5, 8, 16 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria Haworth suppliers are encouraged to sign and adhere to the Haworth Supplier Code of Conduct, an agreement that addresses worker safety, labor compensation, anti-child labor, anti-discrimination, anticorruption, worker respect, and environmental compliance. With over 94% of global suppliers (by spend) signing this Code of Conduct, we work together to help increase the transparency of sustainability standards and initiate improvement measures. Who We Are Corporate Sustainability Strategy People & Community Circular Economy Operational Performance Governance Haworth’s 2025 Commitments Global Reporting Index 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 38 Customer Health & Safety GRI SDG UNGC 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product At Haworth, we’re continually improving our ability to affect sustainable building practices and to promote and service categories spaces that benefit the well-being of its users. We pursue external verification through product certifications such as GREENGUARD, BIFMA LEVEL or European LEVEL. Through these certifications, we demonstrate how Haworth products contribute towards sustainable building standards like LEED and the WELL Building Standard. We are committed to providing customers with products that support safe and healthy environments. Considerations for the use of safer materials drive us to evaluate more sustainable solutions as alternatives become commercially available. Due to the diligent efforts of our teams and suppliers, we offer our customers products free of problematic chemicals such as non-stick additives derived from perand poly-fluorinated compounds, antimicrobials, PVC and associated phthalates, flame retardants, and heavy metals. Many Haworth products also include low emitting finishes such as powder-coat and water-based surface finishes. Our strategy with adhesives is to avoid them altogether. If this is not feasible, we insist on the use of water-based options. Haworth is committed to providing our customers with products that support safe and healthy environments, and to a policy of material chemistry transparency. Complying with applicable legal requirements on chemicals, such as California Resources Board (CARB) or REACH, is a minimum standard for all our operations. We are working diligently toward reducing potentially hazardous chemicals beyond regulatory restrictions associated with parts and materials we source. We report on our material transparency efforts in our product environmental data sheets (PEDS) for most product lines. Marketing & Labeling 417-1 12, 16 Requirements for products and services information We report material transparency efforts in product environmental data sheets (PEDS). These are made and labeling available on the product page of the Haworth website. Who We Are Corporate Sustainability Strategy People & Community Circular Economy Operational Performance Governance Haworth’s 2025 Commitments Global Reporting Index 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report 39 is a registered trademark of Haworth, Inc. © Haworth, Inc. All rights reserved. 2020 4.20 haworth.com | 800 344 2600
