Communication on Progress 2019 About the document DATE March, 2020 VERSION 1.0 Introduction TenneT has committed itself to the principles of the United Nations Global Compact since 2015. We implemented the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact in our supplier Code of Conduct, our company code and our business processes. With this communication on progress we report about the progress we have made on the Ten Principles in 2019. Since 2017 TenneT complies with the EU directive on non-financial and diversity information. The aspects of this directive have a large overlap with UN Global Compact (e.g. social, personnel, environmental, human rights, anti-corruption, bribery and diversity matters). More information can be found in the reporting principles section of our Annual Report 2019. Our Integrated Annual Report 2019, can be found here. Statement of the CEO I am pleased to confirm that TenneT reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and AntiCorruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Yours sincerely, TenneT Holding B.V. M.J.J. van Beek Chief Executive Officer Communication on Progress 2019 – Publication date 12 March 2020 1 Communication on Progress For each principle a reference is made to the relevant section of our Integrated Annual Report that describes our progress. The annual report can be found online; https://annualreport.tennet.eu/2019/annualreport The way TenneT manages Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) in general is described in the reporting principles section of our Integrated Annual Report 2019. UN Global Compact Principles Description of practical actions and measurement of outcomes can be found in the sections Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect Risk management and internal control: the protection of internationally proclaimed human Compliance and integrity rights; Ensure critical infrastructure for society; Sustainable supply chain practices Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in Risk management and internal control: human rights abuses. Compliance and integrity Ensure critical infrastructure for society; Sustainable supply chain practices Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom Create a sustainable workplace: Attracting and of association and the effective recognition of the retaining talent right to collective bargaining; Ensure critical infrastructure for society; Sustainable supply chain practices Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and Ensure critical infrastructure for society; compulsory labour; Sustainable supply chain practices Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Ensure critical infrastructure for society; Sustainable supply chain practices Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in Create a sustainable workplace respect of employment and occupation. Principle 7: Businesses should support a Create value to transition to a low carbon precautionary approach to environmental challenges; economy Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater Create value to transition to a low carbon environmental responsibility; and economy Principle 9: encourage the development and Create value to transition to a low carbon diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. economy Solve societal challenges with stakeholders and through partnerships Principle 10: Businesses should work against Compliance and integrity corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. In our annual report, we have also included the way we aim to contribute to the UN Sustainable Development Goals. Please refer to our Integrated Annual Report 2019. Communication on Progress 2019 – Publication date 12 March 2020 2 Colophon TenneT Holding B.V. Utrechtseweg 310, NL-6812 AR, Arnhem P.O. Box 718, 6800 AS Arnhem The Netherlands T: +31 (0)26 37 32 600 W: www.tennet.eu We look forward to receiving your feedback on this report; please send an email to; CSR Reporting Specialist, Attie Wang attie.wang@tennet.eu Communication on Progress 2019 – Publication date 12 March 2020 3
