“Our focus on quality stretches beyond our products. It also reflects the responsibility we have towards people and planet.” -Anders Hust, CEO 1 Contents Statement of support................................ 4 About Claire Group. ............................... 5 CSR program…………………………...6 Global goals everyday efforts. ............. 7 Our impact on the SDGs. ........................ 9 Human Rights People. ........................ 11 Labor principles People ..................... 13 Environment Planet.............................15 Anti-Corruption Profit.........................18 Measurements and goals. ...................... 19 Our Certificates. ..................................... 21 2 Our legacy and values • We build our business on relations and decency • We are innovative in our ambition to obtain results • We treasure sustainable initiatives Further information available on www.clairewoman.dk & www.hustandclaire.com Contact address: Claire Group A/S Navervej 6-10 7430 Ikast Tel: +45 97 15 31 22 E-mail: claire@claire.dk 4 Statement of support Claire Group A/S is an international fashion house with roots in Denmark founded in 1975 with the mission is to create stylish and casual clothes that appeal to fashion conscious women and children. It is our vision to make clothes in a sustainable way and build a company we can be proud of. This Responsibility Report gives information and data on our CSR activities. We are dedicated to fulfilling the intentions of the 10 principles outlined in the UN Global Compact Initiative and be inspired by the Sustainable Development Goals. We strive to influence our suppliers and business partners to support, to live up to and to participate in the Global Compact Initiative. Claire Group A/S has been an active part of this initiative since January 2010 and our support is unchanged. It is our conviction that businesses must be sound and sustainable for all involved in the process. Since 2009, Claire Group A/S has been a member of Amfori – BSCI (Business Social Compliance Initiative) because we believe supplier auditing is a necessary tool to maintain a responsible supply chain. Since 2012, we have been the only fashion house in Scandinavia to be certified with the ethic management standard, SA 8000. In 2019 we became certified with Global Organic Textile Standard (GOTS) because we are convinced that sustainable fashion will prevail. We have also committed ourselves to uphold a strong animal welfare programme, to minimize our carbon footprint and to comply with an anti-corruption programme and a chemical testing programme. Finally, we are supporting a CSR project for young textile entrepreneurs in our local community. 2019 has been a year with re-certification of SA 8000 and hard work with our second certification, GOTS. With two management systems in function, we are forced to deal professionally with our mistakes and deviations to avoid repetitions. We measure our performance every year and we continue setting targets within the framework of the 10 principles in UN Global Compact. We are proud to contribute to a more sustainable fashion industry today and in the future. Ikast, July 4th, 2020. Anders Hust, CEO 4 About Claire Group A/S Brief description of nature of business. Claire Group A/S is a family-owned company (Ltd.) established in 1975, with headquarters in Ikast, Denmark. Claire Group A/S is an international fashion house. Together our collections make a complete concept for modern women and children with an active lifestyle. Our products are produced by our suppliers in Europe, China, and India. Company info: Claire Group A/S Date: 04-07-2020 Address: Marsvej 6 10 Membership 11-01-2010 7430 Ikast date: Telephone: +45 97153122 Employees: 34 Country: DK Denmark Sector: Textile Contact name: Ulla Dam Contact Group CSR & Contact mail: ud@claire.dk position: Purchase Manager You can read about our certifications and our sustainable product marks on www.clairewoman.com or www.hustandclaire.com 5 6 Global goals everyday efforts We believe that every country, organisation, and private company must contribute to achieving the sustainable development goals (SDG) and the Paris Agreement. The challenge is to generate global goals into local business supporting our business development. We manufacture products and we are inspired from the SDG goals and take part in a worldwide effort to reach the goals. Our products do not contribute to fulfilment of the Global Goals, but we have learned that we can produce clothes with respect for people and planet and still be profitable. By complying with human rights and labour laws and with a strong focus on our carbon footprint, we trust we contribute to fulfilment of several of the SDG goals. We have chosen to focus on four of the Goals that relate most to our business. For Claire Group A/S SDG 5, SGD 8, SGD 12, and SGD 13 are at the heart of our CSR efforts. The Goals create values through our activities. Social benefits from taking responsibility for vulnerable people in the labour market, for training employees or contributing to increasing the consciousness about sustainable clothing. How we contribute to achieving the SDGs is outlined to the right and examples of our everyday efforts are given on the following pages. 2019 2020 What we did What we want Increased ownership to the Sustainable Efforts on increased visuality on the four Development Goals in Claire Group with Claire Group SGD goals. references in internal and external communication and internal training. 7 “Our business is most directly linked to four of the 17 SDGs, however, we believe we are inspired by all of them to turn global goals into everyday efforts”. Ulla Dam, Group CSR & Purchase Manager 5. Gender equality 8. Decent work & economic growth Achieve gender equality. Decent work for all employees. Gender equality in our organisation is important beWe believe the most efficient way to contribute to a cause gender equality is not only a fundamental husustainable economic growth for our organisation as man right, it is a necessary foundation for a homogewell as everybody involved in the manufacturing of neous and prosperous organisation. In our store men our clothes is by providing all workers with decent as well as women should be able to handle all work. work with a fair salary. In 2009, we became member At management level our women managers provide of Amfori-BSCI – a European audit-based initiative different and sustainable views to all kind of chalfor handling suppliers. We have contributed to putting lenges. Gender equality is implemented at all level in an end to workers lack of income and ensured a our organisation because we see gender equality as a sustainable livelihood. In this way, we have part of our general focus on anti-discrimination and influenced our suppliers always to pay legal wages diversity. and step by step be bound to implement living wages. 13. Climate change 12. Responsible consumption and production Urgent action to combat climate change. Ensure sustainable production patterns. We take pride in taking urgent action to combat cliWe see sustainable consumption and production as mate change and its impacts in Denmark and cascade promoting sustainable production, providing access our position to our supply chain and business partners to basic goods, green and decent jobs, and a better worldwide. We address all opportunities to minimize quality of life for all. Implementation helps to achieve our impact from manufacturing clothes in Far East overall development goals, reduce future footprint with distribution in Europe. We endeavour to address from production, strengthen economic competitivechallenges regarding air, water, waste, and pollution ness and reduce poverty. We prioritize significant on in general. Sustainable consumption and production operating our supply chain, involving everyone from aim at “doing more with less,” and minimize our producer to final consumer. This includes educating footprint. Our work is organized in an environmental consumers on sustainable consumption and life style, management system to obtain results and in 2019 we providing them with adequate information through were certified with Global Organic Textile Standard. standards and labels on garment. 8 Examples of our impact on the SDGs A balanced representation of men and women at all levels in the organisation taking part in decision making. Men as well as women can work at all levels in our organisation. Jobs with fair remuneration according to Amfori-BSCI, Code of Conduct, due to factory audits in the supply chain. We provide safe jobs due to our focus on Occupational Health and Safety in house and at our suppliers’ facilities. OHS work is a high priority topic to us. 9 A responsible supply chain is our main priority since 2007. Our clothes must be produced at factories with satisfactory audit results according to Amfori-BSCI system. Our responsible chemical programme is intended to secure good health to workers in contact with our clothes and to provide our customers with clothes without chemicals above the set limit values for the relevant garment. We will promote our environmentally certification, GOTS further and extend the number of styles in our collection with GOTS and OEKO-TEX 100. Reducing carbon footprint from transportation by ship/air begins with measuring and setting goals. Due to extremely well-organized production planning in the design and PU-department and a very good cooperation with our suppliers, we have reduced our transportation by air. Responsible management of waste and resources at our premises with a strong focus on reusing carbon boxes. 10 Human Rights People Principle 1: and Principle 2: Businesses should supMake sure that they port and respect the are not complicit in protection of human right abuses. internationally proclaimed human rights. Commitment We are committed not to violate basic human rights conventions in Denmark and wherever our clothes are produced. We support the international declared human rights and we will not discriminate against any person on grounds of race, religion, gender, age, or disability. It is one of our core values that we are aware of our social responsibility towards employees, local society, and workers in our supply chain. Everybody should be given fair opportunities to build careers. We are committed to have a sustainable supply chain and through our membership of Amfori-BSCI we are obliged to respect the fundamental human rights conventions no matter where our production is situated. “We have been working with social responsibility for more than 40 years and hold two certificates proving that our work is very well done. Being certified shows heavy weight behind the nice words.” -Anders Hust, CEO Activities We have a clear written policy on sustainability incl. responsible production. Our values together with our in-house SA 8000 procedures and our Amfori-BSCI membership ensure us against discrimination. To prevent discrimination to happen we have implemented proactive procedures for hiring, promoting and dismissal. Our headquarters in Denmark are under strict Danish legislation, which we comply with. We have established a whistle-blower system to handle complaints. We have in-house awareness training of employees in human rights and SA 8000 issues. We have an annual in-house audit and Bureau Veritas audits every year. Since May 2016, we have been supporting a CSR-project for young textile entrepreneurs, Sylab, in our local community, situated on our location as they use our sewing facilities. Outcome Our SA 8000 procedures and our Amfori-BSCI Code of Conduct have prevented us from violating the human right conventions in Denmark and on factory level at our main suppliers. We comply with Danish laws and collective agreements in Denmark. Bureau Veritas has successfully certified our company with SA 8000 in 2012 and every year since. To monitor our effort, and measure our progress in the supply chain, we are auditing our suppliers according to an audit plan. Corrective action plans are issued accordingly. See our figures below. • Claire Group A/S was certified with the ethic standard, SA 8000 in 2012 and every year since. • In 2019 78 % of our employees are covered by a collective agreement. • In 2019 63 % of all employees have received SA 8000 training. • In 2019 57 % of employees on management level or in a position of trust were women. • In 2019 81 % of our suppliers (BV) are audited with the result A, B or C in the Amfori-BSCI 2.0 system. The rest have been screened with the purpose to prepare for auditing, or have an expired audit circle. “With our SA 8000 certificate we show our suppliers, that we take our own medicine. That has definitely given us more respect in our supply chain.” Anders Hust, CEO Labour principles People Principle 3: and Principle 4: and Principle 5: and Principle 6: Businesses should The elimination of all The effective abolition The elimination of disuphold the freedom of forms of forced and of child labour. crimination in respect association and the compulsory labour. of employment and effective recognition occupation. of the right to collective bargaining. Commitment We want to be one of the very best companies in the fashion industry handling CSR-related issues. We believe fundamentally that our social responsibility effort should encompass not only our own activities in Denmark but also activities in our supply chain. We believe that freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining are fundamental rights, which should be upheld. We take the working environment extremely seriously because we believe that working environment and job satisfaction goes hand in hand. We care about health and safety for every employee. We want to have a creative working environment and believe that this requires safe employees and a working environment of a top standard level. We want to motivate our staff to educate further and make the best possible use of our resources. We condemn child labour, dangerous work, unreasonably long working days or salaries below the current industrial rate in production countries. We take in a worldwide effort to deal with the challenges of living wage. Activities Employees in headquarters are organized in unions as we respect freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining. The company is covered by three collective agreements. Compensation and overtime payment meet the Danish minimum standard or the relevant collective agreement. We have a clear written policy on Occupational Health and Safety. We continually improve our working environment, according to Danish legislation and our SA 8000 standard and procedures. We have an Occupational 13 Health and Safety Organisation with representatives from the workers and the management group. Our Occupational, Health and Safety work is very well organized. We assess any labour related risk or accident at Claire Group A/S as well as any “close to” accidents. We have 6 weeks of vacation and paid sick leave. We have an employer-paid health insurance. All employees have access to paid education within their area of responsibility. We have employees on special terms e.g. trainees or people in work ability testing. Our values together with our in-house SA 8000 procedures and our Amfori-BSCI membership ensure us against violation of basic labour standards in Denmark and in our supply chain. We have established a whistleblower system to handle any complaints. We have in-house awareness training of employees in Occupational, Health and Safety and in SA 8000 issues every second year. Through our membership of Amfori-BSCI we have implemented policies and the Amfori-BSCI Code of Conduct in our supply chain. The Amfori-BSCI Code of Conduct set out minimum criteria for labour standards to all our suppliers. Outcome We comply with Danish laws and collective agreements and Bureau Veritas has successfully re-certified our company with SA 8000 every year since 2012. Our staff is extremely loyal and consequently, we have a lot of long-term relationships. Our absenteeism in 2019 was 4,73 %. Cleaned from long-term illness and maternity leave, it is 0,92 %, which is extremely low in DK. In 2017 we tested our psychological working environment and the result was very satisfactory. We are auditing our suppliers according to an audit plan and we are monitoring that corrective action plans are completed whenever we or a supplier fail to comply with the Code of Conduct. There is no forced or compulsory labour in the company or at our supplier premises and all basic labour standards are observed and audited at our suppliers. Our SA 8000 procedures and our commitment to Amfori-BSCI have prevented us from violating basic worker standards, national legislation, and collective agreements in Denmark. • Our Occupational, Health and Safety work is well organised and works successfully according to the intentions of the Danish laws. • 65 % of our staff has received training in our CSR-programme and SA 8000 issues. • We have employees on special terms corresponding to ½ man year. • 100 % of all employees have a private health insurance. • 78 % of all employees are covered by a collective agreement. • 43 % of all employees have first aid certificate, however expired in 2020, due to Covid19. • We have established a whistle-blower system. • In 2019 81 % of our suppliers (BV) are audited A, B or C in the Amfori-BSCI. The rest have been screened and have now started preparation for the auditing procedure, or have an expired au circle. 14 Environment Planet Principle 7: and Principle 8: and Principle 9: Businesses should Undertake initiatives Encourage the develsupport a precautionto promote greater opment and diffusion ary approach to environmental responof environmentally environmental sibility. friendly technologies. challenges. Commitment We strive to minimize the footprint we set from producing garments and we are aware of our environmental responsibility. We seek to be greener everyday not only because there is money to be earned by safeguarding the environment but also because it is our values. We have a policy on environment and transportation. We consider environmental awareness as a wide range of initiatives that includes running our headquarters in Ikast on a sustainable basis and reducing our CO2 emission from producing our products. We care about chemicals in clothes, zippers and buttons, and we observe the EU-REACH and Norwegian legislation as a minimum. We support environmentally friendly technologies and help to improve general knowledge of environmentally friendly labels, OEKO-TEX 100 and GOTS (Global Organic Standard). Activities Our waste management system forces us to recycle whenever it is possible, and we measure our in-house consumption of resources. We encourage our suppliers always to use an environmentally friendly method and to avoid all unnecessary use of chemicals. We have a restricted chemicals programme, which our suppliers must follow including tests made by Bureau Veritas. In 2019 we were certified with GOTS and we have a collection of organic styles for children (GOTS) and a collection of styles made of bamboo fibres. We also increase the number of styles with OEKO-TEX 100 year after year. We have joined the washing campaign: Clever Care, since 40 % of the Co2 emission lies with the consumer. Our focus on reducing footprint from transportation has been successful due to hard work and extremely well-organized workflow with supplies. Outcome We have established figures for our calculation and picked relevant Key Performance Indicators. The reduction in electricity in 2019 has decreased by 4 % compared to 2016. Our investment in low energy lighting have proven successful and has been earned back over a five-year period. We are focused on reduction of our waste and we recycle as much as possible. In 2019, our figures are back at 2016 level which we find satisfactory. Our transport by air is 8 % a new focus point. We have tested 19 qualities in 2019 according to our chemical testing programme. No tests failed. See our total measurements on last page. • In 2019 we decreased our electricity consumption by 4 %, our consumption of heat by 8 % and our commercial waste has decreased by 7 % (2016=100). • Water consumption in 2019 was 5783 m3 = abnormal figure due to water damage in our fountains. • We sail approximately 92 % of our goods to Europe from our Far East suppliers. • In our supply chain 79 % of suppliers (BV) have signed our restricted chemicals programme. • In 2019 we have extended our restricted chemicals programme. Random Bureau Veritas inspections are organized according to the limit values in EU-Reach and Norwegian legislation. In 2019 no tests failed out of 19 qualities tested. • In May 2019, we became certified with Global Organic Textile Standard, GOTS, and in 2019 we had 189 styles with GOTS. 15 “It is our vision to create Clothes in a sustainable Way and build company We can be proud of” -Anders Hust, CEO 16 Anti-Corruption Profit Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Commitment At Claire Group corruption is not acceptable and we are strongly against bribery, extortion or any other form of facility payments. We want to run a profitable company and respect people and planet. We influence our business partners with our attitudes to bribery and corruption. Activities We have a company policy about bribery and anti-corruption implemented in our staff handbook. In 2014 our policy was strengthened, and we issued an anti-corruption guideline. We do not pay illegitimate payments and no employee must either give or receive gifts above a value limit of 50 Euro. Our employees are encouraged to express complaints, suspicions, or concerns anonymously to the company by using the whistle blower. Bribery is a part of our in-house employer training in environmental issues and SA 8000. Outcome Our anti-corruption policy and our transparent rules and procedures have prevented us from any cases of bribery, anti-corruption etc. in 2018. We comply with Danish laws and Bureau Veritas has successfully audited our company with SA 8000 latest in Dec 2019. • Since 2012 our anti-corruption policy has been a part of our staff handbook. In 2014 the policy was revised and made stronger. • In 2019 we had no cases regarding bribery or anti-corruption from the whistle-blower scheme. • In 2019 81 % of our suppliers (BV) are audited A, B or C in Amfori-BSCI system. Publication We intend to make this COP available to all our stakeholders. A summary of our social performance for 2019 can be found on last page. This COP will be available at the Global Compact homepage and can be found on www.clairewoman.com and www.hustandclaire.com. The report is also available to all employees, board members and visitors in our house. 18 Measurements and goals Key PerformMeasurements 2019 Policy System ance Headquarters Indicators Human Rights Headquarters: Headquarters: SA 8000 management • SA 8000 re-certification in Dec. 2019 system YES + • 65 % of all employees with SA-8000 training Three collective agreements • 57 % of employees on management level or in a position of trust are women Suppliers: • 78 % of employees covered by a collective Amfori-BSCI – agreement Code of Conduct + audits Labour Headquarters: Headquarters: Standards SA 8000 management • SA 8000 re-certification in Dec. 2019 YES system + • 65 % of all employees with SA-8000 training Three collective agreements • ½ man-year employed on special terms Suppliers: • 78 % of employees covered by a collective agreement Amfori-BSCI – Code of Conduct • 43 % of all employees with first aid certificate + audits • 28 % with firefighting certificate Environment Headquarters: • GOTS certification in May 2019. 2017 2018 2019 GOTS management YES system Waste in KG 14132 12050 11440 Electricity in KwH 135654 140577 127784 Clever Care Campaign Water in M3 399 397 5783 (p.16) Suppliers: Heat in KwH 741874 704409 650445 Transportation by 93% 94% 92 % Restricted chemicals Ship/aeroplane 7% 6% 8% programme + tests. Anti-corruption Headquarters: Headquarters: SA 8000 management system • No cases regarding Anti-corruption YES Whistle-blower Suppliers: Code of Conduct + audits 19 Measurements 2019 Goals/Objectives 2020 Goals/Objectives 2020 Suppliers Headquarters Suppliers Suppliers: Headquarters: Suppliers: 1. 91 % of BV with first audit • 85 % of all employees with 1. 92 % with first audit SA-8000 training and increasing 2. 81 % of BV are audited focus on internal training in 2. 85 % of BV are audited A, B or C in Amfori-BSCI. general A, B or C in Amfori-BSCI. 3. The rest of the suppliers • A balanced representation of 3. The rest of the suppliers with with screening. men and women on managescreening. ment level. • 80 % of employees covered by a collective agreement Suppliers: Headquarters: Suppliers: 1. 91 % of BV with first audit • 85 % of all employees with SA-8000 1. 92 % with first audit training and increasing focus on 2. 81 % of BV are audited internal training in general 2. 85 % of BV are audited A, B or C in Amfori-BSCI. A, B or C in Amfori-BSCI. • ½ man-year employed on special terms 3. The rest of the suppliers 3. The rest of the suppliers with with screening. • 80 % of employees covered by a screening. collective agreement • 10 % with first aid certificate • 10 % with firefighting certificate Suppliers: 2020 Suppliers: Waste in KG 12000 1. 79 % of BV with signed • 85 % of BV with signed chemiElectricity in KwH 127700 chemicals programme. cals program Water in M3 400 2. 19 qualities have been tested. Heat in KwH 66000 • Inspections by Bureau Veritas Transportation by 93/7 on readymade garment from 3. 189 GOTS styles Ship/aeroplane core suppliers equivalent to minimum 20 tests per year. 200 GOTS styles Suppliers: Headquarters: Suppliers: 1. 91 % of BV with first audit • All cases solved 1. 92 % with first audit 2. 81 % of BV are audited 2. 85 % of BV are audited A, B or C in Amfori-BSCI. A, B or C in Amfori-BSCI. 3. The rest of the suppliers 3. The rest of the suppliers with with screening. screening. 20 21 “We believe that high quality creates a reputation and a good reputation creates loyal customers” -Anders Hust, CEO 22 23 24 25
