“We make a living by what we get, but we make a life by what we give” Winston Churchill / Corporate Social Responsibility / UN Global Compact Communication on Progress (COP) 2019-2020 Table of Content / Edito Letter from our CEO / Electra – Our company / Background and solutions / A diverse workforce / Our CSR Committee / Our Engagement towards the UNGCP / Our Engagement towards Human Rights / Our Engagement towards Fair Labor Employment / Our Engagement towards a better environment / Our Engagement towards anti-corruption UN Global Compact (COP) 2019-2020 2 Letter from our CEO In line with global, social and environmental challenges at Electra and as part of our DNA, we always believed in true Corporate Social Responsibility that makes an impact on our company, our community and a better environment. In a fast-paced environment such as the Events industry, we’ve decided to embrace a more sustainable and ethical approach. We aim to change our processes and operations to a better, efficient, responsible way not only for the company, but for our clients, and most importantly with the support of our employees. Our CSR committee leads the program which is based on 3 main pillars: Environment, Enterprise & Community with clear goals, development and defined actions to perform in line with our CSR strategy. Under the same approach we based our commitment to the UN Global Compact principles. I would like to reaffirm our true support to each area, Human Rights, Labour, Environment & Anti-Corruption. We have pleasure in sharing in full transparency this annual communication with some of our actions that help us improve and we are strongly committed to develop ourselves further in the future Sincerely yours, Jean Charles Durand UN Global Compact (COP) 2019-2020 3 Our Company “We Bring Concepts to Life” Electra is a fully integrated event, exhibition and environment solutions provider and Production house in the Middle East. KEY FIGURES 1992 +400 Year of Creation Projects delivered per year 25,000 380 Square meters in-house Happy employees production facility / Background / 1992 / 2002 /2008 /2015 /2018 Diversified activities into tent and Move of headquarter Part of Electra was born Acquired by Jeanfurniture rental and to D3 E3 Group* in Dubai Charles Durand opened the Abu Dhabi *An international branch exhibit group / Solutions Event Exhibition Environments Rental UN Global Compact (COP) 2019-2020 5 / A Diverse Workforce Gender Repartition Age Repartition Management Gender We value talents from all backgrounds Repartition and generations. Our employee’s age Electra Employees by Age repartition is homogeneous and Repartition growing talents are as valuable as confirmed and experienced talents. 50% 50% 21 50 98 Age Repartition Staff/Worker Male Female 169 11 53 The senior management team is in Staff 3 28 From 20 to 30 From 31 to 40 perfect gender equality. The 39 From 41 to 50 50+ Executive Committee at Electra is Workers 70 116 18 composed of 50% female and 50% male members. From 20 to 30 From 31 to 40 From 41 to 50 50+ We promote Diversity We value and encourage diversity within our teams, and this reflects in our people’s variety in Religion, nationality, believes, languages and cultures. UN Global Compact (COP) 2019-2020 6 Meet our CSR Souad Passas CSR Head Committee Meriem Kari Oumayma Jambari Operating in ethical and sustainable ways is paramount in today’s evolving business environment. Human Resources Marketing CSR Projects Leader CSR Projects Leader As a team, we believe that leveraging the corporate resources at our disposal to act towards social and environmental issues can benefit our colleagues , the Business we operate in, as well as the community we Vivendi Ramos Guy Rostand are surrounded by. Events Operations CSR Projects Executive CSR Projects Executive We are a diverse team hailing from all parts of the business: from the operations, events to HR. One same conviction unites us: “Part of having a positive and healthy culture is giving back”. Our fun journey as the CSR Committee consists of carrying the social, human and environmental concerns that are valuable to the company and propose actions towards them by involving the whole Electra Team. ELECTRA CSR TEAM Our Engagement towards the UNGCP 1) Our Engagement towards Human Rights 9 1.1 Physical Integrity is Priority Streamlined Safety Awareness trainings: Our people’s Health & Well-being is always up-front Commitment to 0 incident / A comprehensive agenda is made on a yearly basis to make sure regular health and Alcohol Awareness Mental Health Stress Fighting Health Campaign well-being activities are Campaign Sessions Sessions 87% Participation provided to our staff and 75% Participation 70% Participation 30% Participation workers. UN Global Compact (COP) 2019-2020 10 1.2 We value our people Learning opportunities & lifestyle trainings / We believe that all employees want and deserve a Workers’ dignity starts with living conditions workplace where they feel respected, satisfied and appreciated. / We strive to provide a decent living environment through an adequate and healthy accommodation. We promote & encourage diversity / Our diversity mindset starts with fair recruitment procedures that promote employees from all backgrounds Workers’ entertainment / Bringing a smile to our people’s faces is the first step towards a committed business. UN Global Compact (COP) 2019-2020 11 1.3 We give back to the community / Participation to help the community in several matters and partnering with local NGOs is Electra’s top priority to enhance social welfare. We gained the We We organized… trust of… performed… 3 Blood Donation Drives 2 Safety Days Editions 20+ CSR Actions 10+ Local NGOs 3 Breast Cancer 10+ Workers Awareness Welfare Actions Campaigns 3 Donations Drives Some our Local Partners: UN Global Compact (COP) 12 2019-2020 2) Our Engagement towards Fair Labor Employment Labour Practices / We are fully committed to protecting the health, safety and Workers’ Information welfare of each of our employees and complying with all the relevant UAE Laws. Regular “Know Your Rights” sessions for workers / Electra values its employees and workers and is committed to ensure that employment practices are right and working as / Electra values its employees and workers and is well as living conditions are safe & healthy. committed to ensure that employment practices / 0 Grievance is our watchword. Labour practices and policies are right, working conditions are safe and that the are made to ensure all employees at all levels are treated highest standards of ethical behavior are fairly and that their employment rights are strictly respected. maintained. Thus, worker rights’ awareness is the Our employees can rely on a comprehensive, confidential and entrance door to Human Rights commitment. anti-repressive Grievance Policy that provides a means for them to raise concerns about any work-related issues. / “Workers Representatives”: we promote a fair representation of the workers by the workers to make sure their voices are heard, and suggestions and concerns solved. / Salaries & Wages are reviewed annually to ensure competitiveness within the market and deliver best benefits possible. / Regular “Self audits” are performed to check on our own compliance with fair labour practices UN Global Compact (COP) 2019-2020 14 We expect the same from our suppliers … Responsible and Human Business is what we strive for. Electra, as a strong major player, has always followed a strong set of ethical standards in its activities and we expect the same from our suppliers. / Agreements with Suppliers involve strict code Electra Supplier Code of Conduct of conduct guidelines / Regular Audits are performed to check on our suppliers welfare practices including employment policies, living/working conditions & Accommodations Electra Supplier Evaluation Questionnaire UN Global Compact (COP) 2019-2020 15 3) Our Engagement towards a better Environment Recycling & Resources’ We are committed to a Saving in our Production Responsible Procurement / We have chosen to partner with sustainable companies to / Working towards a green production is a help protect the environment mindset within our stakeholders. We use ecoin the day-to-day operations friendly products that respect the environment of our offices and warehouses. and encourage a sustainable production. / The high quantity of wood used due to the nature of our work that requires carpentry is permanently recycled. In 2019/2020 we have recycled about 700 Metric Tons of Wood. / We saved 600 plastic bottles in our offices in 20192020 thanks to liquid of life dispenser investment. / 0 Plastic bottles were used in our HO since June 2019. / With Endoshred we participate to the recycling of tons of paper per year. UN Global Compact (COP) 2019-2020 17 We strive for Sustainable Solutions / As a well-established integrated solutions provider, / We have been shortlisted for “Best we take responsibility for the social and Sustainability Initiative” by the Middle East environmental impacts of our business operations. Event Show 2020 for our work on Global Grad We innovate in products that are eco-friendly and Show 2019 using our sustainable solution that can be used for decades. SLIK. SLIK, The Cube’s Energy a zero-waste modular Efficiency system The Cube, our latest SLIK, our innovative zero temporary structure, was waste is a re-usable modular designed to limit energy solution used to create consumption. The structure walls, display cases and requires 15% less fuel shelving. consumption than other classic temporary structures. UN Global Compact (COP) 2019-2020 18 100% of employees surveyed on anti-bribery 4) Our Engagement 100% of staff signed the Business Code of Conduct towards Anti-Corruption Anti-Bribery Ethics and Compliance Survey among Employees / Regular Ethics & Compliance surveys are held among our employees to assess understanding of anti-bribery policy. / Action plans are key to sustain a Corruption-free workforce and our employees are trained accordingly. Corruption survey, business code of conduct, Sample & results from Electra Ethics & Compliance survey 2019 procurement policy and processes for suppliers’ selection / Anti-corruption & Anti-Bribery is an integral part of our Supplier code of conduct. The section III. Ethics of the supplier code of conduct clearly mentions the Business Integrity expected from Electra suppliers. UN Global Compact (COP) 2019-2020
