UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Lloyds Banking Group 2019 Lloyds Banking Group UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019 02 About Lloyds Banking Group We are a UK financial services provider with around 26 million customers and a presence in nearly every Human Rights 05 Principle 1  Businesses should support and respect the protection community. Lloyds Banking Group plc has a number of internationally proclaimed human rights of subsidiaries, a full list of which can be found in Principle 2 Make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses our Annual Report. Our main business activities are retail and commercial banking, general insurance Labour 08 and long-term savings, provided through well Principle 3  Businesses should uphold freedom of association and recognised brands including Lloyds Bank, Halifax, the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Bank of Scotland, MBNA and Scottish Widows. Principle 5  The effective abolition of child labour We employ approximately 63,000 employees (on a full-time Principle 6  The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation equivalent basis), of whom 99 per cent work in the UK. Our active supply base comprises approximately 3,100 suppliers, the majority of which are in professional services sectors such as management Environment 13 consultancy, legal, HR, IT, marketing and communication and Principle 7  Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges located in the UK, other European countries, North America Principle 8  Undertake initiatives to promote greater and Asia. Our shares are quoted on the London and New York environmental responsibility stock exchanges and we are one of the largest companies in Principle 9  Encourage the development and diffusion the FTSE 100 index. of environmentally friendly technologies Anti-Corruption 17 Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Our purpose With the Group’s unique position at the heart of the British economy, we embrace our responsibility to help address some of the economic, social and environmental challenges the UK faces. We have been Find out more Helping Britain Prosper for the past About our Group in 2019, 250 years, by delivering for our customers Annual Report and Accounts and communities, as a responsible, Helping Britain Prosper Plan sustainable and inclusive business. Lloyds Banking Group UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019 03 Statement from the Chief Executive Our unique position at the heart The Group has adopted policies and of the UK economy means we play procedures designed to detect and prevent the use of its banking network for money an active part in supporting all of laundering, terrorist financing, bribery, tax our customers and communities. evasion and activities prohibited by legal and As part of our purpose to Help regulatory sanctions. Against a background Britain Prosper, we’re helping the of increasingly complex and detailed laws transition to a sustainable low and regulations, and of increased criminal carbon economy, helping people and terrorist activity, the Group regularly buy a home and save for the future, reviews and assesses these and organisational arrangements to keep them current, effective supporting businesses to start up and consistent across markets and jurisdictions. and grow, building digital skills, and championing diversity. I am pleased to reaffirm Lloyds Banking Group’s support of the Ten Principles of the The successful transition to a more sustainable, United Nations Global Compact in the areas low carbon economy is strategically importance of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and to us. In response to the global issue of climate Anti-Corruption. This third Communication change, the Group has developed a new on Progress shares an update on the progress goal, working with customers, Government we have made in integrating the principles and the market to help reduce the emissions into our business strategy, culture and we finance by more than 50 per cent by 2030. daily operations. As one of the largest employers in the UK, I look forward to providing you with a further our view is that diverse teams, working within update on our progress in 2021. inclusive environments, are more innovative, engaged, and deliver better outcomes for our Yours sincerely, customers. As the first FTSE 100 company to set targets to increase both gender and ethnic diversity at senior levels, we continue to invest in being a leading inclusive employer, where the unique differences our colleagues bring to work every day are valued, something that António Horta-Osório the Group is regularly recognised for. Group Chief Executive Lloyds Banking Group UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019 04 Our commitments Helping Britain Prosper Plan across the ten principles Area of focus SDG Supported Helping the transition to a sustainable low carbon economy Helping Britain get a home In September 2019 the United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) launched the Helping people save Principles for Responsible Banking. Lloyds Banking Group for the future is a founding signatory of the Principles, joining banks from around the world to build a more sustainable future. Supporting businesses to start up and grow We recognise that change is happening. Through both our Helping Britain Prosper Engaging with our stakeholders is Our economies are becoming greener Plan and wider responsible business fundamental to ensuring we continue and the Principles provide a single activities, we’re actively supporting to support the economic, social and Tackling social framework that embeds sustainability at a sustainable development agenda, environmental challenges that the UK disadvantage the strategic, portfolio and transactional working towards the United Nations (UN) faces. It enables us to understand what is across Britain levels across all of our business areas. Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). important to them and their expectations To continue our role in the UK economy The SDGs set out a global agenda for of the Group. We invite stakeholders Building capability in the 21st century, Lloyds Banking Group action to improve the wellbeing of present to participate in an annual materiality and digital skills will show how it is meeting society’s and future generations. Our Helping assessment, asking them to tell us what changing needs and demands by Britain Prosper Plan directly supports a they feel is a priority. This feedback helps aligning our actions to these Principles. number of the SDGs, and we believe they us shape our strategy and reporting. The Championing provide a point of focus and reference for themes ranked as most material directly Britain’s diversity our responsible business activities and inform the Responsible Business update for building relationships with external in our 2019 Annual Report and Accounts, partners who share our vision and values. and additional reporting documentation available on our Reporting Centre. We embrace our economic, social and environmental Find out more Helping Britain Prosper Plan responsibilities to Help Helping Britain Prosper Plan Britain Prosper by operating 2019 Annual Report and Accounts as a responsible, sustainable Reporting Centre and inclusive Group. Lloyds Banking Group UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019 05 Human Rights PRINCIPLE 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and PRINCIPLE 2 Make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. SDG SUPPORTED BY THESE PRINCIPLES: Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialisation and foster innovation R  educe inequality within and among countries Lloyds Banking Group UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019 06 Human Rights continued Our approach to human rights taking meaningful steps to ensure that Our colleagues workers’ fundamental rights and freedoms Our Code of Responsibility (the Code) A responsible and sustainable approach to doing business are respected. We do not tolerate slavery, provides clear guidelines for doing We do not tolerate slavery, is central to our strategy and our purpose to Help Britain trafficking or forced labour in any part of our business or supply chain and embrace business fairly and responsibly, in line trafficking or forced labour Prosper. We believe in the importance of doing business the transparency and expectation of with our Group Values: putting customers in any part of our business in ways that value and respect the human rights of our first; making a difference together; and continuous progress that this important or supply chains. keeping it simple. The Code encourages colleagues, customers, suppliers and the communities Act brings. You can read more about our colleagues to report, through our in which we operate and have a set of policies and approach in our 2019 Modern Slavery and whistleblowing service, Speak Up, or Human Trafficking Statement. procedures to translate this belief into action. to the Group’s Colleague Conduct We understand that human rights Management team, any actions that are encompass more than just the individual unsafe, unethical, unlawful, or not in line and take into account social, ethical and with Group Policies. We refreshed the We adhere to the UN Declaration of environmental issues in our investment, Code in 2019 in advance of a full review Human Rights as well as the rules and lending and service operations. We are during the course of 2020 to support the regulations of each country in which signatories to The Equator Principles next phase of our Group strategy. we operate. We are guided by the and the UN Principles for Responsible All employees are required to review the International Bill of Human Rights as well Investment, and our corporate governance Code and complete Speak Up training as the International Labour Organisation’s structure ensures that colleagues are every year as part of the mandatory (ILO) Core Labour Standards and its supported to work responsibly and training curriculum, to understand their Tripartite Declaration of Principles. manage risk effectively. This structure responsibilities and adhere to them We recognise the Organisation includes our Board and our Board-level every day. for Economic Co-Operation and Development (OECD) Guidelines Responsible Business Committee, and for Multinational Enterprises. extends to every part of our business through our Group Executive Committee During 2019, we reviewed how our and Executive-level Committees. business interacts with human rights. This has been formalised through our We have a number of Group Policies strengthened Human Rights Policy and procedures in place that reflect our Statement which we published in commitment to operating responsibly and February 2020. This was based on the ethically as a business and as individual UN’s Guiding Principles on Business employees, such as our Colleague, and Human Rights which we used as a Sourcing, Speak Up (whistleblowing) framework to understand our human and Anti-Bribery Policies. These Group rights impacts, and to define our Policies, associated procedures and responsibility and approach to respect mandatory training are reviewed annually human rights. This statement captures as part of the governance of the Group’s how we have embedded human rights Policy and Risk Management Frameworks. considerations within our business, both This annual review reflects our efforts our in own operations and our impacts to continually improve our responsible Find out more on communities around us. business governance approach, and to Human Rights Policy Statement further embed human rights into our Modern Slavery and Human In 2015, we welcomed the UK Modern business. Each business area is required to Trafficking Statement 2019 Slavery Act and continue to support this set its strategy in line with our risk appetite Code of Responsibility legislation by doing business responsibly, and our policy requirements. Lloyds Banking Group UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019 07 Human Rights continued Our suppliers to Speak Up where they and their workers growth, underpin job creation, tax receipts Outcomes What the Group has achieved: can report any incidents. The Speak Up and royalties, and indirectly support No reported incidents of human rights Our Code of Supplier Responsibility What the Group has delivered: Third Party Policy has been designed to community development. However, some breaches, slavery or trafficking from our highlights the importance we place on A strengthened supplier risk assist in managing any risk that suppliers’ activities undertaken in these sectors have colleagues and our suppliers in 2019. respect for human rights across all our framework, with the introduction employees are prevented from reporting the potential to impact the environment business relationships, setting out the key in 2019 of additional questions that Best Bank for Customers mandatory any concerns about risk, malpractice or and local communities negatively. social, ethical and environmental values trigger a ‘red flag’, prompting further training completed by around 95 per suspected wrongdoing. We expect our existing customers to that we want our suppliers to abide by. investigative action and remediation. cent of colleagues in 2019, to confirm respect human rights, both of their Updated in December 2019, we clarified they have read and understand their our expectations of suppliers to respect Our customers own workforce but also those in their Continued collaboration with others responsibilities under the Code of supply chain and comply with all relevant on the Traffik Analysis Hub (TAHub), human rights in both their operations and In 2019 we updated our external Sector Responsibility. legislation, regulations and directives, designed to share vital trafficking their supply chains and reflected this in Statements to strengthen our focus including the UK Modern Slavery Act and information across all sectors. All employees are required to complete the annual self-attestation questions. on human rights within our direct its reporting obligations, in the countries The aim is to be able to predict Speak Up training every year as part of relationships. We aim to work with Our active supply base comprises and communities in which they operate. future incidents of human trafficking the mandatory training curriculum. In customers who operate safely and approximately 3,100 suppliers. We take a before they occur through identifying 2019 colleagues reported 451 concerns, securely within a defined framework that Together, these actions demonstrate risk-based approach and those in potential financial patterns, trafficking routes, of which 216 were formally investigated upholds human rights. These statements the Group’s commitment to doing high risk service sectors have a supplier hotspots of community trafficking following triage, with 39 per cent of include positions on six new sectors business responsibly and to explaining manager assigned. We contractually activity and vulnerability across those investigations substantiated, including manufacturing, automotive, the meaningful steps taken to ensure that require our c.1,100 managed UK suppliers complex supply chains. resulting in remedial action. agriculture, animal welfare, fisheries and workers’ fundamental rights and freedoms to self-attest their compliance to the UNESCO World Heritage Sites, in addition Increased focus on supporting survivors Annual Anti-Money Laundering are respected. For information on the Group’s policy expectations on an to the existing statements on power, of human rights abuses, such as mandatory training completed by more specific labour standards that we annual basis. Via the Financial Services coal, mining, oil and gas, forestry, and modern slavery and human trafficking, around 97 per cent of colleagues in comply with, please refer to the Labour Supplier Qualification System (FSQS) we defence. These sectors have been including in the UK, modifying 2019. This training was updated in section in this report. ask suppliers to confirm they have read, selected because they contribute our Acceptable Documentation Q4 2019, and is now part of the Fraud understood and comply with the Code significantly to UK and global economic procedures to allow for alternative and Financial Crime Annual Refresher of Supplier Responsibility, and ask for forms of documentation when opening training and includes a modern slavery evidence of processes and procedures accounts, as survivors of trafficking may case study. for assessing and complying with relevant not have these in conventional forms. human rights legislation. Specifically; Training and awareness raising with the Respect the human rights of their National County Lines Co-ordination employees and comply with all relevant Centre (NCLCC) portfolio to provide legislation, regulations and directives, support to more than 500 Group including the Modern Slavery Act and colleagues in spotting behavioural its reporting obligations in the countries and transactional indicators. and communities where they operate. An independent supplier, Expolink, manages our confidential Speak Up line and we have worked with them to ensure that, if instances of modern slavery or other human rights abuses are reported, Find out more they are identified and effectively Code of Supplier Responsibility investigated. We expect our suppliers to Speak Up Third Party Policy have their own whistleblowing policy and facility, but offer our UK suppliers access Sector Statements Lloyds Banking Group UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019 08 Labour PRINCIPLE 3 Businesses should uphold freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; PRINCIPLE 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; PRINCIPLE 5 The effective abolition of child labour; and PRINCIPLE 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. SDG SUPPORTED BY THESE PRINCIPLES: Ensure healthy lives and promote well – being for all at all ages Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all  educe inequality within R and among countries Lloyds Banking Group UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019 09 Labour continued Our approach to labour Our Code of Responsibility (the Code) applies to all colleagues, contractors and At Lloyds Banking Group, our efforts to be a responsible temporary employees and provides an We want to ensure that business require building a culture on integrity and respect. overarching framework to ensure the highest possible standards of behaviour, every colleague feels valued We do not tolerate any form of discrimination, slavery, actions and decisions. They also set out and empowered to thrive. trafficking or forced labour in any part of our business or the Group’s commitment to colleague supply chain and our commitment to respect labour rights remuneration, health and wellbeing. collective bargaining processes in place, is guided by the International Bill of Human Rights as well as We have mandatory training for both in the UK and overseas. We have recognition agreements with two trade the ILO’s Core Labour Standards and its Tripartite Declaration colleagues in the UK and overseas to unions that collectively negotiate on of Principles. Our updated Human Rights Policy Statement ensure inclusivity is at the heart of what behalf of our UK workforce (around we do. This includes a module on Cultural details our approach to labour rights specifically and outlines Capability, focusing on maintaining and 99 per cent of colleagues worldwide). our policy frameworks that guide this. Our relationship with these trade unions building stronger relationships with allows all parties to work together to colleagues, customers and clients, and improve the working environment and Look Closer, which helps colleagues to Our colleagues ensure colleagues are rewarded fairly create a positive working environment, wide recruitment programme to help for their contribution to the Group. We do not tolerate discrimination in any free from discrimination, bias, harassment, reintegrate senior colleagues back into Our decision to become a UK Living We recognise that everyone form, and in respect of employment or bullying. Training is supported by other the workplace after a period of time Wage Employer in 2015 resulted from internal initiatives, such as Dress for your is different and we are and occupation, deal with any colleague Day, which aims to ensure colleagues away from work. The programme is this approach. disputes and grievances fairly, following designed specifically to support people working hard to build clear policies and procedures, including feel comfortable and included in the back into work over a 16 week period. We review our pay rates annually to ensure an inclusive Group that the ability to resolve issues informally. workplace, by removing strict dress Applicants are supported to become part minimum rates are above the statutory reflects the diversity of We recognise that everyone is different code requirements where appropriate. of the business, with the aim of offering minimum and living wage requirements We have refreshed our performance a permanent position if the placement that are applicable in the countries we modern Britain. and we are working hard to build an management approach to foster an is successful. Throughout the process operate in. We have worked, and continue inclusive bank that reflects the diversity inclusive environment through the Back applicants receive coaching, a buddy and to work, with third-party contractors of modern Britain. Our Group Inclusion to your Best toolkit that emphasises a mentor alongside peer-to-peer support. to ensure that they operate in line with & Diversity approach focuses on gender, getting to the root of any challenges, and our commitments and expect them to ethnicity, disability, mental and physical offering colleagues support to overcome In our internal operations, our Preensure that the wages they pay meet health and wellbeing (including support these, for instance through the Employee employment Vetting Policy and Group legally mandated minimums without for parents and carers), LGBT+ and Assistance Programme. Additionally, our Wide Vetting Standards, apply to unauthorised deductions. agile working, with topics sponsored by Courageous Conversations training is all permanent and non-permanent Group Executive Committee members. designed to support difficult performance employees that we recruit, including The Group uses a number of recruitment We set targets for engagement and management conversations, by showing temporary staff and contractors. The agencies to fill roles. UK agencies are representation at senior levels in the leaders how to manage emotional Pre-employment Vetting process upholds bound by contracts which require Group to ensure we continue to make reactions so that important conversations our respect for labour rights and, for our compliance with our Pre-employment progress, and have been recognised become positive and constructive. UK employees, includes the review of Vetting Policy and Vetting Standards and externally for our work. individuals’ proof of identity, address, and the Code of Supplier Responsibility, and Flexibility isn’t just a nice-to-have in today’s right to work in the UK. which include specific Modern Slavery As outlined in the Human Rights section working environment; it’s a necessity. and Anti-Bribery clauses. UK agencies of this report, we have a number of That’s why agile, part-time and flexible We want to ensure that every colleague also attest compliance annually via the Find out more internal policies and procedures that working options are available to our feels valued and empowered to thrive. Financial Services Supplier Qualification Human Rights Policy Statement reflect our commitment to operating colleagues. The Lloyds Banking Group We support colleagues’ rights to exercise System (FSQS). Code of Responsibility responsibly and ethically. freedom of association and have extensive Returners Programme is a Group Lloyds Banking Group UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019 10 Labour continued Our colleagues: Our colleagues: Gender, The Group continues to report annually Our colleagues: Disability on its Gender Pay Gap. We welcome this Mental health ethnicity, identity and transparency and are pleased that our Traditionally, employment of people Our colleague wellbeing resources sexual orientation mean gender pay and bonus gaps have with disabilities has focused on making Around 50 per cent of provide a range of support including Attracting, developing and retaining top reduced further this year. Our gender changes to physical infrastructure or colleagues belong to or working practices. We are progressing the direct access to counselling services. talent regardless of gender, identity and pay gap has improved 1.9 per cent since debate from accommodating disabilities, support one of our five We are passionate advocates for removing sexual orientation is highly important to 2017. Our focus remains on improving the diversity networks. the stigma attached to mental ill-health, to developing talent and careers and us and we are proud to have created an gender pay and bonus gaps by increasing actively creating a culture of openness and making Lloyds Banking Group inclusive inclusive and open working environment the proportion of women in senior roles support and also offer colleagues private for all. for our colleagues. and we continue to make progress medical benefits that give parity to mental towards our goal of having 40% of senior In 2019, 2.2 per cent of colleagues and physical health conditions. The Group has featured in the Times Top roles filled by women by the end of 2020. disclosed a disability to us and we 50 Employers for Women for eight years We recognise prevention is equally as have a range of support in place to running, and in 2019 for the first time in Encouraging ethnic diversity starts with important as support, and in September help them. We offer bespoke training, the Bloomberg Gender Equality Index. talking to colleagues and communities we launched a personal resilience portal, career development programmes and Our award-winning women’s network about their experiences. We know that for colleagues to better understand recruitment process adjustments Breakthrough is the largest of its kind in role models and understanding cultural preventative measures available for both for colleagues and applicants with the UK with 15,000 members and 4,000 difference are vital, which is why we mental and physical health. We are also disabilities, including those who have mentors. We continue to be a sponsor of delivered cultural capability training to all committed to achieving the highest become disabled while employed. the Women of the Future Ambassadors colleagues in 2019, building knowledge standards of health and safety and fire We have retained our Business Disability Programme, providing mentors and role of identity, race, faith and background. protection for our colleagues, customers Forum (BDF) Gold Standard, and hold models to strengthen talent among Over 200 BAME colleagues took part in and anyone who visits our premises. Disability Confident Leader status with young British women. our Authentic Leadership Programme the Department for Work and Pensions. for senior managers, our Career The BDF considers our workplace Development Programme for middle adjustment process for disabled managers, and wider Sponsorship colleagues to be ground breaking, Programmes. This year, we published creating a best practice case study that our Ethnicity Role Models list, featuring they have shared with around 400 other 70 Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic BDF member organisations. (BAME) colleagues, and in June, two colleagues were named in the top 100 ethnic minority executives, with a further two colleagues in the 50 future ethnic minority leaders in the Empower Ethnic Minority Role Model lists. We have created an inclusive and open working environment for our LGBT+ colleagues, with the Group named Top Financial Employer, and seventh overall in 2019’s Stonewall Top 100 employers. Our LGBT+ colleague network, Rainbow, plays a pivotal role in our In 2019, 85 per cent of approach, with over 5,000 members colleagues agreed that Find out more and supporters it is one of the largest of the Group is an inclusive Gender Pay Gap its kind in the UK. place to work. Lloyds Banking Group UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019 11 Labour continued Our suppliers Provide clear and uniformly applied These documents articulate Lloyds disciplinary and grievance procedures Banking Group’s expectations in regards We take a risk-based approach to including prohibiting mental, physical to behaviours and decision making, supplier management and analyse or verbal abuse. address the primary areas of risk which suppliers based on geography, service Ensure working hours are in accordance the Group faces and translates our risk sectors and spend. We continue to with local regulation and industry appetite into mandatory requirements monitor and seek to continuously practice and voluntary overtime is and controls. improve our process of identifying risks. Where we have suppliers in recognised at a manageable level. Our suppliers have a contractual higher risk countries or in service sectors Additionally, we expect all of our obligation to ensure compliance with all such as cleaning, catering, property, suppliers to understand our vision in applicable laws that apply to their supply security and uniform providers we ensure relation to inclusion and diversity and of goods and services to us, regardless that a dedicated Supplier Manager expect them to: of the jurisdiction in which they operate. supports these relationships. We include compliance with the Code Treat all employees fairly and not of Supplier Responsibility and modern We expect all UK suppliers to conform discriminate against any group in their slavery clauses in our UK supplier to our Code of Supplier Responsibility employment practices, in particular on contracts and purchase order standard which we share through the supplier the basis of gender, race, age, sexual terms and conditions. contract as governed by our Business orientation, gender identity, disability, Sourcing Process. It defines our faith, or family circumstances. expectation in terms of responsible Proactively support the development business behaviour, including labour of an inclusive and diverse workforce issues. We updated it in December 2019 including fair representation of women, clarifying our labour expectations of disabled, LGBT+ and BAME employees. suppliers in both their operations and their supply chains and reflected this in We encourage our suppliers to: the annual self-attestation questions. Have a documented Inclusion and Specifically; Diversity statement or set of statements within their Policy framework. Prohibit forced labour (slavery) and human trafficking in their supply chain Encourage positive mental health at and give their employees the right work, and have a documented mental and ability to leave employment if health and wellbeing strategy. they choose. Our suppliers are also asked to comply Prohibit child labour. with specific Third Party Supplier Policies where applicable to the services Ensure that wages meet legally they provide to the Group, such as mandated minimums without Anti-Bribery, Data Privacy and Fraud. unauthorised deductions. Allow their employees to exercise the legal right to organise and join associations (such as labour unions). Find out more Code of Supplier Responsibility Third Party Supplier Policies Lloyds Banking Group UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019 12 Labour continued Outcomes What the Group has delivered: Published our 2019 Ethnicity Role What the Group has achieved: Updated Group Sourcing and Supplier Models list, featuring 70 Black, Top Financial Employer and seventh How the Group has been recognised: Manager training and guidance Asian and Minority Ethnic (BAME) overall in 2019’s Stonewall Top Featured in the Times Top 50 covering the requirements of the UK colleagues, and for the first time 100 employers. Employers for Women for eight years Modern Slavery Act and the risks of Ethnicity Advocates. These advocates A Top 10 Employer for Working Families running, and in 2019 for the first time in slavery and human trafficking; available champion the understanding of for five consecutive years, awarded by the Bloomberg Gender Equality Index. for colleagues to replay and download ethnic and cultural diversity, actively the charity Working Families. Two colleagues named in the top for future reference. supporting and encouraging this across 100 ethnic minority executives, with a the Group. Over 200 BAME colleagues Retained Business Disability Forum Delivered Group-wide communications (BDF) Gold Standard and hold Disability further two colleagues in the 50 future took part in our Authentic Leadership to raise awareness in support of the Confident Leader status with the ethnic minority leaders in the EMpower Programme for senior managers, our launch of the 2019 Modern Slavery and Department for Work and Pensions. Ethnic Minority Role Model lists. Career Development Programme Human Trafficking Statement. Fiona Cannon, Group Responsible for middle managers, and wider The National Autistic Society’s 15,000 members and 4,000 mentors in Sponsorship Programmes. prestigious Autism Friendly Award, Business, Sustainability and Inclusion our award-winning women’s network marking our commitment to become Director for Lloyds Banking Group Trained 40,000 colleagues on mental Breakthrough, the largest of its kind the UK’s first autism friendly bank. named top ally at the Investing in health issues and a programme of in the UK. Ethnicity Awards. mental health advocates within 36.8 per cent of senior roles were held Continued sponsorship of the the business. by women, and we remain committed Featured in Fortune’s Change the Women of the Future Ambassadors to our challenging target of 40 per cent World list for our work with Mental The first major organisation to sign Programme, providing mentors and by the end of 2020. Health UK in enabling the creation up to the Mental Health Accessibility role models to strengthen talent of the Mental Health and Money Standards in July 2019, created to make In 2018 the Group was the first among young British women. Advice service and the introduction essential services easier to use for FTSE100 company to set public goals of our colleague workplace mental Rainbow, our LGBT+ colleague millions of people. to increase Black, Asian and Minority health training programme, Mental network, plays a pivotal role in our Ethnic (BAME) representation at all approach and with over 5,000 members Delivered our Optimal Resilience Health Advocates. levels. We exceeded our 2020 target and supporters it is one of the largest Leadership Programme, which covers Received a Princess Royal Training personal, mental and physical wellbeing delivering 10.2 per cent of roles held by of its kind in the UK. BAME colleagues, and increased the Award for our Resilient Leader to more than 7,500 senior managers training course, which recognises UK across the Group. In addition, rolled senior roles held by BAME colleagues employers that have created lasting out a resilience portal for all colleagues, to 6.7 per cent, working towards our impact by successfully linking their designed to help colleagues stretching target of 8 per cent by 2020. skills development needs to business understand themselves and their body 85 per cent of colleagues believe that performance, and demonstrating better, and put in place actions that the Group is an inclusive place to work that this training meets the City and help them to build personal resilience. and around 50 per cent of colleagues Guilds standard. belong to or support one of our five diversity networks. Our Reporting Criteria details the approach and scope applied to key diversity indicators. Find out more Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement 2019 Reporting Criteria Lloyds Banking Group UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019 13 Environment PRINCIPLE 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; PRINCIPLE 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and PRINCIPLE 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. SDG SUPPORTED BY THESE PRINCIPLES:  nsure access to affordable, E reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialisation and foster innovation Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns  ake urgent action to T combat climate change and its impacts Lloyds Banking Group UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019 14 Environment continued Our approach to the environment We have set ourselves seven leadership ambitions to support the UK’s transition to a sustainable future: Our unique position within the UK economy means that the successful transition to a more sustainable, low carbon economy is of strategic importance to us. We support the aims of the 2015 Paris Agreement and the UK Government’s 1. Business: become a leading UK commercial bank for sustainable growth, supporting our clients to transition to sustainable business models and operations, and to pursue new clean growth opportunities. Clean Growth Strategy, which will require a radical reinvention of the ways of working, living and doing business including new Government policies and sustainable finance solutions. In 2018 we set out our Sustainability Use our scale and reach to help 2. Homes: be a leading UK provider of customer support on energy efficient, sustainable homes. Strategy and plan to achieve full drive progress towards a sustainable 3. Taskforce on Climate-Related Financial and resilient UK economy through Disclosure (TCFD) by 2022 in line with engagement with customers, the TCFD recommendations and the UK communities, industry, Government, Vehicles: be a leading UK provider of low emission/green vehicle fleets. Government’s Green Finance Strategy. investors, and suppliers. In 2019, we continued to embed the TCFD Embed sustainability into the way recommendations within our operations we do business and manage our own and have focused on developing new operations in a more sustainable way. 4. products, services and processes to Pensions & Investments: be a leading UK pension provider that offers our customers and achieve our ambitions. colleagues sustainable investment choices, and challenge the companies we invest in to As a signal of our commitment we have behave more sustainably and responsibly. set an ambitious goal, working with customers, Government and the market to help reduce the emissions we finance by 5. more than 50 per cent by 2030, supporting the UK’s ambition to be net zero by 2050 Insurance: be a leading UK insurer in improving the resilience of customers’ lives against and the 2015 Paris Agreement. In order to extreme weather caused by climate change. meet our goal, we will: Identify new opportunities to support our customers and clients and finance the UK transition to a low carbon economy. Identify and manage material sustainability and climate related risks We aim to help 6. Green bonds: be a leading UK bank in the green/sustainable bonds market. across the Group, disclosing these, their impacts on the Group and its reduce the emissions 7. financial planning processes, in line we finance by more Our own footprint: be a leading UK bank in reducing our own carbon footprint and with the TCFD framework. than 50 per cent challenging our suppliers to ensure our own consumption of resources, goods and by 2030. services is sustainable. Lloyds Banking Group UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019 15 Environment continued Climate change is a global challenge Additionally, the Group has been a 0.5 per cent of total loans and advances to The Group Executive Sustainability that requires collaboration across signatory to the Equator Principles since customers. This is our initial view and will Committee (GESC), provides oversight companies and industries to ensure the 2008 and has adopted and applied the be reviewed as our transition risk insight and recommends decisions to the risks and opportunities can be adequately expanded scope of Equator Principles develops. We continue to work with our Group Executive Committee (GEC). We are transforming our identified and managed. To support this, III and committed itself to the adoption customers to support transition, taking The TCFD Working Group, co-chaired own business with 100 we participate in several industry initiatives of Equator Principles 4 during 2020. into account both risks and opportunities. by senior executives in risk and per cent of our UK power and have signed up to key forums and The Group has also been a signatory sustainability, coordinates the needs from certified principles that drive action on climate to the UN Principles for Responsible Given the strategic importance of our sustainability ambitions, our governance implementation of the TCFD renewable sources. change and sustainability, including; Investment (UNPRI) since 2012, which recommendations and supports incorporate ESG (environmental, social structure provides clear oversight and The United Nations Environment ownership of the sustainability strategy. adherence to key regulatory and governance) risk considerations requirements on climate risk. Programme Finance Initiative Principles into asset management. This includes: for Responsible Banking and Principles The Group Chief Risk Officer (CRO) has for Sustainable Insurance In line with TCFD recommendations, The Responsible Business Committee assumed responsibility for identifying we have identified our loans and advances (RBC), a sub-committee of the Board, and managing the risks arising from The Coalition for Climate Resilient chaired by Sara Weller, Group NonInvestment to customers in high carbon sectors climate change, alongside the CROs and key sectors that will be exposed Executive Director and includes the for the Group’s key legal entities. University of Cambridge Banking to transition risk. Our exposure to Chairman, Lord Blackwell as a member. Environment Initiative – Bank 2030 The Group Sustainability team is high carbon sectors is low at less than supported by divisional sustainability All three of The Climate Group’s governance forums led by Divisional campaigns – RE100, EP100 and EV100 Managing Directors, ensuring a The PRA and FCA’s Climate Financial coordinated approach to oversight, Risk Forum delivery and reporting of the Group’s sustainability strategy. Our £2 billion Clean Find out more Growth Finance Initiative is 2019 Annual Report and Accounts helping businesses reduce Sector Statements their environmental impact. Lloyds Banking Group UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019 16 Environment continued Outcomes We have now tightened our What the Group has achieved: Supporting suppliers to We also encourage our suppliers to: requirements for providing general Reduction in overall location based How the Group has been recognised: banking or funding, and now require carbon emissions – 14.6 per cent become more sustainable Ensure that tackling climate Leadership level in the 2019 Carbon We want to ensure that all our suppliers change is embedded within the new clients to have less than 30 per cent decrease since 2018 and 63.1 per cent Disclosure Project (CDP) Climate operate in a responsible and sustainable strategy and governance of the of their revenue from the operation of against 2009 baseline (legacy scope). Change survey, scoring an A minus. manner and we want our suppliers organisation, in order that related coal fired power stations and/or coal Reduction in market based emissions – Highest placed financial services firm to share in our purpose to Help risks and opportunities are managed mines (previously less than 50 per cent). 12.9 per cent decrease year on year and on the Fortune Sustainability All Stars Britain Prosper. Our Code of Supplier appropriately. Sustainability is now a mandatory part 82.0 per cent against 2009 baseline. list; and won the Real Estate Capital Responsibility sets out the key social, Collaborate with us to help reduce our of credit applications in Commercial 100 per cent of UK electricity from Sustainable Finance Provider of ethical and environmental values that environmental impacts (which include Banking for facilities greater than renewable sources. the Year. we want them to abide by. carbon reduction, energy consumption, £500,000, and we continue to develop Since 2018 the Group has supported travel, water consumption and sector specific guidance to help The Group’s aim is to be a leader in What the Group has delivered: renewable energy projects that power operational waste). relationship managers identify supporting the UK transition to a more One in 14 electric cars in the UK was the equivalent of 5.1 million homes, Measure their organisation’s climate risks. sustainable, low carbon economy. supplied by Group subsidiary Lex achieving our Helping Britain Prosper environmental impact and put in Existing customers whose overall We recognise both the importance Autolease in 2019, supported by a Plan 2020 target a year early. place plans to reduce these impacts. operations include coal mining and of understanding and mitigating £1 million cashback offer on pure Expanded the Clean Growth Finance climate risks as well as the moral and Understand and mitigate the risks that coal power generation or who supply electric vehicle orders, reducing Initiative (CGFI) eligibility to include hire commercial imperative for organisations climate change poses to their business. equipment or services to the sector future carbon dioxide emissions by purchase and leasing in the agriculture to reduce their environmental impact. will be expected to explain how they Be certified (or work towards an estimated 28 kilotonnes. and manufacturing sectors, providing All businesses have a responsibility to be plan to reduce their reliance on revenue certification) to a formal Environmental We continue to partner with the more than £950 million since launching proactively managing, and reducing, their from coal fired power stations and/or Management System Standard such as Cambridge Institute for Sustainability in 2018. environmental impact. We expect our coal mines. This includes reducing such ISO14001 or ISO50001. Leadership to provide high quality revenue to less than 30 per cent by 2025 Met our 2030 carbon reduction target suppliers to understand these impacts training to executives and colleagues and, where relevant, to eliminate UK in 2019, having reduced emissions by and to: in risk management, product coal power generation in line with 63 per cent since 2009. Abide by all legislation and regulations development and client facing roles. UK Government commitments. Provided more than £4.9 billion in green related to environmental protection. In 2019, over 800 colleagues were finance since 2016 through our CGFI, We expanded our Scope 3 emissions Have a written Environmental Policy trained, ensuring they are able to Commercial Real Estate Green Loans measurement to include additional which is appropriate and relevant for support clients on this journey. Initiative, Renewable Energy Financing, categories of emissions from business their operations. We have updated our external Sector travel and colleague commuting. and green bonds facilitation. Statements to include positions on six Have a sustainability strategy which sets One of only a handful of businesses out how their organisation is working new sectors in addition to the existing globally to sign up to all three of The to reduce their environmental impacts statements on power, coal, mining, Climate Group’s campaigns: RE100 and support the transition to a oil and gas, forestry, and defence. – a commitment to source 100 per low carbon economy. Our statement on coal has been cent of our energy from renewable updated and made more ambitious. sources by 2030 (which we achieved More information about our We continue with our policy of not in 2019); EP100 – a commitment to set sustainability strategy, targets and financing new coal fired power stations. ambitious energy productivity targets performance is available from by 2030; and EV100 – a commitment page 28 of the 2019 Annual Report and Accounts. to accelerate the transition to Electric Vehicles by 2030. Our Reporting Criteria details the approach and scope applied to key environmental indicators. Code of Supplier Responsibility Lloyds Banking Group UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019 17 Anti-Corruption PRINCIPLE 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. SDG SUPPORTED BY THESE PRINCIPLES: Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all Reduce inequality within and among countries P  romote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, provide access to justice for all and build effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels Lloyds Banking Group UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019 18 Anti-Corruption continued Approach to anti-corruption seriously and dealt with confidentially. Crime mandatory training. We also work To help ensure our business is conducted Colleagues can contact Speak Up by with third parties acting on our behalf to without bribery and corruption, we are With the Group’s unique position at the heart of the phone, email or online. Concerns are ensure that their employees are provided committed to: British economy, we have been Helping Britain Prosper taken seriously and all genuine reports with appropriate training and awareness investigated. Identity can remain activity on a regular basis. Conducting regular risk assessments for the past 250 years, setting high standards in our confidential if preferred and no colleague of our business practices to identify, professional competence and behaviour to deliver for will be discriminated against as a result of Gifts, Entertainment and Hospitality mitigate and control potential bribery (GEH) has the potential to contravene and corruption risks. our customers and communities as a responsible, raising an issue. We also provide access legal and/or regulatory requirements to our UK suppliers where they and their Risk assessing and undertaking sustainable and inclusive business. relating to bribery and may also appropriate due diligence of third workers can report any incidents. The Speak Up Third Party Policy has been create conflicts of interest and/or parties acting on our behalf to allow We have a moral and ethical duty to act Creating and sustaining our values-based reputational risks. We only allow the us to be satisfied that the third party is designed to assist in managing any risk with the highest standards of integrity culture with good governance is crucial giving or receiving of any benefit, gift, genuine and one which we can trust to that suppliers’ employees are prevented and honesty at all times in delivering to ensuring engaged, well-informed entertainment or hospitality by or to a do business without bribing; this may from reporting any concerns about risk, our strategy. We do not tolerate acts of colleagues who can effectively deliver our business or our colleagues, in specific include terminating relationships in malpractice or suspected wrongdoing. bribery or corruption committed by any strategy. Our rigorous internal governance circumstances defined in the Group some instances. of our employees, including the Board and controls, comprising numerous Gifts, Entertainment and Hospitality of Directors, and any third parties who policies and standards ensure that we treat Anti-Bribery Procedure. All colleagues receive GEH Running implementation, oversight, act on our behalf. Our commitment to all stakeholders fairly, while minimising To tackle bribery and corruption, we training as part of their induction and via assurance and audit programmes anti-bribery and corruption builds on our risk. Each year as part of mandatory have policies and procedures in place annual Conflicts of Interest mandatory to demonstrate compliance with corporate responsibility to our customers, training, colleagues review our Code of to comply with all applicable laws and training. This Procedure supports Anti-Bribery Policy requirements. shareholders and colleagues to deter, Responsibility (the Code), which provides regulation where we operate. This the implementation of the Group Reporting regularly on progress to our prevent, detect and respond to those who clear guidelines for doing business fairly includes an Anti-Bribery Policy which Compliance Policy and Anti-Bribery Risk Committees. would seek to use the Group to facilitate and responsibly. requires all employees, including Policy. When offering, accepting, giving Ensuring that requests to engage any form of financial crime. Directors and Non-Executive Directors or receiving GEH colleagues must: in giving or receiving charitable Speaking Up and anyone acting on our behalf (agents, Ensure that the cost or value of donations, event sponsorship and gifts, other intermediaries, contractors, entertainment and hospitality do not We encourage colleagues to report the GEH is proportionate to the subcontractors and suppliers) to act lead to unacceptable levels of risk. suspected instances of corruption, Group’s relationship with the with honesty and integrity and in internal fraud or bribery through internal provider or recipient. Ensuring that anyone found to be accordance with the behaviours set out in escalation routes. If our colleagues involved in bribery is considered for our Code of Responsibility and Code of Ensure that any GEH must not be witness something inappropriate, they internal disciplinary action in line with Supplier Responsibility. construed as being improper, excessive can report the matter to the Colleague our disciplinary policy. or as a bribe or potential bribe. Conduct Management Team, or make Employees and those acting on our Supporting law enforcement use of our independent and confidential behalf are prohibited from paying, Ensure that the timing of any offers or the acceptance of any GEH is and regulatory bodies in any whistleblowing service, Speak Up. offering, accepting or requesting prosecutions by investigating and All colleagues complete mandatory a bribe, in any form; from making appropriate to any announcements in respect of the Group and/or any other reporting promptly. training about ways in which they facilitation payments, even where We do not tolerate acts can raise their concerns and this this may represent local practice or parties involved in the GEH. of bribery or corruption includes details of Speak Up and the custom; and from taking any action to Ensure that the GEH has been support available. circumvent established controls to deter, approved in line with the requirements. committed by any of our prevent, detect or respond to bribery. employees, including the Speak Up is managed by an independent Record the GEH in a format set All colleagues, including temporary staff out under the requirements of the company, Expolink, which has expertise Board of Directors, and any in dealing with reports of misconduct. and contractors, receive Anti-Bribery Procedure; the GEH register is reviewed third parties who act on All reports to Speak Up are taken training as part of their induction and at least quarterly to identify the levels via annual Fighting Fraud and Financial our behalf. of GEH received by colleagues. Lloyds Banking Group UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019 19 Anti-Corruption continued Governance align their operations with the United Nations Global Compact’s human rights, Our approach and governance is overseen labour, environment, and anti-corruption Outcomes by the Group Fraud and Financial Crime standards. During 2019, we updated our No fines or external legal cases Prevention Committee. This Committee Sector Statements, and these apply to involving the Group during 2019. brings together accountable stakeholders the Group’s banking customers that have Around 97 per cent of colleagues and subject matter experts to ensure a direct relationship with Lloyds Banking completed the Fraud and Financial that the development and application of Group and reflect our risk assessment Crime Annual Mandatory Refresher fraud and financial crime risk management approach for specific sectors. training in 2019. complies with the Group’s strategic aims, corporate responsibility, risk appetite Around 95 per cent of colleagues and Group Fraud and Financial Crime Working with our suppliers completed the Code of Responsibility (Anti-Money Laundering, Anti-Bribery and Our Code of Supplier Responsibility Annual Mandatory training in 2019. Sanctions) Policies. It provides direction sets out the key social, ethical and and appropriate focus on priorities to environmental values that we want enhance the Group’s fraud and financial suppliers to abide by. We expect all crime risk management capabilities in line suppliers to act with honesty and integrity, with business and customer objectives managing their business ethically and whilst aligning to the Group’s target responsibly. We expect them to have operating model. identified and understand the risks in their business and to: We are also a member of the Business Integrity Forum of Transparency Have a written Responsible Business International UK, a network of major strategy which sets out their approach, international companies committed to governance and the steps they operating to high standards of integrity take to ensure they are doing and transparency in business practices, business responsibly. including anti-bribery and corruption. Adopt their own Code of Supplier Responsibility, or a similar policy or Where a supplier is identified as high risk, The NSM approves any high risk supplier Working with our customers statement that covers: adherence to businesses within the Group are expected relationships prior to any contracts or We expect all of our customers to comply local laws; bribery and corruption; to undertake a risk assessment and formal agreements being finalised. with applicable international conventions, and business integrity (including risk-based anti-bribery due diligence. Businesses must then monitor the sanctions and embargoes, legislation, improper payments, conflicts of The Managing Director (or equivalent) of supplier throughout the duration of the and licensing requirements whilst interest, fraud, competition, gifts each business area or support function must relationship and at least annually review showing a clear commitment to robust and hospitality, and brand and identify, appoint and sponsor a Nominated and refresh their risk assessment and environmental, social and governance intellectual property protection). Senior Manager (NSM). The NSM ensures risk-based anti-bribery due diligence to (ESG) factors and risk management. We also encourage them to support that the business area’s control processes ensure any material change is identified In all sectors, and especially those which and improve the communities where and procedures are appropriately and issues escalated as appropriate. experience heightened exposure to they operate from an environmental, designed and operated effectively. Find out more corruption and money laundering risks, social and/or economic perspective. Code of Responsibility we aim to work with customers who Speak Up Third Party Policy Anti-Bribery Policy Code of Supplier Responsibility Sector Statements Head office Registered office Go online to find out more 25 Gresham Street The Mound www.lloydsbankinggroup.com/ London EC2V 7HN Edinburgh EH1 1YZ prosperplan www.lloydsbankinggroup.com Registered in Scotland no. SC95000 @LBGplc
