CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY HEINE Optotechnik GmbH & Co. KG REPORT 2019 VERSION 1.0 CONTENT Foreword .......................................................................................................................................................... 4 HEINE Optotechnik: the Company.................................................................................................................... 6 Products........................................................................................................................................................... 8 Interview with Oliver H. Heine ..........................................................................................................................10 Side Note: The Inventor of Sustainability and Interesting Facts about Family-Run Businesses..........................12 Corporate Goals ..............................................................................................................................................14 Company Policies ............................................................................................................................................16 The UN Global Compact Human Rights ..............................................................................................................................................18 Occupational Standards ............................................................................................................................. 20 Environmental Protection ............................................................................................................................ 24 Combating Corruption ................................................................................................................................ 28 Social Commitment ....................................................................................................................................... 30 Corporate Social Responsibility | Report 2019 | Page 3 of 34 FOREWORD Extended Management Board HEINE Optotechnik From the left: Dr. Matthias Kühner, Oliver Heine, Timo Martin Corporate Social Responsibility | Report 2019 | Page 4 of 34 FOREWORD Oliver H. Heine, President and CEO of HEINE Optotechnik Dear Sir/Madam, This is our second CSR report, in which we document how we, as a family business, live the ten principles of the UN Global Compact for the protection of human rights, the environment, fair labour standards and consistent corruption prevention as part of our corporate culture. As the owner and CEO of HEINE Optotechnik, I am convinced that we can only survive in the market in the long term if economic success, social responsibility and conscious use of resources are in balance. Sustainable business also means breaking new ground: In April 2020 we will be leaving our company site in Herrsching, which has been in existence for more than 70 years, and moving to our newly built company headquarters in the region. It is of particular concern to me that we also apply our HEINE quality standards to the construction, furnishing and design of the new building, both in terms of environmental friendliness and the equipment of the workplaces. In all areas, we remain committed to Germany as a business location and make long-term investments in the continued existence of our company and thus in the future of our employees. As part of our growth strategy, I am also counting on an enlarged management team. The company management has been supplemented by two additional Managing Directors, who will relieve me of the day-to-day business and thus create more space for the strategic, sustainable further development of HEINE. The award of the “German Standards Brands of the Century” seal of approval by the renowned jury of the “ZEIT” publishing group confirms our claim to manufacture HEINE products in Germany. In addition to Germany as a business location, a strong brand with a high degree of recognition and great entrepreneurial commitment are decisive factors for acceptance into the circle of award-winning companies. We are very proud of this award! HEINE will continue to focus on sustainable growth for the future at the new company location in Gilching. I am aware of my entrepreneurial responsibility as owner in all areas for people and the environment. Best regards, Oliver H. Heine Corporate Social Responsibility | Report 2019 | Page 5 of 34 HEINE OPTOTECHNIK: THE COMPANY Tradition. Quality. Vision. The 5 HEINE plants in Herrsching am Ammersee. The new HEINE company building in Gilching (planning photo): On the left the 3-storey administration building, on the right the production building. Corporate Social Responsibility | Report 2019 | Page 6 of 34 HEINE OPTOTECHNIK: THE COMPANY Tradition. Quality. Vision. HEINE Optotechnik is a developer, manufacturer and world-leading exporter of medical primary diagnostic instruments. Production in Germany forms part of our identity. All HEINE instruments are developed and manufactured exclusively in the company’s production facilities in Germany. That way, we keep all the critical production steps inside the company and check quality even during the production process. Production in Germany enables swift development times for both new and improved products. We source over 90 % of our vendor parts from Germany, and almost half of our suppliers are based in Bavaria. Herrsching am Ammersee has been where our headquarters – which now consist of five plants – have been based since the company was founded. 2018 saw the company start to relocate to the nearby industrial estate in Gilching, in April 2020, the company will move into its new headquarters with 14,000 square meters of space. HEINE Optotechnik employs more than 500 members of staff worldwide, approximately 400 of whom work in Germany. With three HEINE subsidiaries in the USA, Australia and Switzerland, plus sales partners in over 120 countries, HEINE Optotechnik is a globally active company. Its export rate amounts to more than 80 %. In 2019 HEINE Optotechnik was awarded the seal of approval “German Standards – Brands of the Century” in the category Primary Diagnostic Instruments. This seal is awarded annually by the renowned jury of the “Zeit’” publishing group. In addition to Germany as a business location, the criteria of a strong brand with a high degree of awareness and great entrepreneurial commitment are decisive for acceptance into the circle of award-winning companies. Already in 2015, HEINE won the business award in the “Export-Oriented Companies” category issued by gfw Starnberg (Association for the Promotion of Economic and Employment Development in the Starnberg District). The award is issued to recognize export-oriented companies that set themselves apart through specialization, a high export quota, innovative “Made in Germany” products, permanent sales partners abroad and social commitment at both a regional and an international level. At Lake Constance, ZORN GmbH & Co. KG (a HEINE company) manufactures high-precision light bulbs and LED lamps for the high-quality HEINE diagnostic instruments as well as for manufacturers of spectral analysis devices used in medicine and technology. HEINE Optotechnik was founded in 1946 by Helmut A. Heine, a passionate physicist and scientist. He took it upon himself to significantly improve doctors’ diagnostic options. He also believed that only the best products should carry his name. Following this aspiration, he transformed HEINE Optotechnik into a world-renowned company over a 40-year period before handing the reins over to his son, Helmut M. Heine, in 1986. Oliver H. Heine, the company founder’s grandson, has been managing the company since 2006. Since it was founded, HEINE Optotechnik has established itself as a successful global player on the primary diagnostic instruments market. HEINE Optotechnik – a success story. To be continued. Corporate Social Responsibility | Report 2019 | Page 7 of 34 PRODUCTS Function. Performance. Durability. Ophthalmology / Optometry General Medicine Anesthesia Dermatology Veterinary Dental Proctology Parts & Accessories Corporate Social Responsibility | Report 2019 | Page 8 of 34 PRODUCTS Function. Performance. Durability. Every HEINE diagnostic instrument is developed with this three-part quality promise in mind from the very outset. And every HEINE instrument is put through its paces to make sure that these three quality dimensions are met. In 1989, working in cooperation with Prof. Dr. Braun-Falco, we developed the world’s first dermatoscope – which, at that time, was a true milestone in medical technology. In 2019 HEINE presented two dermatoscope models completely redesigned in terms of design and technology that meet the highest quality standards: the DELTA 30 and the DELTAone. With the 30 millimetre field of view of the DELTA 30 Dermatoscope and the best imaging of all HEINE Dermatoscopes, doctors are optimally supported in their diagnostic work. The smaller DELTAone is also impressive in terms of its optics – both when looking through the eyepiece and in terms of design. Our extensive product portfolio includes a variety of high-quality diagnostic instruments for the fields of ophthalmology, anesthesiology, general medicine and dermatology, as well as other products too. Digitization is the current in-trend in the healthcare sector. HEINE is increasingly offering products, such as the iC1, iC2, NC2 or the HEINE Cube, that allow for digital documentation during use and administration of the obtained documentation. The advantages of digital documentation can often only be fully exploited with a data management system such as the HEINE Cube. With the interface for Nevisense, created in 2019, the Cube System facilitates the work of dermatologists who use the HEINE iC1 digital dermatoscope and the HEINE Cube to assess abnormal nevi with the Nevisense. All of the products cut an impressive figure due to their sophisticated technology, precision and ergonomic design. Day after day, HEINE’s quality instruments touch the lives of millions of people during examinations – always doing so with the HEINE quality promise of our instruments enabling an early and reliable diagnosis. A multitude of medical examinations are all about detecting diseases early on and subsequently providing the right treatment with as precise a diagnosis as possible. Take skin cancer screening, for example. Here, an exact and early diagnosis can save people’s lives. To ensure that we can turn user requirements into high-precision instruments, our in-house Research and Development Department is constantly and closely communicating with doctors, universities and medical professionals. At our HEINE Academy, we regularly train doctors in how to use our instruments and provide information on general medical topics – forever focusing on the most reliable diagnosis for the patient. HEINE’s level of vertical integration is around 85 % – an almost unbelievable value for German industry. We make housings, handles, cables, light sources and more besides in-house. We treat surfaces and even carry out our own printing. That’s the only way we can guarantee that the result will be as perfect as we imagined. Take our laryngoscope blades, for example. We coat them in our very own electroplating plant as part of a six-stage process. The result is an extremely smooth and pore-free surface that’s easy to clean and extremely durable. We also make our lenses ourselves – using state-of-the-art CNC-controlled machines to achieve an accuracy of +/0.0001 mm. That’s 20 times less than the diameter of a human hair. To ensure optimum functionality and diagnostic performance, all HEINE products are subjected to intense testing. A HEINE BETA 200S Ophthalmoscope, for example, is subjected to 74 test steps during the manufacturing process before it is used by a doctor. As we are a premium manufacturer, our quality concept is also defined by the products’ long service life. If a HEINE instrument is handled properly, it continues to function as well as it did on the first day, even after many years of use – providing the same performance and reliability. There is a good reason that HEINE goes far beyond the statutory warranty and offers a five-year material and workmanship guarantee on all products (with the exception of the HEINE Cube). Trust HEINE quality! Corporate Social Responsibility | Report 2019 | Page 9 of 34 INTERVIEW WITH OLIVER H. HEINE What Makes HEINE Optotechnik Unique as a Company? Oliver H. Heine, President and CEO of HEINE Optotechnik, explains what sets his company apart from its competitors on the market – HEINE makes all the difference! Mr. Heine, what is the difference between How do you define durability for your HEINE Instruments and other instruments? understanding of quality? HEINE Devices should help people. With a HEINE If a HEINE Instrument is used properly, it must work Instrument, the health care professional must be exactly the same way after 10, 15 or 20 years as it able to make the earliest and most accurate did the first day you took it out of the box. And not diagnosis for his patients. The following three criteria just ‘almost’ or ‘similar’, but with exactly the same are crucial for us. First: The instrument must provide diagnostic performance and the same reliability. the best diagnostic performance on the market. After 70 years of company history, several million The instrument has to be easy and intuitive to use HEINE Devices are used worldwide on a daily basis. and lead to the best diagnostic result. Every now and then, we find instruments dating Second: Functionality. The instrument must allow back to the 1960s or 1970s that are still in use. the user to make the necessary adjustments to optimize the diagnostic performance in any What do these quality standards mean for your examination situation or environment. Third: product development? Durability. This is how we define HEINE Quality. Our aim is to develop something that creates additional value in the diagnosis. The doctor should Everybody claims to have top “Quality” say: The HEINE Instrument has to offer more. All of nowadays. No manufacturer says: We are this defines our development strategy. The strong building an instrument of inferior quality; ambition to always build the best runs in our blood. therefore, it is reasonably priced. All HEINE employees live this philosophy: It has to But some say they are cheap and their quality is be a Quality Instrument. more than sufficient. As I described, we define quality in terms of performance, function and durability. HEINE is not exactly renowned for being an Diagnostic performance is our top priority. Nobody innovation leader on the market. would say that a HEINE Instrument is not the best For us it is not necessarily important to be the first for making a diagnosis – you could miss something with a new development. But we are always the with it. When customers look through one of our ones that optimally implement new technologies instruments, they see a crisp, clear image with for their application and the diagnosis. We do of beautiful resolution and absolute accurate colour course evaluate many new technologies intensively, rendering. This is not the case with the instruments often very early in their development, but only use of other manufacturers. The feedback we receive them in our instruments when it really makes sense. from our users is always the same: With a HEINE Innovation means for us, to use new technologies Instrument I can see better, I can see more. in such a way, that they offer additional value for the doctor and the application. This is where we make What do you understand under functionality in no compromises. your instruments? That a device has functions, which allow the user to Could you give an example? adjust it in such a way, that it provides optimal results A good example is LED illumination. For about in every examination situation. When examining five years, we were criticized in the market for not the eye, it makes an enormous difference whether replacing halogen illumination with LED illumination. the pupil is dilated or small. Our instruments can We did not do that for a very simple reason: At that be adjusted in such a way, that they offer the best time, LED illumination could not be compared to a performance regardless of pupil size. halogen lamp in terms of illumination quality and diagnostic features. When you looked through an LED Corporate Social Responsibility | Report 2019 | Page 10 of 34 INTERVIEW WITH OLIVER H. HEINE What Makes HEINE Optotechnik Unique as a Company? DELTA 10 DELTA 20 mini 3000 DELTA 20 Plus NC 1 DELTA 20 T iC 1 1989 2003 2007 2013 2015 2016 Ophthalmoscope from other companies who with our network of Key Opinion Leaders of different integrated the LED technology very early on, the medical specialities. We are very interested in fundus was not brilliant red, and the important observing the professional in their daily tasks. nuances in different structures and colours on the We want to know everything: Why do you do this? fundus were not visible. The fundus looked grey and How do you do this? What do you not like in the without contrast. We do not make any compromises procedure? How could we improve this? What is when it comes to diagnostic accuracy just to be the next step? How can I examine something else able to offer the ‘new’ technology of the day in a with this product? What can we do to improve the device. With HEINE LEDHQ however, we were the examination procedure or the diagnosis? first to develop and launch a LED platform on the Feedback on the use of our devices is of huge market, which fulfils specific quality features that are importance to us. absolutely necessary for a medical device. What resources do you provide for the HEINE HEINE built the world’s first dermatoscope in Development Department? the 1990s ... We reinvest 10 percent of our turnover into the ... yes and with it created the complete market development of new products. This is rather unusual. segment of Dermatoscopy. There are indeed Normally, this number is about four to five percent. times where we are the first with introducing We have 25 employees in our development new technologies. In 1989 my grandfather department and five in the design engineering accompanied my grand-mother to a dermatologist department. to get a conspicuous skin lesion professionally examined. The dermatologist had a rough look at it HEINE produces its instruments in-house. and said: everything is okay. This left my grandfather Does this bring any advantages or benefits in speechless. How could the doctor possibly come to the development phase? this diagnosis without a precise examination? Enormous. Manufacturing almost everything The accuracy of a diagnosis with the naked eye in-house is one of our special strengths. We is app 55 %. This was not good enough for combine 70 years of experience in production with Helmut A. Heine. In cooperation with the Derma70 years of experience in product development. tology Department of the University of Munich he If our develop­ment engineers urgently need a new learned that the structures lying underneath the part, our in-house tool manufacturing department epidermis contain a lot more information that would can produce it within three hours. Or they quickly allow a much more reliable diagnosis. Together with get a surface treated in our in-house electroplating Prof. Dr. Braun-Falco, HEINE developed the first facility to see if there are any reflections, for example. dermatoscope DELTA 10 which raised the accuracy The results are then directly implemented in the of skin diagnostics to 90 %. develop­ment process. For us, development is a fusion between technical expertise, product experiIs HEINE still working together with health care ence, market experience und of course, user-tests. professionals and universities today? I call this quality advantage the HEINE Difference. Yes, quite a bit. We are in continuous dialogue Corporate Social Responsibility | Report 2019 | Page 11 of 34 SIDE NOTE The Inventor of Sustainability and Interesting Facts about Family-Run Businesses Corporate Social Responsibility | Report 2019 | Page 12 of 34 SIDE NOTE The Inventor of Sustainability and Interesting Facts about Family-Run Businesses A trip into the past and the world of family-run businesses. Let’s head back to the year 1713 to witness the birth of the corporate social responsibility (known as CSR for short) that we’re striving to achieve today. In his role as chief mining administrator to the Saxon King August the Strong, Hans Carl von Carlowitz published a book entitled “Sylvicultura oeconomica”. The reason he wrote it was because of the energy crisis prevalent at that time, when ore mines and smelters were devouring vast quantities of wood. Strong population growth and urban expansion meant that forests were disappearing. So von Carlowitz called for forest management, consistent reforestation and “sustainable use”, which quickly became a technical term as sustainable forestry. He demanded that nature and its resources be handled with care. So it could be said that the man went down in history as the mastermind behind sustainable management – and rightly so. In today’s business world, family-run businesses in particular have a marked tendency to act responsibly. According to the definition issued by an EU expert group, family-run businesses are all companies in which the decision-making powers are held by the founders or their family members. Unlike in companies where investors’ expectations have to be met, the managers of family-run businesses focus on long-term success, with their own convictions or personal values often forming the basis of this. A study conducted in 2011 by the Bertelsmann Foundation and the Foundation for Family Businesses summarizes the findings thus: “They assume their social responsibility of their own accord due to their desire to make a difference. Quick wins and expansive growth are of secondary importance. Consistency takes center stage.” HEINE Optotechnik has also been a family-managed, independent company for three generations, and celebrated its 70th anniversary in 2016. The company has not depended on an investor since it was founded, and no shareholder interests have to be respected. In fact, the aim of achieving further organic, sustainable growth and long-term corporate development in Germany forms the basis of all the decisions the company makes for this very reason. Additionally, the inheritability aspect and the associated responsibility for future generations plays a decisive role for family-run businesses. HEINE Optotechnik is no different. Consideration of how the company’s activities will affect future generations has a major influence on how the company’s management team acts. The long-term, sustainable security of the company is therefore guaranteed at all times. HEINE Optotechnik – a sustainable family-run business. Corporate Social Responsibility | Report 2019 | Page 13 of 34 CORPORATE GOALS The HEINE Strategy. Corporate Social Responsibility | Report 2019 | Page 14 of 34 CORPORATE GOALS The HEINE Strategy. Building on the Company’s Leading Position on the International Market The overarching objective is to build on HEINE Optotechnik’s leading position on the international market. This is being achieved by means of the following strategic cornerstones: Manufacturing Premium Products An uncompromising focus on quality – and therefore particular responsibility – forms part of HEINE Optotechnik’s corporate strategy. The products cut a convincing figure due to their performance, function and durability. A High Level of Vertical Integration Strategic investments are continuously being made in the production facilities to ensure a high level of in-house vertical integration. This forms the basis of the visionary sophisticated technology, world-leading precision and ergonomic design of all HEINE instruments. Our production operations stand for perfection and effectiveness. Innovation as a Driving Force High-quality, innovative and trend-setting primary diagnostic solutions are independently developed for an increasingly complex and challenging medical environment. Due to its extremely high level of vertical integration, the company is independent, precise, flexible and fast when it comes to new developments and manufacturing. Quality Made in Germany The company will maintain and continue to build on Germany as a business location. In the future, too, HEINE products will still be made by highly qualified and committed employees exclusively at the production site in Germany. In 2018, the sustainably growing company is investing in relocating its Herrsching headquarters to the well-connected Gilching Süd industrial estate near Munich. In the new building, which will be occupied in April 2020, all previous company divisions will be united in an area of more than 14,000 square metres based on the latest production technology and equipment. Remaining Independent HEINE Optotechnik will remain a family-run, independent business in the future too. All decisions are made with the aim of safeguarding and further reinforcing the long-term independence of the family-run business. Promoting Staff Development As far as HEINE’s employees are concerned, the company focuses on the long term here too. Special expertise and qualifications are needed to manufacture the products, which is why we are constantly putting our team through training and further training. The HEINE team is committed to ensuring that the company can live up to its uncompromising quality standards and is thereby making a key contribution to the company’s success. HEINE Optotechnik – continuously investing in a sustainable future. Corporate Social Responsibility | Report 2019 | Page 15 of 34 COMPANY POLICIES This is what all HEINE Optotechnik Employees are Responsible for. Corporate Social Responsibility | Report 2019 | Page 16 of 34 COMPANY POLICIES This is what all HEINE Optotechnik Employees are Responsible for. The values and policies that we maintain are firmly rooted in the company’s long-standing tradition. They are part and parcel of the company’s identity and personality, which determine how goals are achieved, how joint cooperation is structured and how HEINE Optotechnik presents itself to the outside world. Knowing that every employee shares the same values and acts consciously in line with the policies anchored in the company (HEINE Code of Conduct) promotes team spirit and a willingness to bear entrepreneurial responsibility. Focus on Performance The HEINE brand is a quality promise. Every employee shares responsibility for this quality promise, as well as an ambitious focus on service in which they make personal contributions so that the company can provide the best-quality diagnostic instruments combined with excellent service. The pursuit of perfection is what unites all of our employees. Focus on Functionality and Patient Benefits All HEINE products are designed to meet the user’s requirements and enable an early and reliable patient diagnosis due to the unique HEINE quality. Team Spirit and Openness All HEINE employees are part of a team where everyone listens to one another, questions things and supports one another with all their strength. Treating Employees and Partners with Respect All HEINE employees are respectful toward one another and the company’s external partners. Using Company Resources and Property Sustainably All employees use HEINE property and resources responsibly and sustainably. Company Interests before Private Interests All employees separate their private interests from the company’s interests to avoid conflicts of interest. Teamwork and achieving goals always take priority over personal ambitions. No to Corruption HEINE employees distance themselves from corrupt practices. The company secures its competitive edge simply by striving to make the best-quality diagnostic instruments. Handling Sensitive Data Confidentially All employees guarantee that they handle confidential, secret or personal data responsibly. The HEINE spirit – commonality and commitment. Corporate Social Responsibility | Report 2019 | Page 17 of 34 HUMAN RIGHTS The UN Global Compact UN Global Compact Initiative The United Nations Global Compact is the world’s largest corporate responsibility initiative. By way of his signature, Oliver H. Heine confirms that HEINE Optotechnik and each individual employee takes responsibility for all business activities and recognizes and implements the UN’s Ten Principles in the areas of human rights, labor standards, environmental protection and corruption prevention. We will issue an annual progress report on our activities starting in 2018. The demands we place on ourselves must also be reflected in the HEINE supply chain. To ensure this, we have included numerous social sustainability aspects in our terms and conditions of purchase in addition to ecological ones. Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Corporate Social Responsibility | Report 2019 | Page 18 of 34 HUMAN RIGHTS Self-Image in HEINE Optotechnik as a Family-Run Business. Terms and Conditions of Purchase – HEINE Supply Chain Code of Conduct With our HEINE Supply Chain Code of Conduct, we require our suppliers to source their materials from environmentally friendly and socially acceptable sources. We require our suppliers to treat all people with respect and dignity and to protect the environment and health. With regard to social aspects, for suppliers this means that:  It must be ensured that there is no harassment, harsh treatment, violence, intimidation, physical or psychological coercion or verbal aggression in the workplace.  Child labor is prohibited (definition according to ILO Conventions 138 and 182).  Any form of forced labor is prohibited.  Equal opportunities and equal treatment should be promoted. No employee may be discriminated against based on their gender, age, skin color, culture, ethnic origin, sexual identity, disability or religious affiliation.  In accordance with national legislation, employees’ rights to join or not join a legal association must be respected. Freedom of association must be guaranteed.  The applicable national working time legislation must be complied with.  Remuneration must comply with national legislation and ensure an adequate standard of living. If there are no legal or collective agreement regulations, remuneration is based on the sector-specific, local remunerations set down in collective agreements.  The national standards for a safe and hygienic working environment must be complied with. Sufficient measures must also be taken to ensure safety in the workplace.  In addition to occupational safety measures, efforts must be made to ensure health in the workplace so as to ensure healthy employment conditions. Conflict Minerals We share the public concern that metals such as tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold – some of which are mined in the Democratic Republic of the Congo under severe human rights violations – are entering the electronics industry’s supply chain. However, we are trying to manufacture products based on metals sourced from conflict-free zones by ensuring maximum transparency in the supply chain. Our suppliers commit themselves as follows:  In order to comply with legal requirements, the supplier will also, upon request by HEINE, disclose whether its contract products contain the raw materials tantalum, tin, gold and tungsten (hereinafter referred to as “conflict minerals”) and, if so, whether these originate from the DR Congo or a neighbouring country.  If this is not the case, the supplier will describe its procedure for checking and accepting the origin.  If this is the case, the supplier will inform HEINE of measures taken to comply with the duty of care, the industrial processor (smelter/melting plant), the country of origin and the products which are not “conflict-free”. In addition, the supplier will inform HEINE of the specific mine or at least the place of origin of the conflict minerals with the greatest possible accuracy. HEINE Optotechnik – we respect human rights. Corporate Social Responsibility | Report 2019 | Page 19 of 34 OCCUPATIONAL STANDARDS The UN Global Compact Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4 Businesses should promote the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. Principle 5 Businesses should advocate the effective abolition of child labor. Principle 6 Businesses should stand up for the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Corporate Social Responsibility | Report 2019 | Page 20 of 34 OCCUPATIONAL STANDARDS Employees are HEINE Optotechnik’s Most Important Success Factor. Cooperation within the company is characterized by trust, transparency and appreciation. Many employees can look back on a long employment history with HEINE. 25 % of our team has worked for the company for more than 20 years. The average length of employment across all divisions is more than 12 years and is therefore above average when compared to other German companies of the same size. These are numbers that speak for themselves. In 2019, 87 percent of our team was employed on permanent contracts, 11 percent had a fixed-term contract and 2 percent of our workforce was employed by temporary employment agencies. The ratio of male to female employees was 59 percent to 41 percent. In management positions (Divisional Manager level), the female share amounted to 36 percent. We are committed to and passionate about attracting and further developing qualified employees. If it is to remain successful, the company needs the right employees in the right place and the best conditions for a motivated workforce. General Working Conditions It goes without saying that we adhere to labor and social standards stipulated by legislation. We also offer our team extensive and health-promoting additional social benefits. Employee Representation The HEINE works council is the company’s interest representation body which is elected by the employees and entitled to rights of co-determination and co-consultation in line with legal regulations. We respect these rights and work in cooperation with the works council. Equal Opportunities The HEINE Code of Conduct states that discrimination against employees based on their gender, age, ethnic origin, disability, religion or ideology, social origin or gender identity will not be tolerated within the company. Any violations against this Code of Conduct will be taken seriously. Corporate Social Responsibility | Report 2019 | Page 21 of 34 OCCUPATIONAL STANDARDS Employees are HEINE Optotechnik’s Most Important Success Factor. Inclusion For us as a family-run business, it goes without saying that we fulfill our social responsibility to allow people with disabilities to have a professional future. As of 2018, we have 34 employees with severe disabilities working in our company, this number of people is still valid for 2019. We are therefore contributing to the successful inclusion of people with disabilities in the workplace. Training and Continuing Education In November 2018, HEINE was under the finalists in the category “Company with more than 100 Employees Offering the Best Apprenticeship Conditions” issued by gfw Starnberg (Association for the Promotion of Economic and Employment Development in the Starnberg District). The company has offered training for several decades and can therefore draw upon many years of experience. This includes a structured working environment and close cooperation with expert trainers and training officers who are on hand to assist the trainees in any way they can with passion and commitment. The training is practical and encourages the trainees to take on responsibility and to think and act in a cross-divisional manner. HEINE Optotechnik is training 14 young people during the 2018 fiscal year, in 2019 the number of trainees amounted to 17. A total of nine different skilled occupations and one dual study program in International Business Management are available to choose from. Our commitment to this cause is bearing fruit, as a large number of our employees decide to pursue a career with HEINE after completing their training in the company. HEINE invests just as sustainably in the continuing education of its employees. Lifelong learning is part and parcel of the company’s self-image. By having our employees attend seminars and training courses, we are continuously developing our team and are thereby ensuring the company’s success in the long term. Occupational Safety It goes without saying that the company meets all of the legal occupational safety requirements. But because occupational safety is especially important to us as a manufacturing company, we decided in 2016 to voluntarily obtain OHRIS certification. This certificate acknowledges that HEINE Optotechnik uses a management system for occupational and plant safety. We pay particular attention to creating an ergonomic workplace so as to minimize work-related illnesses. To this end, risk assessments are carried out regularly within the company to immediately identify any need for action. Health Management Healthcare also has a fixed place within the company. As part of our company’s health management system, we provide the HEINE team with fresh organic fruit for free during the winter months to strengthen their immune system. If required, we offer sports courses – such as back fitness – with external support. To counter the issue of physical inactivity in today’s working world, we specifically support health-promoting campaigns such as the “Stadtradeln” [“City Cycling”] initiative run by the municipality of Herrsching as a sponsor. Taking part in this initiative motivates employees to jump into the saddle for their commute to work for a few weeks during the summer. Corporate Social Responsibility | Report 2019 | Page 22 of 34 OCCUPATIONAL STANDARDS Employees are HEINE Optotechnik’s Most Important Success Factor. New Building – Relocating the Company Headquarters in April 2020 – Planning with a View to Promoting Employee Health HEINE Optotechnik’s management team focused on employees and their wellbeing right from the building planning stage. To offer the team as a whole a workplace with as much daylight as possible, we didn’t just plan one building for all divisions. Instead, the volume was split into two structures connected by passages to generate more window areas and thus more daylight. Many spacious, open zones support joint work and interdepartmental exchange. The open-air site includes common areas and plenty of greenery. It’s a proper plus in terms of employee wellbeing and health! Additional Corporate Benefits HEINE Optotechnik has put together and is constantly expanding a comprehensive package of additional voluntary services for its workforce: We offer a number of voluntary benefits in addition to fair remuneration, including the likes of vacation pay and Christmas bonuses, company pension schemes, transport allowances and capital formation contributions. We naturally don’t let anniversaries, weddings, births, birthdays or Christmas pass by unnoticed either. Meals in the canteen are subsidized too. On numerous festive occasions such as the HEINE Autumn Festival and the HEINE Christmas Party – which we put a great deal of effort and love for detail into planning and holding – all of our employees have the opportunity to exchange ideas in a social setting. As a family-run business, we feel that we have a particular commitment to our employees. All of these benefits make a valuable contribution to promoting a sense of solidarity within the company. HEINE Optotechnik – we are family! HEINE company parties HEINE childcare Corporate Social Responsibility | Report 2019 | Page 23 of 34 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION The UN Global Compact Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Corporate Social Responsibility | Report 2019 | Page 24 of 34 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION Sustainability to Protect the Environment. We are aware that economy and ecology aren’t opposites; rather, they are a holistic challenge to be overcome in the interest of future generations. The main task of HEINE’s environmental management system is to minimize the company’s environmental impact and to continuously improve environmental sustainability. HEINE Optotechnik’s appointed environmental management officer is entrusted with these tasks and is the direct contact for all issues relating to environmental protection. Sustainable Production Concept The cornerstones of the HEINE production concept are extremely ambitious quality standards as well as highly efficient production avoiding rejects and unnecessary processes. Our technical plants and processes are regularly monitored and further developed in an environmentally friendly manner. In many areas of our production process, for example, energy is extracted from the cooling water needed with the help of heat exchangers. This energy is used for other applications. All of the materials that we use to make our products, auxiliary and operating materials, packaging materials and cleaning agents – for many years we have been selecting all of these materials with their environmental compatibility in mind. Our internal material flow is based on reusable boxes; no disposable packaging items are used here. Emission – HEINE Optotechnik is an ÖKOPROFIT Energie-Betrieb In cooperation with the districts of Starnberg and Weilheim-Schongau, HEINE Optotechnik obtained certification as an ÖKOPROFIT Energie-Betrieb by taking part in the “ÖKOPROFIT Energie” ecological project for integrated environmental technology. This project aimed to increase energy efficiency and therefore cut energy consumption, CO2 emissions and energy costs. Without a great deal of effort, we managed to identify and implement savings potential by taking a close look and thereby made a key contribution to climate protection. “We’re Involved!” – the Bavarian Environmental Pact HEINE Optotechnik has been a party to the Bavarian Environmental Pact since 2018. Our voluntary environmental performance qualified us for this membership. The Bavarian Environmental Pact is an agreement between the Bavarian State Government and Bavarian industry and recognizes commitment to corporate environmental protection and sustainable management. With exemplary and common projects between government and industry, the environmental pact aims to highlight the fact that, together, economy and ecology help to safeguard jobs and ensure prosperity in an unspoilt environment. The Next Milestone: ISO 14001 Certification We are planning to have our environmental management system certified in accordance with the international standard ISO 14001 at our headquarters at the new location from 2020. In the new building, state-of-the-art technology will be used in many areas, which will further improve our environmental performance! Saving Fossil Fuels Route-optimized planning by our Facility Management team also helped in 2019 to save fossil fuels. Our fleet vehicles are therefore used in the most efficient way possible and unnecessary journeys are avoided. Our fleet is also already being complemented by an environmentally friendly hybrid vehicle. Corporate Social Responsibility | Report 2019 | Page 25 of 34 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION Sustainability to Protect the Environment. Ecologically Sustainable Supply Chain – HEINE Supply Chain Code of Conduct As a manufacturer operating in the healthcare sector, HEINE Optotechnik places particular requirements on its suppliers – not only with regard to quality, but also in terms of respect for human rights and environmental protection. By signing the HEINE Supply Chain Code of Conduct, our suppliers make a commitment to comply with all environmental protection legislation, including legislation governing the handling of hazardous substances, wastewater, solid waste and air emissions. Every effort should be made to conserve the environment and minimize the impact of business activities. The aim of this is to ensure that both resources and energy are used efficiently and that emissions are minimized. These obligations also extend to the subcontractors that our suppliers engage. Compliance with our HEINE Supply Chain Code of Conduct is a decisive criterion for us when selecting suppliers. All of the materials in the supply chain that we process have therefore been selected with eco-friendliness in mind for many years. Our suppliers are also obligated in our Quality Assurance Agreement to take responsibility when selecting and sourcing all of the materials, components, production equipment and testing devices supplied for making HEINE products. Suppliers must therefore fulfill their obligations under Regulation (EU) No. 1907/2006 (REACH Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals). In particular, they must continuously check the ECHA Candidate List of Substances of Very High Concern (SVHC) and confirm to HEINE Optotechnik that the materials they supply are safe to use. Moreover, our suppliers undertake to ensure that the materials supplied comply with the European Union Directive on the Restriction and Use of Certain Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment and are therefore produced in compliance with the ROHS II Directive 2011/65/EU. Suppliers must submit the respective EU Declarations of Conformity to HEINE Optotechnik. Through our requirements in the supply chain, we thus ensure that our products are made in compliance with the ROHS Directive and REACH Regulation. Electroplating – Wastewater, Waste, Exhaust Air HEINE refines its products in its in-house electroplating plant. Compliance with all legal wastewater discharge and air pollution control requirements, and the avoidance, reduction, recycling and disposal of waste associated with HEINE, take top priority in the company. To ease the burden on the environment in the best way possible, we are constantly striving to minimize the use of resources such as chemicals, water and energy. Wherever possible, we use environmentally friendly substances and sophisticated water-based processes. We use the water we need sparingly and operate our active baths at low temperatures. We believe we have an obligation, not a duty, to handle chemicals carefully. Employees are given regular training in electroplating in view of their important job. We pay particular attention to the water used in the electroplating process – firstly with regard to conserving resources by reusing the materials used and secondly with regard to the environmentally friendly quality of the wastewater produced. The water needed for the process passes through a closed circuit with numerous filter stations. The chemicals filtered out during this process are reused where possible. Substances that are no longer used are collected in line with legal requirements and disposed of in an environmentally friendly manner. The wastewater produced is neutralized in various processes until it meets official quality requirements, before being fed into the public wastewater cycle. Corporate Social Responsibility | Report 2019 | Page 26 of 34 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION Sustainability to Protect the Environment. Long-Life Cycle Products are Sustainable Products We develop and manufacture quality products that are fully functional and repairable, even after many years of proper use. Spare parts are available for at least ten years, but we actually also repair equipment that has been in use for three, four or five decades, subject to the condition that the required spare parts are available. Durability spares the environment from the need to extract new materials, consume additional energy and dispose of used substances. The use of high-quality materials in the manufacturing process is what makes this possible. Our instruments therefore have a sustainable product lifecycle. Disused or defective instruments are disposed of in an environmentally friendly manner in compliance with legal requirements. In recent years, many of our instruments have undergone a switch to LED technology. The HEINE LED’s high level of efficiency and low power consumption extend both the product service life and the battery life, thereby making a valuable contribution to our instruments’ ecological balance. New Developments In our company, we are increasingly working to develop reusable as opposed to disposable products and are therefore helping to conserve more resources. The HEINE EasyClean LED laryngoscope handle system is one result of these efforts. Reusable instruments in anesthesia are significantly cheaper and more environmentally friendly than disposable products. Disposal Legislators are attaching increased importance to environmental protection and sustainability at both national and international level. The basic principle in disposal is recycling management. If possible all raw materials are supposed to circulate in material cycles in order to reduce the use of natural resources and avoid waste to the greatest possible extent. Recycling and material utilization have first priority before disposal. To meet our product stewardship as a manufacturer in Germany, we hold registrations in compliance with the respective German acts to ensure the environmentally compatible disposal of our products and packaging material. All waste materials generated within the company are disposed of in an environmentally responsible way in compliance with all legal requirements. New Building in Gilchung – One Production Site Our new building in Gilching, which will bring all of our corporate divisions together in one location, translates into a massive reduction in our internal logistical efforts. This will save us making numerous journeys between plants and will allow us to reduce our fleet by a few vehicles. We are also seizing the opportunity to further optimize our environmental performance by using state-of-the-art monitoring and control systems. The entire factory is automatically ventilated and heated and cooled with heat pumps. The heat recovery from the production processes is particularly environmentally friendly. As part of our new building project, we are one of the few companies in Germany to invest in a new, state-ofthe-art electroplating plant. Environmental protection made by HEINE – we take this responsibility very seriously! Corporate Social Responsibility | Report 2019 | Page 27 of 34 COMBATING CORRUPTION The UN Global Compact Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Corporate Social Responsibility | Report 2019 | Page 28 of 34 COMBATING CORRUPTION HEINE Code of Conduct: “No to Corruption”. Being a family-run business, HEINE Optotechnik attaches a great deal of importance to open communication and honesty when implementing its compliance goals. The HEINE Code of Conduct says a clear “no to corruption”. Our products enjoy an excellent reputation worldwide based on our unique HEINE “Made in Germany” quality. We distance ourselves from corrupt practices and secure our competitive edge by striving to make the best-quality diagnostic instruments. HEINE Optotechnik is committed to complying with the legal requirements for fair competition. German Act on Fighting Corruption in the Healthcare Sector Corruption in the healthcare sector affects competition, makes medical services more expensive and undermines patients’ trust in the integrity of healthcare decisions. Patients should be able to be confident that the doctor’s independence is guaranteed in all medical decisions. This independence is at risk if the doctor is deriving a financial advantage from a particular method of treatment, prescription or referral. To effectively fight corruption and its effects, the legislator has made corrupt conduct a punishable offense. HEINE Optotechnik supports this idea in all respects – the patient has a right to the product, which is used legally. Corrupt practices conflict with our self-imposed goal of fair and purely performance-based competition. HEINE Optotechnik – a global fair player. Corporate Social Responsibility | Report 2019 | Page 29 of 34 SOCIAL COMMITMENT Fundraising and Sponsorship. Making a valuable contribution to society was a major driving force behind the foundation of HEINE Optotechnik. This is why, at various levels, the company management team has been shouldering a great deal of social responsibility for several decades and supports a multitude of regional and international initiatives and projects. In many countries, people have very limited access to medical care and treatment, which is why we support aid projects and doctors who volunteer in this field: Karibu Project Our long-standing involvement in the “Karibu” project run by Trusetal Verbandstoffwerk GmbH is one example of how hand-held ophthalmological instruments can be used to promote the further training of doctors in the field of ophthalmology. This project in Kenya was launched in 2007 and aims to detect childhood eye diseases early on and provide treatment in a timely fashion. In many cases, early diagnosis and treatment can prevent blindness. University of Crete / Mobile Ophthalmological Examination Unit Since 2018, we have been supporting the University of Crete’s mobile examination unit by donating ophthalmological products. The medical faculty’s commitment is ensuring that the inhabitants of the rural, remote villages on Crete also receive ophthalmological medical care. SAS Brazil “SAS Brazil”, the non-governmental organization we have supported since 2018 by providing numerous product donations, has also set itself the goal of improving care in medically underserved regions. Here, we are contributing by giving ophthalmological, dermatoscopic and anesthesiological products to ensure healthcare provision in rural areas of Brazil. Doctors of the World HEINE supports the international aid organisation „Doctors of the World“ with their „Smile Campaign“ in Cambodia 2019. As part of the project, volunteer experts are training local medical staff and performing operations free of charge such as cleft lip and palate. Laryngoscopes from HEINE are now also being used for anaesthesia during these operations. Corporate Social Responsibility | Report 2019 | Page 30 of 34 SOCIAL COMMITMENT Fundraising and Sponsorship. As the inventor of the modern dermatoscope, HEINE Optotechnik feels that it has a particular commitment to skin cancer screening. We support or initiate screening initiatives worldwide. Because sailors in particular are extremely exposed to sunlight, we support skin cancer screening campaigns during the following sailing events: Hamilton Island Race Week, Australia At the “Hamilton Island Race Week” 2019 in Australia, HEINE provided HEINE instruments for skin cancer screening to the doctors on site. In 2018, the twelve dermatologists at that time were supported by seven classic HEINE DELTA 20T Dermatoscopes and seven HEINE iC1 Dermotoscopes for the examination of over 800 people. Early diagnosis is absolutely essential if eye diseases are to be treated successfully – HEINE products are making a reliable contribution here: The Children’s Eye Cancer Foundation – Fighting Eye Cancer in Children The Children’s Eye Cancer Foundation has took it upon itself to promote the early diagnosis of eye cancer in children through providing education. A rare disease, retinoblastoma is often diagnosed too late in developing countries. HEINE supports the Children’s Eye Cancer Foundation by providing three iC 2 Funduscopes, among other products. We specifically involve our employees in our charitable activities, which greatly promotes their identification with the company’s social commitment: Christmas Fundraiser Every single employee is involved in deciding how the five-figure sum the company donates each year ought to be distributed among the organizations Save the Children, Doctors Without Borders, Verein Lebenslinien [Lifelines Association], Verein Seestern [Starfish Association] and the Children’s Eye Cancer Foundation. Corporate Social Responsibility | Report 2019 | Page 31 of 34 SOCIAL COMMITMENT Fundraising and Sponsorship. Donations to contribute to climate neutrality – we’re letting trees grow! Plant-for-the-Planet The foundation, established based on a student initiative in 2007 by Felix Finkbeiner who was 9 years old at the time, is practically on our doorstep. It all started with a school report. Inspired by Wangari Maathai, who has planted 30 million trees in Africa in 30 years, Felix formulates his vision: while the grown-ups simply talk about it, children could plant one million trees in every country on Earth and thereby offset CO2 emissions of their own accord. After all, every tree planted removes CO2 from the atmosphere. It was clear that we at HEINE could do only one thing: get planting too! HEINE trees are now growing every year on the Yucatán Peninsula to offset CO2 emissions. “Stadtradeln” We are a sponsor of the “Stadtradeln” [“City Cycling”] initiative introduced by the municipalities of the Starnberg district to promote cycling, climate protection and quality of life, and at the same time we’re playing an active role by getting some of our staff to jump in the saddle. Corporate Social Responsibility | Report 2019 | Page 32 of 34 SOCIAL COMMITMENT Fundraising and Sponsorship. How do you take away children’s fear of medical examinations? Here, too, we provide support on the ground and instrument-based donations: Rosenheim Teddy Bear Hospital The Teddy Bear Hospital is a voluntary project that aims to take away pre-school children’s fear of the doctor. Here, it’s the cuddly toys and not the children who receive treatment. Treating the “sick” cuddly toy they bring along with them gives children an insight into what happens during a hospital visit. “Everything great in the world only happens when someone does more than they have to!” Albert Einstein Corporate Social Responsibility | Report 2019 | Page 33 of 34 Publisher: HEINE Optotechnik GmbH & Co. KG Corporate Social Responsibility Management Kientalstraße 7 82211 Herrsching/Germany sustainability@heine.com www.heine.com
