SOLITA OY Communication on Progress April 2020 SOLITA | Helsinki, Tampere, Oulu, Turku, Lahti, Stockholm, Gothenburg, Tallinn, Munich SOlita Oy CONFIDENTIAL 2 (7) Communication on Progress 2020-04-20 Solita, April 2020 Table of Contents 1 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER ................................. 3 2 Description of actions .................................................................................................................... 3 2.1 Human rights ............................................................................................................................4 2.2 Labour ......................................................................................................................................4 2.3 Environment .............................................................................................................................5 2.4 Anti-corruption ..........................................................................................................................7 3 Measurement of outcomes .......................................................................................................... 7 SOlita Oy CONFIDENTIAL 3 (7) Communication on Progress 2020-04-20 Solita, April 2020 1 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 15th of April 2020 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Solita Oy reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Jari Niska President and CEO 2 Description of actions We joined the UN Global Compact in April 2019. During the first reporting period we initiated many actions, whose target was to promote ethical and responsible way of operating, and to make sure that we have a good foundation to start promoting more ambitious actions in the future. To clarify our current state regarding sustainability, and to calculate the net effects of our operations, we ordered an objective study from an external partner. We published the Solita Code of Conduct, which sums up our existing principles of operating responsibly into one document and covers all the ten principles of UN Global Compact. Its goal is to help us navigate in everyday situations and determine what is right, ethical and responsible. The Solita Code of Conduct is intended for all our employees, internal and external, as well as our subsidiaries and partners acting on behalf of Solita. We also launched a whistleblowing tool that can be used to anonymously report suspected misconduct. To ensure anonymity, the reporting channel is managed by an external partner. We are a culture company by heart where employees’ opinions are taken into account in everyday decisions. To facilitate this even better, we started measuring our SOlita Oy CONFIDENTIAL 4 (7) Communication on Progress 2020-04-20 Solita, April 2020 employee experience regularly. With the help of the bi-weekly continuous survey, we can measure and track employee experience, and immediately take corrective actions. Below we have summarized our policies, procedures and actions from the last reporting period under the focus areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. 2.1 Human rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. As a company, we respect human rights and strongly condemn all activities that are against the law or violate human rights. We respect the privacy of our employees and we have an employee privacy policy in place. When using partners that act on behalf of Solita, we always ensure that they meet the obligations based on the Act on the Contractor’s Obligations and Liability. As an example, we make sure that the partner fulfills their statutory obligations as an employer, such as pays taxes and salaries. We comply with applicable national and international legislation as well as other regulations and require the same from our partners acting on behalf of Solita. Actions during the reporting period • We created and published the sexual and gender-based harassment policy and defined a process for handling suspected harassment cases. • We created and published a Code of Conduct that covers all the ten principles of UN Global Compact, including Human Rights. 2.2 Labour Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation As a company, we do not accept the use of child labour or human trafficking. All employees have the freedom to join, belong to or be a member of legal associations and be involved in their activities. We treat each other, our customers and partners in an equal and nondiscriminatory SOlita Oy CONFIDENTIAL 5 (7) Communication on Progress 2020-04-20 Solita, April 2020 manner regardless of one’s background, gender, gender identity, gender expression, age, origin, nationality, language, religion, beliefs, opinions, political activity, trade union activity, family relationships, state of health, disability, sexual orientation or other personal characteristics. We make all decisions regarding our personnel, for example in terms of recruitment, pay determination, promotions and filling of open positions, on the basis of an individual’s expertise and abilities. The above-mentioned personal characteristics should not affect our decisions. At Solita, everybody should feel comfortable to be themselves, ‘with all their perfections’. Diversity of all kinds is our strength; be it skills, nationality, beliefs, gender or sexual orientation. It is embedded in our everyday culture, our core values and our employer promise. We care about each other, people and society as a whole. We focus on changing the world, not people. Actions during the reporting period: • We updated our Gender Equality and Non-Discrimination Plan that includes the principles and measures which Solita, in its capacity as an employer, commits to in order to promote gender equality and non-discrimination purposefully and systematically. The goal is an equal opportunity, nondiscriminatory, cooperative, safe and developing workplace community which yields good results and in which gender equality and non-discrimination are part of normal HR policies and everyday life. • Solita joined ITclusive, an initiative made of representatives from different Finnish IT companies. It aims to enable learning and improve the industry for all by openly sharing challenges, wins and best practices in order to build our capacities for diversity and inclusion. Solita is also a supporting member of Inklusiiv (https://www.inklusiiv.org/), a non-profit organization that aims to advance diversity and inclusion in the working life. Solita has sponsored different events that promote diversity, e.g. LevelUp Koodarit, Mimmitkoodaa, Women in Tech, SuperAda, Mothers in Business, Dev_* Ladies Finland, and Pride. • We translated our intranet into English and started using English as an official company language to increase inclusivity. • We created and published a Code of Conduct that covers all the ten principles of UN Global Compact, including Labour. • We defined Leadership principles which combine high-level autonomy with culture of caring. Target is to offer all employees leadership support they need. 2.3 Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; SOlita Oy CONFIDENTIAL 6 (7) Communication on Progress 2020-04-20 Solita, April 2020 Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. We are committed to developing increasingly sustainable solutions together with our customers and digitalisation plays a key role in this. As a company, we use natural resources responsibly and actively develop our operations to make them more environmentally friendly. Expert work in offices is, by nature, more environmentally friendly than, for example, the manufacturing industry. Below we have described the ways in which we aim to reduce the environmental impacts at Solita: • We prefer public transport when travelling and provide flexible remote work opportunities. • Our office locations and practices help save natural resources. Our offices are easily reached by public transport. We pay attention to the scalability and adaptability of our workspaces when designing them. • We recycle old IT equipment, batteries, glass, paper, ink cartridges and biodegradable waste in an appropriate manner. This allows us to save natural resources. Actions during the reporting period: • We have started planning how our company could promote environmental matters in addition to actions that are already in place. Initiatives and ideas received from our employees have been utilized. • We have started analyzing our most essential emission sources. • We created and published a Code of Conduct that covers all the ten principles of UN Global Compact, including Environment. • Next, we will plan how we as a company could: o Initiate company level measures to counteract climate change (e.g. use of green electricity or compensation for major emission sources, such as travelling) o Find means to support individuals who are willing to do more o Establish a framework to measure sustainability in customer projects and create a roadmap for further actions: ▪ Target setting for sustainability ▪ Project selection based on sustainability matters SOlita Oy CONFIDENTIAL 7 (7) Communication on Progress 2020-04-20 Solita, April 2020 2.4 Anti-corruption Principle 10 Work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. As a company, we are committed to complying with the anti-money laundering legislation. We do not accept money laundering or corruption. Bribery, including any kind of facilitation payments, and acceptance of bribery is strictly forbidden in all our activities. We do not accept or give valuable gifts or gifts that exceed reasonable hospitality as part of normal business. We never accept monetary gifts, including cash and securities. We never accept or give gifts that could damage Solita’s reputation or general confidence in Solita or Solita’s employees. Furthermore, we do not accept repeated gifts from the same people or organisations. We treat our customers, competitors, suppliers and partners fairly. We do not seek competitive advantages by unlawful or unethical means. We never engage in anticompetitive activities, for example by agreeing on prices in advance, or get involved in situations where free competition is illegally prevented, limited or weakened. We do not share Solita’s confidential information with competitors nor do we accept our competitors’ confidential information. Actions during the reporting period: • We created and published a Code of Conduct that covers all the ten principles of UN Global Compact, including Anti-corruption. • We launched a whistleblowing tool that can be used to anonymously report suspected misconduct. To ensure anonymity, the reporting channel is managed by an external partner. 3 Measurement of outcomes During the reporting period, our target was to make sure that we have the essential policies and guidelines in place, and that they are up to date. • We updated our gender equality and non-discrimination plan • We created a sexual and gender-based harassment policy • We created a Code of Conduct and launched an anonymous whistleblower tool, which enables reporting suspected misconduct anonymously Our target for the next reporting period is to create a sustainability framework, define KPIs and target levels, and start measuring different sustainability indicators regularly.
